[{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"157 out of 186 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Best robot film ever. This really is a great film, which shows how a machine who strangely is endowed with creativity, thought and awareness unlike other robots, strives to become more than he is. This is a great film and very much about family life, emotions, what it means to be human, and trying to better oneself through both serving others and learning with others about oneself. If you ever wanted to be more than you are then watch this film. This is not so much a film about robots or sci-fi, but a film about life and humanity and relationships, love and family. The robots and sci-fi are just a scenario which allows us to explore ourselves more as humans and wonder about our existence. "},{"Title":"uneven but often rewarding film","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"113 out of 130 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Owing to the fact that it is based on an Isaac Asimov story, `Bicentennial Man' turns out to be a more interesting and meaningful film than both its advertising campaign and its own opening section would indicate.  The caveat for those seeking out a fun film for the entire family is that this movie, though initially sold as a warm cuddly comedy in the tradition of say `Mrs. Doubtfire,' actually deals with some very heavy and heady issues like sexuality, aging and dying, which may make it less-than-ideal viewing for young children.The first section of the film is, by far, its weakest.  In 2005, the wealthy Martin family receives delivery of a brand new servant android (Robin Williams) who, almost immediately, begins to display a remarkable range of human emotions and interests.  Thus, we are set up for yet another in a long line of predictable tales (i.e. `Harry and the Hendersons,' `Stuart Little') in which a family comes to adopt a strange, not-quite-human creature, welcoming him in as one of their own.  Indeed, in the film's early stages, there is no shortage of either bland humor or drippy sentimentality as Andrew, the android, ingratiates himself with all but one of the Martin household.  The `wit' in the film consists, basically, of endless jokes about how Andrew takes all idioms at literal face value, a running gag that is, finally, as unoriginal as it is wearying.Then, however, just as we are about to give up hope in it, the movie becomes more intriguing.  Rather than staying within the context of the present life of this one family, the screenplay begins to move ahead in time, exploring Andrew's gradual growth toward total humanity, while the initial family grows up and eventually dies off.  Actually, despite how one may feel about the film itself, one must admire its boldness and audacity, for it is not often that, in a film billed as a mass audience comedy, all the main characters pass on to their heavenly reward at one point or another &#150; but, then again, how many comedies span a two hundred year time period?  `Bicentennial Man' obviously has more on its mind than mere fish-out-of-water buffoonery, as it becomes an often-elegiac reflection on the transience of life, the meaning of being human and the search for societal acceptance.  The mood of the film is remarkably hushed and reflective at times, which again might make it slow going for the modern mass audience more conditioned to a faster pace and giddier tone, especially in a Robin Williams film (though, of late, his films have certainly been taking on a much more somber quality, vide `What Dreams may Come,' `Patch Adams' and `Jakob the Liar').  There are times when `Bicentennial Man' seems overly impressed with its own self-importance, yet one appreciates its refusal to settle for the easy path of cheap comedy and upbeat sentiments.  There is, indeed, a real sadness to much of the film.Special acknowledgement should be made of the superb art direction, set design, costume design, makeup and special effects that together give the film its understated and believable futuristic look.  In addition, James Horner's melancholic symphonic score, though a bit lubricious at times, does create an atmosphere of contemplative seriousness that perfectly matches the tone and purpose of the film.`Bicentennial Man' may not turn out to be what you are looking for when you first seek it out, but, if you approach it with an open mind and a certain degree of tolerance and indulgence, you may be pleasantly surprised and, perhaps, even rewarded.  "},{"Title":"A beautifully  Innocent Film","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"114 out of 133 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firstly, i have not read Asimov's book and therefore cannot remark on any errors in translation from book to film.I have read many of the comments posted here on the IMDb, but fail to see why so many people feel the need to mention that the world is perceived as perfect in the the future, maybe it is, maybe it isn't, the fact is, it's not important. This movie quite simply follows the life of a man trapped in a robots body and his quest to be accepted in the world, and be allowed to love and cherish the people close to him.I have to say that i didn't expect much from this movie, i thought it would be a kids film, full of typical Robin Williams style laughs, i was way off in my assumption. This is probably Robin Williams's best performance and it is a very emotional journey through change and development of the human condition.Overall the film is quite amusing, very touching and is full of realistic characters all very well cast to not overshadow 'Andrew' as he quests over 200 years for acceptance.A great movie 9/10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"106 out of 118 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I heaven't read the book, but BICENTENNIAL MAN is a very touching and heartwarming movie about a house-robot (Robert Williams) that begins a 200-year journey to become and to be legally recognized as a human. During his journey, he has to face the fact and live with it that all loved ones around him grow older and eventually die while he is immortal.I think that this was one of Robin Williams' best performances ever, if not the best. He proves that he can either play a 'funny wacky' character but also a serious character that will touch the hearts of the viewers. And this movie does just that.I like the purity and the innocence of the story and I wonder why this movie has such a low rating. It's a must see for all open minded people. "},{"Title":"A good well-paced touching movie","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"84 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie surprised me. Having been a fan of Issac Asimov for many years I thought that this adaptation with Chris Columbus at the helm would be terrible. I was wrong. Some may complain that this movie is too long and slow, but I would wager that their attention spans are somewhat lacking. If you are looking for a high action movie with robots then you have come to the wrong place. If you are looking for a sci-fi based romantic comedy about the personal growth of one man...er robot, then this is the movie. The comedy was well written and well played, appropriately placed in each moment. AS for the character of Andrew(Robin Williams), though he is supposed to be a robot you really connect with his character and sense his growth over time. Unlike A.I. his character learns and grows and has real not fabricated emotional attachments. I give this movie an 8 or 9. Very good. "},{"Title":"Some Prose Is Poetry","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"71 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" For Ray Bradbury the masterwork of perfect poignance is Drink Entire Against the Madness of Crowds. For Isaac Asimov it is Bicentennial Man. Only Asimov could remake Pinocchio as compelling science fiction. So many have tried to create a sweet and funny story of the machine that would be man, but this is it's perfect telling.Only Robin Williams could play the unlikely hero of this story with perfect comedic timing and perfect emotional pitch. Embeth Davidtz as his leading lady matches his skills at every turn, and Sam Neill turns in one his best performances as the man who first recognized the irreplaceable uniqueness of his mistuned android.Bicentennial Man is first rate science fiction &#150; without physical conflict, without wars, without new ways to incinerate each other. In the end, it makes you glad to be a messy human. Watching this truly beautiful film is a wonderful way to spend an evening, and a guarantor of better dreams than you've had in many years. "},{"Title":"More Depth than Appears on the Surface","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"69 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Most people who have seen this movie are of the opinion that it was average at best. Indeed there is no complicated plot, no big action scenes and a predictable ending but there is a Story. It's Andrew with his Box of Chocolats, simply going through life searching for what eludes him and what we generally take for granted - humanity. The characters along the way are well acted - in particular the robot creator and his ditsy assistant. This movie is a tear jerker as Andrew's friends come and go and lifetimes pass him by without him really comprehending it all. The only real failings were the large gaps in time and how Andrew came about - but then it's difficult to compress 200 years into 1 1/2 hours. If you enjoyed Azimov's books as much as I did, then this movie is for you. Far better in my opinion than IA or I Robot who also took their cues from Azimov. "},{"Title":"The most underrated and misunderstood film ever made- Simply Amazing","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"59 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is absolutely outstanding. Forget the reviews of the critics who seem to love bashing films, this is a tremendous, epic film with such a great heart that explores the values and meaning of humanity and life in general. I saw it for the first time in ages today and its still as touching as the first time I saw it a few years ago. In fact I remember it being shown on a plane I was on the year it came out and I watched the first 5 minutes on a screen with poor picture and sound and remember thinking it was just cheesy family comedy which just plays for humor and nothing else. When I first saw it a few years later when there was nothing else on I was completely blown away by it. It was the complete opposite of what I was thought it was originally. This film does have its humor and that humor is often hilarious in parts, but thats because its delivered so brilliantly by Williams who plays his character to perfection. More importantly it is not supposed to be a comedy. Its a drama and features brilliant performances from an underrated cast including Williams, Sam Neill, Embeth Davditz and Oliver Platt among others.The film is also outstanding from a technical perspective. The futuristic cities, buildings and vehicles look fabulous along with the new household appliances, but the most important thing that really steals the show is the Script and Direction from Kazan and Columbus respectively. I will certainly be watching more of Kazan's films in the future and already thought he did a great job on Matilda beforehand. I've always been an admirer of Columbus and this has to be his best film to date. His vision of the film is splendid and I applaud him for bringing such a brilliant set of actors and sets together to make such an epic and unforgettable film.For most of my reviews for films, I don't like commenting too much on the plot, but here I feel the need to because it touched me so much and the plot helps explain why this happened. It is about a Robot that over 200 years, learns about humanity and seeks to be a part of it. At the beginning its more of a comedy as the robot (who's called Andrew) gets used to the way humans are and learns about simple well known things in life i.e Laughter, Sex, Family Life and Change. But further on as he becomes close to the youngest in the family, he learns more about love and how life is. I sympathised with him as he has to witness this and we follow him as he experiences the deaths of the people closest to him. I felt for him due to him being unable to experience these things like we do. Throughout the film I felt (although the critics certainly didn't and many here probably don't) all these things and became closer and closer to him as he constantly never gives up hope on becoming a human. I found it very emotional and I actually appreciated many of my abilities that I as a human have. To love, to cry, to experience changes, to reproduce, watch my children to grow up, to get older and to eventually move onto another life. As Andrew learns about all these things and begins to want them I really did feel for him like I say because I would find it incredibly hard to live if I was like that.SPOILER Having witnessed the ups and downs of Andrew's life throughout the film and his epic journey to finally become a human being, by the end of the film Andrew has managed to fully achieve this. He is fully human and unfortunately misses this declaration by a few seconds. But he didn't need to like his lover Porscha (His closest family member's granddaughter) says. He has done it. He has found the love he's wanted all those many years with her and he won't have to experience the sadness of watching things change ever again. He has moved onto another life like we're all destined to do and Porscha decides to join him. END OF SPOILERBasically, after seeing this film I did learn just how lucky I am to possess all these extraordinary and unique abilities and I don't believe it is just an accident or coincidence. We each have a destiny and I believe God wants us all to experience these things in life and I'm grateful to be here today and will certainly not be taking any of them for granted.I really think that that this film with a rating of just 6.1 and with the harsh and very unfair criticism its got from critics has to be the most underrated misunderstood film ever made. The film is not really in my opinion a family comedy although it unfortunately has been marketed that way. Its a drama about humanity with bits of comedy that should be watched by anyone of any age. I believe it can help people to become, like me, much more grateful for things we as humans perhaps take for granted in life.I thank you for reading this review and advise you to watch this film and prepare to be moved in a way I don't think any film has done or ever could do.10/10 Not my favourite film of all time but certainly in my Top 5. Stunning. "},{"Title":"Fine performances and a shapely message are the things that make this misadvertised production work. *** our of ****","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"62 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  BICENTENNIAL MAN (1999) ***Starring Robin Williams, Sam Neill, Wendy Crewson, Embeth Davidtz, and Oliver Platt Directed by Chris Columbus.   Running Time 133 minutes.   Rated PG (for mild language and some sex-related material) By Blake French	Chris Columbus is very good at directing tearjerkers. He has a history of constructing such movies as Stepmom and Mrs. Doubtfire. Bicentennial Man is being misadvertised as a humble family comedy. Although it starts out unsatisfying, the film gradually becomes more and more penetrating as we discover the film is really about inner emotions,  the changing of times, how people change over time, and the meaning of life from an original point of view. Bicentennial Man is a sweet, touching production with lots of heart and a shapely message.	At first Bicentennial Man looks  to be about a futuristic family who buys an android robot that is supposed to do housework and serve them. The family of four includes two children, one named Little Miss, and the parents who are called by the name of Sir and Ma'am. They adopt Andrew expecting him to be similar to all the other androids in the area. Nearly every household has one. However, Sir soon notices certain features about Andrew that make him unique, different from any other android he has ever seen. Andrew occupies creativity and emotional personality, elements that these robots are presumed not to contain.	The film doesn't contain a good an introduction to the family who adopts Andrew, which is mainly the reason why I was never entirely concerned for the characters. But the reasoning behind the lack of focus on the family is due to the fact that Bicentennial Man isn't about the family who buys Andrew, but a narrative of Andrew himself.	A running flaw in the film is our foundering curiosity that only grows more ponderous as the script progresses. The audience desires more information about why Andrew is so different from the other robots. There are obvious reasons, sure, but what I wanted was an explanation of why he is special. A lust for information that is never appropriately granted.The film skips ahead a generation or so. Sir and Ma'am age and Little Miss grows to be a full grown woman. Many things change for Andrew. He begins to wonder what lies beyond the likes of his household. He longs for emotional reactions to take place on his face and the concept of freedom. Sir has taught Andrew about death, sex, love, humor, and time. He gradually wants more and more independence. This is where Andrew starts becoming interested in turning from a mechanical being to a biological being.	The age advancing make-up is believable and awe-inducing. I could hardly trust my eyes that Sam Neill wasn't an old man in the movie. However, although I can see that the filmmakers had no other reliable option, I disliked the jumps in time the it takes. The time gaps force us out of massive plot pieces, some of which are important to the character development.	There are some really funny moments in Bicentennial Man. Most of them appear when the picture becomes a bit emotionally heavy, in order to relieve such tension in the audience. This is a wise choice in the writer's part; the viewers who do mistake this movie as a family comedy will gain some satisfaction from these insulated humorous moments.   	I wanted more information on how the robot Andrew gradually becomes ''human.'' I felt cheated out of a lot of decent, noteworthy material here. I felt this way because the scenes where we do have the privilege to see Andrew reinvented are wonderfully inventive and interesting. The film should have leaned towards that material a little more. 	The movie features super charged performances by the entire cast. Robin Williams offers an emotionally accurate acting job that brings the confusion and imagination of the android Andrew to life. The supporting cast is also filled with fine performances with Sam Neill, Wendy Crewson, Embeth Davidtz, and Oliver Platt.	Even though I can admit that Bicentennial Man contains several flawed motives, I still was a little surprised that the film opened to many negative reviews. This isn't a bad movie, just a differently anticipated one. The movie sets up its effective conclusion from the very beginning; it is the only logical climax for such a story. Although it leaves viewers with a sense of well-being, I thought it posed too many spiritual and biological questions. Overall, however, the movie is a well-depicted idea that deserves more appreciation from audiences than its receiving.  Brought to you by Touchstone Pictures and Columbia Pictures.  "},{"Title":"A fable, beyond the myth of HAL 2000 -- a film for mature consumption and appreciation","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"40 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Isaac Asimov, scientist, anthropologist, and philosopher all in one, thought of this Robotic subject beyond the mere joy of fantastic possibilities of computer technology -- it's a more encompassing inquiry to what if a Robot thinks, feels, loves, and yes, wants to be accepted as a human, the imperfections and all! This Chris Columbus directed movie, with the ever-eloquent Robin Williams, and radiant double deliveries (two character portrayals) by Embeth Davidtz, is not the usual Robin Williams comedy fare. It's not Flubber or Mrs. Doubtfire; it's a philosophical fable at best. It's the reverse of John Boorman's Zardoz (1973), where man wanting to be eternally youthful -- here, Robot Andrew (Robin Williams) does not want to be immortal. He wants to experience and feel life, and with a beloved human companion.  This Robotic journey spanning decades, gives us life lessons, prompts us to think reflectively on questions of life and living, growing old and resignation to death. The point filtered through Portia (Embeth Davidtz) that being human is to risk and make mistakes/wrong decisions, hearkens to a quote by John Cage Computers are always right, but life isn't about being right. Film score is by James Horner (Legends of the Fall, Braveheart, Titanic). Location shots include San Francisco landmarks with added air transport images (likened to The Fifth Element) in a futuristic sky. There are no explosive actions or flying bullets, it's an immortal tale about the acceptance of being a mortal human.  "}{"Title":"Very entertaining and heart warming movie.","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"50 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Chris Columbus has another hit on his hands.  Robin Williams gives his usual first rate performance, along with Sam Neil and Embeth Davidtz. They highlight a well cast movie that will pull at your heart strings more than once, in a tale written by Isaac Asimov that brings a lot of human emotion to this science fiction piece. "},{"Title":"Ignore the haters","Date":"9 August 2010","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When this film was released 18 days before the turn of the century it was hurt at the box office by two nearly fatal blows. The first was the temporary backlash against Robin Williams at the time for his performance in the manipulative Patch Adams. The second was the onslaught of reviews that called it schmaltzy and overly-sentimental. Well, I never found it to be that way. If you want to watch a horribly manipulative and sentimental emotional rape then check-out the other Columbus/Williams movie Mrs. Doubtfire. I'd rather throw myself into the path of an oncoming combine harvester than watch that again.The film opens in 2005 (the near future at the time) as Mr. Martin (Sam Neill), a wealthy businessman has a robot servant delivered to his luxurious home. As soon as the robot is powered up he seems to be...different. His name is Andrew (which means man or manly) and while his body may be robotic, his personality is not. In fact he very slowly develops and learns human characteristics as he interacts and responds to the world around him.Mr. Martin is astonished by Andrew's ability to understand art and music. He treats him like a member of the family and educates him by the fire every night on the customs and history of mankind. As the years pass and lives fade away Andrew sets-off on a decades-long journey to find other robots like him. The quest ends when he meets Rupert Burns (Oliver Platt), a robotics engineer who turns Andrew from a simple robot into a life-like android. Upon returning home with his new appearance he falls in love with his old master's great-granddaughter, who is an exact double of her grandmother. They want to be with each other so badly but know they will never be accepted by society unless Andrew can become fully human. Which is impossible.Or is it? It's a question for the atheists and religious zealots to fight over. At what point does Andrew develop a soul? Why is he different from other robots? Did God give him the gift of human emotion? It is a cosmic selection or is it up to the World Council to declare Andrew human? It all builds to a heartbreaking ending, that is honestly one of the toughest movie endings I have ever had to sit through. I can't even write about it so I'll end my description here.This is familiar territory for Williams though. His performance as Mork learning about Earth and marrying a human woman is rather close to Andrew Martin's journey to become a man. And although I wouldn't call it a kid's film, or even a comedy, there are still a lot of laughs. But not in the usual anarchic Williams style. Andrew's curiosity of the world is a much more refined and quieter performance. It's a shame that most people can't see that it's Williams inside the suit for the first hour of the film as it makes us forget he's there on the screen and perhaps appreciate his acting ability less.James Horner's score is also simply wonderful. It's hard to believe the man who gave us the storming action sound of Commando and Aliens could also be capable of something so warm and beautiful. I guess they didn't give him the award for Titanic for nothing. For this movie he again teamed-up with Celine Dion to record the song Then You Look At Me, which is the perfect tune to roll the credits to. I don't care what you think about me, I love it. Even if the lyrics make that ending even more harrowing.Despite going as far ahead as the year 2205, there's no utopia or dystopia subtext to distract us from the story of Andrew's life. The evolution of technology and architecture is handled subtly and is unobtrusive. It's a quirky irony though, that Andrew's inventions and discoveries help save lives and forward the human race despite not being fully human himself.Bicentennial Man is certainly the most mature and subversive film of Chris Columbus' career as a director. As I said, not a kid's film but a masterpiece of science-fiction and character drama. How anyone could ever truly hate this film is beyond me. "},{"Title":"What it means to be truly human, and humane","Date":"15 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It never fails to amaze me, how some people either don't want to or simply do not get what a movie is about. This movie is not about robots, the future, or science fiction. It is about that which is most basic, and yet often, most overlooked by all of us. Life, living, our short time in the scheme of the grander scale of things. It deals with some of the most elemental, and difficult, issues we ultimately most face in our lives. We want to be happy,we want a sense of purpose, we want to feel we belong, we want to feel loved.I have seen A.I. as well, and the it shares many of the same themes laid out in this film. I only hope, and pray, mans' vanity and blind ambition never produce a machine that truly achieves sentient thought. The profound, deep, and inconsolable sadness and grief it would suffer as it deals with seeing all whom it cares about slowly pass away and leave it lonely would surely be a torment beyond any ability to conceive. "},{"Title":"Superficialities galore, but the movie's still absolutely freaking brilliant","Date":"10 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Warning Depending on your definition of spoilers, there might be a spoiler here. Tread carefully.Like most other reviewers, I could not help but notice how perfect the future was, yet how much it resembled the 20th century. However, all that, IMO, is irrelevant to the plot.Now, I haven't read Asimov's book (as a matter of fact, I had no idea this movie was based on a book till I logged on to IMDb), but even if I had, I wouldn't go in with the highest expectations, knowing how Hollywood mucks things up.My parents, who have already watched this film, praised it quite highly, but my sister trashed it as boring. I went in with mediocre expectations, particularly because I don't have much affinity for movies dealing with artificial intelligence.I was pleasantly surprised by the plot. Perhaps it's just me, but I really felt I could actually relate to the robot. I didn't care that it was Robin Williams. I didn't care the future was totally unrealistic. In a sense, I think I related to Andrew because of my personality; I'm awkward in social situations, and am always utterly agreeable.I probably fell for the plot like a sucker, but I liked falling for it. Whatever superficial goofs the movie made were more than made up for me by the story, which I found brilliantly beautiful. I really cannot think of adjectives that would sufficiently describe it, but.... it's just something that really appealed to me.Besides the similarities I found between myself and Andrew, I think I was also touched by many elements of the plot; independence, freedom, recognition, a spurned love... And the philosophical issues, most imperatively. I've always enjoyed pondering the moral issues surrounding robots, immortality, and so on. I think that's probably what drew me in. Watching the people Andrew loved die was probably the part of the film that touched me most, because I'm a very nostalgic person at heart - I love recalling past incidents, people I knew... and I felt Andrew's pain at losing the people he loved most.A lot of reviewers criticised this movie for its unrealistic portrayal of the future, its failure to properly adapt Asimov's book (from what I've heard about it, it does sound like a great pity, as the book seems more powerful), hell, even the music played.But none of that stuff really matters to me. The story was quite philosophical, with all the touches of sentimentality that make me melt like butter in a frying pan. This movie is probably one of the most touching and brilliant dramas I've watched, outdoing A Beautiful Mind, my previous most favourite drama. Neither films are without flaws, but the stories, which is what a movie is about, are beautiful. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever!!!","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I adore this movie and have watched it over and over again. It continues to hold my attention every single time. The storyline is lovely and very moving. How Andrew forms a very close bond to Little Miss and Sir is enchanting. I thought the clothes chosen for the film were perfect - Portia's ball gown was absolutely stunning and the music throughout was wonderful! The character of Andrew played by the brilliant fantastic Robin Williams is absolutely delightful. Robin is a superb actor and I have just finished reading his autobiography. In my eyes everything he touches turns to gold. I totally love this film and will watch it forever!! "},{"Title":"So good and yet  tough on your emotions","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although the movie is a celebration of Andrew's ongoing quest for enlightenment and humanity, it does make us cry. Why? Because the lengthy scope of the movie reminds us all too sharply that this fate is eventually in store for all of us. We will lose loved ones, and leave loved ones behind. Although it is unavoidable, we regard it as very sad. The fact that this movie does tap into that deep fear and sadness in all of us is a testament to just how on target it is.And give credit to Asimov. Sentiment is not normally a big part of his writing, but in this story he brought it fully to bear, and the film captures it maybe even more fully than the prose did.It is sort of a shame to me that this movie is so good, yet it chokes me up so often for its last two thirds that I can't really bear to put myself thru that emotional wringer very often.Robin Williams is brilliant. His ability to gradually turn on to humanity is marvelous, especially considering that since movies are virtually never shot in sequence, he probably had to go back and forth quite a bit regarding his current staqe of enlightenment. "},{"Title":"Poor poor Aismov","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a big disappointment, I was expecting to see Asimov's Bicentennial Man but instead it was another profane comedy. The first half of the movie I enjoyed the first half was like the book, elongated but like the book. But then after the first hour it had strayed to far form the book, they added the new main characters, that were not in the book. When Portia entered the movie it was no longer about Andrew trying to become human but about him being in love, the movie had strayed completely from the book.Asimov's Bicentennial Man was moving, and original, Chris Columbus' Bicentennial Man was to long, tried to be funny but was just profane, tried to be dramatic but was just dull and unmoving.If you want to see 'robot wants to be human' read Asimov's Bicentennial Man, not Columbus'. "},{"Title":"Great job; Williams deserved nomination but probably not Oscar","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Richard Martin brings home an NDR-model android, and his two young daughters don't care much for it. Amanda refers to the android as 'Andrew', and that becomes his name. The android seems very much like a human, with feelings and emotions, but is very proper and polite and does whatever it is asked, which leads to some humorous moments when Grace wants to kill it. Andrew eventually becomes not only a valued servant but a beloved friend and an artist.Amanda becomes an adult all too quickly (I liked Hallie Kate Eisenberg's performance, but Embeth Davidtz was so good I didn't really care that much after a while). She thinks of Andrew as more than just a friend, but she wants to marry another man because, after all, Andrew is not really human.The movie keeps advancing forward, usually by several decades at a time. Without revealing too much, I will say that we see 200 years in the 'life' of Andrew, which gives us the film's title. Andrew does keep in contact with the family he grew up with, but he longs for relationships with other human-type robots. His quest leads him to Rupert Burns, who restores old robots and has the ability to make Andrew more 'human'.I thought Robin Williams did a wonderful job. Even when he was only the voice, he was so charming and so proper, often making Andrew funny when Andrew didn't realize he was being funny, but also humorous when Andrew wanted to be that way. Later, Rupert's 'improvements' meant we saw Williams as well as hearing him. The original robot seemed to have a personality, though, with facial expressions showing emotions and feelings, even though a robot was not supposed to have those.Oliver Platt gave the other standout performance as Rupert. One human-type robot that worked for Rupert was Galatea, who I found very annoying.Since the characters had to age many years, making the characters look elderly was critical, and the makeup artists did a very convincing job. I was quite pleased with the music. Only at the end (in the 23rd century) did I realize the movie was staring sometime after the year 2000, but futuristic music was not used. Most of the music used for dancing and special occasions was classical, and one scene had great performances of big-band standards which must have been over 100 years old.It was obvious certain locations were from the distant future, since many buildings appeared to be straight out of 'The Jetsons', and flying cars had taken over most transportation. It was nice to see certain classic architecture, including a magnificent church where Amanda got married, which her granddaughter had a role in restoring many years later. Also still around over a hundred years in the future our beautiful U. S. Capitol dome. I was disappointed that more effort did not go into making this a family movie, which it could have been. For the first thirty minutes or so, this film could have gotten a TV-G rating the way it aired on ABC-TV. One curse word was the only thing to be concerned about (and this one won't affect a G rating these days). There was a tasteful but humorous discussion after Andrew heard 'the facts of life' from Richard (the actual description of what takes place did not appear in the movie). Then there were jokes, some off-color, after Andrew learned about humor. None of this would have made this movie off-limits to most kids during the first 45 minutes, though certain PG curse words showed up from time to time after that. Yet for some odd reason a TV-14 rating was used, which I do not understand. The movie contained some sexual content but nothing nearly as bad as, say, an NBC sitcom. This was a movie worth seeing. Possible SPOILER here I said Galatea was annoying, but that was before I realized she was the cute quirky chick from 'Life Goes On' and 'Saved by the Bell The College Years'. I recognized her immediately at movie's end when she looked human like Andrew. If I had known, I might have liked her better.  "},{"Title":"Almost there","Date":"16 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The synopsis of the movie drew my attention and I went for it desperately. Bicentennial Man was truly involving, touching and heart warming until the death of Sir. The relationship they had was so natural, they talked to each other like normal friends, I just felt they missed a hug. It was impossible not to cry when Sir was about to die and called Andrew to speak the famous last words. I saw in this film a big message about prejudice, racism and problems involving intolerance, and we are able to feel and be in the place the underdog is.But I felt the movie could have explored even more the friendship between them and could have ended after Sir and Ma'am deaths. Sadly, they rolled the movie and explored it without being necessary, the message of it was almost all already showed. The only necessary thing in the end was to show we have to fight for our rights and for our own happiness, and Andrew fortunately made it. Don't get me wrong, the movie isn't bad and I would watch it again in a rainy day.PS What's up with IMDb reviewers claiming this movie is overly sentimental? This is a drama movie, it's written in the synopsis that a robot begin to show feelings, what were you expecting? If you don't like emotional movies, don't even bother watching dramas "},{"Title":"Shallow for a heart warming movie.","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS IN THE BRACKETSRobin Williams plays Andrew, a robot who in time grows feelings. As the years pass on, we follow this robot's life from the time spent with the family that bought and raised it to his life in the real world, trying to find any other N D R that is like him and even further beyond that. Although BICENTENNIAL MAN starts rather fast, there seems to be no problem with the execution of the movie compared to the overall feeling that this is supposed to be heart warming. The dry humor works good (at the beginning of the movie, when Little Miss asks Andrew to come with her, to which he asks, Does this involve a window? was really cute.), and is far better compared to the straight out humor (at the beginning, when Andrew is laying so many jokes at the dinner table or when Andrew asks for an impact drill once Galatea ticks him off one too many times didn't really seem too funny).As far as heart warming, a robot working hard at designing things to better mankind, does not seem to work. When Andrew walks around the beach of his house, you don't feel anything. You just seem to stare at the screen hoping something interesting would happen. The movie is far too long and testing to like. Robin Williams makes another dud and drags Chris Columbus with him. "}{"Title":"Long and boring","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Very long.  Very boring.  This movie did not hold my attention very long.  I made it about 1.5 hours through and realized that you were basically watching the same story being repeated over several generations in the same family.  The whole freedom and declaration of humanity themes just didn't save it.  It's very difficult to portray the life of a single character spanning 200 years, and Bicentennial Man didn't pull it off.The biggest problem is that the life of Andrew is portrayed so quickly, moving through time like the years are broken blades of grass, it's impossible to make a connection with the character.  Once you think you may be connecting with him and feeling what he feels, BAM, the movie just skipped 16 years, and you're left with, Hey, wait a minute, I was just getting into that period.Robin Williams and the special effects guys did a fantastic job.  Other than that, it's just plain dumb.I gave it 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Badly marketed, severely underrated little gem","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is severely underrated and was very badly marketed as a family comedy. This is a drama about trying to fit in, discovering reasons for living, true love and the human condition. Sure it has its funny scenes but it's incidental to the rest. The characters, the robot in particular, are profoundly likable (ok, with a few exceptions ;) and I won't mention how or why, but it had truly beautiful moments, both small and big. One of the movies where I identified the most with the hero and shed the most tears throughout and making me cry is very hard to do. I might love this movie for the emotional impact but I was fascinated by several other aspects including the robotics and the passage of time. Robin Williams was great in this role.Rating 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece!","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was great! i decided to re-watch this after i learned of Robin Williams Passing and this film was just as good as i remembered. It has a great storyline and it has a plot that is very poignant, touching, and sad.This film also has some pretty good special effects. It is about a robot named Andrew who wants to become a man. Robin WIlliams was one of the best comedians around and he will be missed. I highly recommend this movie to fans of Robin Williams, Fans of sci-Fi Dramas, or to someone that is interested in watching a touching and wonderful film. I thought this would be a good film to watch in honor of Robin Williams because it is one of his most touching films. R.I.P. Robin Williams. Make God Laugh. "},{"Title":"Excellent and true to its Inspirational Source","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Staying true to the spirit of Isaac Asimov's books, Bicentennial Man explores the essence of human reasoning, thought, and ultimately love, through a fanciful and fun story of an intelligent robot.The movie is a must-see for all Asimov fans, and probably does the best job of all movies in depicting Asimov's world like he imagined it. iRobot has much of the same thoughtfulness, but this movie is like reading the books with a film projector.This particular robot story focuses on relationships of love and caring between people - and in this case - people and robots, and the inherent conflict between eternal love and the finite lifespans of people due to death that ends most people's lives all too soon. "},{"Title":"One of the best and most touching movies I have ever Seen!","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my first Review on IMDb, and the reason I am reviewing this is because such a low average rating does not do justice to this title. This is one the finest movies ever made. It had the right balance of emotions, drama and comedy.I don't even remember how many times I have seen this movie, and I still end up seeing it again whenever it is on TV.Despite the story being from an Androids perspective tells you a story about human emotions like never before. Though the length of a movie may deter you at times but just stick to it and you will see the magic unfolding before your eyes. The story unfolds over 3 generations of humans, and to pack all this time in a single movie and still make sense is a commendable job by the director.If you haven't seen it yet watch it right away! "},{"Title":"Isaac Asimov's classic Big Science sci-fi brought to film. Tearjerker. 7/10. SPOILERS!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember Asimov's story far more emotionally; but then, I was a mere teenager when I first read Bicentennial Man. The short story has no expressed romance between Little Miss and Andrew Martin, as there is in the movie, and I'm sure it was better that way, because that just heightened the pathos surely the very core of this story. Instead the film is forced to invent a lookalike granddaughter Portia in order to compensate for the robot's long lifespan. Cheesy. I was disappointed in this, I have to admit. The reactions of the wife/mother Ma'am(Wendy Crewson, a wonderful actress under normal circumstances) are especially irritating, and frankly, not believable. Women, of all people, would accept robots far more readily and respond to them emotionally. For exactly the same reason that Little Miss liked Andrew almost instantly, any mother could and would muster--at least--warmth for him, ESPECIALLY if he was as gentle with the children as Andrew clearly was. Remember Sarah Connor, who decided that she would let The Terminator raise her one and only child because he would make the best father of all the candidates? Well, if she could think like that (despite being highly suspicious), then why couldn't Ma'Am? It's crazy, and not believable. The always-under-foot syndrome, too, could've been handled with more subtlety or just minimalist comedy, to show intelligent adjustment. Did the mother want to perform household chores herself or not? I completely fail to understand the woman's emotional/intellectual wherewithal (ineptitude). Basically, we're forced to conclude that except for Sir and Little Miss, the rest of the family were lost causes. This despite that robots were supposed to be commonplace. This abysmal character development has to be inherent to the Nicholas Kazan screenplay, we can't blame the unfortunate Wendy Crewson. The very same thing is wrong with AI(2001). The mother, again(?!), is even more insipid and daft. Such characters do test one's patience, because they are such an obvious fraud, for the sake of some plot-development or other it is CLUMSY WRITING.The Martins actually had a helpful, and an astonishingly verbally adroit android (compared to current technology), amazingly well-socialized into the family. He was safe (for them), and in his own way funny, courteous, smart, talented, and permanently so! I'd trade him in for any of my last three boyfriends. Why wouldn't any of these people come to terms with Andrew? Ridiculous.Perhaps the problem was that Chris Columbus et al waited too long to make the movie. Other sci-fis like Terminator(1984), in fact, had already surpassed Asimov's notions about humanity's political incapacity and rejection of androids/robots. We've also (suffered through) I-don't-know-how-many court cases about android rights on Star Trek, and the Voyager Doctor's frankly irritating harping about hologram rights ad nauseam, so that declaring a robot as in fact human is no longer such a biggie. That had been the guts of the original 1976 story, but audiences are now far too sophisticated - watched 14yrs of Star Trek! (Viewers interested in more Asimov robot stories should read I, Robot and The Rest of the Robots. They are excellent short stories.) What I think happened was that certain contractual obligations about movie-making, and particularly this script, may have gotten in the way of creative output (eg the option was about to run out, and since the CGI technology was OK, it was now or never). We may have ended up with an out-evolved turkey because of the business being not show-art. I don't know that this is what happened, but it sounds plausible to me. The Three (really Four, Asimov added another one) Laws of Robotics is a very good place to start robot ethics; they are not in debate. The hard part about making Andrew real would be socializing him to the degree he was in the movie. That's what we still can't do. We can't teach context. That's the stumbling block. Neural nets do their learning usually with human cheating (called back-propagation - don't ask, I always thought the technique completely disreputable, so I cringed and winced may way through 7 years of Data's pride in his own neural net on ST-NG). But context requires generalization into abstracts from the concrete, and then reversing back again, and the mapping onto the real world has to be accurate >95% of the time. So it's a whole new kettle of fish. Roger Schank modularized layers of contexts as individual nested subroutines, and called them schemas, which a computer could simulate. But you just couldn't schematize/digitize enough of reality, it takes too much room. The human brain excels at filling in blanks (based on this bi-directional mapping of the essential & the generalized). Computers and robots suck at this. They have no real life experience to guess with. They need a background library the size of a planet to carry around just to take a walk in the park. Which is why Andrew Martin is so impressive. So. Wherefore art thou, Bicentennial Man? Perhaps Rodney Brooks (bottom-up architecture with Cog, Kismet) needs to team up with Doug Lenat (CYClist, top-down architecture, hand-codes reality one step at a time) so they can hit paydirt somewhere in the middle. That they should join forces is EXTREMELY unlikely they are both using diametrically opposed concepts and code. The other possibility is that Honda will beat them to it, with their human-shaped white robot that walks up stairs. Otherwise, Bicentennial Man may be another couple of centuries away. Growing up is aardvark (hard work). "},{"Title":"Pleasantly entertaining, reasonably faithful to the source","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As an Isaac Asimov fan, I approached this movie with some skepticism.  As a Robin Williams fan, I approached it with hope.  It's been years since I read Bicentennial Man or the early robot stories that are more-or-less the basis for the movie but I found the movie entertaining and quite acceptable as an adaptation of Asimov's work.  I watched it with someone who is quite emphatically NOT a science fiction fan and she enjoyed it, too. "},{"Title":"Asimov's 3 laws of robotics are the central theme of the movie.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** The movie did not emphasize the three laws of robotics as much as Isaac Asimov's written story. Perhaps that is why the reviewers and many viewers did not understand or enjoy it. In fact, the laws are mentioned only at the beginning. Nevertheless, they are essential to this story and the story's imaginary robotics industry. The laws are burned into every robot in hopes of eliminating humans' innate fear of being replaced by superior (mental or physical) technology. If they don't allay peoples' fears, there would be no robotics industry.When the robot, Andrew, obeys the order to jump out of the second story window, this was a pivotal point.  The fall causes internal as well as external damage which subverts the three laws in him. This was better exhibited later when he disobeys a direct order to come closer to a window on the 37th floor. The subversion of the three laws gives Andrew free will, self-expression and the desire to be just like his owner. Sir, Andrew's owner, sees the self-expression and decides to develop it. A robotics executive recognizes that the three laws are no longer fully functional in Andrew. That makes the executive frightened and anxious to eliminate Andrew and all other robots with the same programming.(note The rest of this review contains spoilers.) With Sir's coaching and example, however, Andrew metamorphoses over the next two hundred years. First, an android (artificial human) and then eventually, makes himself into a fully functional human being. To do so, he creates artificial organs. These same organs can be used in people, which turns them into androids, too (the proper term is cyborg, which comes from cybernetic organism).At the end of the movie, Andrew wants to die. At first, I felt that this idea was totally nonhuman and therefore, out of character. After all, most humans would envy Andrew's immortality. Nevertheless, after looking at it from Andrews's prospective, it made complete sense. First, his death would allay his detractor's fear, because he would no longer be superior. His enemies would not have to disassemble or reprogram a robot that is no longer functional. Second, he would fulfill his ambition to be just like his owner. Third, he would prove to himself that he was human by breaking the first law of robotics.  I think that why it did not matter that he dies before hearing himself declared human. He already knew.Shortly after Andrew dies, his human wife orders the robot nurse to allow her to die by turning off her life support.  By obeying, the robot violates the first law of robotics. At first I thought this was a mistake. Later, I realized, that robot nurse was also becoming human. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams Best Movie","Date":"10 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have to be honest here, at first I thought it didn't look all too good, no matter how many times my girlfriend said it was a great film.I was wrong (I know how much she likes to hear that lol). This is a wonderfully touching film that would tug the heartstrings of everyone bar the emotionally stunted. A amazing story of the strengths of family and believing in who you are and being what you want to be, not how others see you.I truly am astounded by the low rating of this film. Sure its not Citizen Kane or The Shawshank Redemption but its a great film, and Robin Williams is at his finest from start to finish, providing his trademark humour with the touching feeling and drama we all know he can play.Take my girlfriends word for it. Its definitely worth a watch, just make sure the tissues are near by. "},{"Title":"Yuck! A well intentioned, but misguided movie","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robin Williams has a appeared in such a slew of stinkers over the last 6 or 7 years that his face on a movie poster is almost a dead giveaway that the movie is not worth seeing.  Bicentennial Man is unfortunately, no exception.  While this is not a 'horrible' movie, it just doesn't work on many levels.  It goes from cute to saccharine to cloying, and eventually just plain unbelievable. Ask yourself this question Do you -really- want to see the wonder of a machine that gets a working penis?  If the answer is no, this movie is not for you. "}{"Title":"Why, Why, Why!","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robin Willi8ams is a fin creative artist, why does he keep on doing these type of films.  Show how sensitive he is?  Let him play a killer I bet he would be great...(Only two films stand out to me Good Will Hunting and the one with Deniro..and then he was so kind..........Save it for soap operas, just get a chainsaw and start killing everybody in sight then jump off a building and fade to black (SEQUEAL)............Harpo "},{"Title":"Perfect pace, perfect peace","Date":"27 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Sometimes I'm appalled by the ratings a movie on IMDb gets, but often there is a good explanation. For example, the movie is running in cinemas and people overrate somewhat. In the case of Bicentennial Man I have found no good reason to see it this underrated compared with movies of similar rating. Maybe the lack of hard-core action, guts and R&B moves have let this movie down in the ratings, but to me it certainly rates higher than 99% of all Star Trek movies and Next Generation series (the latter having a similar character, Data, who tries to be human).OK, lets have some detail. First of all, the pacing of the movie. I've seen some comments on this movie being too long, too dragging. No, when the tale is about life and death, and the human condition, longer is often better a simple sound-bite doesn't quite do it. In the same vein, 2001 A Space Odyssey, is often underrated.Then the content it touches quite strongly on our human condition and maybe it is simplified somewhat. When compared with other movies which circle around the existential movement, one could certainly emphasize this. But let us not forget that this movie is made for a broad audience. Having read Nietsche, Heidegger or Foucault should not be a requirement for the audience this movie is targeting. The exact opposite could be said it should be the prequel to read important works by the talented authors in both literature and philosophy.We can certainly see the different stages of self-consciousness artistic development, personal freedom, social acknowledgment, political and philosophical acknowledgment, to just name a few I've seen in this movie. Can we not appreciate the understanding of these elements in our children? Do we have to compare this movie with the more introspective movies, like Waking Life? Or should we see here a perfect movie for a family audience who is critical on content and a movie which allows a slow enough pace to sit back and think about the elements presented? To sum it up, I certainly believe this movie is worth watching, if only to see a bit of movie magic and a fairy-tale experience. So, don't let that bad rating turn you away, please. "},{"Title":"Best ever screen adaptation of an Asimov story .","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was in an extended stay in the hospital when this movie was released. Indeed I did not know it had been made until several years later when I saw the video of Celine Dion's Then You Look at Me, and recognized the scenes as being from the short story by Isaac Asimov.I immediately rented the video.This is the finest Robot movie ever, touching and funny. It remains faithful, in spirit if not detail, to the original story. Excellent acting by all. I do not understand why it flopped. Screen adaptations of Asimov's stories haven't always worked (eg. Nightfall both versions), but this one does "},{"Title":"It won't do.","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Asimov's story is a good one it's certainly good material for a movie, and it provides this film with a solid backbone, so that the film is really not so bad as all that.  But AFTER they chose a decent story, I don't think anything went right.  The biggest problems - perhaps they are only the most obvious problems - are miscasting, and under-rendering.What made anyone think that Robin Williams should play a robot - in particular, this robot?  It's not that he's bad, it's just that he's so clearly swimming upstream, it makes me wince.  Hugh Grant, Kevin Spacey, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jim Carey ... it's hard to think of ANY other well-known actor who wouldn't have been more appropriate.  They're all so OBVIOUSLY more appropriate one wonders why they weren't asked.  (That is, given that Columbus was casting his net so wide that Robin Williams was a serious candidate in the first place.)  To take a case no-one can quarrel with, Brent Spiner (Data from `Star Trek') does what Robin Williams is trying to do, or ought to have been trying to do, a hundred times better.By `under-rendering' I mean many things.  This is a story that begins AFTER a quiet revolution in the future (robots have become household appliances, at least for the very wealthy) and stretches two hundred years FURTHER into the future.  What does this future look like?  Inasmuch as it looks like anything at all, it looks like the world of today.  But the key clause in that sentences is, `inasmuch as it looks like anything at all'.  Asimov's story makes more positive assertions about what the future is like, than the film, and Columbus had a duty to add detail, at least visual detail, to the story, and sketch a future that felt as if it were more than a cardboard backdrop.  (In retrospect `The Fifth Element' looks as if it had something going for it after all - it at least went to THAT much effort.)  -Oh, every so often we see someone wearing a silly dress, or we see people playing chess with ridiculous non-Staunton pieces that's as far as it goes.  In general the Columbus strategy is to remove details that could pin the setting down to the late twentieth century, not add details that would suggest some other setting.  (The opposite approach can be seen in `A Clockwork Orange'.  Kubrick makes no effort to remove trappings of the 1970s; instead he adds to them.  I know which approach I prefer.  One at least REMEMBERS `A Clockwork Orange'.)But the under-rendering is obvious even if we ignore the setting.  Conversations, the details of personal relationships, the nature of the law these, too, are painted in the most under-nourished and non-committal way.  It's this, I fancy, that made so many people feel that nothing happens.  The story just trundles along, each scene resembling the last (`inasmuch as it resembles anything'), no scene ever igniting or standing out.A minor point I'd like to mention while I'm on the topic the music.  Notice that every piece of music we hear dates to - surprise, surprise - the twentieth century - with two interesting exceptions.  The first is a gorgeous aria (the famous one from `Rusalka') by Antonin Dvorak, which Andrew is entranced by shortly after he is plugged in.  The second is a bit of 21st-century piano music (I presume that's what it is), represented by an original composition by James Horner.  It's a wonder Andrew could bear to listen to it after Dvorak.  The scene in which he and Little Miss play the banal, anaemic melody in octaves is enough to make anyone block his ears and try to imagine something else.  I doubt I have ever heard a weaker tune.  But no somehow, he and Little Miss manage play this wretched four-handed drivel, on and off, for fifteen years.  Fifteen years!  It defies belief that human (or non-human) taste could be so degraded.  (One of Horner's lifeless tunes becomes a song which we hear over the closing credits it's guaranteed to empty a cinema in no time.)You'll gather that there are, indeed, MANY things wrong with this film.  The conclusion is telegraphed too early and too clumsily.  The scene with the two hoodlums - it's in Asimov's story - has been removed; a love story that weakens the whole in too many ways to document, has been added.  (Perhaps this love story appeared when the story was inflated into a novel.  If so, so much the worse for the novel.)  The backbone I mentioned earlier is there, all right, but it must support a great deal of flab. "},{"Title":"One of robin Williams finest work","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The year i saw this film i was awed by the aspiring vision of what possible immortality could achieve. Seeing Robin Williams in a robotic role such as this,gave a point of view on the world even though he did not realize it in the first place. His family Being loving and caring although one daughter thought otherwise,gave the audience heart,devotion,and a push towards one doing better,or at least becoming the best a person can be. Through the ages of two hundred years,Andrew martin has seen and done it all,to be human to others as he was thriving to be recognized as such. The splendor and special effects was top rate although done not too complicated,which gave a crystal clear view of the surroundings. Streets with people dressed to accommodate the day,with flying transit cars or buildings so clean you can eat off of them. Using a clean fun environment was a beautiful sight to,rather than seeing gutters littered with derelicts,and yet in this movie no such thing exists. I have to say the thought of no villains or chase scenes or bad guys with guns was a fresh approach. I thoroughly enjoyed this film in its entirety,as for death scenes well all i can say its a part of life that everyone must endure in their lives sooner or later. Kids would understand about the meaning of life since a person named Andrew martin has shown them,that even androids come to a decision about their existence and why its important to take the love you feel for another with you. This film is meant for the entire family,its a wonderful teaching tool about life,love,feelings,friends,and family. As one becomes human,so does one become whole. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies ever made","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This to me was one of the greatest movies ever made. I thought the director, the producers, and the creators of this movie did such a great job making this movie, the robots looked so real. especially andrew. The stuff in that movie I got really interested in because I'm a television major and i'm taking courses that are based on what they used to make this film and thanks to that it's actually getting me upto the point of graduating sometime soon. even though i know i started college 6 years ago but when i started watching it i started to get the feel for the movie and thats how i was able to pass computer art 2d and the rest of my TV classes then. but now since it's been years since i've seen it i haven't passed much of anything but now come to think of it i'll go back to watching it again. and for any of u guys that are TV majors and are about to take science or new developments or anything that is based on robotics or any kind of science work like they used for this movie i'd recommend first to check with your advisors to see if this movie will help u guys with your assignments for classes and if so go either rent this movie or better yet because u'll need it for the rest your entire college learning, buy the movie. it's worth watching. i have to give an award to chris columbus for making this movie and thanks to him and robin williams this has been helping me pass classes and now i'm at the greatest danger of graduating the community college. "},{"Title":"A travesty **spoilers**","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was based - loosely based - on Issac Asimov's story 'The Bicentennial Man', also printed as 'The Positronic Man'  It's not unusual for a movie to not be as good as the book it is based on (which was certainly the case here), and my problem with this film isn't that it didn't live up to my expectations from the original story, it was that it completely missed the point of the original story.  Before I get into that, let me first say that even if this film had not been based on any book, it was still very weak; Robin Williams has talent, but not enough to make up for such a weak story.  This was just a series of cute little silly sequences where Andrew the robot flip flops between putting his foot in it and then turning on the warmth now and then.  It's TV movie material, I don't know how else to put it - it does everything you expect, and nothing you don't, then ends tied up with a sweet little bow.  There is little imagination expended on the character of Andrew...really, any Star Trek episode featuring Data provides a greater exploration of this movie's subject matter, and that is managed in less than one hour.  One of the biggest complaints I had were Andrew's motivations for wanting to be deemed a man in the first place; why throw in the inane love story?  Does Hollywood truly believe that moviegoers will short-circuit if they found themselves sitting through a film where the main character did not have a corresponding 'love interest'?  Andrew did not take a lover in the book - Andrew's desire to be officially considered a man was all about being human, and all of the freedoms that come with being human.  Andrew's journey was a very long one, but he always struggled forward for that reason - not for love, and especially not for the love of one person in particular, which I thought was a ridiculous throwaway and completely changed the point of the whole story.  Andrew (kind of like Data in Star Trek) wants to become human because he feels that is a goal worth achieving; for all of its reasons, because he feels that being human is something unique and special.  Of course, both Andrew and Data may have changed their minds about us had they been forced to at some point sit through this stinkburger.  In the end of the book, Andrew chooses death because gaining mortality is the one last step which at that point separates him from humans.  In the end, Andrew finally achieves his goal, and spends his final hours as the man he had struggled his whole life to become.  He didn't tell jokes (we know Robin Williams is a comedian, it was forced and pointless to showcase that fact), he didn't fall out of windows and run around like an idiot, he never fell in love with anyone (except perhaps the affection he felt for the original 'Little Miss' who he took care of as a child, but the affection was platonic).  If it hadn't been based on the book, this movie would have been simply another forgettable sci-fi failure from that conveyor belt of cookie-cutter, second-rate Hollywood drivel.  Since it is based on the book it's a complete travesty; Asimov must have twisted in his grave when this thing hit the theaters.  It has probably also ensured that fans of the original will never see it done right.   "},{"Title":"A touch story","Date":"14 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robin Williams is the funnyman. He's the guy most people enjoy on screen when they want a good laugh. In fact, he's done a good job at being versatile as well. Williams has also shown that he can play very serious roles that involve a lot of emotion. And this Chris Columbus film is probably one of his most emotional performances. Here, Robin Williams plays a robot named Andrew whose original purpose was to serve mankind. Soon, he becomes self-aware and wants to understand more about what it's like to be human.This triggers a switch in Andrew's mind and from then on, he makes it his goal to do anything he can to be human. It's a very sweet plot that really tugs at the heartstrings. Unfortunately, this is where people may draw the line because the screenplay can get very sappy at times and very emotional. If a viewer likes that kind of material than there should be no problem but because this is about a robot who wants to become human, he's going to have to go through many significant events that many of us regular people have to go through everyday. This will have viewers feel like the story drags on forever. That's the downside to the writing - it can be very sappy and drawn out at times.But for the cast, Robin Williams is very solid. He includes his mix of humor and emotion and performs well. His struggle to understand how to be human is very intimate because many of us can relate to such scenes that involve pain, love and joy. Sadly, he's also the only reason why people would want to go see this because through the running time, new characters come into play every scene which can be tiresome because the audience has to get to know a whole new set of faces. The special effects are good though. So much of it is well blended that it's hard to know what is real and what is CGI. But by far, the most effective element to this movie is James Horner's score. Every scene containing his music is to the point of magical and childlike simultaneously. Extremely emotional music. I would say it's for the true Robin Williams sappy story fans.It has good special effects, excellent music and a performance many Robin Williams fans would love. However, the plot can be drawn out and overly sappy. "},{"Title":"Likable movie","Date":"1 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I read Asimov's original story some years before it was filmed. My hat's off to the people who worked so hard to bring Dr Asimov's words to the screen. (Science fiction seldom gets much respect from Hollywood -- but that's an issue for another forum.)A moving -- and well-told -- story of one individual's quest for acceptance.I must say, the only negative items I can point out is that the Andrew character was a bit too much overlaid with Robin Williams' over-the-top style of comedic acting at the start -- and they did seem to veer off in a whole other direction at the end. (2011/03/01) "},{"Title":"A Fascinating Look At Our Future Amongst Artificial Intelligence","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even eleven years later, this movie has retained its power and legitimate relevancy to today's rapidly aging society. While perhaps, artificial intelligence has yet to catch up with the movie's premise of robotics existing side by side with us, the movie's script has important implications for our contemporary society. This mainstream, populist movie is at the same the entertaining and like A.I. (2001), Bicentennial Man has the same sharply photographed and easily but poignant storyline about important issues, in this case about man's mortality and about what makes us human. This movie has aged well and is touching and spans 200 years in our future, with the backdrop fascinating to seen while never being overwhelming to the story itself. The characters while perhaps one-dimensional, each provide archetypes and allows the audience to focus on the story and events not the depth of character which really are not the primary substance of this movie. Robin Williams brings his genius of comedy and humor to the role and in a way the smoothly fits in with the movie. A sweetly epic movie in a gentle and unpretentious way for the masses with both heart and simple intelligence worth watching. "}{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is fantastic, sheer brilliance, in my opinion the most beautiful love story ever told, while not being anywhere near a classic love story. The first hour of the movie is pure old fashioned fun, and it doesn't take itself too seriously. Yet when you enter the last half of the film, it takes a dramatic turn for the better. A lot of people bashed this film, and even though for the most part it was a box office flop, I believe it to be one of the best romance films I've ever seen.This was the role that Williams was born to play. Before this he was mostly cast in overly clichd comedies with flawed scripts. He was known for being one of the funniest men in the industry, but he really shows his true colors in this film. While being generally comedic he makes sure that he keeps his character light-hearted and optimistic. He is a robot who wishes to be human, and will never rest until his goal is completed. The defining moments of the movie are not in its comedy, but in its drama and the social conflict Andrew (Williams) faces with trying to change. The final scene of this movie will have tears flowing and the tissues flying. Every time I watch this film, the ending always gets me, its more powerful than Titanic or King Kong, Capote or Gone With The Wind.Supporting Williams in this brilliant film are Sir Richard Martin (Sam Neil), his caring master and provider. Sam Neil notices the extraordinary originality and difference in Andrew from other robots and uses this to teach Andrew of the ways of man. A career high for Sam Neil, he portrays a character both enlightened and later distraught by Andrew. Little Miss Amanda Martin (Embeth Davidtz) is the daughter of Sir Martin who soon befriends and becomes very attached to Andrew. Andrew and Little Miss form a bond that is lovable and innocent. Embeth Davidtz later portrays Portia Charney, the grand-daughter of Little Miss, whom Williams has a hard time dealing with. Oliver Platt performs as Rupert Burns, an intelligent yet underestimated engineer of robots who helps Andrew on his journey to change. His comedic excellence truly lifts this movie and like I said before, makes sure it doesn't take itself too seriously. The other performances in this film support it greatly, whether it is comedic and dramatic.Altogether, I find this to be one fantastic film. I cannot understand now how this movie was so overlooked and bashed by the public and critics alike. I found it to be a gem and one truly heartbreaking yet uplifting movie that brings hope in believing that this world can make the right decisions. Yet it also brings very sad feelings knowing that it can take so long to be acknowledged for what and who one is. The ending of this movie will leave you breathless and simply taken aback. Trust me, forget all of the things you've heard about this film and give it another shot with an open mind and an open heart. This movie deserves to be noticed among some of the greats, as it is a beautiful portrait of life outside human existence, and how one man can change the way the entire world views one thing. I hope this review was helpful, and In the words of the great Andrew Martin, one is glad to be of service. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Thought Provoking","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have not cared to read Asimov's works. But I have seen most of the movie versions of his stories though. And after this movie, I salute the man. To have written such a thought provoking story and for a machine to realize so much that, ideally, every man should. Andrew is, in a manner of speaking, any man. His quest to discover himself is so immense that he exceeds any expectation. His profound insight over many things that we take so very granted for, makes one wonder, even if it is for the story's sake, why did they not think about it such. And none other than Robin Williams could have done it with as much passion! Wow!! "},{"Title":"great family film","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" i think that bicentennial man is a wonderful film about family, friendship, personal growth, and prejudice. that fact that Andrew is an anomaly amongst his kind shows how he grows throughout the picture, and how he develops relationships with those around him in a time of prejudice amongst his kind. it is much like a.i. in a sense, but taken on a whole new perspective. and with robin Williams as Andrew just makes it that much more enjoyable. chris columbus does a beautiful job directing with stunning cinematography, and nice sombre music to fit the tone of the picture. even though it takes place in the future it has a very timeless feel to it except for certain sets, and backdrops. i would recommend this for any family to sit and watch together. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, poor marketing","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  'Bicentennial Man' is set in the very near future. The current 'in thing' is to have a robot that does tasks such as housework and cooking. The Martin family have just got their own robot, and decide to call him Andrew. It seems as if the Father is the only one that really likes having Andrew around, one child is scared of it, the other hates it. And the Mother seems very uncomfortable with Andrew around. One night the oldest daughter causes Andrew to brake himself. And from then on Andrew shows signs of intelligence. Is this machine capable of intelligence and human emotions?Andrew quickly becomes apart of the family. Bonding mostly with the Father ('Sir') and the youngest daughter (Little Miss').The film follows the 'life' of Andrew and the humans around him. The family grow up and get older, but Andrew of course stays the same. The first time jump is amazing.I must mention the make-up, costumes and the sets. As the film is set over a long time period the humans age. And what a job the make-up artists did! Sometimes you feel as if the movie was made over a long period of time and the actors aged naturally! As the film is set in the future the clothes have changed slighty from the present. Most of the clothes aren't that typical future clothing stereotype of white or silver jump suits (thank goodness!). The clothes look futuristic without being over the top. The sets are a real treat later in the movie. I especially liked the set in the last scene. Somehow it feels like something Kubrick would do. The special effects are also wonderful. Look out for some American icons spruced up in the future. Amazing!I felt this movie was rather poorly marketed. It seems as if it was being sold as a comedy and a children's movie. Firstly, while there are a lot of funny moments I wouldn't really call it a comedy. And it doesn't seem like a kids movie either. I was also surprised to hear the s word used a few times.The film starts of a little slow, but give it a chance, it gets better with time. I particularly enjoyed Robin Williams performance, although everyone put in a good job.If I have a complaint it would be the portrayal of the oldest daughter. It felt to me like a very stereotypical 'brat' character. Also the character of Portia seemed to change to quickly.8/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome movie. Very touching.","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  SPOILERS BEWARE!!!!I am late.. But, I just saw Robin William's Bicentinnial Man..Its an old movie, I never bothered watching it cuz all this time I thought it would be one of those typical robot movies where robots have feelings.I was so wrong!The movie brought tears to my eyes. This movie is just like AI about an android's quest to become human. Very touching movie. The best part about it is how the movie stretches accross numerous generations and how the android lives to see all his loved ones pass away and he cant even express his sadness.. the most touching scene is when the character, little miss is on her death bed and she holds the wooden horse to her heart which the android had made for her when she was just a little girl. There are so many many touching scenes in the movie.. scenes which involve is search for other surviving android of his model but he finds out that he is truly unique....the scene in the court when he tries to prve his humanity.... too many great scenes that truly touch you in the deepest corner of your heartI am going to point out some more scenes that I just cant seem to get out of my mind..towards the end, the final scene where the judge ackowledges Andrew's humanity, but he doesnt live to see it, he dies just seconds before.... and the scene right after that where Proshah asks the nurse to unplug her and let her die.. and the the nurse replies ... As the great Andrew Martin once said, One is glad to be of service.Towards the beginning when Andrew asks his first master for freedom and offers all his money..There was one quote in the movie that made an impact, little miss asks Andrew, why do you want freedom? and Andrew replies... I've studied your history, thousands of lives have been lost over countless years for Freedom, this shows that it something definately worth it. I will never forget those words.awesome movie. One of my favourite movies of all time along with Braveheart, AI, Pulp Fiction and Trainspotting. "},{"Title":"Nice but overlong & oversentimental","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't get me wrong. Usually I thrive on sentimentality but this one gave me toothache. I like Robin Williams but this film really isn't one of his best. The plot is pleasant enough but nothing interesting happens. Think of Edward Scissorhands (without the darkness) crossed with Short Circuit. There are few humorous moments and the characters were underdeveloped. (Either saccharine or nasty) 4/10 "},{"Title":"A job well done.","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm distressed that people did not enjoy this movie, and at the moment, have rated this film a 6.2!  I believe it deserves much better than that!Not knowing what to expect, I found myself aptly clinging to the story line. Chris Columbus did a wonderful job of bringing Isaac Asimov's tale to life. Robin Williams is a natural talent for this type of character, and I felt that he embraced the essence of Andrew Martin through the entire movie.It is refreshing to know that a science fiction such as this can have a life on the big screen!  I am also glad that the movie was not compressed to the point of being jumpy, as is common with adapted films.Bicentennial Man is a job well done.   "},{"Title":"Reaching for Humanity","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The last comment I read was superb on commenting on this movie, and I can say little more.  Let me just say that this movie was far better than I ever imagined it would be.  First surprise, Robin Williams in a totally serious role.  True, there are funny points, but they are not due to Robin Williams' patented quick gag style.  Second surprise, here is a masterful story with equally masterful acting.  I wouldn't have been so surprised though if I had known that the story comes from Isaac Asimov. This movie shows an anomoly in a robot named Andrew that makes him creative and therefore unique.  This uniqueness eventually leads him to start his search to become more humanity.  This begins slowly, showing him first acting like a human by earning money, and on a quest for new knowledge. Next he searches for others like him, decides there are none and then starts his new quest to look more human.  After acquiring skin so that he looks human, he next works towards developing his relationships with humans in the family he was first adopted by.  This next leads to his desire for feelings/senses. Slowly he begins a step by step process towards becoming human.  Now, I don't want to give away the whole movie, but this is a must-see.  It will touch you and let you appreciate what you have as a human as you see Andrew's joy in achieving each small piece of humanity that we all possess.  You will see how he has to deal with being ostracized by most humans and loved by those precious few, such as his master at the beginning of the movie, that see him for what he truly is and are not threatened by him.  This will have you asking yourself which one you would be and taking a close look at your own humanity.  Go out and watch this and be amazed! "},{"Title":"A touching heartstring of a movie","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial man is a rare thing in movies these days it has tons of heart and a message of hope for the future of mankind on how people should treat each other.  Bicentennial man is the story of a robot played wonderfully by Robin Williams who starts out as the property of a family and as time passes he becomes part of the family and starts to have feelings. The entire cast is great. I cant give away the ending of the movie but let me say if you are a true movie fan you wont have a dry eye. 9 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Epic Science Fiction...","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A brilliant and beautiful film. Set in the future the story is of a robots transformation from mechanical to human condition.The film examines life and death, mortality and love.All the players give excellent portrayals and the whole aura of the picture is quiet and non-violent yet compelling and hugely sensitive. This movie has a message and a meaning and the film makers deserve great credit for a near masterpiece.  "}{"Title":"A Mixture of Forest Gump and Data from Star Trek","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. It's touching and at times quite moving, bearing in mind that I'm not a big fan of slushy movies or Robin Williams (those to things seem to go hand in hand unfortunately.)The issues concerning artificial intelligence were explored adequately, but I did find myself wishing that plot would have taken a different route at times. In the main, the difficult ethical questions were side-stepped in favour of observing one character's personal development. It would have been nice to have seen more of the negative reactions from people towards 'robot rights.' What would have happened if more robots developed sentience? Would the courts be so willing to grant robots status as human beings if there were lots of them? If robots are considered human because they contain some parts that are the same as those of organ transplant recipients, does this mean that you could construct a robot from scratch and make an instant human? The questions are endless, perhaps this being why the movies avoids them almost altogether.Still, it's well worth a watch and for me the 2 hours flew by. There were times when I thought the movie was turning into a romantic comedy, and just at the point of no return the plot took a different direction and threw me slightly off balance.Rent it if you don't like slushy movies and decide for yourself, but if you like 'em sentimental and are a bit of a science fiction fan, this is the movie for you!   "},{"Title":"Very good!","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to admit, that I put off seeing this film for a very long time. I figured it was a Robin Williams Kid's Comedy.  I was wrong. I caught the flick on cable one night and loved it.The film is a journey and is very touching. "},{"Title":"Bicentennial Boring","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I couldn't wait for this movie to be over. It was so sappy and too long. Every other minute something melodramatic happens and you have to listen to Robin Williams sigh about something else that saddens him or brightens his day. The one bright spot was Hallie Kate Eisenberg, the cute little girl from the Pepsi commercials. This is not a movie for kids. They'll get bored, trust me. If you want a good kids movie featuring a robot, rent The Iron Giant. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, an instant classic","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Movie making at it's best, no guns, no blood, no extreme language, Robin Williams was perfect for this role, the future is set as a backdrop and is not in your face, which allows the story to unfold over 200 years, and still keep to the story.   "},{"Title":"Better than billed","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While taking my daughter to this movie, the trailers led me to believe this was another kiddie movie by Robin Williams, a la Flubber, Mrs. Doubtfire, etc. Boy, was I surprised. Nearing the end of this pleasing, longer-than-expected movie, I noticed the kids were squirming and the adults were crying.What a delight. A very poignant movie about the human condition. And of course, another great performance by Williams. People are just now beginning to realize his gigantic talents and range.Go see it, this one will surprise you and move you. "},{"Title":"A Funny and Heart-Warming Film","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I will go so far as to say it is a feel good picture, but not one for small children.  It is far too mature.  There were times when the audience laughed so hard one could not hear the lines which followed and there were moments when tears came.  Embeth Davitz reminded me very much of Annabella Sciorra, who co-starred on an equal plane and with equal talent to perennial leading man, Robin Williams in What Dreams May Come.  Bicentennial Man is nothing new in terms of plot.  It is Pinocchio, but it is a mature Pinocchio, whose humanity is not so quick to obtain.  The film spans four generations, beginning in 2005.  Other than softcore robotics, there is little in the way of science fiction and none of the imaginatronic backdrops that the most recent Trek and Star Wars films have spawned.   Science fiction is purely the McGuffin as Hitchcock used to say.  It is the reason the characters interact, but not intrinsic to the basic elements of how the story unfolds. The tale might just as well have been about a working man aspiring to aristocracy.  There are a few plot holes and letdowns, though.  For instance, android Williams searches the world for twenty years on foot for another sentient anomaly like himself, only to find the only possibility, a hip-swaying, jazzed-out femdroid back where his journey began.  Meanwhile, Davitz's dual role as Little Miss and her granddaughter, Portia, are subject to the ill-conceived scripting of having them both appear alive at the same time, so that there is no possibility that the one might be the reincarnation of the other, who loved Andrew beyond the depths of his positronic brain.  There is also some mistoying with the presumably villainous robotics corporation owner, who never really develops into evility beyond a voiced desire to disassemble the robot for fear its emotions might affect sales.  All in all, though, it is a warm and brilliant film, which tickles the funny bone and tears at the heart. "},{"Title":"How can you like a movie that made you cry?","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I look back on my experience with Bicentennial Man with a bit of trepidation.  First off it made me cry.  Secondly, it was science fiction, because technology was the prime motivator for the main character's development.  Yet to make me cry, the director focused on the title character's involvement with people, showing less of the world he lived in then you might expect for a science fiction film.  The fantastic world where robots may struggle to gain a foothold in society is only glanced at for establishing shots and also to take us out of the world of talking heads. We see mainly matte paintings, a prop car or two, and people wearing clothes that look like the hand-me-downs from Hackers.  Total Recall and Mystery Men did a much better job of having the characters interact with their crazy world.  Robin Williams, though, looks fantastic as the Robot, and the film is a quality tearjerker, which is remarkable for it being a science fiction film.  In the end you'll just have to be satisfied with this 100 million dollar movie that is designed to make you cry.  And it likely will.  P.S. Note as you watch that this film is a joint venture of Touchstone and Columbia.  Of course Touchstone is owned by Disney, the entertainment juggernaut.  Columbia, however, is owned by...Sony!  Yes, maker of the Dog robot, which positions them to be the makers of our robot future.  Now they help front a robot tearjerker.  How's this for product placement?  "},{"Title":"I was very pleasantly surprised.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Hollywood has a long-standing tradition of taking excellent stories, changing them and making horrible movies from them.  In this case, the blind hogs found an acorn.  They took an excellent story, changed it somewhat and actually improved it a little.  Having read Asimov's original tales, I was prepared to be disappointed and instead was very pleasantly surprised.Robin Williams once again shows that he is not just a comic.  He can be funny at will, but he can also be a serious actor with the ability to poke your soul in strange places.  His performance as Andrew is probably one of the best of his life.  IMNSHO, he should get an Academy Award nomination for this movie.  "},{"Title":"Exceedingly poignant, technically brilliant film","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is sci-fi at it's best, in that it is driven by characters rather than special effects (although the latter are excellent). Robin Williams is directed perfectly by Chris Columbus and recalling the brilliance of their work in MRS. DOUBTFIRE. Sam Neill and Embeth Davidtz are also superb.Oscar noms should certainly go out to BICENTENNIAL MAN for makeup, set design, and special effects. This is a beautiful film to watch. Be sure to bring a hanky, though.A word to parents though there is nothing objectionable for children, this is not a kids' movie. It does move slowly (which is necessary for character development over a 200-year span), and pre-teens in the audience were clearly bored and restive.My only regret about BICENTENNIAL MAN is that the great Isaac Asimov, who died in 1992, did not live long enough to see a filmmaker finally do justice to his work. "},{"Title":"A movie on the human experience.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of Robin Williams better films.  This one is strictly an adult film which interjects many thought provoking messages and problems.  Williams as the futuristic robot Andrew transforms himself over the space of two hundred years from a purely mechanical home appliance to a deeply caring and passionate human being.  The subject is deep and covers many aspects of the human experience.  Humans are the most complex and often irrational life forms.  This complexity along with the desire to be more than a simple machine leads Andrew on his journey through time.  Along the way he interacts with the human family that purchased him and their descendants. Touching on such topics and love, compassion, music, quest, and freedom, those same emotions which drive us all is both touching and heart wrenching at the same time.  I throughly enjoyed the movie, as did most of the audience.  After it was over the vast majority of theater attendees had tears in their eyes.  The movie tugs at ones heart strings on more than one occasion yet leaves the viewer with a warm feeling in the end.  Not recommended for children under 16.   "}{"Title":"Much better than you're probably expecting","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I know it was much better than =I= was expecting.  Yes, it's too long, yes, too much time is spent on the romance plot toward the end (and it's not very convincing), and yes, there are too many obvious, familiar robot jokes in the first two reels.But guess what?  Many of those jokes, thanks to razor-sharp timing, actually work.  And the robot Adam Martin becomes so very appealing that you'll miss him when he eventually turns himself into Robin Williams.The movie is very honest and open about its emotions (though the Horner score goes too far in trying to appeal to OUR emotions), and Williams is -- surprise surprise -- excellent as the robot.  We believe in the character, we believe (mostly) in his world, and we believe in his journey toward humanity.It's too bad that so many people already regard Andrew as a kind of variation on Star Trek's Data, because he's really a robot of another color altogether.There are some missteps toward the end (where are all the other robots?), Galatea is an unnecessary character, and at times the characters seem to be existing in different movies.  But it's surprisingly warm and amusing, it's authentically touching even when you think it can't possibly reach you, and St. Robin or no St. Robin, he's fine in the role.  "},{"Title":"How to turn an Asimov story into a soppy Hollywood film","Date":"22 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is based on a couple of books, the short story the Positronic Man and Bicentennial Man both by Isaac Asimov. The main theme of this movie is what defines humanity, and can a robot be a human, even though it was created by a human.The movie is about a robot who journey's for two-hundred years to become a human. At the beginning he is a servant in a house, and it is discovered that he is unusual, that is he has a creative streak, but not only that, he also has the capacity to think. Through-out that time he comes to understand the concept of freedom and is given things that only humans have had, such as bank accounts and money. He then begins to change his insides to that of a human, and in the end he gives himself blood and thus causes himself to degrade as a human does. During this time he also falls in love and loves as a human does.The movie does not deal with his understanding of death, as it is concluded quite quickly that he knows what death is. Instead he knows about it all ready. Instead he comes to understand human emotions and what it means to be human. At first it deals with him looking like a human and having the rights of a human, but in the end he realises that to be human, he must die. As such, upon his death bed, he is finally proclaimed a human.From what I know of the book (as I have not read it) the battles deal more with him begin legally declared a human. This exists in this movie, but the legal battles occur infrequently, and the movie deals more with his understanding of himself, his relationships with others, and his desire to be human. This desire isn't evident at the beginning, but when he begins his search for his destiny, he soon comes to desire to be more human. In fact, upon meeting Porscha, the grand-daughter of his favourite Little Miss, he desires to become even more human. In fact, he not only takes a central nervous system, but he gives himself the ability to die along with the one he loves.In the end, this movie is very sentimental and emotional. It is idealistic and is the type of movie that one would watch with one's partner. It is sort of a love story, but moreso it is an idealistic, sentimental movie with a happy ending not really the style that I like. It deals with the character much more that what the character is trying to do. It looks at him inside rather than those looking in at him. He is making himself human as opposed to humans declaring him human.The one problem is where a robot commits euthanasia. The first law of robotics is that a robot may not harm, or allow a human to come to harm. The second law is that a robot must obey a human. The question is whether euthanasia is allowing a human to come to harm. In fact it is harming, but is turning off a machine allowing a human to come to harm? It is not entirely clear, but that struck me at the end. "},{"Title":"A much underrated movie","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Yes, its a much under-rated movie, in my opinion. Whenever it comes on TV I just can't resist watching it through till the end. Robin Williams gives a fine performance and the story is more profound than is perhaps apparent at first.After all, it is possible that robots that are so convincing that we would have problems telling them apart from ourselves may be a reality within the lifetime of some people living today. How this will affect us and whether we will form emotional relationships with them is an undeniably fascinating question.The film does a good job of exploring some of these issues and brings out the differences or similarities between ourselves and what we call machines. It considers how machines that resemble us may cause us to confront prejudice against non-human intelligence and looks at how our mortality might affect machines that may one day become as complex as us.Bicentennial Man cleverly wraps this philosophy into a great feel-good movie and if it tends to sentimentality I don't mind, cos it's great family entertainment. "},{"Title":"Really? An average 6.4 rating?","Date":"21 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll start off by saying that this movie is fantastic. It's one of the best PG rated films out there. Anyone of any age could really enjoy this movie.The story is wonderful and touching, and leaves you wondering what it really means to be human. The score is fantastic as well, along with the acting. Just about every aspect of this film was great and couldn't have been better.Honestly, a 6.4 average rating doesn't do this film justice. This film is truly marvelous and I'm surprised that some people don't just see it that way. "},{"Title":"The borderline between organic and mechanical-robotic explored","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a very thoughtful film on an important subject. Sometimes it goes over the edge into excessive sentimentality, Hollywood-style. However, the key to the film's success in my opinion was the inspired casting of Embeth Davidtz, who plays both Little Miss and her granddaughter Portia. The sincerity of Davidtz's performance frankly saves an implausible situation from descending into farce, namely the genuine love of an organic woman for a mechanical man. Robin Williams does very well as the mechanical robot 'Andrew Martin' who has a design flaw which enables him to develop emotions. Over the course of 200 years, Williams is progressively made more and more organic by upgrades, so that the lines become seriously blurred between 'robot' and 'human'. Since this is what will inevitably occur in the future, we need to start thinking about it now. The film is based upon a story and a novel by sci fi writer Isaac Asimov. Williams's owner and father-figure is played with sublime blandness and tolerance by Sam Neill, who is as soothing a presence as castor oil in the gut, and he just makes the story go down. There are some who believe that organo-robots already exist, but that is another story, and one impossible to prove. Be that as it may, they WILL exist. And who is to say we are not already all organo-robots ourselves? Think about it. After all, most of our actions are driven by hormones and inarticulate subconscious impulses. So where is our much-vaunted 'will', those of us who boast about being 'humans'? Robin Williams has tried very hard to play this straight, and although I don't know if he really got the tone right at all times, and let's face it, he was up against an almost impossible task in making a machine into a man within the space of two hours and 12 minutes, this film despite any faults it may have is damned important. It is not at all 'in your face' and tries not to be too provocative. In fact, it tries to be a great love story. I don't know whether that sentimental approach was the best way to go, but I suppose they were trying to appeal to everygal. In any case, this film is 'worthy' in the sense that it is seriously intended and is not just an exploitation piece. It therefore deserves serious attention and consideration, and also a lot of respect. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, moving, endearing","Date":"30 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a great movie.It takes a number of liberties with the Asimov book, but even what at first seems some cheap romantic trick establishes a deeper connection, in the end.I've seen it several times, some of them with children, and it may prove somewhat unbearable because, as other reviewers said, it deals with fundamental human issues.It does so through the point of view of something alien to us, but more than willing to become like us, as much as possible. Let's hope any future artificial intelligence will make the same choice. "},{"Title":"Good Watch... Even after 10 years","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had read this short story a long way back, and it was one of the best then. And just thinking of how Asimov even imagined these things in the 60s is quite a task in itself.Now about the movie... Well... Its been more than 10, in fact 11 years since the movie came, but still when I watched this, i was not at all disappointed. Yeah i agree that the technology and computer-graphics were not used very much (as compared to.. say Matrix), but that is why i liked it even more. Now when you watch I, Robot, you can see the flimsy cars (which seemed so cool those days...), so the under-use of CG was in my opinion a good decision.Also, in the acting department, Robin is really good, as is Embeth Davidtz. The Director or whatever of the NA is the only sore thumb i saw in the movie... he seems so idiotic.Music was good, and there are some scenes which will make you laugh (even though they might seem a bit childish...) The innocence of the Android is what pulls you in, and keeps you bounded till the end.Great Watch... "},{"Title":"A beautiful movie...","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have read the original short story from Isaac Asimov (the basis for this movie) many years ago. This movie was on my must see list for a long time and I must say I was really pleased that it managed to capture the essence of the story.It's not only a peek into a possible future, but a peek into the definition of life and what makes us human.My vote is based on the quality of the story and the way it is told. A film where the special effects have good taste and are used in just the right amount.You should see this movie if you love a good story. If you also love SF and robotics it's mandatory! "},{"Title":"Only Robin Williams could have played this role","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was a joyful and moving experience for me. It was so profoundly moving that by the end I wondered why it took me nine years to get around to seeing it! There wasn't much fanfare about this movie when it played in theaters, probably because of its languid pace and its romantic atmosphere. It is a movie about a robot's search for an identity, but at the same time it is about love, aging, individuality, and even greed. The movie also succeeds in creating spellbinding images of the weddings and the romantic dances. It was also exciting to watch the visions of the world in the 22nd and 23rd centuries but at the same time, the nuts and bolts aspects were deftly restrained (other movies set years in the future, such as The Fifth Element sometimes go gaudily overboard in depicting the future). Andrew's romance with Portia was also touching and believable though I did not think about this while the movie ran. Overall, this is one of the best science fiction movies I have ever seen and one of Robin William's best performances. I would love to read an interview with him about it. He would probably say that the performance was exhilarating but emotionally exhausting. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams acting is wooden? Hellloooooo...he is a robot","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Personally, I thought this film was brilliant! When I first saw it a few years back I admit that I didn't like it much, it seemed rather stupid to think that a robot could 'become' human, but on viewing it again years later, I can safely say that I missed the whole point of this film.Andrew is a robot to begin with, but one with feelings and the ability to learn. He wants to learn, wants to talk, wants to create, and through some mistake when he was being created he can. His unique ability, mixed with his owners kindness and help allow him to grow up like a real human, by learning, having memories, caring about his family etc.This film shows Andrew's aim to become human, and follows his life from when he first became the 'machine' of the Martin family, to when he finally fell in love with their youngest daughters grand child, and becomes human to die beside her on their death beds.It is a sad movie, with a few tear jerking parts (especailly at the end) and it asks a lot of questions which we don't often think about, like can robots have feelings, can they love, and can they become human? In the end, what does defy whether you are a human or not, is it being born with the right, or can you earn the title.This is a definite 5 for me. true, it is a very long film and the start can drag on a bit, but it is a beautiful tale that I believe everyone should watch at least once. "}{"Title":"Good In Parts","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'm giving it 6 stars because when the movie tries to be interesting it definitely succeeds. Unfortunately, when it tries to be anything else, it rather flunks out.For me; Robin Williams is the kiss of death to any movie. That sherbet-lemon-sucker's smiling-with-pain, I've-got-my-heart-on-my-sleeve expression is just a bit too much of a good thing. I liked him in 'Good Morning, Vietnam.' The idea and his character worked well there. Unfortunately, since then he seems to have been typecast. Every subsequent role he has played has entailed a bigger and bigger bag of sherbet lemons. Lachrymosity has become his trademark.The coming of self-awareness amongst robots - or at least, computers - is a concept which has been evaluated in any number of movies, and with every kind of prognosis. Though I still suspect it will catch us largely unprepared both socially and morally when it happens. Here, Williams plays a robot that is different in some indefinable way. And - indulged by its kindly owner, who gives it ever-greater latitude - the thing embarks upon a journey of self-realisation. It has difficulty coming to terms with the passage of time. Humans grow up and grow old, while the robot remains constant, unaffected by age. This area of the story is well-handled, but when the robot wants to become more human and when it starts to fancy its owner's younger child; the scenario becomes rather inept and also slightly sinister. There are overtones of 'Demon Seed' (1977). But - Hey; you can see what'll happen a mile away it's going to BECOME human in the end. And you know it will succeed because this is Robin Williams, Captain Lachrymosity, and if he doesn't get his own way he will almost certainly weep till he rusts. This scenario requires a progressive suspension of belief both at his increasingly improbable and bizarre modifications and the attitudes of commerce and law. Handled more objectively - which means a little more cruelly - the story could have been a bit more believable, but then it would have called for a part that Mr Williams manifestly cannot play (without him, I'd have awarded at least another star). But the thing must stumble on, for his sake if no other, to its ultimate and implausible conclusion.The evaluation of affection is particularly strange. This robot seems able to transfer its preference from daughter to grand-daughter at the drop of a hat, which surely cheapens the very sincerity for which it supposedly strives. Further; whilst the robot may indeed have a uniquely intuitive glitch, how did it identify with its own sexuality? Intelligence and sexual identity are two completely different issues. It is reasonable to suppose that the former might be artificially replicated, but how does one impart a billion-year-old evolved instinct to an electrical appliance? Here, the movie-makers fell into their own anthropomorphic trap. The very trap that the robotics executive warned them against and for which he was subsequently ridiculed. Just because it looked like a man, didn't make it a man, or imbue it with male instincts and feelings. The thing was first and foremost a machine. It was a completely original invention with no ancient genetic archive to draw upon and guide its behaviour. The thing might as easily have been gay. Or something else as yet completely unimagined.Neither do I much care for the treatment of 'Galatea'. She is represented as the epitome of chauvinist evaluation the female as a sexual object, tease and flirt. And when it becomes irritating even to our proto-human hero, he attacks it with a power drill and we hear it screaming. Apparently, domestic violence is also intrinsic to the 'male' machine. And equally justified. Remind me about the 3 laws of robotics, again.And can a robot really make 10 times as much as a corporate executive by building ornamental clocks out of scrap wood? I don't think so - not unless it's called Damien Hirst.Finally, I don't believe I ever heard an orchestra lay-on the sentimental strings quite so thickly. If anything they demonstrate how the mood of a movie and its audience can be manipulated by the sound-track. Cloying, turgid, over-sentimental, pretty unbelievable, and above all - inept, but with some well-observed incidental details about relationships and the passage of time. Watch it if its there and you've nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Having read the Asimov story,  I find the movie good on its own merits","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Isaac Asimov story Bicentennial Man (later expanded to Positronic Man) is the basis/inspiration for a good-natured, entertaining, very sentimental movie. Andrew Martin is an android purchased by the wealthy Martin family in 2005. Over the course of 200 years, the sentient robot learns from his human tutors and desires to be recognized as a human as well. Similar to the Data character on STAR TREK-TNG, but not so dry. As expected, many liberties are taken with the book. Many of the characters' are straight from the book, but are given the Spielberg treatment (early 1980s Spielberg; Twilight Zone The Movie-era). Many of the novel's comments on racism (Andrew's ridicule by thugs for wearing clothes, for example) are either absent or softened considerably. At this point, it sounds like I'm going to tear this movie to shreds, but I'm not. I actually enjoyed it quite a bit. Robin Williams gives a performance that's a cross between Data and the Wizard of Oz' Tin Man. The early stage robot costumes are remarkable; they look like something you'd get from a Sharper Image Christmas catalog! James Horner's music is at times derivative from his earlier work (echoes of COCOON and BRAVEHEART), but still gets the job done. Sam Neill as Martin family patriarch Sir Martin is a good straight-man to Robin Williams' Andrew. Early on, you sense Williams chafing at his restraints at times, but it fits a character initially condemned to servitude. Later, Andrew evolves and (while not aging himself) begins to experience the loss of others. Emotions stir within him until, over time, Andrew desires to become more outwardly human (eliminating the no-doubt cumbersome robo-gear) as well. He soon meets an eccentric inventor (played memorably by Oliver Platt) and his obnoxious robot assistant, Galatea (entirely a creation of the filmmakers)and wants to experience the full range of human emotion and sensation. The two become instant allies in Andrew's quest for recognition of his humanity. Galatea (for a while, at least) is this film's Jar-Jar. Perky and cutesy to the point of viewer rage! A terrific bit involves Andrew going after her with a sander power tool! Later on, Andrew falls in love (again--not in the book) with the granddaughter of his former master's daughter, Little Miss. They have an obnoxious cute-meet (damn, I really HATE those! Ooh, he's soo annoying; I think I love him! kind-of-crap), but soon the relationship gains depth (issues about mortality arise; Andrew will, by design, outlive his human lover). Andrew then makes a decision to do something about this; leading to the film's heart-wrenching conclusion. I must say, the ending had my wife and I pretty misty! And it's earned emotion, too. By giving the film a more leisurely pace (befitting it's lead character's initial immortal status), director Chris Columbus (a decent, family-movie, craftsman-level director) let's us invest in these characters (even Galatea is redeemed by movie's end! Take that, Jar-Jar!). An enjoyable film (with an occasional annoying moment here and there) that, like the Tin Man, wears its shiny, red heart for all to see. And sometimes, that's not always a bad thing. "},{"Title":"Terrible wars have been fought where millions have died for one idea, freedom. And it seems that something that means so much to so many people would be worth having.","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When it was released it 1999, Chris Columbus' 'Bicentennial Man,' based on Isaac Asimov's popular science-fiction novella, was met with very mixed reviews. Perhaps the final product differed from what critics and audiences were expecting. After all, any film starring Robin Williams (in the years before dark streak &#150; 'Insomnia,' 'One Hour Photo') could quite reasonably be expected to be a hilarious, all-out comedy, which this is not. 'Bicentennial Man,' despite having a few amusing moments, is played largely for sentimentality, and this is to be expected, considering the reputation of its director. No doubt, also, that many children were dragged along to what parents were anticipating to be an enjoyable family film. Quite frankly, there is plenty of material that would not be ideally suited to the very young, including discussions of sex and a few unexpected expletives. Nonetheless, the film is ultimately very innocent and enjoyable, with a heartwarming message of freedom, love and belonging.William plays Andrew, a household android of the NDR series, who is purchased by Richard Martin (Sam Neill) and his family in April, 2005. Despite some friction between Andrew and several of the family members (particularly the elder daughter, Lindze Letherman), he eventually becomes a valued member of the Martin family, revealing a capability for creativity and emotion that is unique to his kind. Andrew strikes up a life-long friendship with the youngest daughter, Little Miss (Hallie Kate Eisenberg, later Embeth Davidtz), though, being immortal, the ravages of time soon take their tolls on all those he knows and cares about. Above all else, Andrew strives to become human, eventually sacrificing his own immortality for the opportunity to be considered a real person. At its core, the film is a science-fiction retelling of the story of Pinocchio, with a love story thrown in for good measure.Robin Williams is excellent in the main role, giving his character the likable innocence and (im)perfect comedic timing that the role requires. This is especially notable because Williams spends the entire first half of the film in an android costume, with his metallic face still showing a surprisingly wide range of emotions. Sam Neill is also very good, though it's unfortunate that his character is only present for the first section of the film. Embeth Davidtz (who plays two pivotal characters) is adequate enough, thought not particularly noteworthy. Oliver Platt is quite good as Rupert Burns, the fund-deficient mechanical geek who dedicates a lot of his life to making Andrew human, giving him a face, skin, organs, and ultimately the ability to die.Considering the futuristic setting, special effects are used surprisingly sparingly, with Columbus opting for impeccably-designed film sets or more traditional settings over extravagant visuals. Andrew lives for almost exactly 200 years (hence, the title 'Bicentennial Man'), and the implications of this &#150; particularly that Andrew eventually loses all those that are dear to him &#150; are exploited for maximum emotional resonance, even if the film is overly-sentimental on many occasions. The themes of the film, and the basic story of an android learning to love and striving to be human, were later used (to greater effect) by Steven Spielberg for 'Artificial Intelligence AI (2001).' Nonetheless, 'Bicentennial Man' is a nice film to watch, and is well worth a look, if only for being such an ambitious undertaking for the director and star. "},{"Title":"Very Underrated Movie - 6.4 definitely doesn't give it Justice","Date":"20 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie has all the elements to make a perfect movie; Love, drama, comedy, action etc. Honestly this movie deserves at LEAST a 7.5. Just go watch it for yourself, I'm sure you won't be disappointed. Robin Williams's acting is superb. You will laugh, cry, and be rooting for Williams throughout the entire movie. GO WATCH IT NOW!!!!! If you are still deciding on watching the movie or not and reading this last line....you are wasting your time. GO! GO! GO! I can't believe you are reading this, it is well worth your time to watch such a fabulous movie. I really don't understand some of the hate on this movie, however the actual reviews with written reviews all seem to agree with me that the 6.4 rating is way too low. "},{"Title":"THIS ONE PROVIDES NO FIREWORKS!","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The fireworks definitely do not light up in Director Chris Columbus latest film Bicentennial Man.  This Columbus discovery was way out lost at sea. This dull narrative is about a robotic housekeeper who later turns into a man and lives 200 years ( which is what it seeemed at times was the movie's length). Star Robin Williams should have said no-no no-no to this one. Just wave bye-bye to Bicentennial Man because its not even worth your two cents. ** Needs Improvement  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think we should fire all the professional critics. Who cares what they think. Clearly, they are not providing any useful service to the world except to crush the hopes of brilliant, talented actors, writers & directors. How many lives have they needless destroyed? This is a wonderful film for the whole family. Excellent acting, writing & directing. I rarely give such top marks to anyone. The only reason for the low box office turnout was because we were all fed up with the ridiculous onslaught of Y2K hoopla and we mistook the name of the movie for more of the same. We had no idea it was a brilliant family Sci-fi with superb acting, directing & script.It wasn't until later we discovered what a wonderful movie it was. I've watched it many times & the robot's love scenes followed by Celine Dion's fabulous song bring me to tears every time. The special effects & technology were also great.A fantastic story of a robot who becomes human with the amazing performance of Robin Williams which makes it even sadder to watch since his passing. Incredible makeup & costume. Plus the most talented director Chris Columbus who has made so many incredible films. Mrs Doubtfire (again with Robin Williams brilliant acting), and the first 3 Harry Potter movies; Home Alone movies, Percy Jackson films, Night at the Museum films. You can always depend on this director to create top box office films for the entire family. Any script & Actor become magic in his hands.I cannot say enough good things about this exceptional movie. It was wonderful from start to finish. I loved everything about this movie except the timing on the very last scene. His departure should have been delayed until the end of the speech. I also would not have had Sam Neil banish him. But the movie is still great. I highly recommend it for the entire family. But don't watch it with some macho male who would ruin it for fear they might become emotional during the very touching love scenes. Males don't like to cry in movies so they trash them instead.This is a clean, non violent, no sex scenes film. Safe for children. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated sci-fi films of all time.","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It has to first be acknowledged that making a film from an epic spanning 200 years is quite difficult. Chris Columbus hits a home with Bicentennial Man, with a precise mixture of pacing, technical sophistication, and trueness to the original story. This is definitely one of Robin Williams' quieter performances, and though we don't see him for much of the first half of the film, his brilliance as a dramatic actor still shines through.I think what is missed by many is the way this film explores the idea of the soul, that we are something more than these crude vessels in which we temporarily reside. This story is about someone who was misplaced in a slightly different vehicle, who spent the majority of his lifetime trying to prove it. For those that knew him closely in the story, his sentience was without question, but like many who are treated as second- class citizens, he longed for a greater acceptance, a true equality. "},{"Title":"Depressing.","Date":"15 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bicentennial Man (1999) Dir Chris Columbus / Cast Robin Williams, Sam Neill, Oliver Platt, Embeth Davidtz, Wendy Crewson Filled with images of hopelessness that one could easily experience in rush hour traffic. It is about a robot who wishes to become human. It is 2005 and the robot becomes the newest household appliance. Sam Neill has a robot delivered to his home and he discovers that it has many human aspects. Depression sets in when the robot lives on while everyone else dies. The film never has fun with his journey. Director Chris Columbus approaches the material from different angles. He previously made Mrs. Doubtfire and Stepmom, also about supplementary role models. What is truly disappointing is that the film fails to have fun with its charming premise. Robin Williams is basically playing a robot version of himself. His whole journey is basically a bunch of subplots of little interest. Sam Neill is wasted in what amounts to a growing-old-and-die role. Platt's character is a buffoon who should go back to playing with lego.then there is a useless appearance by Embeth Davidtz that amounts to absolutely nothing. It raises questions about life and relationships but hardly uplifting when presenting these themes. Visual elements are great and are the film's best element but how can a robot find life if the story he is in is totally dead? Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"An excellent movie with a heart","Date":"14 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Pure science-fiction movies are hard to come by, because filmmakers tend to blend SF with action, fantasy, horror and other genres. Bicentennial Man (based on Isaac Asimov's similarly titled novella and the Asimov-Silverberg novel The Positronic Man) is a rare exception, not only because of its 'purity', but because it really is intelligent, moving and thought-provoking. True SF, in the vein of A.I. - Artificial Intelligence or Gattaca, thankfully eschewing the appalling incoherence and bombast of such abominations as Alex Proyas's I, Robot.Director Chris Columbus was a great fit, because his movies are always heart-warming and family-friendly, and Bicentennial Man focuses on the human heart and the human family. Its overt sentimentalism is not a drawback, but a virtue, since the film explores the very issue of what constitutes being human, and human emotions take center stage in the story. Robin Williams was also a good choice for Andrew's role, and he gives one of his warmest, most stylish performances here.As one critic (William Arnold) put it Bicentennial Man is 'more true to the spirit of the Golden Age of science-fiction writing than possibly any other movie of the '90s'. I couldn't agree more. If you like pure, 'innocent' SF, Bicentennial Man may very well find itself among your favourites. "},{"Title":"Good Sci-Fi Drama!","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robin Williams, Embeth Davidtz, Sam Neill, Wendy Crewson, Kiersten Warren and Oliver Platt star in Chris Columbus' 1999 sci-fi drama based on the book. This takes place in the future and the late, Williams (Mrs. Doubtfire) plays robot/android, Andrew who starts out working for Richard Martin (Neill) and his wife, Rachel (Crewson). Soon, Andrew takes interest in humanity and is determined to become part of it. Davidtz (Matilda) plays Richard and Rachel's grown-up daughter, Amanda who befriends Andrew and also plays Amanda's granddaughter, Portia who finds romance with him, Warren (Independence Day) plays robot/android, Galatea and Platt (Executive Decision) plays scientist, Rupert Burns who helps Andrew. This is a good film, Williams was great in it, he and Davidtz had good chemistry, the rest of the cast is good and the late, James Horner's score is excellent as usual. This is definitely one of Williams' best I recommend. "}{"Title":"He wants be a human","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Andrew is a creation of the future, and to be more exact He robot which serves one family for the solution of their, most often, houshold problems. But this robot isn't similar to others... He is unique. During the film we see his existence which was full of desire to become human by any way. And generally, he reached it. In 2005 he Martin family buy an unusual gift the robot of new generation of NDR-114, hen in their usual life they simply call him Andrew. He was just the device which is programmed for performance of homework. Later, Andrew suddenly starts feeling strange sensaions. He doesn't know yet that it is called as feelings.This science fiction comedy-drama movie starring Robin Williams, Sam Neill, Embeth Davidtz, Wendy Crewson and Oliver Platt. he film is full of magnificent acting, in particular Robin Williams. He isn't simple 'play at height', he forces to believe that the lifeless being has a soul. Also, I like another character. He is an ingenious inventor performs by Oliver Platt who creates new technologies. He shows a nice guy who loves the work and wishes to make the world better, in spite of anroids' helping. First of all, it is a fantastic picture and it has special effects. There are a lot of them, but they don't belong to action's scenes. They are a background to show to a future time, cities and technologies. It is a place of life both people and robots. I like this world, it's beautiful. This film is akind of drama and comedy, it is fuul of heavy and funny scenes. It is for fans who love sentimental cozy evenings. 'Bicentennial Man' is a fairy tale with a sad, but a right end. I forces to smile, empathize, laugh or to shed an avaricious tear. All these feelings are caused by one movie. "},{"Title":"The plot explores issues of humanity, intellectual freedom, love and mortality","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Do you want to see touching, memorable and profound film? Just watch Bicentennial Man! It is a 1999 American science fiction comedy-drama film, directed and produced by Chris Columbus, starring Robin Williams, Sam Neill, Embeth Davidtz (in a dual role), Wendy Crewson, and Oliver Platt.This film impresses by the author's idea about the future, robots and nanotechnology. The plot of this film is thrilling and deep. In our days people can't imagine the world without gadgets and computers. This is part of our life. Chris Columbus shows us the world in which robots have also become an integral part of people's lives. This story is about robot Andrew in Martin's family. He performed housekeeping and maintenance duties. He is no ordinary robot. He is unique. It is impossible to imagine that Andrew can feel. After many years he served the Martin's family Andrew eventually asks for his freedom, much to Martin's dismay. Then Andrew builds himself a home and lives alone. Eventually, Andrew becomes human enough to fall in love with Portia and, ultimately, she falls in love with him. Rupert Burns works on Andrew's appearance. Andrew uses his prosthetics in an attempt to turn himself into a human, complete with artificial skin, hair and a nervous system. This robot looks like a man and he thinks and feels like a man. He petitions the World Congress to recognize him as human, which would allow him and Portia to be legally married and just before his death,the World Congress approved it. Wonderful acting of the main characters helps audience to understand the main idea of the film. Great music which creates fantastic atmosphere completes the dynamic plot.The director created action- packed, compelling and unconventional film. Bicentennial Man makes us reflect on the life values, the film is thought-provoking because it makes us appreciate life for what it is. This film impressed me very much. If you want to have a great day in watching a movie, I would totally recommend Bicentennial Man because of brilliant acting, magnificent plot and amazing special effects. "},{"Title":"The film about the real human.","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I try to make sense of things. Which is why, I guess, I believe in destiny. There must be a reason that I am as I am. There must be.Bicentennial Man, directed by Chris Columbus, is one of the film, which is understandable at any age from a child to a grown - up. It includes many important topics feeling and emotions, humanity and mortality.The story is about the family that decided to buy a robot,Andrew, which is very useful for domestic work. But Andrew become a real member of the family. He starts to behave not as usual robot,but as a human.The leading actor Robin Williams is very natural and convincing for this role. I was very surprised by the fact,that Robin Williams was nominated on Razzie Awards, as a worst actor.The music is also amazing. It creates the mood of the moments and perfectly conveys the emotions of the characters.Bicennial man is a good family film, which is really impresses. It's really worth seeing! "},{"Title":"The most profound and breathtaking film I've ever seen!","Date":"8 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Do you like fantasy and science fiction movies? If your answer is yes, you will enjoy my review. I'd like to tell you about an amazing film with a brilliant cast. Bicentennial Man is a 1999 Canadian-American science fiction, family, comedy-drama film. The leading actors are Robin Williams as a robot Andrew, Sam Neill as Richard Sir Martin, Embeth Davidtz as Amanda Little Miss Martin, Wendy Crewson as Rachel Ma'am Martin and Oliver Platt as Rupert Burns, the son of the NDR creator that makes his androids look more human-like.This movie is based on the novel The Positronic Man co-written by Isaac Asimov and Robert Silverberg, which is itself based on Asimov's original novella titled The Bicentennial Man. The plot of this film is about a unique robot Andrew and his relationships with a family where his mission is to perform housekeeping and maintenance duties. The family's reactions range from acceptance and curiosity, to outright rejection, and deliberate vandalism by their surly older daughter, Grace. However, the little daughter Amanda becomes Andrew's best friend. This Robot is not like the others, he can feel, think, make beautiful toys for Little Miss and even love. Once Andrew wants to have a freedom and seeks to become a human, who has all the rights and opportunities in this huge world. One day his dream comes true&#x85; This is a superb, thought-provoking and very touching story about pure and strong emotions in an affluent and computerized society.The acting in this movie deserves great admiration. The actors are very talented and play their role so natural. They keep your attention the whole time! Also, there are enough special effects and beautiful soundtracks in this movie, which make this film more fantastic and thrilling. Bicentennial Man receives mixed reviews, but most of them are positive. When we start watching this film, we fall in love with the main character, who is a robot, from the very beginning. This movie helps us to understand that not appearance and having a good post at work make as humans. Andrew will find his happiness, love and respect from the others. We have a wonderful chance to see and feel all these breathtaking moments of his life. After the watching this film we can understand that senility isn't always a sad thing. For someone it was a present! "},{"Title":"A perfect movie that changes your life","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you want to get pleasure from watching a film about true humanity, no doubt, Bicentennial Man is for you. This film is widely considered to be a comedy movie, the very one that you can watch with your family seating in front of the TV-set and eating pop-corn. Looking more deeply, I think it can be named drama as well as comedy. This film is unusually harmonious in spite of the fact that we are shown a very technological and affluent society in future with all those magnetically levitated trains,personal robots and smart systems surrounding people. Moreover, future in this film does not seem to be scaring. When you watch this particular film you simply plunge into the world of future that gives you so many philosophic topics to think over. So the plot is rather thought-provoking. A robot that is supposed to be responsible for household chores and carry out orders of members of the Martin family turned out to possess human emotions and even art abilities. While the story progresses Andrew, the robot, gets more and more human features. Sometimes you can even find him more humane and emotional then people. The main character Andrew is unique, it was said in the film a number of times. He is a robot with a human soul, sensitive to other people and the world itself. During two centuries of his life he faces a lot of problems starting from people's misunderstanding and continuing to loneliness and despair of a lover. This role was brilliantly played by Robin Williams. As a true fan of Robin William I am sure to say that this is one of his best roles. I really appreciate his talent and I think anyone would feel the same feeling watching this film. The acting is astonishing. In the first part of the film he managed to reveal the character of Martin without being able to show his mimicry. I was able to understand the emotions clearly and become involved into the atmosphere of the film. I can't mention the other actors. On the whole, I can say, they were cast approximately. Their acting was quite convincing. But Hallie Kate Eisenberg, the girl that played Little Miss Amanda, is my favorite in this film. I wonder, how it was possible for a little girl to reveal the character so perfectly. The thing I not quite satisfied with is special effects. It seems, that in a movie about future we need more details about technology to plunge into the atmosphere fully. In the first part of the film almost all event took place in the Martin's house. I wonder, why not show us something interesting about the future. So the beginning was rather boring and tedious. Though the proper acting saved the beginning. Nevertheless, the messages of this film play the most important role. While watching the film, many philosophic topics come to our mind, such as love, friendship, humanism, death, sense of life and many other. This film helps people to think a little about their life, about their relationships with the world and with their close people. After watching the film, I couldn't even talk, because I was so much impressed by it. I thought about the future, it doesn't scare me if we talk about technology. The thing I'm worried about is the human nature of people. I think a lot of people no longer take care of others. They think about themselves only, there is too much ego in their life. I wish it changed. I strongly recommend everyone to watch Bicentennial Man. It is certainly one of the best ways to spend your time. I hope, the film will make you think your life over and start to change our future from now. "},{"Title":"A touching and thought-provoking story.","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Have you ever thought about what is in store for mankind? What do you think about robots? Would you like to have one at home? Chris Columbus gives his own answers to these questions in the film Bicentennial Man. This film is based on a book, written by Isaak Azimov, who is famous for his stories about robots. The topics which the film brings up, are simple and clear even for a child. But it doesn't mean that the story itself is simple, the other way round, the story tells us about things which are considered to be the main morality, love, family. We cannot but feel all the emotions which are expressed in the film, because all of them are quite familiar to us. The story of a robot who spent 200 years to become a simple man seems to be very strange in some way. Many people would give everything to be immortal, but not Andrew. For me, this robot is more humane then any human and through the entire story I waited for him to understand it and accept himself. The actor, who played the main part, is Robbin Williams. His portrayal of a robot can be called even genial. Every scene, where he appeared, is full of humour, charm and positive. This is one of my favorite actors because of his ability to express different emotions with his eyes and smile and this film can serve as a perfect example. Another thing I like about this film is music. It helps us to feel all the emotions, to understand characters. I think here I can say only one name to make everything clear. Celine Dion. Her song is perfect for this film and now it is one of my favorite. You know, I'm always skeptical t the films about future, it always seem artificial or exaggerated, but Bicentennial Man is a different one. Being a sci-fi this film, it tells us a story of a man, of his dreams, and for me it is more drama, then film about robots. Of course, there are no sufferings or complicated lives, everything is quite simple, but it makes this film suitable for everyone. And if you have any hesitations whether to watch it, you definitely should watch! "},{"Title":"I am a beginner in a writing of reviews to films..","Date":"5 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bicentennial Man, directed by Chris Columbus, is a screen version a science fiction novel by Isaac Asimov and Robert Silverberg Positron Man, based on an original short story Asimov's Bicentennial Man. It is very bright and emotional film, which is really impressed me.It's a new millennium. Breakthrough in global technology is happening. People do not want to have dogs or cats at home any more. They buy their own robots. And, one day, Martin family gets themselves an unusual gift. It's a robot of a new generation NDR-114. His name is Andrew. He is programmed to perform a domestic work. But, at one moment, Andrew suddenly begins to feel strange sensations. He does not know,that it's called feelings.This film is a rare example of a combination of excellent special effects, good humor, thoughtful script and talented actors. I would like to say about the actor who played the main character. Robin Williams is really surprised me. I open this actor with every new film more and more. It is a very talented actor. Andrew in his performance is something more than just an image, it's a real person who is like with us. Andrew is the perfection of human qualities. He is a symbol of freedom and courage, which are allowed him to make a way of transformation from the robot to a real man. Robin's play is really incredibly convincing.Also, I would like to tell about music and special effects in this film. Music is very amazing. A well-chosen music at this movie does a lot of moments more exciting. Special effects are also fantastic, despite the fact that the film was made long time ago.And,at the end, I can say , that the film is really incredible! If you want to relax with your family watching a good movie, I strongly recommend you to choose this film. Acting, an overall picture of the movie will not disappoint you! "},{"Title":"Bicentennial man","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bicentennial man is not only an engaging and fascinating film, it's also a magical and enchanting experience.There have already been a number of films about future released over many years.This film has gotten more than his fair share of publicity. Movies about robots and all this things that are connected with our future have always been interesting for me as I want to know what will be with our planet in several centuries. Bicentennial man is a 1999 Canadian-American science fiction family comedy-drama film starring Robin Williams,Sam Neill, Embeth Davidtz (in a dual role), Wendy Crewson, and Oliver Platt. Based on the novel The Positronic Man, co-written by Isaac Asimov and Robert Silverberg, which is itself based on Asimov's original novella titled The Bicentennial Man, the plot explores issues of humanity, slavery, prejudice, maturity, intellectual freedom, conformity,sex, love, and mortality. The film, a co-production between Touchstone Pictures and Columbia Pictures, was directed by Chris Columbus. The title comes from the main character existing to the age of two hundred years, and Asimov's novella was published in the year that the U.S. had its bicentennial. The basic plot (without giving away too much) is that, in the near future, a wealthy family purchases a robotic servant&#x97;a household appliance built for doing household chores and such. The name Andrew is given to it by the youngest member of the household. Because of a fault in this particular robot's positronic brain Andrew begins doing things he was not programmed for. He develops the ability of creating beautiful valuable art and woodworking talents. He even enjoys creating such things as wooden animals for the family he belongs to. As Andrew grows in awareness, he begins to realize that he will never be related to and accepted as an equal in the world of humans as long as he looks like a machine.Gradually, as technology advances over 200 years, Andrew at first purchases, and later invents for himself upgrades and adaptations for his body that make him more human looking, but regardless of what he does, the humans he cares for the most continue to think of him as a machine, and therefore are incapable of returning love and affection to him.To make a long story short,this film is all about Andrew's long quest to find out what it means to be a man. There are no many special effects, but the view of the city full of robots,flying cars,metallic skyscrapers, and all-white hospital interiors is superb. While watching this film, you soak up the atmosphere and really feel like you have entered the future world. The acting is very well done. I appreciate that Robin Williams , in one of his bizarre roles, portrays Andrew very similar to a natural robot. He is absolutely enchanting and his acting seems rather convincing to me. His comedic talents makes this movie more entertaining and suitable almost for all ages. These laughable and hilarious situations are appropriate and very well done. I enjoyed it a lot. In 1998, Williams won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance as Dr. Sean Maguire in Good Will Hunting. He also received two Primetime Emmy Awards, six Golden Globe Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, and four Grammy Awards throughout his career, and was inducted as a Disney Legend in 2009. I also liked the acting of Hallie Kate Eisenberg.She played such a wonderful and cute little daughter of this reach family.I could not but fall in love with her at first sight.All in all, I can say that all the actors are perfect. Bicentennial man achieves grand heights as a well made and magical production. It's not quite a masterpiece, but it's not far off. Well, I must say that the first half is really enjoyable indeed. I loved the prevailing unusual atmosphere and I waited for something unpredictable and thrilling to happen. But it seems strange to me how unexpectedly the film goes wrong. The second half of the movie changes tone,it slowly abandons its most promising themes and paradoxes, and turned out to be a series of slow, soppy scenes involving love and death. The question of whether Andrew did actually become a living being or not is left to the viewer to decide. So,then it must be interesting for all of us to find it out.I think it is possible to believe that something like Andrew could ever be created by men. But the point of the story is not so much to tell a story of what might actually happen as to arouse thinking about what makes a person a person, and what is important and wonderful about being one. Bicentennial man is a very deep and thought- provoking film to watch! "},{"Title":"Not too bad but definitely not the best Robin Williams film I have seen","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film happened to be on TV last night and since I was always a fan of the late actor Robin Williams and having not seen this film in years I decided to check it out. The film is about an android named Andrew(Williams)who happens to be a family robot and works for a guy(played by Sam Neil from The Vow)who bought Andrew for his family. Of course later on in the film Neil's charchter dies and Andrew happens to have human emotions so Andrew goes on a mission to see is there anyone like him in this world and surprisingly he decides to make himself human. Now living life as a human he gets to witness falling in love(with a girl called Portia played by Embeth Davidz from The Amazing Spiderman who also plays 2 parts in this movie)and show emotions just like a real human being,but will he ever get to become and act like a real human being like aging for example?This film reminds me of A.I with Haley Joel Osmont about a robot who is desperate to become human. Its not the best Robin Williams I have seen and parts of this film did remind me of Mrs Doubtfire(since Chris Columbus directed both films). But the real reward that this film has of course goes to the make up effects. I was in shock how the same make up artist who did Mrs Doubtfire and The Mask was able to transform Robin Williams into an old man in the end of the film. It was so well done so thumbs up to this. The film though itself is a tad bit long and it gets kinda boring from time to time but if you wanna check it out then do.5/10 "},{"Title":"A highly underrated masterpiece","Date":"29 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is one of the more horribly mis-marketed cinematic productions ever. This movie is ground-breaking and considering the subject matter will likely always be to an extent. It is very well-acted, and even during the bits that should have been more thoughtfully crafted (beginning, early middle) the production has a tremendous payout for those that brave through to later segments.Topics of extreme relevance within are humanity; slavery; freedom; AI with respect to humanity, slavery and freedom; time, consequence, and of course love.If you are a lover of film or Isaac Asimov, this one is surely for you. Acting and direction were supreme, with memorable career- inspiring performances by Robin Williams, Sam Neill, Embeth Davidtz, and Oliver Platt too. A special nod to prolific secondary actor Stephen Root's small role also (you'll remember him better as Milton in Office Space, but he nails his part -- as always).Since being properly introduced to this film which I never intended to watch (as stated it was very poorly marketed), I have re-watched it easily a dozen times... despite being quite a long feature. This is because it moves me in a way few other films have been able to, and I watch lots and lots of movies and TV.Robin Williams was a great, and for me this is still my favorite feature starring him -- and given his body of work that is truly saying something. "}{"Title":"Robin Williams in top form. In no way robotic at all.","Date":"27 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When we look back at the legacy of Robin Williams people will probably point to Mrs Doubtfire or Good Will Hunting as the highlights, but for me this film is right up there as it allows him to play both comedic and dramatic moments so beautifully.It's a long film, but one certainly worth sticking with because it explores a lot of important themes such as family, love and loss. We follow Andrew's journey and so badly want him to get the recognition as a human he deserves. Yes, it's just over two hours in length and some parts drag a bit, but I certainly never found myself wanting it to be over.It has a great supporting cast in it too, with Oliver Platt, Bradley Whitford and Wendy Crewson all appearing to support Williams.Overall a very nice thought provoking film. "},{"Title":"Incredible movie","Date":"28 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I really think this movie was underrated. The first half was so amazing. I believe that it touched everything of mine, especially when Andrew reached his human being. By the way, the second half was weaker in some points but still so touchily. This part was not so consolidate with the previous, when Andrew started to know how to love... Maybe in my opinion, freedom always come after love. I don't think I can catch up with the content when 12, 20, 15 and many past though my eye.I don't want to spoil anything about this incredible film so just watch it ) it rate 8/10. "},{"Title":"A movie of surprising depth","Date":"23 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of my favourite Robin Williams movies. A movie about the blurring line between human and creation, man and machine, organic and electric. In my opinion people seem to dismiss this movie because they go in expecting a typical robot film, which are usually rather action-oriented and much more futuristic. Instead Bicentennial Man tries to take a more comforting route, taking place in the not too distant future. This suits the movie rather well, because the themes and goals are more thoughtful and sympathetic in nature.The story follows the life or existence of one Andrew Martin, who happens to have been born as a robot, an android. What separates Andrew from others of his kind is the unexpected spark of creativity within him. A spark that develops and is nurtured until it gets really difficult to claim that Andrew isn't, for all intents and purposes, a human being.And that's pretty much it. It's a rather simple story, told through snippets, with long time skips in between, but yet it all rings true. A lot of this is thanks to Robin Williams grounding performance. Simply his voice fills Andrew with kindness and presence. The rest of the cast are equally up to the task, Sam Neill as the head of Andrew's original family deserving a special mention.This is a great movie to watch if you're a fan of Asimovian robotics or if you're looking for a warm-hearted scifi movie in general. "},{"Title":"A sweeping sci-fi fable, painted in broad strokes but rich with ideas","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bicentennial Man tells the story of Andrew (Robin Williams), an android who begins his existence as a servant for the Martin family in an exurb of San Francisco in 2005. His owner, Richard Martin, or Sir (Sam Neill), immediately realizes that Andrew's compassionate personality and creative spirit are something special, and the rest of the film chronicles Andrew's 200-year soul search as he watches times change and loved ones come and go. The film is essentially constructed as a sci-fi fable about what it means to be human, which is why I think a lot of critics and reviewers are missing the point when they criticize the swift pacing, simplistic plot, and relatively shallow supporting characters. This film is first and foremost about Andrew's journey, and the plot and supporting characters are supposed to take a back seat to its broad, sweeping emotionality. That's how fables operate, and Bicentenntial Man never pretends to aspire to realism. Another reviewer mentioned that the film explores the transience of life, and I think that's a perfect way to describe the theme at the heart of the film. It's a theme for which the film's thick, much-maligned sentimentality is a strength, not a weakness, and it does a beautiful job of illustrating the poignancy of human experience and mortality. Watching our friends, acquaintances, and loved ones change and drift away over time is sad and inevitable. So as Andrew watches his family change, age, and pass away, it's profoundly moving. The film excels most when it taps into deep wells of human emotion in service of Andrew's story. In one scene, he watches Sir and Ma'am (Wendy Crewson) enjoy a laugh by the pool, bathed in warm sunlight. In another, Andrew plays back a recording of Little Miss's (Embeth Davidtz) wedding and shares a brief conversation with Sir. At later points, he visits both Sir and Little Miss on their deathbeds. These types of scenes occur throughout the film, and they are so moving because they illustrate the joys and richness of life's relationships and experiences, while at the same time highlighting the pain of losing those things to time and death. Viewing these events at first through a non-human perspective, and then eventually seeing Andrew experience these emotions himself, tugs at the heartstrings in ways movies rarely do.Robin Williams is wonderful as Andrew. The early scenes of Sir teaching Andrew about the human experience are funny (though not laugh-out-loud) and warm, and Williams' performance showcases Andrew's earnestness, attention to detail, eagerness for learning, and affection toward his family in pure and extremely affecting ways. Embeth Davidtz is solid in the dual roles of Little Miss and her granddaughter, Portia. The roles are limited, but she lends warmth and grace to both roles, while preserving the two distinct personalities of her characters. Sam Neill also gives an excellent, thoughtful, and ruminative performance as Sir. The production elements of the film are also top-notch. Instead of being cheesy or schmaltzy, James Horner's soaring musical score is beautifully evocative and nostalgic, lending a poignant timelessness to the visuals (in a similar way to the score of Gattaca, another top-notch sci-fi film). The softness of the film's lighting, especially in earlier scenes by the Martins' pool or on the beach, lends an air of nostalgia and emotionality, and the visual power of the film should not be overlooked. The only flaws I think the movie has are that its script occasionally falls victim to clich and unoriginality. The changes in tone aren't always seamless, either. But overall, Bicentennial Man is a sweeping sci-fi fable that is both touching and enlightening on multiple levels. "},{"Title":"Turn her off, or I will!","Date":"8 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" To the best of my knowledge no spoilers are here. The Martins have a new utility in their home. Their neighbors, or some, already have a robot so Dick Martin finally decides to purchase a unit from Northern Robotics. One of the Martins develops an instant dislike for Andrew right away. She has an instinctive dislike of other things as we see later in the movie. Never having a robotic servant(Andrew is designed for protocol), Martin notices many things about Andrew but perceives none as very unusual until he finds Andrew listening to classical music on an old Victrola Andrew finds out in the yard. The manager of Robotics, Richard Martin, Richard's wife, Little Miss and her sister, and everyone human associated with Andrew grow old as Andrew remains a solid piece of computer manufacturing. Andrew learns many things, he learns about human reproduction, about humor, about the world in general. He has money. He is a member of a family, a family that is not altogether happy, but is decent in most ways, and takes care of Andrew. Andrew is quite taken with Little Miss, in a human way, and this is actually not normal in a robot but there's nothing to do. But if there was, Richard Martin does not intend to change or re-integrate Andrew's circuitry. He does not intend to alter Andrew in any way, although Andrew is very unique. Andrew has fundamental qualities that in theory should not exist in a robot. Time passes and soon Andrew becomes interested in relocating, no longer satisfied in being an android servant of humans. There is humor all through the film, though not an overpowering kind, because step by step Andrew undergoes a transition with the help of a robotic engineer. Andrew has found the apple of his eye, and he will not let anything stand in his way. That apple is NOT Galatea.Rated PG. "},{"Title":"Thoughtfull and profound","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The more I see this movie (I have seen it 3 times now) it affects me more. I find it thought provoking and profound. I am still not sure about the treatment as it changes tack about halfway through. it is not a family movie at all really as it tackles quite difficult subjects in the second half. The special effects are good and the depiction of the future less fanciful than many sci-fi films. Robin Williams is so much better when being more reflective rather than manic in his movies and his performance is excellent in this. Sam Neill gives good value support as always and Ember Davitz (of whom I had never heard) is good too. It makes a nice change to see a movie which is not aimed at braindead teens or action freaks. It grows on one and makes one think about what it is to be human. "},{"Title":"A Glimpse of Asimovian Delights","Date":"18 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The film is full of fine moments that will connect with an Asimov fan. It is those moments that make the viewing of this worthwhile in spite of a somewhat disjointed plot line. The dreamer of my teenage youth surfaces during Andrew's moments of realization, and as any good archetypal foil (be it vampire, immortal, or robot) serves to remind us of the elements of humanity we so treasure.I think the film could have been more clever in general, making the characters a bit more three dimensional....most of them are flat, perhaps to accentuate Andrew's personality.Spoiler As an Asimov fan, the scene I am most critical of is when the daughter orders Andrew to jump from the window injuring himself in direct violation of the Third Law of Robotics. Perhaps if the Zeroth law were in place, there may be a way around it. "},{"Title":"Science Fiction-wise little convincing, but touching","Date":"7 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I find it remarkable how the film manages to tell the story it wants to tell without any real subplots and without telling much about the surroundings. The film starts with a title card In a not too distant future. Then a family is delivered a box with a robot and the film never looks back. You don't ever really know how this future works, as you only get little insight into those things when it is necessary. For example when Andrew the android travels the world in search for androids who are like him. It's unavoidable that you get to see SOME futuristic gadgets but the film never bothers with those things.I find the film to be lacking in the Sci-Fi department. Andrew's initial glimpses of humanity and his progress of becoming more and more like a human being are little convincing. The film just said how it is and rarely cared to give a scientific explanation for it. But one shouldn't overlook how touching the movie is. It is very much about humanity and the robot often serves to theorize about future possibilities for human kind, most notably the possibility of eternal life. "},{"Title":"Sweet, touching, and thought provoking","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" At the core of any good robot story is the issue of what it means to be human. This film explores that issue better than any other I know of.Robot films are not generally blockbuster crowd pleasers, with the exception of I, Robot which was a Will Smith action flick. Let's face it, the average movie goer has trouble connecting with immortal sentient machines. This film stacks the deck against itself by dealing directly with the immortality issue and adding in an unfashionable amount of raw sentimentality.The result is a truly great film - one of the few here I've rated a 10. I don't watch it as often as I'd like because it is a two (or more) hankie film that always gets to me. For those who don't mind thinking and who are not too jaded to appreciate the sentiment, it's a wonderful experience. "},{"Title":"One is glad to have seen this","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is pure heart. You can tell that all the actors put their all in this movie. You feel like you are right there in it when all the events happen. You can feel the love and friendship and respect they all have for Andrew and each other. And the love and respect that Andrew has for the family. You feel the want to be like them instead of different that Andrew feels. And you know that there is something about him that is extra special right from the start. It's a beautiful film and it may even drive you to a few tears at points. Robin Williams shines in this movie and is one of the best movies I've seen in a long, long time. "}{"Title":"A familiar story, but extended out a bit ...","Date":"1 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I was really surprised at much further this story went beyond what I was expecting. This seemed like a familiar robot gets emotions movie that has been done far too many times. However, it goes a little beyond that and for a little while at least, it was pretty interesting.This is the story of a servant robot that eventually begins to exhibit uncharacteristic creativity and individualism. The story follows him as he passes through generations of the family who first purchased him.I like sci-fi type movies that somehow introduce new ideas or extend on old ones. This is a case of the latter and it does it decently well for the first 3/4 of the movie. The last part is a little botched - so be forewarned, it's not perfect. The acting is pleasant and the characters are reasonably interesting. Robin Williams puts in an uncharacteristically good, serious and non-zany performance.The main attraction of this movie is that it takes a familiar story and extends the consequences further out in time. If this is interesting to you, you might want to check it out. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Human Condition","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film is not about robots. It's about humans -- humanity, more specifically. It's a touching and deep exploration of what defines the human condition. That this exploration is carried out through the mechanism -- so to speak -- of a robot is incidental.The story is a deliberately paced and sentimental depiction of a very special being as he evolves from machine -- a household appliance -- to human over the course of two centuries. The hardest part is understanding and coping with loss as his human family pass away, one after another over the years.A lengthy and unsuccessful quest to find another like himself drives him to undergo one upgrade after another to achieve humanity. But ultimately he fails until he understands that mortality is part of the equation.Williams is brilliant as Andrew, the robot>android>human focal point. "},{"Title":"A beautifully made movie...","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I guess the makers of this movie should have aired a cautionary message like,people with patience proceed to watch this movie,please!!!.Coming to know that most people found this movie to be too boring or ordinary,without any adrenaline rushing action..i was pained.I am giving my opinion on this movie nearly six-seven years after i watched it on my local cable TV.Yes,i do accept that this movie is slow-moving.But are'not movies of this genre supposed to be so.Being fast-paced will obviously take the sheen out of the movie.One of the brilliant performance's by Robin Williams.Though i must admit that i haven't seen many of his movies.As another IMDb user suggested,it is pretty difficult to showcase 200 years of time in 1 and a half hours.but still,the directors hard-work seems to have worked wonders.I say so because i was literally in tears at the end of the movie...imagine a 'thing'(no offense meant) who slowly starts to understand humanity and its vast sea of relationships,and he actually loses them one-by-one.I wouldn't go too much into the story...this movie is certainly one to be experienced.Bicentennial Man is made of warmth,sweet realizations and the fact that LOVE has no barriers. "},{"Title":"A triumph, a touching and bittersweet motion picture","Date":"13 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Chris Columbus has crafted an excellent film, paying all homage to Isaac Azimov and his development of artificial life. Of all of Robin William's many fine roles this will always be, in my opinion, one of, if not the best. Just as with the film A.I. this is the story of an android who wants to be much more. The film has humor, of course, but there is so much more. It is a touching film which will reach all of the emotions. As much as I love it, I can only watch it once in a great while, lest my emotions carry me away. Other excellent performances include Oliver Platt, and Sam Neil, no stranger to sci-fi stories. Also, it is worth sitting through the opening credits to enjoy the peculiar and lilting theme music. "},{"Title":"a highly underrated gem","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" i really liked bicentennial man.i thought the premise was original,the acting was very good.i liked the humour sprinkled throughout.this was certainly a dramatic movie, with no frenetic in your face action.as a result the story is more flushed out, as are the characters.the movie was intended to be dramatic and succeeds very well at it.people who watch this movie expecting huge action sequences are missing the point.the basic idea of the story is about an android who discovers he wants to become human and sets out a journey which spans nearly two hundred years to fulfill his quest.i did not find this movie boring at all, but became very drawn in to the story and emotionally attached to the characters.this movie gets a well deserved 8* out of 10 "},{"Title":"Beautifully Brilliant","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love this film!! It has everything going for it. I could tell just by hearing the story and plot of this film, before i had even gone to see it, it would be a nice one and a gem to say the least. The acting was excellent too by the way. Firstly, the story is uplifting, peaceful, comforting, and just joyful! I left the theater feeling good about myself that I had actually gone to see it, what a beautiful and lovely movie I had just viewed. Robin Williams plays a robot, which was part of a new like technology that takes place ten years from now, and the robot, is very very human like, to say the least. Over time, this robot, becomes humanized, I guess is the right word. But, it's just the way the story is written and is produced makes it wonderful to listen too and watch. I must have seen Bi centennial man four times now, and every time, I love it more!..I promise if you go see this, take my word for it, you'll be glad you did!! One of the very best films I have seen in quite a while, And I have seen thousands. "},{"Title":"Bicentennial Man - A Bicentennial Masterpiece","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" At first i was reluctant to seeing this movie thinking it was another of those Robin Williams rubber-faced comedies where the accent is on humour and laughs. But Bicentennial Man is a film which surpassed my expectations on so many occasions. When Richard Martin buys a household robot for his home and family, he suspects little that the robot he and his family named Andrew is the proud owner of emotions and creativity. As we follow the robots journey through 200 years and five generations, we become engrossed in Andrews struggle to retain his right to be a human being, and his right to die alongside his beloved. Robin Williams stars as all the various stages of Andrew from the moment he's released from the coffin shaped box he arrived in through to the moment of his death as he is finally proclaimed a human being. An amazing epic sci-fi saga of a robot that dares to ask the question What would it be like to be human? Definitely a one not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Slow-paced but enchanting distillation of what makes a human","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Despite being always interested in what Robin Williams chooses to take on, I wasn't that keen to see this but was quickly caught up by the various levels on which it operates. With faint echoes of the Wizard of Oz's Tin-man, Lion and Scarecrow in search of their humanity, it's far more than a simple robot 'road movie'.OK, it may not be up there among the Golden Greats, but I think it was under-rated and disappeared from view, at least in the UK, far too quickly. With a definite heart, Bicentennial Man has stayed on in mine for the several years since I saw it. Conclusion? Really worth watching for a very convincing performance by Williams and co, a script at once moving and funny, some sharp dialogue and even sharper observations on the human condition. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good!","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I came to see this movie with very low expectations, I thought it's going to be another one of those kiddie movies that talks about friendships, love.. bluh bluh, but I was wrong, this movie was so moving, so smart, and I just loved that robot humor! The story was far-fetched, but they pulled it off, I loved what they did with the background, it really looked like the future, it was interesting to watch. Robin Williams was so good in this film, the only thing I didn't like was the casting of little miss, Embeth Davidtz was so annoying and plastic like, it's a shame really.  But other than that, really fun to watch, be expected to shed some tears, and laugh.Definitely not a waste of time- 8/10 "},{"Title":"A truly beautiful film","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One of my all time favorites, an exploration of what it means to be human and all that comes with it. Fine performances from the assembled cast especially that of Robin Williams as we follow him on his journey throughout the film. Given it's reviews it appears you will either love this film or you won't. It's message seems to touch the hearts of some but is completely missed by others. Young or old though I think you would have to be fairly hard hearted not to be enchanted by it's inherent beauty. It is a pity as far as this reviewer is concerned that it did not receive the credit due. But then so do many films. It must be very frustrating to be a film maker and not see the fruits of your labor appreciated. Ten out of ten.  "}{"Title":"Incredible Science Fiction Movie","Date":"1 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the truly great Science Fiction movies of all time, and it potrays Isaac Asimov's dream so well, that all lifeforms, whether robotic or physical, could move beyond the barriers of prejudice and live in peace. The acting was great, the cinematography equally awesome.  This is a movie for anyone age 9 and up.  Why more Isaac Asimov books could be developed for the movie screen I don't understand.  Maybe its because there isn't enough death and destruction and all around violence.  This movie too often it classified a comedy, and it does have its funny moments, but more then anything this movie is a great Science Fiction drama.  Enjoy it!  One is glad to be of service ) "},{"Title":"Robin Williams shines","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robin Williams leads an outstanding cast in Bicentennial Man, one of the most spectacular films that I have seen. Bicentennial Man is movie for those who ever dared to dream and believed in accomplishing them. Williams is Andrew a robot who gains emotions over the years, who eventually wants to become human.Williams seems to perfect for this role because for most of his career, he has played roles geared toward children. The performance by Embeth Davidtz seemed to be overshadowed by that of Williams; however, I just want to point out that I think she could not have pulled off a performance of two people much better than she had. I must say this is her breakout performance.This is truly a heart-warming film laced with heart, love and the human spirit. I cannot believe how perfectly executed Bicentennial Man was from the dialogue to the setting and plot. The whole movie was excellent and well-worth the rental price.  "},{"Title":"One Most Brilliant Movies Of All Time","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What can I say about this movie except that it's one of the most brilliant movies of all time.  What makes it so brilliant well, Robin Williams of course because he's one of the best actors around. All of the movies that I've seen him in, I've enjoyed tremendously. I wish that he could do more movies like this one, more touching, more brilliant and captivating.  This movie has its share of humor just like all of his other movies.  There's one funny line in the movie that me and my boyfriend like and it's when the father in the movie is saying something about time and then the robot says it's 10 o'clock well something to that affect, I can't quite remember the line because I haven't watched the movie in quite awhile but I know it's funny. "},{"Title":"A celebration of being human","Date":"17 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is something quite unusual and quite remarkable about the characters Robin Williams brings to life on screen. Andrew, in Bicentennial Man, is no exception and pleads with us to simply consider what it is to be alive, what is is to be human, and how precious and brief our moment in the sun actually is. This is an excellent story, as all Asimov stories are, with exceptional performances and direction. I enjoyed every moment of it and was both terribly moved and saddened in a bittersweet kind of way by this most excellent film. Thank you, Robin Williams.  "},{"Title":"Heart-warming","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A really heart-warming movie. Action is superfluous here. Perfect acting (especially Robin Williams - as usual), amazing never-before seen and unique special effects/cg, a really great story, wonderful cinematography, a very charming Embeth Davidtz and a big message make this movie oh so worth to be watched. It's easy to call it a spin-off or whatever, but for most it's too hard to understand the ingeniousness of it.My ratings acting 8.5/10, story 7.5/10, cinematography 8/10, special effects 8.5/10, cg special effects 9/10, drama 7/10, comedy 7/10.Highly recommended!!Overall **** out of 5 imdb 8/10  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Exccelent! Just great. i can't think of words that would describe this masterpiece. Imust say that this is by far one of the best movies I've ever seen. Great script, great plot, great actors. Robbie Williams really knew how to do his job, portraying the robot in a manner noone elese could of have done.  And the film's music is a great one too, Celine Dion being the best singer that could've been credited for it. BRAVO! "},{"Title":"decent attempt...under rated..williams delieving","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  williams quiet performance is really the best thing of this movie on the surface. he really shows how much of a dramatic performer he can truly be, unfort most are missing it. i loved the novella by the late great asimov. most people do not see subtle subtext, exploring our own humanity through someone that is not supposed to have one and our attempts to keep him from it. admitting the movie is a bit slow and does drag the longer it goes on, but hey of course the movie is supposed to take us thru 200 years. it would have been much better as a mini-series on TV.  the closing scenes and credits, using a soft love song by madmoiselle celine makes it even more touching. overall an under-rated movie worth 2 hours of your time. more so than some of the other garbage hollywood has been putting out...like 'gigli' "},{"Title":"Great movie and great Williams (SOME SPOILERS)","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A really enjoyable movie. I found it really close to the original Asimov's novel, at least in the spirit. Williams plays a dramatic role with great skill, as he already did in Awakenings, especially when Little Miss dies at the hospital and Andrew can't weep to express its sorrow. A wonderful movie, even better than AI. I think ol' Isaac would be pleased. "},{"Title":"Truly captures the spirit of the story","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this was a very typical Chris Columbus film, with MANY changes from the original story, I'll be damned if they didn't get the feel of the tale. This is one of Asimov's stories with a truly human angle, and although I usually hate it when a movie varies alot from the book, this was done well. The special effects were great, as was the acting.  Columbus, as always, is heavy handed and sappy and melodramatic, but the movie truly captured the essence of Andrew Martin, the robot who wants only to become human. There are so many places the movie could have been improved that it would be pointless to list them, but if you were moved by the story, you will be doubly moved by this film. "},{"Title":"The right film at the right time","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I saw the trailer, I decided that Bicentennial Man would be an enjoyable enough way of spending an evening. Then, about a month before the film was released in the UK, my grandmother died suddenly. I took the news and carried on with a stiff upper lip......Then I went to the cinema. I was enthralled. As the story progressed, I found myself more and more involved. As the lights went up, I had to sit for a few moments to gather myself and swallow the lump in my throat..I arrived home and the pent-up emotions finally let go. Bicentennial Man was the catalyst I needed. WHAT A RELIEF!!! At last I could grieve properly. I saw the film at least twice more before it ended its run, a feat that is almost unheard of for me. Needless to say, it was the first film I purchased on DVD. Four years on, Bicentennial Man still has the power to move me. For me, it was the right film at the right time. "}{"Title":"A pleasure too watch, though not an extraordinary work.","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" As a short story, Asimov's The Bicentennial Man is a very good one, though not as much as the ones in his proper Robot series. Except this fantastic story, the movie itself never reached to a good height. It's true the movie was a pleasure to watch, a certain tenderness was there all over it, but all because of the story. I don't think the movie is well-directed in this case. In some places it blindly followed the original story where there were much to do for the director e.g. Andrew's first meeting with Portia. Again some places were too much invented by Columbus e.g. the roboticist's workshop.Robin Williams gave a good performance as the robot, Andrew Martin. Even after gaining skin and face like a human body, Williams' acting was brilliantly robotic. The expression change in him after having the ability to feel was finely portrayed by the master actor. Embeth Davidtz also acted quite well. Sam Neill got it right too.The make-up artists did a good job for Andrew. Credits should also go to superb art direction and set designing. James Horner's score over the film added a good serious atmosphere that was very much needed for this type of films. The screenplay, however, was not very satisfying as in some places, in my opinion, there should be a little less dramatic dialogue.In all, this movie is a pleasure to watch. If you never read the story, perhaps this won't disappoint you. 3/5. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi expert","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man was a short story that Issac Asimov wrote before his I, Robot series.  This movie can only be described as the best interpretation of that story.  Only today do we have the technology to do a futuristic film.  The story is a classic Pinochio, but I am sure Issac Asimov would have been proud of this movie.  It is a must see for Sci-Fi buffs and tenderheart Halmark Channel watchers alike. "},{"Title":"What a Beautiful Movie!","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you didnt like AI very much (like me), but if you do like sci-fi movies with a love story, then I strongly recommend Bicentennial Man. I really loved this movie. The story is so great and the few special effects needed here are credible enough to make it very enjoyable watching. Very nice and touching. Go and rent it now! 9/10 "},{"Title":"A more interesting and entertaining film than I expected","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The plot of this film has obvious similarities with A.I., but it doesn't set out to challenge humanism in quite the same way as A.I. However, despite the fact that it doesn't go as far, it is still a thought-provoking and interesting exploration of posthumanism. Robin Williams, as ever, is a bit too sentimental, but it's one of his better performances. The actors in general (especially Sam Neill and Oliver Platt) are very good and the special effects are excellent. This is well worth watching on telly, and worth renting if you're interested in the question of what (if anything) it means to be human. "},{"Title":"A pretty good sci-fi tale","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a pretty good sci-fi tale of an android, Andrew, who seems to have more human characteristics that he's supposed to. It's good story that covers all the issues you'd expect and probably some you might not. The only drawback is that I wish there was a little more science in this sci-fi. It's never really explained why he's special. Was it the fall out the window? As he goes through upgrades, very little detail is given. Where the movie is strong is the emotional side of the story. Some of the things are a little unbelievable, but it's well-intentioned and succeeds on some levels. Especially the relationship of him with the family who purchased him. Robin Williams plays the android well and Embeth Davidtz in the double roll of Little Miss and Portia. It's pretty good, but I do think it falls a little short of what it could have been. *** (Out of 4) "},{"Title":"One is glad to have seen this film","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was excellent. It was smart, touching, heart warming, well-scripted, well-performed, all the elements you need for a good movie. Seeing Robin Williams as a robot is something I had never experienced before, he looks really good, and I love how he talks like a robot, and calling himself One and everybody else Sir, Miss, M'AM and Little Miss, who was his favorite person in the family. I really love the first part of the movie, how he meets the family, and gets attached to it, and then you can see him live through several generations, and seeing people come and go, while he is trying to become human. It is really funny and touching how he lives new experiences as a human. Like Andrew(the robot) said in the movie, One is glad to be of service, I say, One is glad to have seen this film. "},{"Title":"It's not so bad, but you really should read the story","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I went into this movie with low expectations. I knew before I ever bought the ticket that no movie could do justice to one of the most amazing short stories of all time. Frankly, they probably shouldn't have tried.Still, this movie has it's good points. Oliver Platt is an ever-dependable actor and Robin Williams does a good job as Andrew Martin. Sam Neill starts off a little wooden but develops well as the Martin Patriarch. Unfortunately, the story was Disneyized a bit and lost much of its raw emotional potential in translation from print to wide screen.I hope this movie will spark the interest of a new generation and encourage them to read the great science fiction stories, among which Bicentennial Man is surely one of the best. It is a story of unusual power and depth that deserved better treatment on the big screen. If you have read and been touched by Asimov's Pinocchio story, you will want to see this simply because of the story it is based on. Don't expect magic, though.  "},{"Title":"Better on DVD than at the cinema","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I remember seeing this film in a standard, multiplexed cinema and walking away unimpressed. I quite liked it, my friends didn't, some even fell asleep during the projection, etc. I recently had the chance to watch it by myself at home on DVD, and I found myself weeping softly at the end, and treasuring in my mind a number of lines which now I wonder why they escaped my consciousness during the projection. Ok, the landscape effects are bulls***. Ok, the make-up and the animatronics are wonderful (in my opinion, a tad too perfect, but that's just mean me). I don't mean to preach or anything, but the idea behind the, call it what you want, childish?, storyline is simply awesome. In these days of mediocrity, of making do, of just not caring enough, to watch a film about a heart-wrenching fight for DIGNITY is priceless. I could ramble on, but I'll leave at that. Please, if you watch it, be aware of this.After reading some other users' reviews, I must say I find it totally unnecessary to be an Asimov fan to enjoy the movie. I don't know much about acting, but I stopped seeing the actors, but watched the characters. And I am not a Celine Dion fan, but I loved the end-credits song, I wonder how come it was not nominated, and Titanic's was... "},{"Title":"It's not bad, but good","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow, I just finished watching Bicentennial Man, and I thought It was a beautiful film. Not only is the film well made, It's the most original movie I've ever seen, and it has an excellent cast. Robin Williams plays Andrew, a robot wanting to be a human. Over the course of the film, Andrew learns about human emotions, and slowly becomes one.James Horners score is excellent, and Chris Columbus direction makes this movie perfect, I highly recommend it "},{"Title":"Promoted Totally Wrong in 1999!","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watch this movie on TV to-night.  This movie was promoted as comedy and children movie in 1999.  It's definitely not kids movie and actually it's a rather good movie.  A.I. basically followed the concept with more special effects.  Robin Williams was very good in this movie.  Whoever did the PR & promotion in 1999 should had been fired. "}{"Title":"A must for all Asimov fans and almost everyone else","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I put off watching this for a while because of the negative views this film had and because it was made for children, or that is what I thought.I watched it last night, and I was thrown deep into the movie. This is a very interesting journey of a robot that wants and do become human. The movie is a bit week in the first portion, we are told within the first five minutes what should have been spread-out a bit. The first 10-15 minutes are very important. But after that, the movie really matures into a superb Asimov journey.The movie portrays the Isaac Asimov feeling to the last drop. I did not know that this is what it was based on, but I am a fan of the late Mr. Asimov's writings, and could recognize the Asimov effect almost immediately. I found that the under-currents and the emotions were superbly portrayed by Robin Williams, this was very challenging given the very limited facial expressions that he could portray as a Robot. I got some more feeling towards Asimov's writing from this movie. Well worth the watch.Once last note, is that the movie is not Oscar material. A.I. was a  better movie IMHO, but this movie is much better than most of the offerings out there.This is a serious movie. It contains wonderful character development, romance, humour, and will provoke the mind to think. Taking as such, it will be a wonderful experience. "},{"Title":"I liked it. But still read the story before watching.","Date":"14 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having read other user's comments, I must say that one's perception of this movie greatly depends on whether one is a true fan of Isaac Asimov or not.If you happen to be one of these, you may be disappointed since the story doesn't follow the book exactly, and the ending is completely different, although to the casual viewer/reader the differences between the book and the movie may not seem too significant.I didn't take this movie too seriously and that's why it was a pleasant surprise. But it could have been a bit better. Somebody complained about Andrew falling in love, but I don't think that is a problem. And yes, Mr. Asimov can be a bit dry from time to time. So it is a small and cute movie that fills your heart with warmth.As with Frank Herbert's Dune, the Bicentennial man touches some important subject only superficially and you have to have read the book to fully understand what's going inside Andrew's mind. One interesting fact is that the toy dog's name is Wolfie, same as in Terminator 2. In fact, dog's name in T2 is NOT Wolfie, but it is a nice touch anyway ;) "},{"Title":"Makes 'Titanic' look like a Steven Seagal movie","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I believe that anyone who avoided this movie, did it because the were under the impression that 'Bicentennial Man' is a children's tale. Bad marketing is the only weakness of the movie, since everyone believed that this excellent example of film making was 'Flubber' with robots.This story of a robot that gradually gains feelings, is written with such intelligence and directed with such economy that leaves no place for criticism. Robin Williams and Sam Neill are perfect in their roles, while Oliver Platt is amazing is always. Credit should be given to the make up artists, who did such a marvelous job; a lot of movies that involved an aging process for the characters, were ridiculed because of bad make up.The director Chris Columbus lets the movie 'breathe' without getting into technical details, so that the viewers can delve into the emotional nature of the story without pointless interferences.For a what one would guess to be a sci-fi for children movie, we receive the ultimate love story. Nothing can surpass the emotional intensity of 'Bicentennial Man' and it's such a shame that it left the theaters so quietly.Unforgettable.10/10 "},{"Title":"Wonderfully cast, very touching.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have to admit to be a great Robin Williams fan, and after Matilda I'm also an Embeth Davidtz fan ... and I'm a Sam Neill fan. That said I can't fault anyone in the entire cast.This was a very moving film for me, and I thought it was beautifully done. I've now seen it 3 times, and it was as moving for me at the third viewing as for the previous viewings.After reading the first comment listed for this movie - I can only concur with everything said. "},{"Title":"Great movie which really touched me!","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have always been a fan of SF and Isaac Asimov aswell, when i saw this movie i had no idea that it was based on a work by Asimov, but when i noticed that Andrew had a positron brain i knew where they had gotten their inspiration.I have always liked Robin Williams and i think this movie was more or less made for him, the character fitted him perfect.This movie asks a really interesting question, when does artificial become real? And even more interesting, Does it matter? "},{"Title":"not great but alright","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm no fan of Robin Williams (best supporting actor for Good Will Hunting!!! - C'mon!) but he does an adequate job here. Yes it's true that his behaviour is occassionally inconsistent, and time does appear to pass somewhat erratically but this is a pleasant enough film with a nice message. I am a bit concerned that anyone can see a future world court/parliament with both legislative and judicial power but that's a side issue. I think the voting for this movie is just about spot on. My vote 6/10 "},{"Title":"I love this movie...","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Man I have watched this movie so many times... I like this movie... I mean Robin does a good job... It is long movie that is not on the right time line... Look he just didn't seem to do 200 years as they made it seem... Besides that I thought it was cool that he actually started to love little miss's granddaughter out of thin air... So i wonder why didn't he love little miss when she wanted to hook up with him... I know he didn't catch on but still... And he voiced just changed... Robot to Man... I mean he was still not a real man... "},{"Title":"A lot of movie packed into a little over 2 hours","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING Spoiler info included.The aspect of this movie that appealed to me most, in retrospect, is that it didn't spend time on things it didn't have to.  Moreover, it took me in unexpected ways.Example1  An important point in the movie is that the android Andrew, began making his own money which becomes important later on in the movie but they were able to establish that in about 30 seconds of screen time.Example2  Andrew and Sir ran a running battle with the company that built Andrew that came to a head when Andrew needed his thumb replaced.  This very effective scene got the point across in about 60 seconds of screen time. The next scene moves on and his thumb has been replaced.  We weren't subjected to tedious special effects (of replacing the thumb) that wouldn't have added to story but would have been fodder for trailers.Example3  Just about the time I think Sir is a saint, he takes personal umbrage at Andrew's desire for freedom and effectively bans him from his life.  Emotionally, I wasn't ready for that but in retrospect made the movie much better.Last example  At the end of his 20 year search for another like himself, he finds a female robot that is apparently as unique as he is.  I'm ready for him to find happiness with a soul mate.  He quickly determines, however, that she is just a programmed personality and not the genuine article. That scene a) took about 60 seconds and b) turned left when I was expecting right.One of the best movies ever.  Great acting, sets, technology, and most of all, a wonderfully written script. "},{"Title":"Bring out the tissues","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a 19 year old man that has seen many movies in his life.  I have not cried much in my life, and only one time watching a movie, which was Brian's Song.  That is of course, until I saw this movie.  This movie is without a doubt one of my 10 all time favorites.  Everything was just so perfect. Why the critics panned it, who knows.  Maybe they were looking for something else.  While I do praise Williams, and Sam Neil for their acting, I also have to say Oliver Platt helped make the film a success.  The biggest factor though was the tear jerking music of James Horner.  Horner puts together one of his better soundtracks, one which I personally feel is much better than Titanic. I don't know what other people see in films, but I for one would have put this as a nominee for best picture any day.  "},{"Title":" This is the best that science fiction can offer","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film has so much to offer--a terrific cast, wonderful set design, a heart warming, and sometimes heart wrenching story--I consider it one of my all-time favorites. This is the best that science fiction can offer; a glamorous future in which our human weaknesses and strengths ring true, and a society that must find justice in profound change. What more positive statement can a story suggest? I loved Robin Williams, Sam Neill, and Embeth Davidz. Oliver Platt was delightful. Don't miss this movie! "}{"Title":"Not As Bad As Critics Said","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not the best movie ever made, but not nearly as bad as the critics made it out to be.  I enjoyed it very, very much.  The story was interesting, the acting was good, and it's vision of the future was believable.  The only major problem was that the trailer was nothing like the movie at all.  It made it seem like a family comedy, which it is not.  As far as comedy, it had a few chuckles, but it's mostly drama.  And cos of the subject matter, language and a few sexual scenes, you couldn't call it a family film. "},{"Title":"An astonishing performance from one of the best performers!!! Brilliant!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is a wonderful remake of Isaac Asimov's famous book 'Bicentennial Man' which has proved to be one of the best science fiction stories of our time. Great actors were chosen for this movie, like Robin Williams and Sam Neil. However, the work that the director put into making this movie is amazing. The atmosphere that is produced through watching this magnificant remake appeals to the audience in every way. Quite sad, and the way that the generations pass is a must see. Truly wonderful and in my personal oppinion, I would give this movie an '8.5/10'. I seriously do not think that this film should have recieved a '6' as a score.This movie is extremely recommendable!!!!!  (and a few tissues)!!!!!! "},{"Title":"200 years went by in 131 minutes.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am *not* a big Robin Williams fan. However, I thought Dead Poet's Society (has it really been 12 years?) was brilliant but I have never enjoyed any other movie he has made ... until Bicentennial Man.I haven't read the Asimov book, I always found Asimov 'demanding' and 'naive' - but then, he was writing about science fiction that is now science fact. Now I realise how imaginative and visionary he really was.Don't misunderstand, Williams himself is not great, his deadpan humour and 'path to enlightenment' are just the characterisation and storyline.But don't take it apart and try to analyse it for all of the metaphors and symbolism and stuff.If you are sensitive and compassionate and giving then I guarantee you will feel wonderful long after the Kleenex have ended.The movie must be viewed holistically. The humanity that 'the robot' tried to accomplish, we take for granted. Although reading some of the comments posted here, you would wonder!I couldn't hold back the tears near the end. It just got too much. But then, I wept at Deep Impact and Armageddon too. It must be something to do with insurmountable odds and attempts to overcome them - and the incidental score!It's a moving movie.Just watch it and make up your own mind about it.  "},{"Title":"An intelligent and emotional movie for all audiences","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Do not pass this off simply as a children's movie.  Few notice looking at the movie poster that Bicentennial Man was actually written by Isaac Asimov, biochemist, Columbia graduate, and noted science fiction author.  The film is actually much deeper in meaning than trailers suggested, posing the question of what it truly means to be human.  This notion is tied in with a heartwarming story and the perfect cast of actors, making the movie accessible to all audiences. "},{"Title":"One of the Best I've seen","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First off, I'm a big Robin Williams fan, and if you are, this movie is on a par with his Dead Poets Society role. The special effects are good but do not over power the main theme of the film. The movie is amazing in the number of levels it reaches one. One goes from emotions of laughter one minute to touching pathos the next. One can not come away from this film without feeling that the essence of humanity is something way beyond the mere bag of bones and blood we call our bodies.It is a very very fine adaptation of Asimov's I Robot series, and though the elements of sci-fi are there this is not sci-fi. This movie simply reflects in the shiny, mirrored surface of Andrew the android, all that defines what it is to be human. The movie is a parable and a metaphor both, and comes as a bit of a cross between Pinnochio and Peter Pan. It is a testament to the abilities of Williams that a man who made a career out of doing dick jokes has become not only the finest comedic actor of our time, but one of the finest actors period. One should see this movie. One will not be disappointed. Go Rent It Now! "},{"Title":"No spoilers","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This comment contains nothing that may spoil any point of the movie for it is really a movie that should not be spoiled for anyone.I'm glad it wasn't spoiled for me. For even though it is not a fancy movie and may not be put on a list of the 100 best movies of all time ( even though it'll go on mine)It is a heartfelt and a heart warming movie till the end. But i will say this. It WILL make you laugh and it WILL make you cry, As any good movie should have the power to do. But.... It will also make you do 2 more very important things.For it will make you wonder, not quite knowing is this man or machine and which should i feel for, and should i feel anything. Most importantly it will make you thank GOD for the gift of life and humanity that he has bestowed on us all, for forever nothing can be compared to human life. Enjoy o) "},{"Title":"9 out of 10 -- worth your time...","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented B.M. on a whim to see what it was like.  I've pretty much always liked Robin Williams in the movies he makes, so I figured why not give it a shot...I was pleasantly surprised not knowing much up front about the movie. While the movie itself did not make me roll over with laughter or cause me to sob uncontrollably during its more heartfelt moments, I was moved and touched as well as entertained.  The timeless story of one who seeks to be more than what they are told they are was well executed by Chris Columbus and a marvelous cast.  Was it Robin Williams best performance?  No.  But he did a terrific job of conveying the emotions and feelings of a robot who seeks to be human in every sense of the word.  I believe the movie is well suited for older kids (teens) and adults, but younger kids may not get it. However, younger kids may be entertained by small parts of the movie.  A good movie to make you think and warm your heart as well as pluck a string of determination in all of us that desires to better ourselves and the lives of those around us.   "},{"Title":"An interesting and entertaining movie","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie looks like it was made for the children, but when you see it all the way through, you may be a little surprised. It has various adult themes in it, as well as the occasional dirty joke. But for the most part, the kids can still watch it. The good thing about this movie is that it is not a comedy, it is an epic. It spans across 200 years, following the life of a robot on his journey of becoming a man. What is never said, but what everyone should know is that being a man, is not just about what you look like; there is something else...I never really liked Robin Williams(exception Dead Poets Society, and Bicentennial Man), but he actually turns in a pretty good performance as Andrew.This movie is all-in-all a good movie, and it is complimented with a beautiful musical score. Not the best, but not bad7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very thought-provoking","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I haven't seen many films that have made me laugh out loud, I haven't seen many films that have brought tears to my eyes and I can't recall one film that did both, several times during its course. Far from being 'just' another sci-fi extravaganza with robots and androids, this is a very human story.  "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Up!!!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I think this was a wonderful movie for any person who likes a good romance story and science fiction.  It blends the two together very well to create a wonderful story line.  Robin Williams was excellent, as usual, in his portrayal of an android.  Although a little more on the serious side, his wit and humor still shown through.  I would recommend this movie to my friends. "}{"Title":"An excellent adaptation of the short story.","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Anyone that enjoys science fiction will most likely enjoy this adaptation of a short story by Isaac Asimov.  For that matter even those who don't really like science fiction will enjoy the premise, at it's most basic level the movie is a look back at the life and death of an android.  It hits home on so many levels and provides us humans a glimpse into what it means to be human i.e things we as walking, talking and thinking globs of protoplasm take for granted. Anyone searching for a film that tugs at the heart strings should really rent this movie.  "},{"Title":"My wife and I really like this film, I rate it 8 of 10.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" 2013 update Watched it again, still a very nice and fresh story.2008 update We recently watched it again, and it was almost as fresh as the first viewing. A really fine movie.CAUTION -- MAY CONTAIN SOME SPOILERS --I put this film roughly in the same category as Pleasantville and The Truman Show, in that they require you to suspend disbelief to show how, ultimately, it is better to really live and love then die, rather than live a perfect and protected life. I rate all of these 8 of 10.Bicentennial Man starts in 2005, and a new robot, an Android they name Andrew, is delivered to an obviously well-off family. But Andrew is a defective robot. He is not only infinitely intelligent, being able to read and memorize everything, learn to play piano, carve beautiful figures from wood, etc., but he also develops feelings, which none of the other robots do. Robin Williams plays the robot beautifully, and is in costume most of the film.Eventually Andrew realizes that everyone he cares about leaves him - they die. But he is determined to not accept that. First he sets out and wanders all over, for years, searching for another like him. There are none. Returning home, he meets up with who he thinks is Little Miss (Embeth Davidtz), but she doesn't recognize him. Because she is really Portia, a spitting image of her grandmother, Little Miss. That's how long he has been gone.Andrew had been in love with Little Miss when she married 50 or so years earlier, but as just an android could do nothing about it. He falls in love with young Portia and this time is determined. Somewhere in all this, I forget exactly where, he asks for his freedom, not that he wants to leave, or quit serving, but he has learned that freedom is a basic need that all people with feeling desire. He ends up moving away and building his own house along the coast.He finds a workshop of the son of an android pioneer. Andrew first asks to be made to look like a human, so is given a human-looking covering, which then has him looking like Robin Williams. Over the years Andrew invents various ways to make him closer and closer to being human, including a central nervous system so he can feel, and the ability to eat and drink. (Funny scene, in bed with Portia, his stomach growls, then he farts, is surprised, says I'll need to have him make me a muffler.) He also invents many replacement organs that become in widespread use among humans.He goes before the council of SanFrancisco to be declared human. No luck. Much later, around age 200, he has had further modifications which now results in his aging, and wearing out, along with Portia. He goes before the world council, and on his and Portia's deathbeds, sees via TV that he is finally human, then he dies, and Portia asks the nurse to pull the plug.The whole 2-hour film is filled with funny dialog, funny scenes, and interesting insights. But this film is not, strictly speaking, a comedy. It is definitely a serious film, with a real message, but is very entertaining - the novelty is use of a futuristic Android who wants to become human. Robin Williams again does a wonderful job creating a one-of-a-kind character.If you want to look at this film as a nit-picker you can find many little flaws within it. But to focus on that is missing the point entirely. Why even view the film, in that case, because we know there will be no such robots, at least not by 2005? For me, the film works very well and I will remember it for a long time. "},{"Title":"Only Robin Williams could interpret the concept so brilliantly!","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The concept of this film is one that hits on one of the secret concerns of people involved with robotic technology, will the machine take over from the human.  Robin Williams portrayed the role in going from the machine to showing that there were feelings evolving, and brilliantly, I must say. Using a future time base was smart, removed, but still the possibility being there!  A question is left - IS IT POSSIBLE?? "},{"Title":"Wonderful, touching movie","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the first time on cable and absolutely loved it! I don't understand how it could have bombed at the box office.  This movie looks in-depth at human relationships and the impact of our decisions on others.  Robin Williams as usual does an incredible job of portraying the robot who acts human and wishes to look the part.  Hallie Kate Eisenberg is just as adorable as always and does a wonderful job in her first movie part. I encourage anyone who has yet to see this movie to rent it or catch it on TV.  It really captures the emotions of the characters and leaves you feeling all warm and fuzzy.  Happy watching! "},{"Title":"Aesthetically great, but unconvincing","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (spoilers ahoy) I have to admit this must have been a tough movie to make.  Williams had to be robotic yet also human.  This balance was tough, and admirably played, however something just didn't click.  The Asimov books do a much better job at portraying robots that become as human or more so than real humans in character.  'Andrew' got more human through physical augmentation and more overt emotions, but never really seems to cross the 'Pinocchio Transformation Line' so it's hard for his love affair to be believable.I can see why this movie didn't do so well; it was too watered down for die hard sci-fi buffs and not believable enough to draw the chick-flick crowd.On the other hand, stylistically and aesthetically you've got to admire this movie, from the interiors to the futuristic San Francisco.  It's almost worth seeing for the eye-candy factor.  And it also has the ring of the more logical, scientific world of the future that so characterizes Asimov books. "},{"Title":"It should have been better","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I did not know that Isaac Asimov had written this story until I looked it up on this site, then I was really disappointed. The actors were very good but the dialog in some areas was really awful. Robin Williams could not keep from making quips in a movie that shouldn't have them. I feel that the director is responsible for the slowness and poor interpretation of the story. The story drags on and he never makes you a believer.  "},{"Title":"Asimov would have liked this translation","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not a perfect movie, and some of the other critical comments are valid (except for the brainless kiddies who were expecting laser guns and Wookies chasing bad guys). However, after giving it some thought I rated it pretty high.Robin Williams was in many ways the perfect choice for the lead, and did a fine job. I am a big Asimov fan and have always rated the I, ROBOT series as top-grade SF. I haven't read the series in 20 years, but I think this is sticks close to the books, and certainly in general thought and purpose. I believe Isaac would have liked this. Some of the criticism stemmed from condensing so much into slightly over 2 hours. Would it have worked better as a miniseries?  Yes, and I wished it could have been done that way; unfortunately the money just isn't there in the multi-part series films so they're seldom done, except when the owner (such as Stephen King) has enough clout to insist. Hollywood is a business driven strictly by cost-to-return ratio and almost NEVER by art, except in rare cases where someone with enough money or power can insist -- and the big return is in short crappy films requiring little thought and having lots of action and sex to keep the average viewer (roughly equivalent to a crow or a hamster) interested until the two-hour limit of his attention span.This being said, BICENTENNIAL MAN is the best we can get from Hollywood on a piece like this. Is it a disservice to Asimov's writing? Yes -- but movies always are. I was grateful that it was as good as it was -- which was extremely good -- and not the usual worthless hack job.Keep in mind the limitations of the Hollywood system (and the deteriorated intellectual state of modern filmgoers) and I think you'll agree that this was an exceptionally fine effort.Most people will like this movie a lot. Sci Fi, and especially Asimov fans, will be very pleased at the careful attention to the Master's finest creation. "},{"Title":"If only this had been made during the Bicentennial","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you're even just an occasional view of science fiction, you might find as I did that all the issues this cerebral movie raised have been dealt with elsewhere.  Namely, the character of Data from Star Trek Next Generation has played to death the Asmovian dilemmas which this movie uses to drive its plot.Consider each of these topics dealt with in Bicentennial Man What are the Morality of Treating Robots as Slaves? Heard that before.  What Is It Like To Experience The Things Humans Do For The First Time, Especially Love? Yeah, we've seen whole episodes of Star Trek about that (not to mention a certain Brad Pitt/Anthony Hopkins movie).  How about, the Robot as Kinless Soul in Search of His Own Kind?  Uh, yeah, think that's been explored. And then there's the question When Does A Machine Really a Human, and Visa-Versa?  Hmm, that's a familiar topic, also.But there was one idea that wasn't as familiar to me the Robot as Immortal Man.  This was where the movie worked best for me.  What a curse it would really be to be immortal!  How many of us really want to live forever?  We would watch our friends and family get old, then die, and another generation take their place, and over and over and over, while we staid the same, and saw our own place in time become just an ancient glimmer--yet we would still be here to remember it, as if it was yesterday.  The thought is absolutely chilling.  That part of the movie is the one that will haunt me.As for the other thinking themes, well, it's not this movie's fault that Star Trek needed to fill seven years of episodes, and relied on exploring the Robot Dilemma for half of them.  After all, the original story is decades older than Data's yellow-eyed portrayal of the Robot's Philosopher's Corner.  But in our post-industrial, Palm-toting cyber-world, I think most of the ideas have moved from beyond seemingly important pabulum, to ho-hum done-that retreads.  I wish this movie had focused most exclusively on the theme of the incredible burden of the soul made by the passing time.  Had it done so, it could have truly been a piece of deep, disturbing art, instead of a mostly forgettable and uneven moment of fluff. "},{"Title":"NOT ENOUGH","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  On the outside this is an insanely intriguing film.  And from a technical standpoint it really doesn't get much better than this.  You can just tell the amount of planning and detail that went into every shot by Columbus, and that may be the film's only saving grace.Poor Chris Columbus, I can just see him pitching it.  The great effects, Robin Williams, fresh of an Oscar win attached and a semblance of a story. But that is exactly where this film falls short.  The story, the way it fits together is very uneven.  It feels rushed.  The scenes never really have time to develop into anything and what you are left with is a bunch of cute little scenes that never really build into anything.  But I guess that's what you get when you have to span three hundred years with todays impatient audience.And even saying all that, the third act really drags along to a resolution of love that really stretches credibility.  There is no real threat of central conflict that drives the story along.  The search for other's like him is undeveloped; the love story just doesn't hold water, but even saying all that, the film has a faint bit of heart.And the real shame is that things probably got so chopped up in the editing room that we never really get swept away.  So in the final analysis this is a movie that has all the parts but just doesn't manage to fit them all together.  I believe that the Director's Cut will be a whole lot better. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you aren't a thinker, you will probably rate this movie less than 10 and call it a chick flick. A lot of care and patience went into making this movie and in keeping it true to Asimov's short story. I thoroughly enjoyed the movie due to the questions it raises and the future it foretells. "}{"Title":"It's ok, but...","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The problem I had with this film was it jumped too much for my tastes. I mean at one moment we're in this time period, and in a blink of an eye, we're a dozen years ahead. It doesn't stop there. We jump forward several more times, watching Andrew react to the new generations of the family for over a hundred years. The story was touchy, but not compelling. It moved around too much for me to feel anything for the android striving to become more human. He has romances for this one character, then the grand-daughter. He wants to become human because he wants freedom, the option to make choices in his own mind. Then he shifts his focus. He wants to become more human, because he loves this woman. Too many things going on and too little time to put it in.Despite that, the movie didn't at least make me turn away. It's an okay film to watch with a loved one. Anytime you throw in Robin Williams in a film, you'll be drawn to watch him. He's bland in this film, but he does give some sympathy to his character. Not his best, but it's watchable. Bicentennial Man is a whole lot of story, congested enough to give you a gist of what's going on. "},{"Title":"so so","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Well, I can appreciate what they were trying to do here, but frankly there were some casting problems that ruined my enjoyment. Primarily, when they cut from the mother chastising her presumably teenage daughter on the motorbike to the kitchen scene, when little miss (who was the younger daughter after all) was obviously NOT a teenager (or younger, as she should have been) and rather appeared to be the mother's sister, until you eventually cottoned on to who she was. The actress herself was fine as Portia, later on.I also found that this film dragged and I was wondering WHEN it was going to end, rather than HOW. As a thinking piece, I drastically prefer what dreams may come, which was generally perceived by most people as a flop. Sorry to American readers, but imho this was too full of American mythology about freedom and individuality to be thought-provoking - a kind of 'independence day' without the aliens. Robin Williams was OK, but frankly I prefer him when he's doing something a bit zany-er such as Jumanji or Mrs Doubtfire - although he was also very good in Awakenings.Sam Neill was excellent as usual - he manages to do every part convincingly and you don't see him as Sam Neill but as his character. This anonymity has probably cost him the fame his acting parts have deserved - he's been in a lot more than many so-called 'stars' - but in my view, this is the mark of a genuine actor rather than a 'celebrity'. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked the movie very much and thought it is worth watching.  I do think the marketing misrepresented the content.  I initially was not interested in the movie because of the advertisements I saw.  It was after researching the movie on this web site and others that I really became interested.This is a cerebral movie.  It is thoughtful and has heartwarming  moments. Now a days, with all of the movies that saturates your senses, a movie of this pace can seem like a drag. I thought the pace was appropriate.The timeline made sense;going from generation to generation  within 200 years should be uneven.  You have unexpected illness and increasing scientific knowledge which should produce uneven results.This movie was not made I think to excite, but to provoke thought, which I think is what science fiction should really be about. "},{"Title":"Upsetting","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This flick is something else. Since I have gotten older I can't watch some types of films. And, this is one of those types to me. Too bad that I didn't know how it was going to end, at first. I would have never watched it. Its a damn good flick. After watching it,I had a hard time coping for a couple of days. Anybody that sees this flick might have the same reaction that I had. As did my son-in-law. This flick made me nutty. Meaning after watching the whole thing I came to the conclusion and I told my beautiful and loving wife this. I don't want to die alone. I want my wife to be by my side holding my hand when I go. Thinking about the movie still has the same reaction on me.A lot of single people should get married after watching this flick. If they don't they're crazy. Tell Mr. Williams, he did good.Thank you.  "},{"Title":"Sad Comedy","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When we rented this I had thought it was a comedy...it's not. It's more of a drama...I have not cried as much as I did at a movie in years. But it's just life that made it sad, and seeing what Andrew, the robot, sees, and feels in his journey to become human, without giving anything away, just make sure for the second half of the movie you have plenty of kleenex. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming movie, good enough to get the tears into a grown man's eyes... as one might say","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of those beautiful movies that never get the respect they deserve. Friends weren't exited about the movie some time ago, so I went to see it myself because I finally got to read some Asimov books. It was the first movie in years to actually get my eyes cloudy and all the other things a grown man shouldn't feel. The movie is heartwarming because of all the beautiful scenes, the great detail in the progress of a robot trying to become a human being and the leaps in the timeline. Everything looks so good, the detail in Andrew, the futuristic backgrounds. Accompanied by the music of James Horner, this movie will be one to remember! "},{"Title":"A view from the younger generation","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm 12, so you can see this review from a pre-teens point-of-view. I also commented on Magnolia, if you want to check it out. Bicentennial Man was an excellent movie, it was great for children and adults (at least in my opinion). It's a movie to watch with your parents, if you're my age (and close to your parents...*smirk*) or younger, and it's a great movie to watch by yourself or with a friend. Just don't watch it with, like, a 4-year-old, because they'll get really really bored. I love the futuristic stuff, always have! Rent it, if you're about 15 or younger, for a sleepover or a small party, or for by yourself. Othwerwise, only rent it if you're hangin with a younger bro, sis, niece, nephew, kid you're babysitting, etc. Parents, don't hesitate to watch it with your kids, though. It's definitely not a baby movie. There's only two parts that I can think of that mention sex, but little kids won't get it and it's not bad at all, unless you're *MAJORLY* protective. I mean, it's no Dirty Dancing, give it a break ). Um, they swear, like, two times in the whole movie, that's why it's rated PG. There ya go. "},{"Title":"Very faithful to the book, NOT a comedy, NOT an action flick","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is not an action movie, nor is this a comedy.  The trailers did little to convey the actual tone of the film, and it's understandable that some people didn't like it.  They were expecting something different.The film has captured Asimov's story perfectly, both in spirit and tone. It's a lengthy movie, but when you consider that it spans 200 years, perhaps that's justified.  Some people have mentioned that it was very slow in parts, and while the film did have a leisurely pace, a lot of that was necessary to allow certain events to properly sink in.Like the book and stories it's based from, the film brings up some very interesting philosophical points based around what it means to be a human. It was extremely faithful to the book, and so long as you come into the movie without false expectations, it's great. "},{"Title":"Bicentennial Yawn","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film seems to have such promise, but alas...  It starts off with fascinating visuals during the credits, leads into scenes of style and wit, then halfway through, it deteriorates to mawkish treacle.  I guess the writers decided it wasn't enough to just entertain, they had to leave us with some feeling of deep sentiment.  Unfortunately, the sentiment I mostly felt was boredom. "},{"Title":"Bicentennial Yawn","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film seems to have such promise, but alas...  It starts off with fascinating visuals during the credits, leads into scenes of style and wit, then halfway through, it deteriorates to mawkish treacle.  I guess the writers decided it wasn't enough to just entertain, they had to leave us with some feeling of deep sentiment.  Unfortunately, the sentiment I mostly felt was boredom. "}{"Title":"Yawn ....","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man looked like a very good film from the trailers, but unfortunately it fails to impress. The story has, indeed a really original and great idea, but the film is overly-long and mostly extremely boring. By the end of the end of the film, my ass was so sore because I had been sitting down so long.... Robin Williams and the make-up are 2 of the few great things about this movie....In short, Yawn!Rating 4 "},{"Title":"Well done considering the possibilities","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this movie came across very well considering that it could've easily landed in the cheese bowl.  I could've lived without the 'female' robot; that was a bit silly.  But the story was engrossing and the overall feeling of the movie was warm.  At times it felt a bit hurried, but I suppose 200 years worth of a robot's life in 2 hours and 10 minutes warrants that.  8 out of 10 vote on this one.  Well worth the rental. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I cried at the end of the original short story, and I cried at the end of the movie. It followed the spirit of the original story perfectly. It makes anyone with a heart feel for Andrew by the end of the movie. It also raises many ethical and moral questions that everyone should think about. I gave it a 10 only because I couldn't give it 100. "},{"Title":"This movie was badly marketed!","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  We finally watched Bicentennial Man on PPV yesterday. We never went to see it at the theatre because the commercials made it look like a Mrs. Doubtfire as a play-thing robot instead of as a cross-dressing estranged dad.We (and especially I) were surprised to discover that Bicentennial Man is more a relatively faithful adaptation of the Asimov I, Robot novels and not a Christmas family movie about a toy robot. I am a long-time fan of sci-fi and I never had an inkling from the trailers and commercials for this movie that it was this kind of treatment of Asimov. If I were a cartoon, my jaw would have hit the carpeted floor by about half-way through the movie.I think this mismarketing explains some of why Bicentennial Man sort of came and went with little fanfare. I bet the people who saw the commercials and expected a Home Alone type experience left feeling somber and wondering what the heck they just watched. The sci-fi types likely stayed away out of disinterest and fear of seeing Mrs. Doubtfire II Aluminum Nanny.As for me, I watched it only because my wife wanted a light, pick-me-up home movie. As the film went on, I became more interested while she became more confused. I read all the Asimov robot books years ago and I never suspected that was what I would be watching on the screen. This movie is somber, relatively slowly paced and is centered around a basic theme of what constitutes a human, philosophically and legally. My only major knock was the pacing. Some of the scenes really dragged. I was pleased to avoid a long, drawn-out legal battle with lots of onscreen court scenes. Instead, we saw a touching and determined effort by the main character to first develop his humanity and then legally claim it. I found the passage of time depicted in the film especially emotional, but that's probably just me. I have a hard time with the thought that when a person dies so much is lost, yet the world goes on. Here our robot friend learns the same lesson, and eventually decides he doesn't like it, either. But you have to see for yourself how he addresses his unique situation.We rated Bicentennial Man a 6, only because it was a bit slow and a tad too somber. I really wish the studios would get their acts together when it comes to marketing films. They need to learn you can't mash a square peg into a round hole no matter how much you want it to be a family feel-good movie. How's that for an awkward turn of phrase? "},{"Title":"Is 'Artificial Intelligence an oxymoron term?","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ((Warning potential spoilers ahead)).The movie was good and disappointing. Science fiction is the most difficult subject to write about and in the medium of film, even harder.  One just one idea is what generally makes a good movie.  You refine it, explore the possibilities, throw known recognisable characters and then see what happens.  With good SF nothing is (or should be) taken for granted. With Bicentennial Man the scene is the near future, with the 'what if' idea of creating something that has consciences, in something that is not alive or organic.  Unfortunately this was changed to an accidental happening, and Mr Williams character never even wonders about this. Nor did anyone else, he was taken at face value.It would have been a fascinating exercise to ask how would one define a person.  Andrew Martin claimed to be human, yet no one 100's of years in the future had a means of testing that claim.  We are forced to accept the stories premise that if a slow on-going change in a robot will make it human.  No other details like; how does the brain work, why is it accidental?At the end of the film the exact opposite is inferred.  My own take on this is that the progress in technologies would make this inevitable - intelligent conscience machines.I really did enjoy the movie.  It was a lot more than I expected from Hollywood.  It received little advertising here, when it opened several months ago.  Last week it came out on video, so I had another look.  This movie is not about how intelligent machines could be made, but how we react to this as a given fact.  The central concept expressed by Asimov is that humanity can never accept an artificial human intelligence no matter how perfectly human, unless it became mortal.My own feelings are that whenever AI starts and with on going improvements - a hundred years later - wanting to be human would be a step down.The way to recognise good SF is to see how many are p***ed off with the ideas expressed within.  Ninety percent just hate it if they are forced into thinking, the other 10% just love it!Regards Robert "},{"Title":"Heartwarming, yet also asks the big questions","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Perhaps its because I'm approaching 50 and the important things in my life have changed, but I found this movie asking profound questions about humanity. When Asimov wrote this he could not of known what would unfold regarding the DNA and gene pool questions that now confront us and the question of what makes us human. Is a man with a pacemaker less human than one without? Is the only thing that makes us human the fact that that we waste away? If so, will be become less human has we lengthen our lives? This is a film with joy, tears, laughter and sadness, all the emotions that make up a human soul. Superb.   "},{"Title":"Open your mind, and allow your heart to be touched.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Being human is a difficult thing to understand, even as a human.  I appreciate the deeper message that is here in this film, that we all need to figure out what it means to be human, and why that is so important.  Many say the film is not perfect, and while I do not profess to be a mster of film studies, I know what works for me.  This film works, and it works because of that deeper message that is there, if only our minds are open enough to see and hear it.  Find out what it means to be human, discover who you are and why you are here, and most of all, how to truly love someone... "},{"Title":"Whiners, step aside for those that can think in abstract!","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first read the short story on which this was based, it was more a fairy tale than a sermon, as some user reviews state.And all fairy tales, when you dig to their core, carry a moral.30 years ago I never felt that I would see the technical aspects become plausible, even possible as they have in the last ten years; but the philosophical aspect remains.  And Asimov DID write the story with some humor, which Williams expands upon.It IS a good movie; not great, not epic .. but a very good film nonetheless  and Williams is one of few actors that could have carried it off.Clarke was recognized as a technical seer through his SF, Asimov practically invented robotic parameters (1st and 2nd laws of robotics later amended with the 3rd).. which we MUST HOPE are adhered to in the future - because of the ever more intimate relationship between humanity and technology. Perhaps some dont care for this film because it makes them uncomfortable. "},{"Title":"Better than the short story","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a very human story, and for all that Asimov wrote many fine stories on many subjects, he was never very good at portraying humans.  After watching this movie I went back and reread the short story.  At the end of the story, well, Andrew still felt like a robot.  At the end of the movie, he feels like a human.  That's the whole point, isn't it? "},{"Title":"A terrific Movie... Robin Williams is great, AGAIN!","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wasn't sure about this one due to the poor reviews it had and I didn't go to the theatre to see it.  I should have.  Robin Williams puts in yet another, bashed by the critics, but great performance.  What do they have against this man?  Every movie he has put out since Good Will Hunting won him an Oscar has been totally bashed by the critics.  Patch Adams was one of the best films of 1998.  I liked it more than Shakespeare in Love although less than Saving Private Ryan.  This film is just the same steady good movie that Robin always produces.  The other actors were even good, including the usually wooden Sam Neill.  Oliver Platt was great.I was into the movie from minute one and I loved the overriding theme of outliving the ones you love.  This is what my 92 year old neighbor told me when I was 10 and only a few months before he left us  It has been a curse to outlive my children. The plot was solid and the Special Effects were TOP NOTCH. Rent this on DVD. It is the only way to do it justice. "}{"Title":"A Big Surprise","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  When I first heard of this movie, I was expecting another cheesy movie in which Robin Williams tried anything to get a response.  And then I rented the movie and ended up re-watching it a dozen times.  Heck, I even cried, and movies don't usually evoke that kind of response from me.  Whenever I was worried it would get cheesy, it didn't, although I will say it got slow at a few places.  I expected (and was hoping) for it to be long, because it needs to be if it's going to cover 200 years.  I felt they caught some moments correctly but did leave some gaps.Anyways, I was thinking this was going to be some Disney movie  in which they try to shovel emotions down your throat, but in the end I was very satisfied.  It had a great soundtrack, great characters and a great story. I definitely recommend. "},{"Title":"I laughed, and I cried...","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A truly entertaining film for people of all ages. Absolutely unforgettable film, and Robin Williams is excellent as usual in this sentimental classic, arousing all aspects of human emotion.This is a film about a Robot who yearns to become Human, a Robot with a production defect unlike any seen before, a Robot that can learn, be creative, artistic and even sort of jealous, but not a robot which can lie, hate or steal.Andrew becomes a being that can love, the most powerful aspect of human emotion. Bicentennial Man follows Andrews plight to become human, by going through various stages.He is immortal, a being that can live endlessley through time, and unfortunately his humans companions cannot...10/10, and this has to be one of my favourite films. Expect to laugh and cry your way through the movie, more than once. "},{"Title":"Very well made, but improperly advertized.","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Before I get to the movie itself, I want to comment on the ad campaign for Bicentennial Man. For some reason they made it seem like it was a comedy, when in fact it's more of a drama. On the other hand they didn't go along with the modern ad campaign idea of giving away the entire plot, for which I'd like to thank them. As for the film itself, it is a bit slow, but you have to realize that we're talking about a story that takes place over 200 years. The plot is definetly one of the best science fiction plots I have ever come across, and in fact it would be nice if more science fiction films of this nature were made, instead of Brain Eaters from Planet X 4. The story is definetly classic Issac Asimov, which as any fan of his works would tell you is less about attempting to predict the future, and more about humanity clashing with science. Robin Williams does an excellent job going from being a robot to more human than human, and the rest of the cast does amazing performances as well. It is a very touching heart warming film, that doesn't get cheesy. If you enjoyed What Dreams May Come, then you'll definetly enjoy this movie as well. "},{"Title":"IF BICENTENNIAL MAN WAS BI HE WOULD BE COMPLETE","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  BM does not fit nicely into any drawer.  Indeed it is a multi-layered film.  The original story is written by Isaac Asimov a writer I much admire which explains the depth and complexity of the tale.  As for the film it entirely depends on how far off shore intellectually, philosophically, and spiritually one swims.  Stay close to shore in the shallow water where life is simple and hard questions are not at issue and it is funny, moving, tender and touching.  In fact it fairly tugs at the heart.  Venture further out into the deep water where our very humanity is the issue and we find a fish of a different color. That is where the hard questions live.  What does it mean to be human?  Can one start as a machine and end as a human?  And of course the most eternal and perplexing question of all, what about the 'God thing'?  Isaac Asimov was an atheist.  That fact is central because it obviously colored his perspective.  These questions and many more that arise are not only fair game but also essential for mankind to grow and understand itself and how it relates to nature and God.  Precisely because these questions are important and complex they require and deserve minds of great intelligence and wisdom.  Minds willing and eager to do the heavy lifting of philosophically and spiritual contemplation.  Minds that do not take the first pop culture branch in the river.  Only then can we hope to better understand the grandeur and majesty of the questions.  Linked inextricably to that better understanding is reverence and respect for all things spiritual.  Now the problem with this film is that it chucks all that into the Hollywood meat grinder and ends up with 'Sillysausage'.  Understandable, since there is a very large market for 'Sillysausage'.  Let's see who would be likely to have some meaningful insight into the most profound questions of all time?  Robin Williams and Hollywood would not have occurred to me.  There is a rip-roaring pretentiousness about this film.  It chooses to swim far from the shore in the very deepest water.  What constitutes humanity?  Assisted suicide? Etc.  O. K. fair enough, but since it wants to be more than 'Mrs. Doubtfire In Android Drag' let's all play by the same rules.  If you believe that God exists and bother to connect the string of dots this film clearly and proudly presents then it is an affront to Christianity and the dignity of mankind.  Both high profile targets of Leftywood for several decades.  Hey if you are wealthy with no moral moorings and are dead certain that you and your lefty cronies have cornered the market on right and wrong and sure as hell know what feels good who needs this 'God thing' gumming up the works.  Hence the 'God thing' is totally ignored.  That's just as well because it's a sticky problem anyway.  Could if left unchecked lead us astray into dangerous waters.  Why we might even start thinking about and God forbid questioning the false moral authority and poppycock philosophic nonsense that coats this film.  K.I.S.S. keep it simple stupid is alive and well in BM.  There is a 'everything I ever needed to know I learned from my sitcoms' mentality that fairly bubbles and blisters on the screen.  Some machines can be more human than humans.  Evil capitalist businessmen are a given.  Ya Da Ya Da Ya Da, you know the whole routine.  It's a Leftywood golden oldie. They will teach us if we will but listen and learn.  I don't think so, have your people call my people we'll do lunch or better still I'll get back to you on that.   "},{"Title":"Better than expected...","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was really surprised by this movie.  I thought this movie would be another flubber.  A joke of a movie that the usually talented Robin Williams added to his resume.  I was wrong.  Although I would not go to any elaborate extent to see this movie, I would however, suggest it to anyone who is looking for a fun movie to watch if you're not expecting too much.  Not a must see, but also not a must not see.Skylar "},{"Title":"I Absolutely loved this movie.","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented this movie over the past weekend, and I will have to say that I loved this movie. So much so that I wouldn't get up and have a cigarette, which rarely happens usually pause a movie and take a break. Anyhow I thought that Williams' Character was one that made me feel for him. I also liked Oliver Platt in this film as well, although there isn't much I don't like Platt in. "},{"Title":"Emotional!","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is an emotional film.  It is a film of a robot learning about human life and changes within it.  The movie takes place for 2 centuries as Andrew the Robot learns to deal with human losses and changes.  This movie is a little comedy but more dramatic.  I gave it a 6 because it is kind of long and the characters whom he loved have died over and over.  It is not a funny mishap movie like Mrs. Doubtfire or Short Circuit.  If you want a funny movie involving robots, rent Short Circuit. "},{"Title":"Good, but too long.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man was a really good film.  I enjoyed it a lot.  The only problem with it was that it was too long.  It would have been better off as two films, as there were two definite halves to the film (first when he's a robot with Sir, Miss, etc. and second when he's with Portia and on a quest to be human). "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What an awesome movie. Robin Williams is one of few actors who have the ability to make me laugh and cry at the same time.  The story is wonderful, and to any critics that gave this movie a bad review, S***W YOU.  I loved it!!! "},{"Title":"Bicentennial Can","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film a very long time ago and I was enjoying it at the start. However, the film gets stupid, cheesy, romantic and downright boring at the end. Robin Williams does a great acting job, which makes up for some of the mistakes and bad storyline.Sam Neill is Sir, or Dad, who has just bought a bicentennial man called Andrew (Williams) - Andrew is desperate to become a part of the family, as much as he is desperate to become a man.The film is adorable, cute, and funny but it is also boring, romantic and silly. "}{"Title":"Not demanding but pleasant enough","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this a pleasant though only mediocre movie. The movie covers a period of 200 years (with gaps) and is quite slow in places, so I found it a little difficult to really get in to.The story is a total fantasy with stereotypical clever computers and scientists designing replacement human body parts. The minute chance of this being possible is masked with scientific buzz words and flashy graphics.Robin Williams is his normal personable self, and there are a few amusing moments as he learns to come to terms with human life.Although this film is more grown up than Short Circuit, I found the latter more entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Why has it been put down?","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a great fan of Isaac Asimov and have read practically every book he has ever written. This movie has been put down as being mediocre and even worse as being superficial. Maybe those who say this should get their facts straight. Firstly, the movie is NOT superficial. It treats the unique question What is the difference between a human and a sufficiently advanced robot? Secondly, anybody who reads Asimov would know that the whole point of his books is that of robot's feelings. One cannot help but think of Daneel.This movie even has an extra bonus since it will appeal to non-die hard sci-fi fans. All in all it is a great movie, put down by critics who should really try and look at why they don't get it rather than why they think its bad. "},{"Title":"Like a good (NOT!) american TV movie of the week.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I drove 25 minutes to the city. I paid $7 for a ticket and wasted two hours of my precious time. And all this for what? For some cheap american tear sqeezer! My emotional friend told me that the film had made him cry. I cried too, for the waste of my good money and wearing my car. Asimov's short story about the robot Andrew and his long journey to become a human being was part of his ground breaking robot saga. Most of the discussion went on the three basic laws of robotics and about robotics evolution. It also dealt with humans fearing progress. The movie almost ignores all those issue and sinks into the melodramatic swamp which most directors should avoid. Other major problems with the film  Bad jokes / Bad SFX / Lack of any characters' depth. Need I say more?  "},{"Title":"best movie i've seen in a long time!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man is a very funny and heart warming comedy. It's the story of a robot, named Andrew who lives with the Martin family to do household jobs in their house. He's not a very ordinary robot, though this guy has emotions, he likes to listen to music, he likes making stuff with his hands, he is social, etc. He's more human than robot, to put it shortly. He has a special love for little miss, who is the youngest in the family. But, as she grows up, she gets married, has kids, has grandkids, and finally dies. It's then that Andrew realizes all the ones he loves will be taken away from him one day. And so, Andrew starts his two-hundred year journey to become human. Unfortunately, to become a human, Andrew must first of all become mortal. And that would be the same thing as committing suicide...So that's what this movie is about. The film starts off very funny look out especially for the scene of Andrew's presentation. Also, the scenes where he tries to tell a joke and when he learns how humans reproduce where great. Although, in the second half of the movie, things become more serious. Sir dies, Little miss dies, and all the other members of the Martin  family. Some people says that they don't like that part very much, but it didn't bother me. Many sad scenes in the movie were very well acted. The only thing that sometimes bothered me was how everyone got so old. The make up effects were good, but they were used too much at times. Some people say the movie was a bit too long, but i didn't even feel the time was passing, it's true that many things happened, but i was never bored. So, what can i say, Bicentennial Man is a very entertaining and funny yarn that everyone should watch. It's the kind of movie everyone is guaranteed to like something about. Crowd pleaser, i think that's what they call it. Enjoy!    "},{"Title":"First of all...I liked it.","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all...I liked it. Bicentennial Man is a pretty cool film. Robin Williams is an android/robot purchased to do chores around the house of a wealthy family. The family names him Andrew and he slowly begins becoming a part of their everyday routine. But somehow, he begins to learn and begins to develop a deepening relationship with the family. While the movie is new, the storyline is a bit old, for it not only brings forth images of Planet of the Apes, but also those from old TV shows as Hazel, The Jeffersons and the Brady Bunch. Now this isn't all that bad, it's just a bit repetitive. What it also does is bring a bit of the Terminator and 21st century reality into the picture. We are reading more and more about computers that can learn from their mistakes or robots that can perform simple tasks now. If you can imagine both the thinking computer and the robot being combined in the near future, then you have the Bicentennial Man. While Robin Williams presents the story in a very warm and touching manner (similar to his role in Mrs. Doubtfire), you can't help but think about reality. I can't help but think of all the different animal rights groups that are around, protecting this species and that, protesting wearing of fur or eating of meat, keeping our tuna free of Flipper, and making sure that no animal was harmed in the making of a movie...are we eventually going to see Robot Rights groups making sure they too were not harmed or scratched in the filming of a movie? Who knows? All I know is that I got off on a tangent here when all I wanted to say was...bottom line...while the real Bicentennial was 24 years ago, you will enjoy this Bicentennial today.  "},{"Title":"A good clean movie that made me think","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An android with a 'flaw' played by funny man Robin Williams causes the World Council to question what makes a person human.Williams' programming error causes him to improve himself both through education but also by having mechanical parts replaced by parts that replicate human biological functions. In his quest for self-improvement Williams learns what being human should be and ends falling in love with the grand-daughter of his original owner.Bicentennial Man made me question what makes a person truly human.8 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Wow, imagine Robin Williams at his best, then imagine better.","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I want to this movie expecting nothing in particular it had Robin Williams in so it was going to be funny. The entire idea at the beginning of the film seemed like a data story from Star Trek, how wrong was I. The movie is a long movie, and after an hour you really start to connect to Arthur, (played by Williams), and that's what makes this movie brilliant, as you join his struggle to be recognised as an individual, not an object. The movie is very funny at parts, but very moving in others.The strong cast backing Williams also helps to make the movie. It has an excellent script, and the pace is magnificent. Just when you think you know what is going to happen next, the film takes another twist.This film is a must see for everyone, it's not a film that you can say, &#145;I don't like the sound of it', GO AND SEE IT, before you judge. (Well done Robin, another success). "},{"Title":"Loved it, made me weep like a girl.","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Where is it written that every film must be the impetus for one to question the nature of Man's existence?  What happened to to the craft of a simple story, well executed?  I think that if Hollywood could produce more of these films, like Bicentennial Man, and fewer Batman and Robin's, the moviegoing public would be more inclined to return to the theaters.  This was a sweet film, one which does indeed tug at the heart strings provided you have ever known love.  Very highly recommended, don't expect great revelations, just to be entertained.  So what is wrong with that? "},{"Title":"Robin Williams on top form.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A pure joy to watch. A comedy that doesn't resort to slap-stick yet still has the audience laughing out loud throughout is a gem worth prizing these days and one that can also make you cry is a find indeed.This film rated P.G. in Britain should not be dismissed as a children's film, in fact adults will derive much more pleasure than many children from Issac Asimov's intelligent script and Robin Williams mastery of both comedy and drama.Go and see it. "},{"Title":"A great end for a millennium","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my pick so far for Film of the Year.  Robin Williams brings his well-known charisma to this movie even though he physically doesn't appear until about 3/4 the way through.  This is a technological saga of love and freedom.  The evolution of the machine to a self-conscious creature, and the hurdles that it/he faces.  Some films cover a real-time span of a couple hours, others of days or years.  As you can probably deduce from the title this covers about 200 years.  And it doesn't really jump around a whole lot, it covers it all fairly thoroughly.  There are instances where the Robin Williams' character learns about the facts of life, and appropriate ways to swear.  For these reasons some may not want smaller children in the theater.  But it is no worse (probably less so) than prime time TV. "}{"Title":"Heart warming & thought provoking","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film is heart warming entertaining & thought provoking.The tale can be viewed on two levels - as an entertaining and heartwarming story and also as an allegory of the search for a soul.At what point did Andrew become human? Maybe the answer is that he was human all the time. Do we, as humans, search for our essential self not realising that it is with us all the time?Even if the film does not provoke these thoughts it is well worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Three Basic Laws","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was very true to Isaac Asimov's family of robot stories.  The three basic laws of robotics are stated early and set the stage for a non-threatening science fiction story where the robot is not a danger to the humans.  Then the emotional drama enfolds.Bring handkerchiefs as Robin Williams evolves from a household appliance to reaching as far as he can.  Williams' timing is excellent as he springs off one-liners when Andrew learns about humour and other aspects of the human condition.You don't need a background in Asimov's robot history.  But if you have followed them thoroughly from the short stories to the novels, you will appreciate this adaptation all the more. "},{"Title":"I like to have one at my home...","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Wow...This movie made me wonder if in the year 2000 something I can actually get my self one and have it duplicate Keanu Reeves..oh my God wouldn't that be wonderful!This is actually a great movie...but...in some parts I get a feeling in my head every 15 minutes that says That's Ridiculous or I can't believe this...but hey that's what films do...Overall DO SEE IT ! I suggest on Video "},{"Title":"Almost Too Real","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. Originally I went to see it to remember sci-fi from the 70's but it turned out to be something totally different. The movie was so real in that the 'future' was not portrayed as a gloomy place and since we all have just passed the mythological futuristic aspects of the year 2000, as well as its doom hype, this movie starting in 2005 and progressing on to 2205 in a naturalistic setting seems very possible. Partially based on corporate campus in a normal weather setting you could easily substitute Microsoft or Xerox as the well financed corporation. At home things like furniture appears as we now have and as it will seem to be for some time. Also people are not portrayed in all types of chimaric forms as in Star-Trek. Everybody acts like normal people. This movie does not over do it on science fiction and if your up to date on computers you'll know what you see could be possible. The movie is a winner.  "},{"Title":"a journey of the human spirit","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is truly one of the most spectacular films that I have seen in a very long time. Bicentennial Man is movie for those who ever dared to dream and believed in accomplishing them. Robin Williams heads an all-star cast as Andrew a robot who gains emotions over the years and wants to become human. Williams seems to perfect for this role because for most of his career, he has played roles geared toward children. The performance by Embeth Davidtz seemed to be overshadowed by that of Williams, I just want to point out that I think she could not have pulled off a performance of two people much better than she had in this film. I must say this is her breakout performance. This is truly a heart-warming film laced with heart, love and the human spirit. I cannot believe how perfectly executed Bicentennial Man was from the dialogue to the setting and plot. The whole movie was excellent and well-worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"Warm, emotional and Amusing","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I found this film to be warm. emotional and amusing. Robin Williams was his usual amusing self. I particularly enjoyed Sam Neill`s part in the movie. I am of course a bit Biased seeing he is a New Zealander. The script is well written and the soundtrack is also very Good. I have no hesitation in reccomending this film to anyone who enjoys Robin Williams.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful film depicting human emotions and life in a beautiful way.","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is one of the most facinating films I have ever seen!  Don't listen to the negative critics on this one.  The film, of course, is not a comedy as advertised.  This is a high rate drama, the best of its kind. Critics argue that it has no plot but it does.  Despite what many think, it is not a movie about a robot getting skin.  It is a wonderful, beautiful description of life and human emotion.  The beauty of emotions and how we as humans take so much for granted such as facial expression or the ability to cry.  A wonderful movie! Unfortunately, critics will more than likely kill it but don't let it stop you.   I plan to see it again.  "},{"Title":"Long and depressing","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although Robin Williams is always wonderful, I found the movie long and depressing.  Characters were indistinguishable throughout time, making it hard to follow (luckily there is little plot on which to focus).  The moral I guess is that distancing yourself for 30-40 years from those you care for and who care about you is the way to enjoy your growing emotions.  I don't get it.  "},{"Title":"Long and depressing","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Although Robin Williams is always wonderful, I found the movie long and depressing.  Characters were undistinguishable throughout time, making it hard to follow (luckily there is little plot on which to focus).  The moral I guess is that distancing yourself for 30-40 years from those you care for and who care about you is the way to enjoy your growing emotions.  I don't get it.  "},{"Title":"Read the book by asimov and silverberg","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" i was really excited when i find out that there is a movie based on  my favorite book. I was expecting something like Contact... but i was totally wrong. the first half an hour was ok but i felt that the story did not move smoothly. There are a lot of unexplained events. The book did touch my heart about one true quest of an robot fighting for freedom and recognition as an inteligent being. This movie did nothing of the kind and slumed into cheap holliwood romance crap. I was tossing and turning in my seat. It just become unwatchable aferwards and too long. I think the Postman was much more entertainment. i think the screenwriter missed the point of the book completely... how sad! i was devastated by all this birds and bees business. i was really annoyed since the last movie i'd seen was End of Days! Gaining his freedom was one of the momentous moment in the book. And i cant really drop a tear and the end! But i did cry when i read the book some years ago. i dont know whether to laugh or cry as the judges said that he will not be able to marry???? since he will live forever! needless to say read the book. "}{"Title":"Warm, funny, film","Date":"4 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My friends and I have just returned home from seeing Robin Williams prove, yet again, his qualities as the finest kind of actor.We went to Bicentennial Man, not knowing what to expect, other than than the story of a robot who wanted to become human, and found the funniest, warmest film we have seen in a long time.Isaac Asimov would not be displeased with this arrangement of his story. "},{"Title":"Better than they said.","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In spite of the negitive reviews, I thought Bicentennial Man was a very touching film about what it means to be human.  There were a few weak points, such as Sir's quick change of opinion, but overall a good film. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"   This movie was a delight to view.  Robin Williams is brilliant and I've always been a fan of Sam Neill.  Of all the trash in the world, it's good to find that there can be a heart-warming movie that can be viewed by everyone. (PG rating).  The only part of this movie that I did not like was that once Williams' character became human-like.  All in all this was an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Excellent, warm, interpretation of Asimov's fiction","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a rare film that does an exceptional job of conveying the heart of a writer's work to the screen.  Isaac Asimov was in many ways the 'father of modern robotics' with his many stories set in a rational world where mechanical beings were bound by a moral code - the Three Laws.  Freed from the dystopian madness depicted by some, his creations became more than mere machines.It is this growth and humanization that the film depicts so well along a 200-year sweep of time.Following the life of NDR-114, a common household appliance robot which (or who) soon proves to possess an uncommon ability to surpass his original programming and develops the ability to feel emotions, this film portrays Andrew's journey and his effect on the people around him.  The family he serves grows old and dies, the world changes seemingly in an eyeblink of his nearly immortal existence.  He strives to become human in body, not knowing he had already achieved humanity in spirit.This is not a smash-bam kind of Science Fiction movie, it is a thinking person's one; those who expected flashing lasers and fantastic spaceships are well advised to seek other entertainment.  However for viewers interested in watching a story of personal achievement set against the backdrop of two centuries of technological growth, the Bicentennial Man is for you.Robin Williams plays Andrew, a modern-day Tin Man in search of a human heart.  Sam Neill is his owner and mentor, and Embeth Davidtz plays the role of two women who have the greatest effect on him.  The remainder of the supporting cast is especially strong.I very much recommend this picture to anyone interested in serious SF and the writings of Asimov. "},{"Title":"Great movie - shame about the lousy marketing","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Having seen the Oprah interview with Robin Williams regarding Bicentennial Man, I knew in advance that this movie had a message.  It's meant to be heartwarming, thought-provoking and sentimental.I suspect that I would have hated it if I expected a comedy, or if I'd brought a gaggle of kids with me.  It's not designed to be viewed on multiple levels.  Despite the totally inappropriate advertising which leads people to think that it's a bit of mind candy for young and old, Bicentennial Man touches on a great deal of issues relating to humans, our values and our expectations of the future and each other.I agree with many of the reviewers that this has all been done before, but rarely with such warmth and care.  Robin chooses his scripts based on the message imparted and the pleasure he would gain in bringing a story to the big screen - and it shows!  I think that the acting and realisation of this movie are incredible and that all involved should be extremely proud of the end result.Having said this, I understand why some people are having problems with the movie.  It's a sci-fi without any emphasis on sci-fi and a human story where the main character is not in fact human.  So, you've lost the sci-fi nuts and those who avoid sci-fi like the plague.  Maybe the blanket marketing is aimed at getting people in the cinema to discover that the future will still be based on real people and that a robot can have a heart.All in all, I really enjoyed the movie - funny how the story of a robot can make you feel more human than ever. "},{"Title":"An over sugar coated mess of a movie","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robin Williams is at his worst with this awful feel good story that continues to prove that the actor is losing his steam. Nothing could be worse than last year's Patch Addams, but here we have an even worser story, which is over sugar coated and is way too long for family audiences to take. The title itself is very hard for children to pronunce despite it being a children's flick and families will be better off watching Stuart Little, a superior kid's film. Chris Columbus who made the wonderful Stepmom does some good work, but he can't hide a terrible mess that doesn't know what it wants to do - be a comedy, drama, romance??Besides Williams doing his typical routine performance, did he just photocopy his performance from Jack, Father's Day, Patch Addams? the rest of the cast while promising fails to deliver. Sam Neill and Embeth Davitz do some nice work with their thankless roles  but if i continue to wonder why Oliver Platt is still making movies, he's a really bad actor yet is in everything.  "},{"Title":"It was in keeping with the story","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I have liked the story The Bicentennial Man since I read it in the 1970s. Isaac Asimov has been one of my favorite authors for a very long time. Unlike Starship Troopers (which I thought was a travesty and insult to the Mr. Heinlein's book), this movie does credit to Asimov's story. Well worth the seeing whether or not you are an Asimov fan. "},{"Title":"I think Isaac would have been proud of this","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lately I haven't been much of a Robin Williams fan, but I have always been an Asimov fan. Seeing the trailer for Bicentennial Man almost convinced me not to go near the picture to save my life. However my husband dragged me, kicking and screaming, to see it, and I am happy to say my prejudices in this case were completely wrong. Bicentennial Man has a lot of prejudices to overcome, rather like its self-deprecating hero. Firstly, it stars Robin Williams, whose ventures into sentiment and romance have been a bit questionable at times. Secondly the theme is probably one of the most overworked clichs of modern science fiction &#150; the android who wants to be human. And thirdly, it has to encompass a 200-year time span. All of these problems are handled with surprising competence as Chris Columbus delivers a sympathetic and sensitive film which manages to translate well to the nineties, despite the fact that Asimov's original story harks back to 1976, and has been visited many times by the likes of Gene Roddenberry. The script is a nice blend of humour and pathos without the sickly sentimentality you might expect of this Disney venture. The future world in which the characters live is only touched upon - and rightly so, the emphasis is always on the characters, not the setting.Williams is very good, and Chris Columbus should be congratulated for his direction of him &#150; Andrew is complex and believable and elicits the right amount of sympathy without being overdrawn. Sam Neill is terrific as Sir, a kind and generous master to a point - with some deep-seated prejudices he does not himself understand. All the other characters are nicely balanced against each other and the story paces itself pretty well overall, despite a few flags here and there. The ending raises some interesting moral issues but doesn't preach too hard.The best achievement is the makeup. It is quite simply the best ageing makeup I've ever seen in a modern film. And not a cgi plate in sight here - all prosthetics. Great stuff. Overall a good movie to see if you are a fan of Isaac Asimov, Robin Williams, or just want a couple of hours of good entertainment with enough to chew over later on without getting too weighed down. Footnote to parents don't take the kids. You'll enjoy it much better without them.I think ol' Isaac would have approved.  "},{"Title":"A case where the rip off is superior to the adaption","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Recognizing that the basic story for this film predates Star Trek The Next Generation, which seems to have stolen the concept, probably by decades, it does not take away from the fact that the latter is still the superior treatment.Brent Spiner as Commander Data in Star Trek The Next Generation, by infinite degree, has handled this basic story idea of this film with more heart, intelligence, and humor than this film does.  Sure, the initial scenes were good with much of Williams' trademark humour, but this eventually collapses into that intolerably frequent sentimentality that Williams all too often has indulged in in recent years.Of course, Spiner has had the opportunity to spread this story out for a period of 9 years in various episodes, culminating in Star Trek First Contact.  Bicentennial Man, on the other hand, must complete its tale in less than 2 and a half hours.  That seems to be too much, especially for trodden ground like this.  Perhaps, it is a testament to the success of ST's treatment that it is hard to find other professional reviewers that have done this comparison.  A friend conjectured that the reason, is that viewers of ST have come to identify Data as a character that the fact he is a machine is viewed only as a relatively incidental quirk. If Bicentennial Man could have achieved this, then perhaps this film could have been something better than it is. "},{"Title":"awesome collage, good and complete story","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Most people go into a movie expecting something and are disappointed when they relaize what they wanted is not what they got.  This movie is quite a masterpiece.  Regardless of how other people claim it to be.The journey of Andrew is like a child and Sir is like a father to a son growing up.  The strangeness of love and the complicatedness of humor are explained without too much detail which is good. The reviewers should really not slam this movie because of its story or the acting.  Robin Williams is a good actor and it is his choice to do such scripts.  I believe him to be a decent man for portraying what most men are afraid to say or show.  We should drop this macho sense of superiority and understand each other because in the end who we are will decide who will be with us when it is our time.For the people who have not seen this movie and are still ambivalous...watch this movie then make up your mind if you like or not.  I have seen too many people complain about a movie but yet have never seen it from beginning to end.How strange is that Tom Hanks can play characters that will make men tear but when Robin Williams does it they see it has bad acting.  Take your double standards somewhere else.  Most actors do scripts more for the story than for the money. "}{"Title":"A must see movie...","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I don't know if it's just me, but it seems that as Robin Williams gets older his movies become more dramatic and at their best.  I was touched by this movie in the way Robin Williams is able to transistion from being a robot, to being human.  For those that have not seen this movie, please do, it's definately worth it.You will not be disappointed.  This is not a dull drama, indeed it is funny too.  Enjoy!   "},{"Title":"Excellent rendition of a classic idea","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are looking for a great rendition of an Asimov Classic, then you have come to the right cinema.Bicentennial Man is a film set in the not too distant future, and follows the life of a positronic robot over 200 years.The stories of Asimov were ground breaking, in terms of robots (he invented the term robotics), and his three laws of robotics - the guiding principles of many fictional robots today.Pre-Asimov, many robot stories were scary products of evil minds, intent on causing harm or replacing jobs. Asimov was ground breaking, portraying the human side of robots, especially in his popular I, Robot series.While this treatment of robots is now commonplace in popular fiction (Data in Star Trek, etc), humanity was Asimovs great accomplishment.Bicentennial is a great potrayal of a human robot, and who better than the wonderfully talented actor Robin Williams, who can act in many outlandish and difficult parts with dignity (and humour). Williams' performance in this film is moving, graceful, and in some places humorous - Williams' quirky nature shines in the role of the confused robot Andrew Martin.By placing Williams in a robot suit rather than use computer imagery, the character is real and believable, and the human characteristics of Andrew Martin are definitely there.Sam Neil as Sir is the father figure of Andrew, and acts in his usual stylish manner.Embeth Davidtz is lovely as Portia, the great granddaughter of Sir, and a caring person - undoubtably confused about the intrusion of a robot into her life.The special effects in this film are great, but don't go looking for them. This is not a film about special effects, they are incidental to the plot, merely supporting the premise of a futuristic robot, and the passage of time. The future city of San Fransisco is not as remarkably different from todays, and by keeping the environment familiar to viewers, the director has allowed the viewer to accept the premise, rather than be caught up in it (cf Jurassic Park).So, for a wonderful treatment of human-like robots, from the Master of Science Fiction, Isaac Asimov, be sure to watch this Robin Williams - soon - to - be - classic. "},{"Title":"Sweet, but long sci-fi","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After watching this film, I was not surprised how many mixed feelings there were with the group I went with. (Kind of like the mixed reviews here in Imdb) Some hated it, to the point of wanting to leave in the middle of the movie, others loved it. So here's what I take from that. If you love tearjerker, manipulative, syrup-saturated movies, you'll probably like BM. That's not saying it's bad, I liked it because it touched on some very deep issues that just went over some critic's head... Based on Isaac Asimov's short story, Robin Williams plays a robot named Andrew in the near future who manages to become very different. He grows human-like personality, he tries to find out what a joke is and why something is funny, he learns to make wooden carvings, but yet most of the people around him are more robotic then him, with the exception of some of the members of his loving family. And he soon learns the pain of being immortal. The issue of people judging others by their differences, growing old and dying, mixed marriages, even slavery is felt in this movie. Williams does a fine job as our lead character, as does Sam Neill and Embeth Davidtz. But the movie does drag on a bit longer then it should have, so some younger viewers got bored. (and so did some older viewers) Since it's aimed as a family film, it's 131 minutes could have had a half hour trimming. And although there is your usual Robin Williams humor, the movie is not really a comedy. It's still worth seeing if you have time, just remember  that you're going to get fed a lot of  talk and feeling about humanity and show of emotion that may be a bit too much. "},{"Title":"A real winner","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has to rank as one of the sweetest movies I have ever seen; if you have a heart, this one will tug at its strings. Robin Williams as Andrew is excellent, and he and his fellow cast members bring to life a story not just about an android wanting to become human, but about following your heart, no matter where it might lead.  "},{"Title":"Chris Columbus at his best!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I thought this was a terrific movie.  Although I expected it to be a comedy(Chris Columbus directed Home Alone and Mrs. Doubtfire), it was more serious.  Robin Williams was excellent, if not extremely funny, as Andrew the robot.For those of you out there who thinks that this is a boring and long movie, you probably didn't notice BASED ON THE SHORT STORY BY ISAAC ASIMOV in the credits.  The late Isaac Asimov is considered the best science fiction writer and his books were long consisting with neat theories and conversations.  But, to me, they weren't boring.  (I'm a big fan of his books!)If you are a science fiction and/or Robin Williams fan, see this movie.  Otherwise, avoid it. "},{"Title":"It's been a while since we had a tame family science fiction film.","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man By Dean KishOne robot's 200 year journey to become an ordinary man. An android (Robin Williams) is purchased as a household robot programmed to perform menial tasks. Within a few days the Martin family realizes that they don't have an ordinary robot as it begins to experience emotions and creative thought. Through two centuries, the robot now named Andrew learns what it takes to be like you and me.  `Bicentennial Man' is another feel good family movie from the wonders of Robin Williams. It never fully challenges his comic timing but does accent upon his growth as an actor. The toned down demeanor of the central character accents and delivers a much needed range in Robin Williams' acting cannon. Bicentennial Man by far isn't one of his best but will remain as one that allowed Columbus and Williams to push the envelope and enhance their talents.  This is director Chris Columbus' first time doing science fiction, his other well known films have been `Mrs Doubtfire' and last year's `Stepmom'. It's an interesting departure for him since he is being rumored to direct `Spiderman' for Sony. His powerful family values and heartwarming moments are evident throughout this film. The century unfolding, the beautiful sets and the special effects are all eye-candy for the holiday crowds. It's been a while since we had a tame family science fiction film. The story, originally conceived by Issac Asimov from his novel, `The Positronic Man', is a tale that has been discussed and overdone a thousand times in science fiction. I wonder that with the birth of this latest retelling that maybe science fiction fans are bored with another dose. From Data of Star Trek The Next Generation to Robocop to Herbie The Love Bug, maybe sci-fi fans want something new. The story did feel a little stale. (3.5 of 5)  "},{"Title":"Social Fiction Minus Theme Yields Boredom","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  	THE BICENTENNIAL MAN comes from Isaac Asimov's US Bicentennial story The Bicentennial Man (1976, naturally), and Asimov's and Robert Silverberg's 1992 expansion _The Positronic Man_.  Bicentennial Man was a political allegory about race and slavery and defining human--it was maybe what Asimov called a social science fiction story, definitely a story qualifying as Asimov's social fiction.	The story was pretty bad as an allegory, featuring a robot, Andrew, with what's been called a Pinocchio Complex or Spam (metal on the outside, meat on the inside).  More relevantly for the film, like THE WIZARD OF OZ's Tin Man or _Star Trek Next Generation_'s Mr. Data, Andrew wants to become human and be recognized as human; and he is willing to die to achieve his goal.  	Human chuzhpah!  It's arrogant to assume that intelligent machines would want to become organic so they can be like The Crown of Creation (Fanfare for the Common Man for background, please) us.	In terms of the racial allegory, The Bicentennial Man was and is worse, with the message that Blacks should strive for assimilation, getting their humanity accepted when they became basically White (Spam/Robots Oreo/Blacks). 	The Bicentennial Man was a wrong-headed story, but it was a serious story, and an interesting story.  The film, THE BICENTENNIAL MAN, removes the allegories of slavery and race, leaving us with a love story between Andrew and a human woman and the story's subsidiary point that if All men are mortal and Andrew wants to become a man, Andrew must take on human mortality.  Love stories are nice and mortality as essential to humanity is philosophically interesting, but in BICENTENNIAL MAN there's little development, no conflict, and not much plot or action.	I was rather offended by Asimov's Bicentennial Man; by the film I was mostly bored. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best movies I've ever seen.  It was very well written, and it really touched my heart.  Robin Williams definitely deserves an award for his role in this movie.  The future in a span of 200 years was a great touch and they did a fabulous job of portraying it.  I walked out of that movie with a great feeling and I can't wait to see it again and own it on DVD!   "},{"Title":"Very disappointed","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was very disappointed by this movie. I thought the movie moved very slow and that there was not enough humor in it. One area is that as a PG rating I thought there was too much foul language and sexual references for a movie aimed at families. I took my kids to see it who are ages 7 and 9. I am guessing that there were at least a dozen uses of foul language which is totally inappropriate for kids.  "},{"Title":"Well...OK","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't go into this film expecting much, this one is based on an Asimov story.For some reason, Issac Asimov's teriffic science fiction stories have not made it to the screen very much, and when they have, they have been less than satisfying.  I am still waiting for someone to make Harlan Ellison's screenplay for I, Robot into what would be a superb film if the trolls of Hollywood don't decide to wreck it in the process...but I digress.While I haven't had a chance to read the full length novelization by Asimov and Robert Silverberg of the original short story, it is one of my favorites.  The film credits both versions of the story as source material. I mention this because, I feel that for all but the last half-hour of the film, it follows the source material quite well, and I didn't find the departures overly irritating.  The change that did make me cringe is a gratuitous love affair that served no purpose other than cheap sentimentality.  I also found it irritating because the robot's struggle of achieving official recognition of his humanity is omitted except for a couple of brief court room sequences in favor of this superfluous sub-plot. Perhaps this love affair is in the novelization, but it doesn't seem to me like Asimov's style.Still...I enjoyed the film.  Robin Williams turns in a fine performance, and Sam Neil is especially good as the robot's  original owner.  The sequences in which Neil tries to describe the concept of humor to Williams are quite good, and it seems to me that Asimov's essay on robots and humor should also have been credited, but I suppose that is a minor matter.It isn't the greatest film I've ever seen, but it's better that a hot stick in the eyeball.  Perhaps if the film becomes a hit, we'll see some more of Asimov's stories put onto film, and that's OK with me. "}{"Title":"Outstanding movie","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While this is not a comedy as such, it is one of the best films that I have seen in some time. I am one that looks at a movie for it's entertainment value, and this movie definitely entertained me. It was a long movie, but I really did not notice how long it was until after I got out of the theater and looked at the clock. I will more than likely be going to see it again. I really did like this movie. If you go to see this expecting a robotic Mork, then you will be disappointed. If you go with no preconceived notions what it is about and with a open mind to be entertained... you will not be disappointed!  "},{"Title":"Fave of all time","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The trailer does no justice to this film - it shows it off as just another Robin Williams comedy when in fact it's a rare insight into love, existence, and humanity. This is undoubtedly the best movie I've ever seen.  I've seen the other reviews whereas people despise it, but I absolutely love it.  It is the most human and most touching rendition of a sci-fi piece I've ever seen.  The original Positronic Man by Asimov stands on its own as a jewel of science fiction, but when combined with Chris Columbus' directing and Robin Williams' acting it comes together.  Maybe I liked it because I'm into science fiction and it's always been sort of a dry and cold genre, or maybe because of my thoughts on love and humanity.  Any way, I rated this a 10. I've never cried at the end of a movie, let alone that much.  Every character is well-played and essential to building the feeling, and the musical score is excellent.  The ending is amazing in every sense. I would go so far as to call this movie perfect.  To each his own ) "},{"Title":"Quick Analysis...With slight plot overview","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was very well directed, I thought.  Two thumbs up for Chris Columbus.  Basically, this is a film about freedom.  Andrew Martin (the robot), realizes he is different from a normal machine and then longs for nothing else than to be considered human.  Much like 18th-mid19th century America, where the slaves were treated as something inhuman, so Andrew is, and longs to be considered a human (through a Gandhi method of being accepted as one).  Isaac Asimov did a wonderful job of bringing the human soul into the future, and I recommend this movie to anyone who wants a good laugh, or a story of freedom and love. "},{"Title":"Yeah, yeah, I liked it!!!","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, I have some real positive enthusiasm for this film. It was wonderful to see a film that focuses on the characters and pays close attention to plot, rather than how high they can blow up a skyscraper! This movie has much more meaning than that, and Isaac Asimov's beautiful story was treated with great respect. Robin Williams was excellent as the robot Andrew. He brought a wonderful side to this man of steel. Despite the fact Mr. Williams is concealed behind his metal facade, he still has a presence that lets a viewer know it really is him. It's wonderful. The supporting cast is also fantastic, with moving performances by the ever-reliable Sam Neill (Sir), and the adult Little Miss played by Embeth Davidtz. Great stuff, and I am PROUD to say, I enjoyed it! As far as the film being too long, I felt it was too short! I couldn't believe it when it was over, and I had NOT ONCE looked at my watch! Wonderful, wonderful piece of work! Kudos! "},{"Title":"Oscar for Williams?","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a feel good movie in the tradition of Forrest Gump. A study of one mans life spanning 200years. Williams gives a fine performance and if Hanks recieved and Oscar for Gump, Williams certainly deserves one here. "},{"Title":"I Really Liked Bicentennial Man","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That's why I gave it an 8 out of 10.  I felt that Robin Williams did a wonderful job of creating a character that was not quite human.  I think that the make-up was wonderful, and will most likely be nominated for an Oscar.  The way the characters age throughout the movie made you wonder if this hadn't been filmed over a period of decades.There are, however, a few things about Bicentennial Man that didn't quite sit right with me.  First off, I feel that the story didn't spend enough time developing the relationships between the characters.  A couple of the supporting characters were introduced and then quickly dismissed.  Perhaps this was on purpose - if a robot is around for 200 years, not everyone it comes in contact with will have a significant role.Beyond the development of the characters, I thing Bicentennial Man lacked a spark or warmth.  Through out the movie I kept thinking to myself that something was missing.  If you have any ideas on what that something was, please let me know.Also, I would like to warn parents that there are a few things in this movie that are a bit risqu.  And in spite of what the previews may have made you think, this movie is not for kids.  Most children under 13-14 would probably be board with this movie.  "},{"Title":"7 stars, should have been 9.5","Date":"17 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I LOVED the book.  I have immensely enjoyed Isaac Asimov's books for years, and The Bicentennial Man is one of my favorite short stories.Now, that said, this is a good movie.  7*/10  A fair representation of the original, given the restrictions of the celluloid medium.  Williams' performance is ... a typical Williams performance.  Humorous, yet sensitive, touching but detached.  Nothing noteworthy.Nonetheless, it is still a good story, and told well.  I'm not a big fan of Mr. Columbus' works or style, but it works fairly well.  I was mildly disappointed at his need to introduce a binary emotion capability in the human characters.  Apparently, a character is only allowed one emotion per film.  *shrug*All in all, I must say that Bicentennial man is worth the 2+ hours spent. If you haven't already, read the book after watching the movie.  "},{"Title":"A Heartfelt Comedy","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie!  It is a comedy from the heart.It's a great movie to see with family, friends or your someone special. This is a great movie for anyone who likes science fiction, romance, or just a good comedy.  I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"Wonderful TRUE Science Fiction- very rare!","Date":"12 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a wonderful film made of the genius of the master Sci-fi master of robots, Isaac Asimov brought to life by the quiet dignified genius of actor Sam Neill as Andrew Martin's human advocate, pattern and sponser. Robin Williams is a convincing Andrew.  It is beautiful visually and the James Horner music is exquisite.  I intend to see it many more times.  How refreshing to see a real story instead of just fireworks and killing! "},{"Title":"Pretty good in previews, may be excellent by opening","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie in a preview before the music, special effects, and editing were finalized.  Robin was excellent as was Sam Neill.  The story had some flaws - at one point I was ready for the movie to end - it had reached a climax - and it still had an hour to go.  However it passed my test - I never once wondered what time it was and was not tempted to go for a popcorn refill.  Even if you are not a science fiction fan, the human side of the story will win you over.  Posthumous thanks go to Isaac Asimov for a great narrative. "}{"Title":"Great drama, awesome comedy, very good film","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man is definitely what a science fiction movie should be like, especially in this age of special effects-heavy action films.I had a chance to watch the film a couple of days ago. However, I saw the trailer for the first time just today, and the trailer does not give the movie much justice. What seems like another silly Robin Williams comedy is really more of a discourse on the strength and persistence of a human spirit -- with the subject in question not even being human.With very good taste, the film shows the main character mature and realize his own destiny in life. Attention was paid both to showing details which could give us insight into the reasons the main character is the way he is; at the same time, the film skipped over parts that could potentially have been somewhat boring and arguably unnecessary. Actors -- both Robin Williams and the supporting cast -- performed very well and gave the film a feeling of reality. And while humor naturally plays a critical role in most Robin Williams' films, in Bicentennial Man nothing is overdone or pushed too far.My first problem with the movie was that not much was shown in terms of the society's acceptance of Andrew Martin's uniqueness. The second problem is actually that at around the last half an hour, the movie started getting somewhat too emotional -- forcing the audience feel for the main character. I am too fond of forced emotions for on-screen characters; of course, others' opinions might differ.All-in-all, I highly recommend seeing what is arguably the most calm science fiction film in a while. Instead of throwing special effects and explosions in our faces, the director decided to pay more attention to characters, the plot, and the point of the film. Bicentennial Man is not the best movie I have seen. But it is in my opinion one of the best science fiction films.Don't miss out - the combination of Isaac Asimov's plot with Chris Columbus's directing and Robin Williams's acting created a truly enjoyable, thoughtful film that shows that it is possible to do sci-fi without gore and terror. "},{"Title":"A brilliant forthcoming for Chris Columbus","Date":"27 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" >I begin by saying that at seeing this picture, I had the chance to see it with five friends.  I ended turning them out even when the screen went black because I had to stuff my guts back where they belong.This is a tearjerker for all of you out there.  It's a beautiful masterpiece, it flows over two hundred years, allowing the characters to grow and strive, while we get the chance to let them make inane comedy comments, that never degrade from the movie.I can't make this long, but I must say, that if you are reading this, then you can't possibly understand what I mean when I say, EXCELLENT.  I have never cried at a movie before, but Robin Williams as Andrew Martin is so realistic, and his endeavor to be human is not a sci-fi risk, it's a chance to create a decent idea, let it go off your fingers, and run with the flow.I can say this only once, but you're an idiot if you let this movie pass you by.  Don't miss it for the tentative December release.  "},{"Title":"One of the best Movies I've ever seen","Date":"11 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Honestly I don't see whats wrong with this movie. Everyone says it sucks but i'm in the year 2012 and think its awesome. SPOILER-ISH part.- As Andrew slowly becomes human you start to kinda root for him in a way. -SPOILER-ISH over I think the plot was pretty good in reality. There is some humor not allot but that is not a let down. Robin Williams did great in this movie. This like i said is one of the greatest Robot Movies if not any movie I have ever seen. Many moments you kinda want to cry but they then cheer you up with a heart warming moment. If you go to a Redbox or something and see this I would greatly suggest this movie. "},{"Title":"This is a Review not a Plot lay out!","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I found this film to be one of the best i have watched in a long time It is comparable in quality to A.I. Artificial Intelligence and emotionally to Titanic.This film is good for children, but amazing for matured audience. The acting is First class an the script is as tight as a rock.This film would at the very least bring a tear to even the blackest of hearts, as if WALL-E met A.I..People may shun it for not being true to the book, and i would agree if it had been a bad interpretation, however this is quite the opposite.I would recommend that even if you are speculative towards the movie, MAKE TIME to watch it and you just may realize what you could have missed. "},{"Title":"Brilliant, moving, thought-provoking","Date":"20 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's sad that so many can fail to really pay attention to the important elements in a movie, and not only on what the movie may show, but mostly what the movie (or book, or fable, etc.) may make you think, feel, what it may bring from you. Well, but everyone is entitled to an opinion, to have their own tastes...but, criticize, that, I think, needs fair and reasonable arguments, at least...Bicentennial Man is not a movie about a robot, it's not a sci-fi movie. It merely uses the robot story to talk about so much more. It's just a means to discuss the issues of humanity, feeling, the human soul, prejudice, love, courage, determination, selflessness, and so much more.To fully grasp what Bicentennial Man really discusses in its plot, one has to look beyond the surface of what it is shown. You have to pay attention to the subtleties, to in between the lines, and so on.If you want a sci-fi movie, a comedy, a family movie, this one will satisfy you. But if you want a dense drama, something to make you think, something to make you feel, and also get some good, honest laughs on the process, then you'll be more than grateful for having chosen to watch it.For sure, without a shadow of doubt, this is among my top favorite movies of all time. "},{"Title":"If there were a higher score, I would give this film 1000,000,000,000","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Somehow I feel that to even comment on this film in any positive way would do it a gross injustice.What I mean is that this film is so beautiful in every sense of the word, it is beyond any reviewers words.I found this film, moving, funny, sad, profound, and romantic, this film stars Robin Williams in what I believe to be his finest performance.Suffice to say this film is about a robot played by Robin Williams.All other actors, like Sam Neil, are just bystandards.If you reading this have a heart, and a soul, see this film.If you reading this believe you are hard - nosed, go see this film, it will melt your hard heart.This film was Directed by Chris Columbus. I will look out for more films by this director in the future. "},{"Title":"My beloved movie","Date":"24 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first time I saw this movie that is in vtv 3 channel of the new year's movie in my country. At first, I don't know the name of this movie and I just watch it. And up until now, I find out the English name and Vietnamese name of this movie.('cause It's a long time and a long journey of recalling the memory about it ^^) Remember back to the first time I saw it that I just was 11, 12 years old. That was the age without life's exp, without mature's emotion; and I can really know all about movie's messangers. But, the movie was touched my heart, took a deep memory in mine. The best scene of whole movie, that is the ending scene. I never forget about Robot man wants become a real man and get the real love for himself. He takes all my emotions in this scene when he wants to die with the person he loves. Not like Another robot man with endless life who can stay alive forever and will never feel the fear of the death, the emotion that come from human's; BM don't wanna be an ice machine, a heartless cyborg- he wanna try to touch human's emotion, try to feel it and wanna get in it. As every original human on earth, he can feel happy around, can touch a bee with every feeling he has, can cry, can laugh, can be sad... All of these things that make me knowing more about myself, about human, about the world around me... "},{"Title":"Really good movie, very underrated","Date":"3 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" As much as I don't like to sound opinionated, I personally don't understand the hate this movie gets. Sure Bicentennial Man isn't the best movie ever but it is a great and underrated movie that is unfairly dismissed for being overly-sentimental and cloying. Some of it can be slow, but a lot compensates for any misgivings. Bicentennial Man is beautifully filmed, with lovely cinematography and scenery, while the score is gorgeous. I also loved the end credits song, and Celine Dion couldn't have been the more perfect choice to sing it. The script does have a lot of touching moments but it also has humour as well, and good humour at that. The story about life and the human condition is sweet and engaging and the film is competently directed. I really liked the characters, especially the title character who is incredibly endearing. The acting was great, Robin Williams is wonderful and he is solidly supported by Embeth Davidtz, Oliver Platt and Sam Neill. All in all, this is a very good movie. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"The second century is the best","Date":"20 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Recap The Martin's have just bought a brand new NDR114, a household robot, which they call Andrew. But a small peculiarity in Andrew's positronic brain makes him unique. It starts with a show of creativity and initiative but grows. Soon Andrew becomes part of the family and develops a own personality. But he wants more, he wants freedom and feelings. Around him time goes by, people grow up, grow old and eventually die. This start out to be the final quest and conflict for Andrew, why have feelings when everyone vanishes?Comments A very sweet movie. Actually a very sweet, warm and a little funny movie with quite some emotion and feeling. At least the second half is. The problem is that it takes very long until it really gets interesting. The entire first half feels like a very long introduction. It's too predictable and full of clichs. A robot working in a close and understanding family. What do you think will happen? I almost wanted to turn it off sometimes, as it didn't seem to have any ambition or promise to show any potential. Quite unlike Andrew that is.And that would have been too bad. Because the second half is quite different. As mentioned above it is very warm. Sweet and quite full off emotion. It's a bit ironic, and not so little weird, that it doesn't happen until Andrew's second try. He couldn't connect with Little Miss but then succeeds with her look alike granddaughter. But if you manage to forget that idea, it is actually quite charming. It is ironic that what I felt like a little weird is actually one of the main issues Andrew fights with. His immortality and inhumanity.Well, all in all, it's a good movie. Robin Williams is good as the developing robot. But the movie is a little too long, especially since the first half is completely uninteresting. The second half makes up for it, but not completely.6/10 "},{"Title":"Watchable but weak humor and overly sentimental","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is an overly sentimental Scifi comedy drama based on an Asimov short story. Robin Williams is rather muted as a robot and many jokes fall flat. The humor is sporadic and the film would have worked better as a straight drama. The production design of the film never convinced me that the film was taking place in the future. Dramatic fire is also curiously missing and the film manages to sidestep some critical issues. However the ending worked for me despite being heavy on the sentiment. Oliver Platt has a brief but welcome role. Sam Neill and Embeth Davidtz are fine. Watchable but not fully satisfying.Overall 5/10 "}{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought this movie was just amazing. The special effects were awesome. I know it's corny, but it did make me cry some. I had never really thought about what it would be like to be a never-dying robot, and this theme is something that I hadn't seen played on until this movie. The only other movie that comes to mind that uses that theme is .A.I. - which is pretty good as well. Sorry if I'm rambling, I just really like this film. It was so bittersweet yet so beautiful. Although, with the ending having him die right before he is legally declared human and married, I can understand why some people may not like it, but I still think it's just a wonderful film. ^_^ "},{"Title":"Feelings of being lost","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought that it was a good movie. I think it shows how people feel when they are left out all of the time, just simply because they are different. Can anybody tell me the name of the song that Andrew and little Miss play on the piano in the duet? It's a beautiful song and no matter how hard I try, I can't find out. If anybody knows it e-mail me at dbw1rbw@hotmail.com. Anyway, It seemed to me that Andrew wanted nothing more than to be like everyone else. He saw the benefits of being human and wanted it. He had lots of things we don't have, such as immortality, but that wasn't enough. He was willing to give that up to be human, to FEEL emotions and heartache. Kind of like the blacks and the Jews feel. Everyone hates them because of their color or because of a race they were born into. That makes my blood boil! Like Martin Luther King said, Look into his/her heart, and see the content of their character. Thanks, RB Williams "},{"Title":"For the laid back.","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" For those that enjoy a good movie, are fans of Robin Williams, and aren't stupidly critical of the most minuet flub, Bicentennial Man is for you. Sit back, grab your popcorn, and enjoy the journey. Robin Williams does a great job of showing a robot's transition from machine to man. Not only do you see the emotional transition, but the writer even provided a method for the robot to physically transition as well. Yes, there are minor flick flubs. Name a movie that doesn't have one. Leave it alone, get past it, and just enjoy the story. While I think this story has the greatest appeal to the geeks of the world, as it's centered around a major piece of technology, it's still portrayed in a manner that anyone can understand and enjoy. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I go to the movies to be entertained and thought that this movie made me think of my mortality and laugh at the same time. I am only learning to stay in the day but I am very happy that I'm not a critic. The other day my ex-roommate and I saw another film. He aspires to be a screenwriter. After the film was over, he asked me for my comments and then gave me his. What I read as a review sounded just like the comments made by my friend after the film we had just seen. I guess what I'm trying to say is that there are probably many technical things involved in making a film but I am personally glad that I don't have to address any of them. All I need to do is enjoy myself while watching. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but could have been a lot better","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie got a bad rap from the press and the public and since it came out there's been very little interest in it. I wasn't too fussed about seeing it, but I gave it a shot anyway and found it to be not half bad at all. There were times when i thought that it could definitely have done with a much stronger director at the helm- Columbus failed to bring out the darker side of the story's theme, and therefore let the film get bogged down as it progressed instead of allowing it to reach its' full potential.. The movie turned out far too timid and gentle and ultimately pretty weak. As usual, Columbus wasted an excellent story and cast with incredible potential in order to produce something diverting, occasionally very good, but on the whole very forgettable.As I said, though, the cast is excellent- especially Sam Neill and Embeth Davadtz- and there was a lot of visual delight here too on display. I felt that Robin Williams started out well but failed to sustain his character.the movie wasn't a total failure- i enjoyed watching it, as did my three very young cousins- but i ended up being disappointed, particularly since there are many films that have dealt with this theme much better; from A.I. Artificial Intelligence to Disney's Pinochio. "},{"Title":"super","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" When i start watching a film if nothing happens to create an interest within the first moments i will turn it off, this film started with humour, then goes on to make me laugh many times, then onto a great mix of emotions through the movie, i laughed and cried it may sound strange but it made me think of my age and how thing happen in life,i am not sure if this was intended by the writer but never the less this was the outcome, i thought the portrayal of the robot by Robin Williams's was brilliant.i just wanted to if possible let the producer know that this film was brilliant, and i will go out and buy it as soon as i see it in the shops. "},{"Title":"Let it grow on you.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After I saw Artificial Intelligence A.I., which is also about a robot with human feelings (from the hand of Steven Spielberg), I made the remark that it wasn't as good as I hoped it would be. It was OK, but somehow the characters and the emotions never felt real to me. Well, what I didn't find in A.I., I did find in this one. In my opinion it was far more heart-warming and 'realistic' than Spielberg's movie ever was. And even though it may all look a bit superficial at first sight, I still find it a very nice movie to watch.Robin Williams plays the role of an android robot who has only one wish to become a real human being. At first he is just an ordinary household robot, purchased by the Martin family, to perform normal household tasks. But soon the family finds out that their robot isn't like it should be. It has the capability to learn new things, to think of its own and to be creative... Gradually he is accepted by the family as one of their own and they stimulate him to become better and better. In the 200 years of his lifetime, while he has to keep fighting for his right to exist because the people who first created him now want to destroy him, he'll gradually become a real human.Although I have to admit that the first part is far from original and many scenes already seem to be done a million times in other movies, this movie gradually grows on you. And as I already said this movie is really heart-warming. This is not so much a film about robots or sci-fi (which could be very cold and hard to watch), but a film about life, humanity, relationships, love and family. When you see him evolve and live his life with an ever changing family (in 200 years many people die and get born), this movie get's better and better and before you know it you'll fully enjoy it. That's why I give it a 7.5/10, perhaps even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"Does your PC have a mind of it's own?","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt that the views of the future were unbelievably optimistic.  No crime, no starvation, no pollution, everything seems so wonderful.  This detracted from the point of the story because it took away the realism.  Perhaps I am cynical, but I can't see ALL the worlds problems being solved by the time 'Andrew' was created.Also, the point of the original (Asimov) story concerns the way we regard other 'species', and focuses us on the ROBOT and it's desire for equality (in all things).  But 'Andrew' is no ordinary robot, which robs us of that ultimate question.  It's sort of Short Circuit's Number 5 with legs instead of wheels.  Gone is the real question of what is really life, what is really mind, and gone is the real question of rights and prejudices.  The other robot in the story appears 'aware' because the personality circuits are turned on while 'Andrew' (we are assured) has his turned off.  But were they?  Or was there a bug in the system which resulted in them being activated - e.g. when he launched himself out of the window.Oh, and only when he looked really human are we really allowed to think that he has a 'soul' and is worthy of true freedom - the right to die.  Boy, we humans are an arrogant lot aren't we.  And how many places on this planet have you the right to euthanasia anyway?Still, I enjoyed the film - I just had to switch off my CPU while watching it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing adaptation of an Asimov/Silverberg collaboration","Date":"30 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you read the book before seeing the movie, you will understand the disappointment in this attempted Sci-Fi movie adaptation. For one thing, Robin Williams is a great actor who seems to be waiting for the right director and the right script to make a great movie, and it has not happended yet. Every movie he has been in has failed to produce an emotional claimax worthy of his ability. -back to the movie. The book was not a comedy but still produced a smile mostly just through amazement. The Robot in the book did not marry or have sex with the girl, but realized that the only way he could be considered a human equal was by proving his mortality, so he removed the protective barrier around his posiatronic brain allowing his brain to decay, and eventually causing his death. The movie failed to produce the emotional response that the book did. "},{"Title":"This movie is looooooooong!","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is hard to judge. It is good, but it's not so good really. One could say that it would have been better if it had been shorter, but then again I don't think it could be cut down either. I smiled a few times when I watched it, at times I laughed but for the MOST part it was very slowly sending me to sleep. I think it is nothing wrong with the story it originates from and I am sure it provides quite a number of good social and philosophical questions but the movie itself is just... dragging along. Williams is certainly a good actor but I think this movie would have benefited from a good but completely unknown actor.Pew... I guess it's really not too bad a movie, but it sure also is a huge sleeping pill.  "}{"Title":"an impressing movie","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I like this movie very much.Something in this movie real impressed me,but I can't tell what it is clearly.Maybe it is love,loyalty,faith or something.And the music is wonderful.I don't know why only a few people had seen this beautiful film.In my opinion,this film should be as famous as Dances with wolves   Legend of fall and so on. "},{"Title":"Corny as hell...","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robin Williams and the not-to-miss Oliver Platt give good performances in this movie, and the way the robot was made using Robin Williams face was quite good, though not too impressive.Overall, I don't think this movie is really too long, nor does it contain much bad acting, it's just the incredibly bad, corny writing which makes it so terribly, and the bad directing from Harry Potter-man Christ Columbus, make it a movie that just hurts you to see.If you like pure-hearted feelgood movies, you'll love this one, it has a certain cuteness and heaps upon heaps of charming moments, but for the average film-watcher, this just hurts. "},{"Title":"For the first time, Williams flops badly","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With Robin Williams in the lead and with the genre a comedy, you would expect a great two hours worth of laughs. However this is not only unfunny, but it is boring, pathetic and quite frankly inane. Why on earth has Robin Williams gone for sentimentality? His useless attempts to move audiences to tears are desperately unsuccessful and the plot is also ridiculous. Don't waste your money on this as you will be rather disappointed  "},{"Title":"drivel","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you want to see a movie about someone who wants to become a real person watch Pinocchio. At least you get to see the whale chase.Manipulative, sentimental and badly thought out. Three things that you can't ever say about an Asimov story. But let Hollywood get their hands on it and it's the formula as usual.$100 million they spent on this - surely for that they could have made a good movie? "},{"Title":"A movie that fails terribly....","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man is nothing but a boring sentimental comedy/drama that can only deliver good acting.Intended to be a comedy,but prevails to be a drama,almost all of the comedy this movie has is basically childrens humor that can make the viewer laugh for about a second.The plot is boring,a robot wants to become human,the humor is terribly sad(The one your sister says has a nice ass-Bicentennial Man)Can people find that humor funny,maybe but it wares off if heard to many times.Robin Williams does give a great performance,and so does the rest of the family.Bicentennial Man does achieve the aspect of a drama,but it doesnt make up for a third rate plot,childish humor,and boringness. Do not waste your time on this movie,it isnt even worth renting.2 out of 10.The only thing that saved this movie was the acting.Bad plot,lack of humor,and boring story kills this movie. "},{"Title":"Entirely Unoriginal But Still Enjoyable","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Basically, I enjoyed this movie. I felt the need to say that before going any farther, because the first bit of what I have to say will sound critical. Anyone who has ever watched more than a handful of episodes of Star Trek The Next Generation will recognize the robot Andrew (played very well by Robin Williams) as Data - the artificial life form whose entire existence seems dedicated to becoming more and more human. Much of what happens to Andrew parallels events of Data's life in episodes of STTNG. In other words, this movie is entirely and wholly unoriginal. It also suffers from being completely predictable. It's clear from the very beginning where this movie is going, and there's no real surprise at the end. The second half is much weaker than the first, due largely to the introduction of Oliver Platt as the scientist Rupert Burns, who helps Andrew in his quest to become more human, and Kiersten Warren as the incredibly irritating robot Galatea. The part of Galatea was obviously introduced by script writers who thought it necessary to add a completely unnecessary and foolish character, while Burns - whose role as the scientist was necessary - should (in my opinion) have been played as a far more serious scientist than how Platt portrayed him. I was also left scratching my head at why Richard Martin (Sam Neill) was so absolutely opposed to giving Andrew his freedom. True, he eventually acknowledges that he was wrong, but Richard more than anyone should have been sympathetic to Andrew's desire, and his opposition is never really explored or explained. It's simply fluffed off in a death bed repentance.Ok. There's the problems. And having said it, I also want to add that this was really a very enjoyable movie. If it was unoriginal, it was still a moving story of emotional exploration and growth, and offers a thought-provoking look at exactly what it is that makes any of us truly human. Williams was excellent, and Embeth Davidtz, in the dual role of Amanda (Little Miss) and her grand-daughter Portia was equally good. In fact, here was the part of the movie that was most intriguing the opportunity to see Andrew interact with four generations of Martins (not all of whom cared for him.) The fight of Andrew to be recognized as human is a reminder of how many have had to fight over the years for such recognition (blacks, women, etc.), and so there is an interesting piece of historical and social commentary going on here as well.So, I may have written more negative than positive here, but that doesn't at all reflect my thinking after having seen the movie. I enjoyed it, and I'd even watch it again. I'd rate it as a 7/10. "},{"Title":"A nadir in filmmaking the worst movie of all time","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my first and likely last review for IMDB.  Is there anyone else out there who is as shocked as I am by the many favorable, even glowing reviews listed below for Bicentennial Man?  I work at Columbia Pictures, have always loved movies, and see basically everything that comes out.  And I can easily say that Bicentennial Man is the poorest film I have ever endured.  Is there any other movie lover out there (and I'm not hard to please; I like almost everything) that agrees this is the worst movie of all time?Considering everything -- the stars involved, high production value ($100 million budget), lavish presentation, and excruciating result, Chris Columbus' meretricious movie is more spectacular in disaster than any cheapo B-movie.  The shameless sentimentality is mawkish to an extreme, and it fails to inspire or move us.  In goes right for our heartstrings, trying to manipulate them like a puppeteer, but it fumbles them badly because it hasn't earned an emotional connection with our feelings.  The film is flat. Robin Williams can make some good films, but boy can he make some bad ones (also notable being the abominable Patch Adams).  Who could have thought that the makers of the resoundingly funny Mrs. Doubtfire could misfire so badly here?Is there anyone else out there who also finds it disturbing that a human woman is having sex with a robot?  Does that send a flutter of creeped-out revulsion through anyone else?  I seriously doubt beautiful Embeth Davidtz (so poignant and exuding so much pathos in Schindler's List) would start having intercourse with a metal robot, metal shaft and all, computer chips firing during the act, busting a gasket literally?  I'm all for suspension of disbelief, but I would think this would not be an appealing notion for female viewers.This is the only movie that I can say turned my stomach almost from the start, then inexorably turned the screw, engendering a slow and sickening torture that left me nearly dead by the end of it.  I was actually green in the face when we left.  I would've walked out mid-way, but was held hostage because I was on a date.Is there anyone out there -- a kindred spirit perhaps -- who also loves movies but was secretly appalled by this one movie, this singular, self-satisfied, horrible trainwreck? "},{"Title":"The Three Laws of Bad Movie Making","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If anyone has read Asimov's extensive work on the subject of robotics should stay clear of this film because it has nothing to do with that. Even though I had read some damning criitism of this I still expected at least some of asimov's debate about technology's place within civilisation. Instead we get sentimentality by the bucket load together with a deliberatly teary score .In the world according to columbus , the next 200 years occur with absolutely nothing interesting happening except williams trotting about painfully expensive sets looking to be transformed into a human . The odd thing is that by the end of the film the robot is no more human than when he started. He has artificial skin and organs and his brain is still positronic. Why do they think that just looking like robin williams qualifies ?The famous 'Three Laws' only comes into the film for one minute but I felt that I would discuss a new set of laws, namely the Three Laws of Bad Movie Making. Rule 1  Be lazy , why write a plot for yourself when someone else has already  written one 50 years ago? Rule 2  Hire a director totally unsuited for the subject . If your film requires some deep philosophical and theocratic issues answered, get some guy whose main credits are schmaltzy 'family' movies. Rule 3  Don't be afraid to waste money . Built unnessesary sets and make pointless special effects . Congatulations Bicentennial man , you've passed ! "},{"Title":"A Very Heart Warming Movie.","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man is a very heart warming movie about a robot, who wants to become human. The film is absolutely brilliant. It's quite a sad film but it does have it's entertaining moments too. Oscar Winning Robin Williams is just absolutely brilliant as Andrew Martin, the Bicentennial Man. Other good performances come from everyone, especially Sam Neill and Embeth Davidtz. This film is must-see for everyone and I give it a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"A snorer","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robin Williams and the remainder of the cast are excellent in this film. The film itself is poorly executed. Isaac Asimov wrote a deep and very compelling story. Unfortunately, pretty much all of the depth was left out of the film version. What is left is a very shallow story, well acted, but shallow nonetheless. This film SEEMS long, and that is not a good thing. I rented this film and was very glad I didn't spend any more money to see it.  "}{"Title":"Not true to the story!!!  Spoiler.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Reading some of the other user comments has driven me to comment on this film again.  When a movie about one of Asimov's robots depicts a robot killing a human, or shows a robot comedian where robots are supposed to hardly understand human emotions, it can not be faithful to the original story.  This movie strayed so far from the original story that it distracted me too much to enjoy it.  Had it been a good movie in it's own right, then I would have enjoyed it more, but it does not stand alone either.  Robin Williams does not come across as a comic very well in a metal suit.  An unknown dramatic actor and a simple script based on the original short story would have been much more moving to any Asimov fan. "},{"Title":"If it was 30 minutes shorter...","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" ... and skip one generation or two in the story line, this film could have reached my Top 10! We are still left with one of the funniest beginning for a robots movie, with a strong message, and with the wonderful acting of Robin Williams. Did I say already that he is the best actor in 'not my kind of movies'? This could actually be my kind of movie, but unfortunately, neither the script writer or the director could not resist putting to much stuff inside, the overall atmosphere is too much impregnated with roses balsams, and the melodramatic end almost kills the memorable message.   "},{"Title":"An OK movie","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I had the advantage of prescreening this movie with five of my friends.  I walked out of the theater feeling so great, because this was such a great movie.Then I went to see the movie when it was released to the general public.I felt that so much was missing.This movie was good, but the original version was better.  I agree that the movie was a bit dragging, after all it was about 2 hours long.  On the other hand, the original versional was 2.5 hours, but did not drag one bit. This was because there was more of a story.For example, It so happens when Sir says,Now I've lost them both. Everyone thinks he is referring to his two daughters, but in truth, he is talking about his daughter, Little Miss, and his wife.(She divorced him about half an hour to 45 minutes into the original movie.)This Movie is great for those who enjoy tearjerkers, as well as comedies. I would rather see the movie Space Cowboy's (2000). "},{"Title":"Best one since What Dreams May come, but w/o the religious controversy","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not sure what world the critics lived it I'd just read one that gave it a 1 1/2 star out of 5.  Saying gloom gloom.  Hey what about Dead Poets Society?  Both movies ruled.  I loved this movie.  Sam Neill is still my favourite though.  He did a great job.  I commend him on it.  The only thing I didn't like about the movie is that it wasn't long enough.  But for ratings sake they did make it shorter.... "},{"Title":"As far as sermons go, this one is pretty weak","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The last half of the film switches gears from a family-friendly comedy to a nearly humorless, and totally inept, biography of an android in a crisis.  Obviously, we are meant to feel sympathy, and a little guilt, over the disheartening life and times of this unfortunate android.  With every twist of the plot, the film seems to nod its head at us, as if to say, have you learned anything yet?  Did we pull any heart-strings? Huh?  Did we???  As far as sermons go, this one is pretty weak.  As far as films?  Well, the first half is fun, but the second is a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Will the real Mr. Williams stand up?","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ((Warning potential spoilers ahead)).This movie is confusing, to say the least. I had read all the reviews before a friend made me go and see it. I must say, I actually enjoyed the first half (which in this movie is much longer than 1 hour), while I was rooting for the robot's death by 3/4 of the film. The problem I saw with the movie is that Robin Williams tries just oh-so-hard to make you love him, and he resorts to his usual bag of tricks trying to get a cheap tear out of you, telling corny jokes, and basically overacting. There is a telling scene, where Robin Williams, dressed as the robot, starts shooting one cheap joke after another with nary a hint of emotion in his face, while his family is sitting around a table, is smiling pithyly on him. On the words of an immortal Altavista.com reviewer whose name eludes me, this scene describes exactly the situation of Mr. Williams' career.And so, this review comes full circle. I enjoyed a lot more the robots acting that Mr. Williams' second half appearance. So I guess the real Mr. Williams was the robot. At least he was interesting to look at. "},{"Title":"A real let-down","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was hoping to see Asimov's short novel brought to life on the screen. Instead, it was almost as bad as the hatchet job done on Starship Troopers. This movie's Andrew Martin was nothing like Asimov's positronic robots in his novels.  His creations were logical and devoted to a fault, not silly. I'm sure Asimov would be very upset to see one of his robots violating the first law of robotics and killing a human being at the end of the movie. This movie made me sad to think of how a simple but pleasant to read story line could be so badly distorted on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Little humour and a dragging plot","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I felt this film wound its way through the plot in order to get to the end, rather than to tell a story.  This film needs a lot more editing to get to the essential elements.  I thought that there would be a lot more humour, so was disappointed with the content.  A well made film with a good story let down by dragging plot. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the book - dreadful.","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Don't let this movie put you off reading Asimov.This is a dreadful film. My disappointment started as soon as I saw the robot's eyebrows move &#150; oh dear.I won't begin to list the contradictions as this long winded trite outing for Robin Williams meanders through a script which bears only a passing relationship to Asimov`s fine work. The odd rude word was so obviously added to the infantile dialogue to ensure that it didn't get the U certificate is rightly deserved. Watching this film is like trying to walk through a field of sickly knee deep syrup.Don't watch the film, instead go and get `I Robot', `Caves of Steel' and `Bicentennial Man' by Isaac Asimov and read the stories, they are riveting entertainment. "},{"Title":"Mediocre,unrealistic film that takes forever","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was way too long!!! Besides its long minutes this film is downright depressing and mushy!! When I went to see it I thought to myself What the hell is this?!,it is so long and mediocre!!The film wears out its welcome very quick! And I also thought Did Robin Williams even question the scripts mentality?! And I do not think that the film's theme is realistic, I mean robots? Please,Give me a break! And hasn't this type of movie already been covered before? "}{"Title":"Poor movie, disregards the majestic novel","Date":"23 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Horrible. I had watched the movie, anticipating it to be the presentation of Isaac Asimov and Robert Silverberg's extraordinary novel. Instead, I was struck with grief to see the movie violate and humiliate the story. The movie takes everything that the novel had given us, throws it out of the window, and replaces that with a platter full of nonsensical comedy. Whereas the book was about a deep struggle for Andrew's rise to creativity, ambition and hope to achieve his humanity, the movie makes it... a romantic movie? And a bad one at that! At the last scene, Galatea even violates the 1st Law due to an order, and we all know that the 1st takes precedence over the 2nd Law. "},{"Title":"Honor and Dignity return to the screen.","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robin Williams gives what may be one of his best performances ever when he portrays a seemingly innocent android, who after falling out of a window, (i.e. bumping his head), begins to grow emotionally towards the human condition. Interestingly enough movies like this have been done in the past, but not ones that contain such a profound element of innocence and honor intertwined with each other. His devotion to the family element shows through, and his never-ending drive to better himself is an inspiration to us all. Robin Williams can put himself in such a serious and sobering roll and yet still be funny. A ten on any scale and a wonderful part of any home movie collection. "},{"Title":"It's hard to believe that this movie wasn't even considered for an Oscar.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There is so much I can say about this film.  Bicentennial Man is full of creativity, depth, and feeling.  Never before has a film moved me as much as this splendid Robin Williams epic.  This slightly enhanced Pinochio theme of a non-human wanting very much to become human has been modernized to incorporate the idea of an android wanting to become human. 	Andrew (Williams) begins as a robot purchased by `Sir' played by Sam Neil who quickly becomes part of the family.  During the next few years, Andrew develops the ability to not only create and recreate, but also possess intelligence.  This film takes place over approx. 200 years, and follows the Martin family through 4 generations.   	While the rest of the cast is somewhat unoriginal, the role of Portia is rather brilliantly portrayed by Ebeth Davidtz.  Davidtz' ability to portray not only Portia, but her grandmother `lil Miss' is magnificent.  As always Oliver Platt delivers a very good performance as Rupert Burns, a scientist that Andrew finds and pairs up with to create modifications to help Andrew become more &#145;human'. 	After careful consideration, I must give Bicentennial Man my vote for best movie of 1999.  It has everything that American Beauty lacked-emotion, story, and great acting.  It is obvious to me that the Academy of Motion Pictures may have chose to not watch this movie.  If they had, they would have been engulfed in a motion picture event that happens only once in a lifetime.      "},{"Title":"Isaac Asimov would be appalled ...","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Isaac Asimov would be appalled to see the fate of his almost-human robot, Andrew Martin, at the hands of Hollywood, the great vulgarizer. Given a robot's longevity, what human ideal could be striven after in a way which human mortality and decay currently make impossible? Why, falling in love and having decades of great sex, that's what! The spirit which turned HEIDI into a police chase in 1937 is still alive and well. The orgasm may be the current godlet of choice in North America (especially Southern California), but Asimov's (and humanity's) vision is not quite so narrow. To be fair, the film does show, if obliquely, some of the tireless agape-style love which the First Law of Robotics implies. Asimov's Three Laws (see the Trivia section) are introduced in the first few minutes, as is right and proper, but they are never exploited as cunningly or as consistently as Asimov employed them. (SPOILER) For example, a very old Portia orders the robot Galatea to unplug her from life support after Andrew dies. She acquiesces promptly, without any argument or resistance, in complete defiance of the First Law (A robot may not harm a human being.). The scene could have been played, to great emotional effect, with Portia explaining that not permitting her to die, with Andrew gone, would in fact be allowing her to come to harm. And then there's the robot-as-nigger-of-the-world theme. By the Second Law, a robot must obey the command of any human. During Andrew's long odyssey to discover his own kind, did he never run into any humans who took advantage of his obedient robot nature? As the late Dr. Asimov himself said in the original Bicentennial Man story collection in 1976, I don't like to get tangled up with the visual media directly. They've got money, but that's all they've got. This film, unfortunately, opts for lightness and superficiality when it could be so much more profound. And it's a shame we don't get to see anyone impersonate the redoubtable Dr. Susan Calvin of U.S. Robotics. Nevertheless, the film's surface is admittedly gorgeous. Seeing how the future develops, the aircars and futuristic cityscapes, is a blast. The performances are good, especially Sam Neill as Sir and Oliver Platt as the lugubrious robotics genius whom Andrew finances and partners. But the film starts to go downhill into improbable territory pretty much as soon as Robin Williams gets skin.  "},{"Title":"It should have been better","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I did not know that Isaac Asimov had written this story until I looked it up on this site, then I was really disappointed. The actors were very good but the dialog in some areas was really awful. Robin Williams could not keep from making quips in a movie that shouldn't have them. I feel that the director is responsible for the slowness and poor interpretation of the story. The story drags on and he never makes you a believer.  "},{"Title":"If only the length did'nt feel like a bicentennial,too","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsBicentennial Man is overlong for a kid's oriented film.It could have been shorter by at least 20 minutes.I suppose an alibi for this overlengthieness could be that they did seem to be trying out a lot of new ideas here,some of which worked,some of which did'nt,like the best of them,I guess.The robot was quite impressive,but sadly moved a little too much throughout in a way I found unnervingly similar to the old Holland/Barrett commercials from the late eighties,with the brown,watercan headed guy,and his grey accomplice.Sam Neill gave an effectively moving performance as the head of the initial family who first own the tinman,as we see him grow through the ages,and become more attached to the robot as a real person ,rather than a simple creation.However,I was'nt entirely convinced by the robot's motivation behind becoming human.I could'nt see why he was'nt satisfied as the care-free creation he was,rather than as a human who could develop bad feelings towards people and things.The film was very funny in places too,especially at the beginning, and towards the end.It was a careful and observant mix of childish toilet humour,and more broad minded stuff.Towards the middle of the film,when the robot population has become an accepted part of the human race,is imaginative,and adds to the moving feel of the film,as we see robots who've crashed in an airplane crash ,and robots whose homes appear to have crashed down around them.The advanced Sci-Fi setting at the end is involving too.Ultimately,Bicentennial Man is an interesting collection of ideas ,which,though mostly successful,don't always blend well together.*** "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie (Spoilers)","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I get annoyed when I read how simplistic this movie is-- that it is a merely a Pinocchio-style fairy tale. It seems to me more of a tale of self-identity.While at times, this movie is slow and some of the humor falls flat, its depth of vision into the human psyche is very satisfying. Granted, I was somewhat lukewarm on the movie when I first saw it in the theater... but after some time to think about it and a second viewing makes this a movie that I will keep in my DVD collection.Some memorable parts (SPOILERS) When Andrew and 'Sir' are in the robot factory office the second time and wants the expression update so he can show his emotions. The robotics employee (CEO?) wishes to charge an exorbitant amount of money, which is Andrew's monthly salary. The response of Not bad for a...what did you call him? A household appliance? And the best line The first time Andrew addresses the court about being declared a human and is rejected. His response of One is glad to be of service is so poignant.I give it an 8 of 10  "},{"Title":"Starts strong but dies at the end","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  &#145;Bicentennial Man' is a Sci-Fi comedy that turns into a Sci-Fi romance and then shoots for deep philosophical drama on death and dying.  It overreaches its capabilities and can't seem to pull it all together.  It seems that the more human Andrew became, the worse the film got.This is based on Isaac Asimov's short story about a robot named Andrew (Robin Williams) whose flawed programming makes him obsessed with becoming human.  It shows his relationship with four generations of the Martin family and his various upgrades toward humanhood.  The first part of the film is engaging and droll.  Williams is at his best when he is doing offbeat comedy, and this segment had a warm kind of comedy that was enchanting.By the time the film progressed to the romance between Andrew and Portia, it had used up its charm.  It became contrived and implausible.  Williams is beyond his talents as a romantic lead and all the romantic scenes were forced and awkward.  As the film moved towards the ending, Andrew wasn't the only thing getting moribund.  The entire film began to decay.Director Chris Columbus did some excellent work in the area of makeup.  The robot costumes and the aging makeup was wonderfully done.  Unfortunately, much was lacking in the costumes and sets as the decades went by.  As time passed, nothing seemed to change as regards dress and sets.  We are led to believe that 200 years hence, everything will look pretty much the way it looks today.  Think of the difference between dress in 1800 and today.  Shouldn't we expect changes of similar magnitude over the next 200 years?  Apparently not in Columbus' mind.  The only indications that it wasn't the 20th century were a couple of futuristic blue screen city backdrops and that's about it.  Very unimaginative.Sam Neill was marvelous as the Martin patriarch.  He gave the father wisdom, character and a strong guiding hand.  Embeth Davidtz was lovely but a little tentative at times as Portia.  She was stronger as Little Miss, which required more warmth than dynamism.  Williams was very good at the start, but as the water got deeper, he floundered.  He needs to stay with wacky comedy roles and stop pretending he is a dramatic/romantic lead.  Oliver Platt was great fun as the eccentic inventor who develops Andrew's upgrades.There was a lot to enjoy about this film.  It was delightfully warm and schmaltzy even though it did outlive its allure by the end.  If you are the sentimental type, you will probably enjoy it.  If you are expecting side splitting comedy or good Sci-Fi, forget it.  I rate it a 7/10.   "},{"Title":"Unspeakable","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As far as I am concerned, there is no excuse for a movie like this.  Neither the director nor the actors lack talent, and yet what a miserable film they have managed to concoct!  I can see why some people might like Bicentennial Man, but I was infuriated by the absence of any shred of subtlety or shame in the relentless succession of heartwarming scenes the film forced me to endure.  I hated Bicentennial Man even worse than Patch Adams, and that is really saying a lot. "},{"Title":"One did not like this one","Date":"29 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  One did not like this movie.  One found it to be totally lacking of any genuine insight or originality.  One realizes that one was supposed to feel sad and touched by this movie, but one was more touched by the Police Academy movies.  One thinks that beautiful actresses (Embeth Davidtz, Monica Potter from Patch Adams) and talented actors (Oliver Platt, and Philip Seymour Hoffman from Patch) will have to start a support group for those whose careers have had to suffer through a Robin Williams How I am a better Human than You type movie. One could not understand why Sir (Sam Neill's character) would think the audience is so dumb that he would have to say to Andrew Martin (Robin Williams) You stopped referring to yourself as One when the constant referral of one's self as One was extremely irritating to this viewer (er...one). It's like pointing out that someone has finally stopped dragging their fingernails across a chalkboard for 40 minutes.  One would notice that one's self, Sir.  One is grateful that Hallie Kate Eisenberg was in this for a relatively short time.  One thinks that is the only good decision Chris Columbus made regarding this movie.  One found the humor completely lame and it seems that the actors (besides Williams) did too b/c their laughter was extremely fake.  One thought that the female robot dancing to A Little Respect by Aretha Franklin was the most horrifyingly awful 15 seconds of cinema ever produced.  One found the characters to be one-dimensional, especially those who hate the android for no reason other than the trite script requires them to hate Andrew.  One especially did not like Andrew, b/c he falls in love with someone only because they look exactly like her grandmother who he was in love with.  Also b/c he insults a rival for his love based on physical appearance, and not the rival's character.One considers this movie to be cinematic wallpaper.  A completely flat, monotonous dreadful movie that should only be seen if it is playing in the background of another, better movie.Finally, yes you guessed it, One gives this movie a 1 out of 10. "}{"Title":"intriguing Asimov concept told flatly by Columbus","Date":"30 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the not too distant future, Richard Martin (Sam Neill) buys a robot for his home. His wife (Wendy Crewson) isn't so sure. His daughter Grace tells the younger sister Amanda that it's an android. Amanda can't quite say the word Android and instead says Andrew. From then on, the robot is named Andrew (Robin Williams). Grace commands Andrew to jump out of the window and Richard tells the children to treat Andrew as a person from then on. Richard notices signs of individual creativity in Andrew and brings it back to the company. Dennis Mansky (Stephen Root) wants to disassembles Andrew but Richard refuses. The Martins go on a lifelong journey to nurture Andrew's individuality as he/it becomes more human. Adult Amanda (Embeth Davidtz) pushes to treat Andrew as a person and even granting him his freedom. Andrew discovers inventor Rupert Burns (Oliver Platt) who's father was the original designer.There are some bad attempts at humor. There are also some better ones. There is a knock-knock sequence that is reminiscent of Abbott and Costello. However that is more of an exception in this movie. Mostly the movie feels overly sentimental and cheesy. It simply lacks tension and drama for the most part. Isaac Asimov stories don't usually have the cinematic feel. They are more about ideas than a thrill ride. This movie attempts to make an Asimov story that spans two centuries into a compelling drama. It is probably too high of a hurdle. Quite frankly, I don't think Chris Columbus has the edge to do it or the artistry to make it unique. I keep thinking that there are more compelling stories in the 200 years but Columbus could never find them. It becomes a rather flat telling of a story that has an intriguing big-time concept at its core. "},{"Title":"Another roller-coaster of emotions.","Date":"21 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ah, so Chris Columbus did Mrs. Doubtfire. Why didn't I know that, hence Robbin Willams. I have to admit I was blaming Spielberg for the emotional content. My goodness its heavy in places. I totally disagree about it being boring. Whoever watched this and was bored totally missed the point and must be devoid. The first part..as in Ai.. the family bit.. was very humorous, the music helped set the mood and the acting did the rest. It tugs heartstrings. For Andrew to be 'free' he has to leave the family circle. I didn't quite understand that but he had to 'find' himself.. I guess so. Yes, the 'Data' complex about having logic but not feelings or being human. Better to have loved, well, if one enjoys being torn apart when a relationship doesn't work.. having a feeling of contentment and then knowing its time to go, thats a different matter. Yes, a very well made film, many points touched on. Kept me enthralled all the way. Channel five just showed it and I always remember forgotten bits when on TV. I have these films on DVD but they get left on the shelf. Its good to be reminded. As I get older I find more of interest in them. Seems some people on the comments pages are younger,OK.. yes, everyone has the right to their own opinion. There have been some wonderful films over the last 40 odd years. Just remember the older films didn't have the technology. I loved asimovs books. I found them an easy read. Maybe thats an indication of my frame of mind. Robots will always fascinate.. some people have a fear of the unknown. I thought this film dealt fairly with the subject. Sam Neil seems to have cornered the market on understanding Fathers. But.. works very well. I was amazed at the tissues I got through!! "},{"Title":"A futuristic romance! Nice, though a little longish","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Earlier, when the Genre of Robots, Superheroes, etc got popular, movie makers pushed themselves to show how much more they could do in comparison with humans. In the recent movies, the trend towards humanizing them, with all flaws has become the in-thing. Bicentennial man is one such emotional flick.In a futuristic world, 2005 according to the movie, a humanoid robot NDR-114 enters the Martin house to a family of four. He is soon called Andrew. Originally designed to perform household tasks, Andrew displays extraordinary creativity designing objects from wood, something he wasnt designed for and soon builds a fortune that way. Time passes, children grow, younger little miss gets married, has kids.Andrew has read human history and wishes to seek freedom and thus parts ways with his owner Sir Martin. He only returns to him when the latter is on his deathbed. Andrew continues his friendship with Little Miss and with the support of her son, he goes ahead finding other NDRs to see if any of them were like him. This takes him to the laboratory of Rupert Barnes who is into advanced research to make Robots more human.A rich Andrew then funds Burns, obtains a human appearance, a la Robin Williams and returns to little miss. So much time has passed that he now encounters her young granddaughter Portia who resembles little miss. Time passes and he soon befriends Portia and falls in love with her. This time, with Burns help, he obtains a central nervous system, becomes more human and seeks to marry Portia.However, the wedding faces opposition since he is not declared human. With Portia at 75 and Andrew not willing to leave her, he injects blood into his system allowing his body to deteriorate, so that he can die human. In the end, both Andrew and Portia are on their deathbeds, way past their hundreds when the World Council acknowledges his humanness, he dies. By then, Andrew had spent 200 active years, thus bicentennial.A little more than two hours, the film seems to drag on since we see generations die, in fact four generations of Martins. Nevertheless, the special effects are well made and Robin Williams is really convincing as the Robot wanting to become human. Embeth Davidtz is very sweet as Little Miss & Portia. In the movie, I liked best the concept of creating artificial organs! How revolutionary if we could replace everything! "},{"Title":"I Can't Spit At You-I Don't Have Any Mucas Glands","Date":"16 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Issac Assimov is one of the great Science Fiction writers. Overall this effort to put his work on film falls short & is uneven at best. The make up & sets are very impressive but director Chris Columbus work is uneven.Robin Williams does the best he can with a silver suit handicapping him a fair part of the film & then establishing his human condition slowing him down the rest of it. His acting is OK, but since the script, even though dumbed down from Assimov's writing, does not have much crisp dialog he really can't shine too well.The supporting cast Embeth Davidtz, Sam Neil & Oilver Platt do a pretty fair job. There is one comic blackout sequence that is pretty funny involving a female robot in the lab singing Harold Arlens If I only Had A Heart that is classic. Thr trouble with this is that considering Issac Asimov died before it was made & it only slightly resembles his work, the film would have been much better if they had lightened it up & put in more comedy. The film very much looks like they put in just enough comedy for the previews which seems to happen in too many of Robins Williams films.Overall, the ending is a necessary downer as Asimov's work often is, but because of this & the fact the script doesn't really get the viewer involved enough to get out too many hankies, it makes it seem very flat at the end. This is half a good film that really could have been much better if the film only had a heart as that is what is missing here. "},{"Title":"Very warm, filled with love, surprisingly believable","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I sat to watch this movie with a little doubt. A robot that wants to be a man, we have seen some nice tries for that one... However, I was happily surprised how cleverly the whole thing was built up from step to step. Of course you cannot completely forget that it is a tale, but I almost did! I never felt the steps of the robot on the ladder of becoming a man too sudden. Always baby steps, therefore the whole thing became more or less believable.The other important thing that this movie has tons of LOVE. Not love between man and woman. Love between persons. It is very rare, I think. Films introduce love in the form of some kind of passion, and all the emotions are built upon that passion. I don't say that's bad, but I doubt that love is all about that. It was a relief to see a movie where love between man and woman is also based upon something else friendship. Beautiful! And this friendship filled every second of the movie. It gave a very warm atmosphere around the basic story of the robot becoming a man.Some say that every movie has to have at least one bad guy, otherwise it is boring. I totally disagree with that. It it so good to find a movie where every main character is good. This is one of those movies.Finally, the ending is positive. I feel it important to mention because in my opinion it is really hard to make a movie beautiful AND with happy ending in the same time. That's why most of the beautiful stories end sadly. This one doesn't. Congratulations to the director! "},{"Title":"It can be very touching at times, as well as very sappy and corny.","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Bicentennial Man is the kind of movie in which you have to sit down and think about the the characters, and the prejudice in todays society. Robin Williams gives a mediocre performance that can be very good at times, and make you feel for his character. And other times he can be very annoying and bug the hell out of you. I say his Razzie Award nomination was justified. He gives a half good and a half bad performance. The rest of the cast fit well into their roles, and give good performances. The movie can become very slow at times, and make you want to fall asleep, but there are the excellent special effects that holds your attention. The makeup design is excellent for the aging of Williams character and everybody else. James Honor has once again given us a great movie score to fall in love with. Overall, an above average movie that can be very entertaining, and very sappy at times due to the scripts poorly written love story that takes over the second part of the movie. Unlike the people who love this movie, I didn't find that part convincing, and felt rushed at times. I didn't buy it. "},{"Title":"Robotic brilliance.","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This Film for me, is sheer brilliance. Science fiction at it's best. I quite liked that girl android, she had an amazing voice. I would ask her to talk to me all day, I could tell her my thoughts and feelings and get her to tidy up after me! also I quite liked Robbie Williams as Andrew. He was so clever at all things. I also liked all those clocks and when he repaired that old Gramophone! I also thought that all the special ageing effects where very realistic and Elisepeth Davidz was a good actress. I wish that I could purchase that Girl robot complete with that voice! she was a good mover in dancing I would programme her with my favourite music such as, E.L.O. and Dido and all my CD collection. I would also need that remote control so that I could turn her off!!!! if I got fed up with her constant rabbiting! I also liked Sam Neil I remember him from Jurassic Park! these films I shall be reviewing in due course. "},{"Title":"The 3 laws and freedom.","Date":"30 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think Andrew needed to escape the 3 laws and to do that he had to become a true human in order to free himself, that is why he needed the approval of the world, he took the good of humanity (love, feelings etc...) and the bad(mortality) all in order to be free. In fact he is only entirely human the moment he dies, just remember when she says to him Why do you need the councils approval? and he responds I started my existence as a robot I still like to be told certain things. and he lets himself die before hearing of the decision.I am not entirely sure for how long he was human but in his last moments he definitely was. Perhaps from the moment he fell in love? "},{"Title":"I, Robot and Bicentennial Man","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" So the three laws have been discussed and create the perfect paradox. What is interesting in this movie is that laws a disregarded a few times.I, robot and this movie both are based on the same principles. Strange how each director has taken their own movie in such different directions. The future was much more believable in I, robot than in Bicentannial man. The music would have retained itself as classic but more futuristic music should have been presented. The street merchants did not seem to evolve into the future.So much more to deconstruct. "},{"Title":"beautifully made","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robin Williams leads an outstanding cast in Bicentennial Man, one of the most spectacular films that I have seen. Bicentennial Man is movie for those who ever dared to dream and believed in accomplishing them. Williams is Andrew a robot who gains emotions over the years, who eventually wants to become human.Williams seems to perfect for this role because for most of his career, he has played roles geared toward children. The performance by Embeth Davidtz seemed to be overshadowed by that of Williams; however, I just want to point out that I think she could not have pulled off a performance of two people much better than she had. I must say this is her breakout performance.This is truly a heart-warming film laced with heart, love and the human spirit. I cannot believe how perfectly executed Bicentennial Man was from the dialogue to the setting and plot. The whole movie was excellent and well-worth the rental price.  "}{"Title":"robots can be boring","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is too long and too sentimental. The costumes and scenery are good but the screenplay is stiff and predictable. The story could be interesting with some reference to human survival instead of making it so special to be human. I don't care for Asminov's writing  but I do like Robert Silverberg. It would be nice to see a movie made from one of his books. "},{"Title":"Much Better than Spielberg's A.I. Artificial Intelligence","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man is a 200-year journey in the 131-minute film. I can't forget comparing this to Spielberg's A.I. film because both movie offer robots who can think, love, and care (like human). Let me get this straight, this is definitely a better film. No questions ask.The movie is much Better than Steven Spielberg's A.I. Artificial Intelligence. "},{"Title":"To all of you who diss this film - enjoy your empty lives!","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Such a companion piece to AI ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE.  Its a film for the emotionally converted, not the wannabe johnny-come-lately new-age thinkers who see flaws, irrelevancies and inconsistencies. Columbus can't direct huh?  out of his depth you think? Lost control of the future you reckon? Well guys...you still got STUDIO 54, GOLDMEMBER and RIDING IN CARS WITH BOYS if you want to keep in touch with the new millennium!This is a majorly intelligent expansion on Asimov's short story. Doubtless all of you that have trashed this movie could have come up with a more meaningful and cranially superior interpretation yourself.. Yeah right!  They said the same about AI.The film if nothing else, is a thought-provoking masterpiece or did you MISS that bit? I don't really care - I found it totally absorbing! "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood trivialization of a great theme","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Unfortunately, after watching this movie, I'm left with a very bad taste and regret that a great short story (I never came across to read the expanded version that Silverberg put together) was not treated properly.In fact, the last thirty minutes really ruin what otherwise could have still been a great movie. In the literary version, Andrew's wish to become human is not linked to emotional attachment. That was Columbus' add-on. They probably thought Mmmmkay, now how would the audience really get the message that Andrew wants to be human, WITHOUT having to think too much? It seems that unless you create a romantic interest nowadays, the Hollywood moguls will think that their products will not raise interest from the masses. That will probably explain, also, movies like the 2001 remake of The Count of Monte-Cristo, which similarly ravage a literary gem, reducing it to a mere triangle, and putting love above all. Or why did the filmmakers ask the terribly corny Celine Dion to sing over the Bicentennial Man's credits, in a rip-off of the Titanic theme...The short story could've even made for a great legal thriller - in a sense, most of Andrew's existence is spent in courts, winning little by little the acknowledgment that he is a person. The sad part is that some of us will probably live to see such trials for good, in a few decades, and rather than pay hommage to Asimov's clairvoyance, we will have some hazy impressions of a soapy film.The implications were also fascinating. Asimov sees Andrew as backed up by a corporation If a man had died, the firm of Feingold and Martin lived, for a corporation does not die any more than a robot does. The firm had its directions and it followed them soullessly. By way of the trust and through the law firm, Andrew continued to be wealthy. His metamorphoses are gradual, and occur much slower than in the film - and they are not taking place in a makeshift lab, led by some maniacal, anti-social geek - another romantic cliche too dear to Hollywood, which simply cannot comprehend the idea that the Frankenstein image is dated...Here's another sample from Asimov's work Andrew says I have the shape of a human being and organs equivalent to those of a human being. My organs, in fact, are identical to some of those in a prosthetized human being. I have contributed artistically, literally, and scientifically to human culture as much as any human being now alive. What more can one ask? So, instead of spending his eternity courting a girl and making jealous scenes (like in the movie), Andrew actively makes the world a better place, acting in not just one (prosthetics), but several directions. Wow! Now, why wasn't that photogenic enough for Columbus and Co. ?Here's another example In the story, Andrew's lawyer tells him We've done two things, Andrew, both of which are good. First of all, we have established the fact that no number of artificial parts in the human body causes it to cease being a human body. Secondly, we have engaged public opinion in the question in such a way as to put it fiercely on the side of a broad interpretation of humanity, since there is not a human being in existence who does not hope for prosthetics if they will keep him alive. Now, these are issues that are becoming as important and striking as humanity itself. Some of those who still read books will remember that the French writer Vercors raised the same issues regarding the definition of humanity in one of his novels, Les animales denatures. These are truly important themes that need to be discussed much more than they are...Last but not least, the film embodies another Hollywood cliche, which I want to criticize harshly. Why is it that so many movies lately (meaning in the past 20 years), have been pedalling on the idea that death is inevitable, that it has to be embraced, that it is the order of things, and so on? The best - and ludicrous - example was the case of Cocoon 2 The Return, in which we were treated to similar ideas, but which simply demolished the original film and its characters. Why do filmmakers need to pound us over the head with the idea that even 200 years into the future will people choose to die after living the same 75 years as today? Do they think humans cannot produce and enrich their lives - and those of others -  while enjoying a longer span? Not to mention that, in this particular case, THIS BLATANTLY CONTRADICTS ASIMOV'S CENTRAL THEME! Andrew Martin helps people live longer so that they can enjoy life and be happy, and he is, in a sense, sacrificing himself, refusing to follow the same destiny which he brilliantly offered others, but dying happy, knowing that he was officially recognized as a man - while the film steals even this from him.These, and other shortcomings, make Bicentennial Man a cute movie, but one that is as forgettable as an episode of Friends. I wonder if Asimov would have approved of it. This film could have been a second Blade Runner, not your average silly Comedy/Romance...  I guess those are choices that were made for us, by the men who tell us, through their on-screen characters, that To be human is to make mistakes. Wonderful, guys, you just brilliantly proved your humanity!Note All the quotes from Mr. Asimov's The Bicenntenial Man are given here strictly for educational purposes, and therefore do not legally constitute a copyright infringement.  "},{"Title":"Aims high but doesn't quite cut it.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man is an enjoyable is somewhat predictable movie about a robot wanting to become alive, helped out (actually more like saved from oblivion) by Robin Williams humor and a few touching moments.However, there's cliches aplenty and the usual holes in the plot, as follows**************Spoiler Warning*****************The robot that becomes Robin Williams just becomes intelligent by chance--one of the oldest ideas in the book, and just as silly now as when it was first cooked up.  A robot coming off the assembly line wouldn't somehow become magically alive any more than a toaster or computer.  It'd be more likely a company or scientist striving for years might hit on intelligence, but enough of that....All the story takes place in a soap bubble.  It's not a question of if our hero becomes human but how long it takes.  There's none of the social upheavals, cultural changes, or disasters that would happen in the two hundred or so years the story covers.  Society simply putters along and Robin replaces all his parts until he's flesh and blood. Similarly, his romantic interest decides she doesn't want to continue because it just doesn't feel right, not because she's lived beyond her family or place in time.  Some serious consideration of the philosophy or meaning of humanity would have helped the story greatly, rather than the robot deciding aging and dying would make him human.Despite this, there are some very touching moments between the robot and his eventual wife, and again Williams's humor.  It's too bad the movie isn't much more than skin deep. "},{"Title":"Presumptuous - read Asimov instead","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With Robin Williams and Isaac Asimov involved, i had big expectations on this movie. Sometimes this is good, sometimes it is not. This time it wasn't. Probably this screenplay writer with big ideas said something like hey, Asimov is so old-styled... no sex, not a good laugh, no romance, how could people buy tickets for this boring stuff?. Sure, let's refresh Asimov and make it better. UURRGGH!!! Don't, don't, DON'T see this movie if you loved the novel as i did. Please. "},{"Title":"Good Re-make of Electric Grandmother","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"      There is no way to deny that this movie was  inspired by the short children's  story The Electric Grandmother!. However, it goes a lot further than E.G..    I liked this movie  for the emotion expressed and believe it will be a favorite among many, but give it only a 2 point edge above average because is is SO SLOW!    Understand this though,  This is a movie worth viewing (especially since it is very unlikely that you ever heard of the original The Electric Grandmother anyway. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Some people gave this movie bad reviews and comments, and at first I was hesitant to see it because of the lukewarm publicity. However, I eventually did see the movie and really liked it. Sam Neill, Elizabeth Davidtz, and Robin Williams were all excellent in this heartwarming tale about and android who shows signs of sentience and creativity who wants to become an ordinary guy. I liked what I saw of it, and there were several humorous scenes as well.*** out of ****  "},{"Title":"One that won't survive the Bicentennial.....","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The many talents of Robin Williams are greatly restricted (shall we say wasted?) by this film, partly because of the costume and partly because of the script.  The story starts out with a simple premise but gets too complicated and drags on for too long before a not-very-satisfactory conclusion finally arrives.  Many of the actors don't put much feeling into their performances, again partly because the script is rather bland.  In all, not very memorable......... "},{"Title":"Not Robin Williams best but it was entertaining.","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie wasn't Robin William's best movie.  there were some jokes that I laughed at but his acting could have been better and why did they put the girl from the Pepsi commerical in this movie? but the one performance that I liked was Sam Neill's for some odd reason.I'm not saying this movie sucked. I liked it. It had a good screen play great background's for futuristic cities.It's a good movie for the kids. I don't know if the grownup's would like it though. "}{"Title":"Great Sunday afternoon movie","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have seen this film multiple times. I love the whole concept of going from android to human. If such technology existed the human race could live for ever. Not that is a good idea. Meaning I don't think one should live forever. But overall it was a great movie with sad and happy moments that keep you watching and wanting more. I recommend this to all people. One is happy to be of service. Robin Williams is a great actor. He has played many roles in his life. He always gives his characters his full effort to come to life on the screen and in your hearts. I consider this one of my lazy Sunday afternoon movies. Just to sit around and enjoy the aspect of a great movie. "},{"Title":"Could you fix this piece of s**t? That is the perfect slogan for this film. How an amazing story be Isaac Asimov become a romcom?","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film was based on Issac Asimov's story of the same name. The Martin's family buys a new member of their family &#x96; a domestic robot called Andrew. He follows the three laws of robotics devised by Isaac Asimov. He makes all the housework, and, little by little, absorbs human's quality. He got a ribbon face, then skin and hair, then a nervous system, artificial organs and finally decided to make a blood transfusion. Quiet interesting, but the love storyline spoils everything &#x96; Andrew in the film becomes and awkward creature. This film was based on Issac Asimov's story of the same name. The story in the film is completely differs from the original one. Andrew in the book didn't behave himself like an idiot, he didn't tell stupid jokes, he didn't fell in love with a woman &#x96; he just wanted to achieve humanity, just to be free &#x96; that was the main point of the book. Robin Williams is a very good actor but acting is not enough to make a good film. "},{"Title":"Excellent performance for Williams","Date":"21 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A movie that was designed to make you think about what's important in life--the everyday elements we all take for granted. Robin Williams throws his heart 100% into this role, and perhaps does even too well for the story's own good; at the end of the movie you feel emotionally exhausted.Williams stars as a robot who desires life itself. Even as his well designed machinery continues to function, year by year, decade by decade, those he loves start to age. Then die. He bonds with new people, and the awful cycle repeats. He embarks on a pilgrimage of self discovery, encountering sorrow and pain wherever he goes. Humans try to help him upgrade and gain humanity in this way. Same result more of his human companions age and die.This had to be one of the most depressing, emotionally draining theater experiences I ever had, watching this poor guy endure all this suffering.Through it all, the Bicentennial Man holds on to his Pinnochio style dream life. I think Williams was sensational, as were his co-stars and supporting cast. There is great empathy for this unfortunate creature, but the film leaves you with a very pessimistic view where your mortality is concerned I believe this is the exact opposite of what the film sets out to do.Worth a watch to form your own conclusions. But don't watch if you're already in a depressed mood; the result could be toxic. "},{"Title":"ROBIN flies like an eagle","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" ANDREW MARTIN CREATED April 3, 2005( Sunrise, sunset, sunrise, sunset . . . ) BICENTENNIAL MAN A PROFOUND MOTION PICTURE by Chris Columbus, starring Robin Williams(Is this the little girl I carried? Is this the little boy at play?) MORE THAN A SIMPLE FAIRY TALE the subtle inferences and nuances are everywhere, look again.(I don't remember growing older, When did they?)GROWING OLDER IS NOT A CHOICE even fairy tales play that way or so the story goes.(When did she get to be a beauty? When did he grow to be so tall? Wasn't it yesterday when they were small?) I WISH I WERE 18 AGAIN, but you only go around once and making wrong choices is better than making none.(Sunrise sunset, sunrise, sunset, Swiftly flow the days, Seedlings turn overnight to sunflowers, Blossoming even as they gaze . . .) THE LESSONS HERE SPAN THE GENERATIONS and although clich, love and persistence triumph.(Sunrise sunset, sunrise, sunset! Swiftly fly the years, One season following another, Laden with happiness and tears . . .) CHANGE BEFALLS US ALL but prejudice endures.(One season following another, Laden with happiness and tears . . .) THE FLAW IS only in the movies does prejudice lose.( Sunrise, sunset, sunrise, sunset . . . ) ANDREW MARTIN DIED April 3, 2205 this planet should last so long... "},{"Title":"Columbus! You're a dead man!","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so if I had to take the PINK tablets then surely the RED tablets are the same only more potent, right? That does make sense to you doesn't it?Firstly, Chris Columbus is a DEAD MAN! That right Chris, you've pushed my buttons once too often, especially after &#145;Mrs Doubtfire' and then &#145;Adventures in Babysitting'. But I digress, so I'll go back to the beginning, which was last Sunday afternoon&#133;I'm watching TV as Richie goes through my mum's stuff for any inflammatory items capable of causing &#145;psychotic resurgence' as he calls it. That's normally stuff like money or jewellery, but he once confiscated my MP3 player and was going to take my PC as well. Luckily without those things Richie says I won't &#145;go freaking nuts' again, and also because of the pink pills he gives me. As usual he's always on the phone, but starts to get all nervous. Something about a yard or some yards, or something and some turf. Anyway he says he's got to go back to the hospital and gives me the last of the pink pills and puts on &#145;Bicentennial Man' for me to watch, telling me not to move.The first thing I notice as Richie leaves is that CHRIS COLUMBUS has made this film. That brings back the bad feelings I used to have, but I'm better now so I don't mind. Then I see that it stars Robin Williams as a robot, which kind of makes me feel strange and I remember a Virgin Airways flight, and something about an emergency landing. But I'm cool, I'm chilled, I'm making progress so these things don't bother me.Then the robot falls out of a window.HELLO? HELLO CHRIS? That's what happened to me at Shelley's house! Well, not exactly what happened, a young girl didn't tell me to jump out of the window an ex Royal Marine punched me through it, but it's just the sort of artistic licence that Columbus takes when transferring my life to film.So obviously I'm getting angry and realise that I've run out of pink tablets because Richie's sold half of them. Luckily he'd left his duffle bag so I quickly search through it but can't find any pink ones. Red, yellow, green, blue, orange, my mum's purse, brown and white, but not pink, although like I said I was getting angry, so logically red. Right?I gulped them down with some of my mum's sherry and began watching the film again. That's when I realised that Chris Columbus had been moving my mum's furniture. Not much, just enough for me to notice. At that moment I had a horrible feeling that the director of &#145;Mrs Doubtfire' was hiding somewhere in my mum's house. Logically I armed myself with a saucepan and went looking for him, just as the robot on TV turned into Robin Williams and started spying on girls at parties. I SPY ON GIRLS AT PARTIES!That made me really, really angry, just as I heard the front door open and guess who staggers in? CHRIS COLUMBUS disguised as a terrified looking Richie. Moments later he looked concussed and collapsed onto the street, where some people (who I think were members of the &#145;So Solid Crew') bundled him into the back of a van. I thought it strange that they had something against Chris Columbus, although maybe he'd been stalking them too, but they said thanks and drove off. To be honest, I was just relieved that I could finally relax having vanquished my Nemesis.The ending of the film was quite good, because the robot had become a man, although if I were a robot I'd want to stay a robot. Obviously I wouldn't want to be a servant robot like Robin Williams was, but like the ABC Warrior in Judge Dredd.`DEREK PALMERS. I AM A ROBOT. YOUR KOALA RELATED DRUG CHARGES DO NOT APPLY TO ME. EXTERMINATE! EXTERMINATE!'  "},{"Title":"Disappointment...","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  That about sums up my feelings regarding this movie.  I've read the short story (by Asimov) that this movie was based on several times.  It's one of my favorites.  As soon as I discovered that this movie was in production, I eagerly awaited it's release.  Now I'm sorry I saw it, since it will now be difficult for me to get the images from the movie out of my head next time I read Bicentennial Man.I may be mistaken, but I don't believe that the line from the original story introducing Andrew as the Bicentennial Man was even used in the movie. This was essentially the climax of the original story, and still sends a shiver through me when I read it.  I didn't have anywhere near the same feeling after seeing this movie as I've had after each reading of the story.If you are a fan of the original story, and have not seen this movie, don't! Rent A.I. instead.Fled  "},{"Title":"Silly Robo-Human Lovestory","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The move The Bicentennial Man starts out as a pretty good movie, the story is intruiging and feels like a Disney movie. The story is rather gay, and becomes even more ridiculous when you realize that this movie is all about a Robot which develops feelings of love and the dilemma it creates. The movie has a few occasions and scenes that are entertaining, but all in all this is just a silly movie about a ugly robot which, due to a malfunction, has feelings. It briefly touches the issue of immortality and which problems this might create, but doesn't have anything overly interesting to say. My advice to you is that unless you are looking for a utterly stupid lovestory you shouldn't watch this movie even if it was free. "},{"Title":"This is a BAD movie","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Bicentennial Man on PPV two weeks ago and I couldn't believe how superficial it was.  It begins with a promising story line about when does or if artificial intelligence actually become human.  But the story just simply turns into a kind of romantic comedy that drags very badly probably because it takes place over 200 years.  This film did not come close to giving an idea of what it is like to be human.  Also, there weren't any interesting characters in the entire film making it impossible to become connected to the story.Overall I give it a 2 out of 10.  Just wait until A.I. comes out next year and I guarantee you will see a much more intelligent film.   "},{"Title":"Bad!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  You had better like Robin Williams, dragging scripts, and unbelievable science fiction a lot in order to appreciate this one. I was mad I had paid so much for the tickets and I would have walked out had the kids I took that day to the movie not demanded that we stay to the finish.  The only nice part is a mansion and a cute female robot.  I am sure Isac Assimov's script was okay for sci-fi lovers, but this movie is a mistake.It's also time for some new actors.  Quite frankly, I'm starting to get sick of Robin Williams. There are other actors, and he should give them a chance. But you will like this movie if you liked Flubber. "},{"Title":"Just a rehash of the classic Pinocchio story.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even though this film was badly lacking in the originality department, it had its redeeming values. The special effects were fairly well-done, the story was well-told, and Oliver Platt (as usual) was for some reason a lot of fun to watch. Overall, however, it was entirely too long, and it was hard to believe that it would be so easy for humans to fall romantically in love with a character like Andrew, whether he was human or not.This seemed to be a vehicle for Robin Williams to exercise his comedic skills, but he just didn't get to do as much of that as he probably should have to make this a much more entertaining movie. The majority of the audience will walk into a Robin Williams film expecting at least a few side-splitting laughs, but instead, with Bicentennial Man we are surprised with an emotional and at some points heart-wrenching story about a human trapped inside a robot and cursed with endless life. The film is entertaining and worth watching, but Williams is a much better comedian than dramatist. "}{"Title":"Sugar-coated science fiction","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again, Chris Columbus proves he is adequate in both comedy and pathos in a film that works on at least the comedy level. The photography and effects are good and the script is both endearing and funny. However Williams, although competent in the role of an emotional robot, is often unable to bring much-needed depth to his character and is outclassed by the only supporting actor worthy of note - Sam Neill. Furthermore, Embeth Davidtz is wooden and two-dimensional and the other characters are too short-lived to be of interest. The film is 20 minutes too long and the direction fails to ignite certain key scenes, the overall effect being of a gentle, un-demanding ramble through 200 years of a robot's life. Such a shame that the framework for a modern classic is all there but the filling is syrup and not substance. Nevertheless, kids will enjoy the humour and adults will smile warmly to themselves as the credits roll. "},{"Title":"The movie itself took two hundred years ...","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I was leery the second I took a seat.  I haven't trusted a movie with Robin Williams in it for the last five years, and when I saw he was in Bicentennial Man I immediately thought it would be awful.I was right.The first hour or so of the movie was pure bliss!  Andrew trying to act human and 'Little Miss' (played by the little Pepsi girl *hehe*) was perfect, and I enjoyed Sam Neill (of Jurassic Park and Merlin fame) as Sir.  That was great.  But as time wore on, the movie got worse.  Part of that comes from the fact that it never wants to end; as soon as something begins to resolve itself, you think Ah, it's over soon only to find the movie start a whole next chapter.  It's tedious, boring, and a repeat of what's already happened, just slicked up to make it look different.It FELT like two hundred years had gone by because the movie didn't know when to resolve itself.  It was all climax but no finish.  Also, way, way, WAY too much sex talk, and too explicit.  God, I had to see this with my parents, my little sisters, and my grandmother, so don't let the PG-13 rating fool you.  I was expecting something more appropriate for the whole family, not having to listen to talk about sperm and to see a love scene while my 7 year-old kid sister sits to my left and my grandmother on the right.After a while, you just wish Andrew would stop getting tiny little improvements to became a 'real' human and just do it all at once.  This way, the audience doesn't have to watch two hundred years crammed into two and a half hours (though it feels much MUCH longer).  And I won't give away the ending, knowing how people hate spoilers, but trust me when I say it is SO anti-climax you want to sob, or at least demand your money back.  Oh, where did you go, Mrs. Doubtfire? "},{"Title":"A disappointing adaptation that veers between so-so comedy and so-so drama","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The core of Bicentennial Man we know from Pinocchio something made in the shape of a man discovers it desires to become a real man and has many adventures and setbacks along its journey. By following this journey we learn what the storyteller wishes us to know about what it means to be human.The Isaac Asimov novella (and the later novel with Robert Silverberg) is one story among many that are set in a future history during which the development of humanoid robots results in a number of societal and ethical conflicts. The movie, standing alone, all but ignores the wider issues while being faithful, in part, to the original story. Unfortunately, because it ignores the wider issues, the movie ends up being somewhat shallow.The movie opens with the arrival of a domestic robot at the home of the Martin family. Christened Andrew by the youngest daughter, Little Miss, the robot quickly becomes janitor, chef and nanny but not without tension in the family. Andrew, played by Robin Williams in a rather nice metal outfit, appears programmed to resort to imitation in learning human pleasantries and tends to hover annoyingly when not doing anything. While subservient, and apologetic, to its owners, one soon wonders why Andrew wasn't programmed to ask questions like Would Ma'am prefer to serve breakfast herself? instead of getting in the way.Nevertheless, the Martins become used to Andrew and soon discover that he seems to be somewhat different from other domestic robots of his type. He displays a surprising self-motivation, artistic talent and appreciation for music, art and literature. The family realizes that he has the desire and capacity to learn beyond his programming and encourage this. As the years go by, Andrew learns the concept and develops a desire for freedom. His request is met with consternation but is granted and Andrew--Andrew Martin--truly begins his journey to becoming a man.It is at this point that the movie begins to stray from the original story Andrew begins a journey to find other robots of his kind, seeking the companionship of his own kind; he discovers an eccentric genius, who alters his body to become more human in appearance; and, he meets a descendant of the Martins, to whom Andrew becomes close and with whom he learns more of what it means to be human.While the changes may have been more cinematic, I felt they failed to take on the challenge of portraying the consequences of Andrew's goal. Instead of exploring the questions of what it means to be human we are given some predictable emotional scenes--strange, when it is not clear Andrew has emotions. When Andrew makes his desires public, there should be some reaction from the population. We are also introduced to Galatea, another robot similar to Andrew, who takes over the comedic role in the latter half of the movie. Galatea was so irritating and even less competent than the early scenes of Andrew that I was rooting for her to be caught and dismantled during one scene.Because the Asimov story is a favorite of mine, I was apprehensive at a theatrical adaptation. I did like that the world of the future was portrayed with matte shots and few props. More would have distracted us from the story although it would have been nice to see a few other kinds of robots instead of people dressed strangely.I was annoyed that the movie took the time to (loudly) introduce Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics, the immutable programming that all robots are governed by, at the beginning of the movie but have the plot and actions of the robots conveniently ignore them to advance the story. It would have been better not to introduce them at all or have changed the script. It became so flagrant that it took away from my enjoyment of the movie.On the other hand, I believe Robin Williams was a good choice to play Andrew. While he is in the metal suit, and later out of it, he is talented enough to control is body language and delivery to make him look and sound believable as Andrew Martin. And while it is funny to watch Robin Williams perform some light comedy and slapstick to liven things up, the movie meanders between that and the so-so drama of Andrew's growth and journey that I felt Williams' talent was wasted.IMDb vote 5  "},{"Title":"I thought it was too long","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First of all, I must say that it was WAY too long.  I kept hoping and praying that there wouldn't be another X years later to come up at the bottom of the screen.  For some reason, that movie made me feel like I was in the theater for 4 or 5 hours.  No kidding.   Second, don't go and see it.  You will regret it.  I feel that in a lot of ways, it was a marketing gimmick.  We were eluded with the commercials and trailers.  It was nothing like that.  It wasn't funny.  It was a weak drama.    Finally, I imagine that there are a population of people who would like this movie.  Those who liked that movie with Nicholas Cage as the angel who wanted to become human will LOVE this movie.  I hated both of them, and they are very much the same.  I can't sit through another one of this type of movie!!!!    But, if you don't want to take my advice, go see it, and remember one thing.  You heard the warning here. "},{"Title":"Another promising premise fails to deliver.","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man Andrew (Robin Williams) is an android designed to serve.   Intended to be just another household appliance, it soon becomes apparent that not only is he capable of creativity, he also begins to exhibit feelings.  Rather than have his aberrant programming 'fixed', Andrew's owners encourage him to explore his newfound individuality, which leads him on a journey to seek out others like him and become human.Essentially an updated reworking of Pinocchio, it's William's second film this year (remember the stagnant and monumentally depressing Jakob the Liar?  If not, don't worry, I don't know anyone else who saw it&#133;) and is a rough adaptation of two Isaac Assimov stories.  This combination of solid author and excellent actor should be foolproof.  It isn't.   The studio brass at Warner Brothers were concerned that the most bankable asset of the film (William's face) is covered for more than half the movie.   They had good reason to be.   Although a capable actor (they don't give out Oscars to just anybody), Williams is still best known for his physical comedy.  Trapped behind a mask we don't get to see his expressions and no amount of clever prosthetics or subtle intonations and one-liners will suffice. Finally, the movie is too long. Granted, the story is supposed to cover two centuries, but the pacing is painfully slow.  Halfway through the film you no longer care about Andrew's dilemma  and no amount of eye candy (the futuristic San Franciso landscape mapped over the present one is beautifully done) will make up for it.If you want to see a good treatment of the subject matter, tune into some reruns of Star Trek the Next Generation and watch for the android named Data.  You will find it much more engaging.  "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece !","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" A visionary movie, touching subjects human kind will undoubtedly face.Things do change. The only question is that since things are deteriorating so quickly, will society and man's habits change quickly enough? &#150; Isaac Assimov.Things do change. The only question is that since things are deteriorating so quickly, will society and man's habits change quickly enough? &#150; Isaac Assimov.Things do change. The only question is that since things are deteriorating so quickly, will society and man's habits change quickly enough? &#150; Isaac Assimov. "},{"Title":"What a waste of potential","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Robin Williams, but he really did have a bad run in the 90's. He had a stint of bad movies like Flubber, Father's Day, Jack, etc. Then of course there was the beautiful work of art that is Good Will Hunting and it looked like his career might really pick up again except for a few years later when he put out this movie. Bicentennial Man is a sci-fi drama about an android who is bought by a family in order to serve them in day to day activity, essentially being a household appliance. These androids aren't supposed to be designed with any personality or emotion, but this android, named Andrew by his family, begins to develop these emotions and builds relationships with his entire family, yet always longing for more human qualities so that he may share what everyone around him has. The film chronicles his 200 year long life and it is ridiculously mushy, sappy, and melodramatic at every turn.Bicentennial Man had a lot of potential. It's a movie that could have had a lot of very real heart had it not turned into the mushy melodrama that it is. The premise is very interesting and there are plenty of ways this story could have gone had it been done well. But the filmmakers opted to make this story as clich, Hollywood, and ridiculous as possible, removing any element of awe or wonder at the saga of this android who only wants to give and receive love. The film doesn't start out bad. It opens with this typical suburban upper middle class family buying Andrew. Andrew's relationships with the family are quickly established and it doesn't take much effort to realize which relationships will go where.It's after you realize how predictable and how dull this film is that it just starts to plummet downhill. Once it starts to get bad it never picks up again. We move further into Andrew's life and then events start to get all jumbled and the whole film develops into one big mess. There is no structure to the film and no pacing. It just sorts of moves along however it feels like, not regarding proper usage of timing and character/plot development. Plus, it never gets very interesting. Everything that happens in this movie is dull. You can even tell which points in the film were supposed to be big deals and you can see where the emotional moments are supposed to go, but they are in actuality missing, only to be replaced with pathetic Hollywood tripe that we've seen a thousand times over. There are certain points in the film where I feel like the writers forgot that Andrew was a robot and the film just feels like another sappy love story, lacking a unique bone in its entire body. Ninety percent of this movie is an absolute drag.Now, Robin Williams is a great actor, but he can't save a movie like this. His performance is nothing special and I would be lying to you if I told you it was any good at all. None of the performances in this film are interesting or memorable. You can blame this on the poorly written characters who are all grotesquely one dimensional and lack any human spirit. I never felt for Andrew and I never really cared to see whether or not he would succeed in becoming human or not. This is also because I knew what the outcome of this film would be from the start simply because I've seen other movies and know how this typical predictability works in the standard Hollywood dribble. Damn, I hate movies like this. They make me sound so cynical.Bicentennial Man is just not a good film. It had some potential, but that potential was dashed against the rocks about twenty minutes into the film when the lack of creativity and originality reared its ugly head. It is always sad to watch a movie where you can pinpoint the exact places that would have been heart wrenching or beautifully powerful had this been a well made film. Bicentennial Man has a depressing amount of these moments and it makes you want to love this movie. But it is just so caked in melodrama and sappy feel good BS that your admiration turns into irritation and downright dislike. There is nothing special about this movie and its hard to think of it as much more than just a waste of two hours. "},{"Title":"Robot Who would be a Dead Man","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" The saga of a robot, built in the year 2005 (as I'm typing this, apparently), and his odyssey over the next 200 years to become more and more human. And there's the rub. In my opinion, he was just fine as he was in the beginning, before eventually transmuting into a well-known comedian of the 20th century. The other problem is that, as mentioned, the film covers 2 centuries of time; even at 2+ hours, that doesn't leave much leeway for the story to stay very long in each decade. So, you have the inevitable hop-hop pace as the film skitters to the climax. You see a few minutes, for example, of the way things are 30 years from now; then, a couple of minutes around the year 2040, and so on. And on. It does go on, and in not a very thrilling manner for what should be exciting stuff. The director, Chris Columbus, relies on patented schmaltzy observations of shallow depth, with no sense of the complexities of life (there's no time). It also places huge importance on Bi-Man being recognized as a true human being, at the same time designating divine standing on being a human and that this divinity depends on what other people think - a confusing position. We end up with the moral that we are all meant to die, and die quick, but what kind of life is there before that? The movie gives no clue. It just waves bye-bye to us somberly. "},{"Title":"Bicentennial Man","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you like futuristic films with some good special effects, then you might like most of this one. Basically it is the not too distant future, and robots are the new thing of the 21st century and nearly every home has one. 'Sir' Richard Martin (Sam Neill) buys his family one of these robots, its, or his, name is Andrew. After being activated he always does work and tasks for the family. But it turns out Andrew (Robin Williams) is unique, he is discovering more about the world he lives in, and develops human qualities, e.g. feelings and emotions. He asks to be free and then travels the world searching for more unique robots, and he eventually finds Galatea (Kiersten Warren), living with robotics expert Rupert Burns (Oliver Platt. With his help, Andrew becomes essentially a real human, and falls in love with the niece of Little Miss Amanda (Matilda's Embeth Davidtz), Portia (also Davidtz). He lives for 200 years before cutting himself off and become a real human being. From director Chris Columbus (Home Alone, Mrs. Doubtfire) it is pleasant to watch, but I can see what the critics mean about too much sentimentality, it is almost drenched in it. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Makeup. Okay! "},{"Title":"One of the worst films ever","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the rare movie I could not bare to watch ever again. This movie is so depressing and so boring it made me feel depressed and miserable for a very long time after I saw it. It starts OK, but the ending was very sad and made the whole, very long, movie feel like a complete waste of time.Pointless. And highly depressing.     1/10  "}{"Title":"horny robot","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"                  This film looks like it was directed by Steven Spielberg,himself no stranger to manipulative drivel like this.Director Columbus has made a good looking ,but dull and tedious film.Sam Neil gives the only convincing performance in this saccharine mush.(The once great)Robin Williams notion of real feelings,(What Dreams May Come,Patch Adams etc),and this clunker,are an embarrassment.What could have been a good film takes a downward spiral as soon as Andrew is switched on.Williams wisecracking robot is never convincing.It seems that the ultimate achievement that a robot can aspire to, is to get laid.Just when I thought it couldn't lapse any further in bad taste there was the marriage between Andrew and the grand-daughter of the little girl he used to look after.It wasn't incest,but it made me very squirm in my chair just the same.If sex was the 200 year ambition,the female robot(upgraded),would have worked.The producers should have watched any of the Star Trek series on androids ,to see how to make a film like this work. "},{"Title":"This is a BAD movie","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw Bicentennial Man on PPV two weeks ago and I couldn't believe how superficial it was.  It begins with a promising story line about when does or if artificial intelligence actually become human.  But the story just simply turns into a kind of romantic comedy that drags very badly probably because it takes place over 200 years.  This film did not come close to giving an idea of what it is like to be human.  Also, there weren't any interesting characters in the entire film making it impossible to become connected to the story.Overall I give it a 2 out of 10.  Just wait until A.I. comes out next year and I guarantee you will see a much more intelligent film.   "},{"Title":"Reductio Ad Absurdum","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here we go again...more Hollywood preaching about how we are all 'whole' people and beyond judgement, regardless of what we're made of; and then they hypocritically undertake the movie making process in the opposite direction, by tearing things apart in order to reconstruct the movie watcher's perception by reductionism. No surprise the story came from a leftist highbrow like Asimov.The implication is that the elites (here, trial lawyers) will always save us; people cannot be allowed to decide for themselves what is acceptable, and what is not.Only faint cinematic vestiges here of the Three Laws of Robotics.I think Williams sensed that this effort was finally past the limit of what audiences would tolerate, especially in terms of leveraging drippy sentiment, and he would go on to seek 'edgier' roles. "},{"Title":"would u like 2 live for 2 centuries ?","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" no spoilers....... i would just like 2 say that this is a damn good film and Robin Williams can pull of most parts with consummate ease, whether its a robot with no feelings or what ever, this is a film everyone should watch.Yes people may say that the story line is not very good but who cares about that, if u got feelings u don't need a good story.The thing about this movie is that Andrew is an anomaly. something thats gone wrong but wants 2 be regarded as something real not artificial and in the end he gets his wish, along with someone close 2 his heartsorry for the spoiler but 1 is glad to be of service "},{"Title":"I was disappointed that Andrew chose death over immortality","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How stupid! How can that be shown as the right thing to do?  I cannot understand that? Death is NOT right!Anyway, I thought the movie was interesting, and I am myself an immortalist, so I any movie that deals with immortality I find interesting.But otherwise, Robin Williams' schtick grew tiresome years ago.  Nice look to the film. Acting is OK.  Best thing is the exploration of the immortality theme, even if it was resolved wrongly in my opinion.  It is a rare movie that deals with immortality. I predict that as technology does begin to provide man with the tools to greatly extend lifespan, the movies will move away from sappy, deathist morality play lessons, such as what we see here in this movie. "},{"Title":"Overly Long and Very Annoying Robin Williams Vehicle","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Bicentennial Man is a bomb of epic proportions.  Robin Williams stars as a robot who is just too smart to be an android.  He has human characteristics such as creativity and curiosity and this leads him to have a long and basically empty journey to become as close to human as possible.  His story goes on for 200 years and runs 131 minutes (it feels like 200 years).  Robin Williams is wasted in this film which lacks character development, drama, a suitable screenplay, and sharp direction.  Not much of a movie.  2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"It was an okay movie , if you like long movies!it was also misrated!!!","Date":"25 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It was an okay movie. The movie takes place over 2 centuries. To me , if felt like the movie was going to going forever. This movie was directed by the same guy as the Home Alone movies. At least the director has evolved to doing a adult drama . The movie was misrated also !!It should of been rated a PG-13 for foul words, sexual references and others!!I put this movie as one of the worst movies of the year!!I mean even The Green Mile was better than this overhyped junk!!Save yourself your hard earned cash and wait for the video/DVD!!But if you must see , you have been warned by me and the other on this database!!Save your $$$$ for something special you want really bad!!!Avoid,avoid avoid this medicore candy-coated movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Disappointingly fails the original story.","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you are an Isaac Asimov fan, and especially if you have read the original The Bicentennial Man, I believe you will be disappointed. (If you are not, you should be.) When I was very young, this was the one story of all stories that I wanted to become a movie - and I had it all in my mind. This is utterly not so.Asimov's stories took science fiction in a direction that few other authors could. Robots for him were not simply scientific inventions, but the height of human achievement progressing beyond our current civilization. This movie thus contradicts itself, practically in every scene as well as in the story line.The Robot Andrew Martin (Robin Williams), when introduced in the movie, is shown to have human emotions, but ranking in intelligence below that of a medically certified idiot. Although Andrew's intelligence evolves through the movie, the return every once in a while to slap-stick style comedy (the yes-no-yes-no scene with Little Miss and Portia (Embeth Davidtz), the poke-me-in-the-eye scene) detriments much from the story as well as the character of Andrew. It is hard to believe that after traveling the world, the now 62 year old Andrew would say fecal matter and not know to say a piece of sh*t. Pearls before Swan? Swine Lake? And why, why, why, why, why, why is farting supposed to be funny? This is not that kind of a movie.Asimov, in his mind, was already in the world where robots existed the way he portrayed them. His stories would reflect in many dimensions on how he perceived this world. The Bicentennial Man was perhaps his best canvas for this world, as it takes us through 200 years of the future. The speed of development and progress, not only scientifically but also as mankind, was evident through the story.The movie falls so short of this. The negative portrayal of NorthAm Robotics (a.k.a. U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men to Isaac Asimov) is just one small part of the disappointment. They were not the deceitful organization as the movie makes them to be (or at least the one man shown to represent the entire organization).The attempt to become free, while becoming a legal battle in the book, is a conversation of a few seconds.Andrew's evolving humanity, according to the book, is entirely his with others supporting him in the endeavor. This convinces the reader that Andrew IS human, and the world failing to recognize him makes the reader feel for him. It leaves the reader in wonder that something created by humans COULD be human.The movie shows Andrew's humanity to be a series of ideas placed by others, and therefore not his own. I came away thinking that he didn't really deserve it, which means the movie completely failed for me. The reason why he wants to be declared human (because apparently he has a desire to make love) demeans not just the book, but humanity itself. By the way, what happened to the Sesquicentennial Robot?And then jarringly, Andrew becomes the character of the book, but without the connecting points. Suddenly he stands in front of the court asking to be a human. Andrew's claim that he has invented prosthetic devices comes as a great surprise, for up to this point Rupert Burns (Oliver Platt) is the man we see doing this work.And so on and on and on.There are so many times that the movie absolutely fails Asimov, but those that bother me the most are the ones that Asimov took specific pains to point out his world and the movie blatantly denies it to him. The scene of Galatea (Kiersten Warren) shouting at Rupert Burns is impossible by Asimov's Three Laws. He has several complete stories of how even mentally hurting a human being creates such conflict in a robot (Liar!, is one example) as to destroy it. The nurse in the final scene, presumably an android robot, under orders unplugs Portia &#150; which essentially renders every robot story written by Asimov meaningless.Yes, I am disappointed.Movies need not stick to the original storyline, and often do not have the time to show every aspect of the book. Certainly, The Bicentennial Man was a long story (it is somewhere between a short story and a book) to be captured in its full essence in 90 minutes. That, however, is not an excuse here. This could have been broken down into sequels, especially in these days of trilogies. I wait for another production of this story true to Asimov. They - Asimov and Andrew - deserve it.PS Why 4 out of 10? I don't know. Maybe because if I rated it less, you wouldn't read this. "},{"Title":"You'll hate the movie, especially if you loved the story","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" In 1976, for the U.S. bicentennial, a publisher asked several well-known authors to write short stories for a collection. The only stipulation that the word bicentennial be used in the title. From this particle of an idea, Isaac Asimov developed what would become one of his most poignant and beloved stories.So it's a shame that the usual committee of fools in Hollywood got their hands on the tale, rather than someone who really appreciated it. Just as with the later I, Robot, this movie takes a nicely written Asimov theme and repackages it for a generic audience with the taste, intellect, and attention span of a ten-year-old.There are a lot of poorly-made movies out there (sometimes I think I've seen all of them) but rarely am I as profoundly disappointed as I was with this film. Not only did director Chris Columbus miss the point of the story, his movie entirely missed the FEEL of the story. There was no need to have pointless humor here, nor a love interest, nor any number of other distractions (not to mention lightweight comic Robin Williams in the lead; this would have been a perfect role for an understated performance by someone like Kevin Spacey.) It's a pity that the executives chose the low-and-easy road rather than for once challenging, ever so slightly, their audience.A case in point the profoundly stupid (no other word for it) scene near the beginning, when Asimov's famous Three Laws of Robotics are introduced. These were a recurring theme in his robot fiction, a logical hurdle the author placed in his characters' way to provide a scaffold on which to build the plots. The laws are key to the events in Bicentennial Man as well. Understandably, since not every viewer would be familiar with them, some method was needed to explain the laws to the audience. Yet rather than simply beginning the movie with these stated on the screen, they were trotted out to quite literal fanfares and fireworks. This silly approach seemed, frankly, a bit insulting. Implicit in the spectacle was Columbus' disdain for science fiction and all who enjoy it, as if to say (to all the non-fans in his audience) hey, here's the silly premise for this geek movie! If you've never read Bicentennial Man, it's conceivable you may well enjoy this film somewhat, as a typical mildly entertaining Robin Williams vehicle. But if you have read and appreciated the story, just go read it again. If you see this movie, you'll only ruin it for yourself. "},{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have only the greatest admiration for Robin Williams as an actor, but it is clear one can divide up his many films into two big piles Good ones and Really Terrible ones. Good ones include GOOD MORNING Vietnam, MOSCOW ON THE HUDSON, AWAKENINGS and even the not totally successful ONE-HOUR PHOTO and DEATH TO SMOOCHY. Then there's the dreck HOOK, PATCH ADAMS and WHAT DREAMS MAY COME. I imagine JAKOB THE LIAR falls into the latter pile, but I have studiously avoided it to date. I finally caught up with BICENTENNIAL MAN, based on an Asimov story, and I wish I hadn't. It is one big mess. RW plays a robot who wishes to become human. He does so, but it takes two hours and better to accomplish this. Excruciating. "}{"Title":"A maudlin film.","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review contains spoilers because I don't want you to see this movie. It's not worth it.Through a quirk in his programming, a robot slowly turns into Robin Williams over the course of two centuries.In 2004, this robot rolled up to the Martin family's front door and does the obligatory explanation of Isaac Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics. At first assigned to menial housekeeping, his interaction with the family (especially Little Miss Amanda Martin, the younger sister) causes some creativity to spring up in his quirky little brain. The father, Richard Martin, wants to nurture this, but the robot's manufacturer wants to deactivate him because his whole imagination is a programming bug. This is quickly dismissed and is never mentioned again. So much for the villain.The robot is eventually nicknamed Andrew. He starts to become more human over the course of time. He starts making things out of wood. He builds a house. He gets skin and clothes. A random puppy appears for no reason, upping the schmaltz to ridiculous levels and dropping the feasibility to an all-time low.Andrew goes on a quite literal soul-searching journey to find any others of his kind and see if they have souls too. None of them do, but by some absolutely tremendous coincidence, he meets the guy that will manufacture his skin and clothes, but Andrew just won't stop pushing! Soon he gets nerves to feel pain, a digestive system, fully operational organs (which, coincidentally, revolutionize medicine and make Andrew very rich), but even after a number of legal battles, he's still a robot!SPOILER There's one last thing he needs blood. Now he will age, decay, be mortal, be human. He's declared the world's oldest living man either before or while he's dying. Figures. END SPOILERAll sorts of hilarious things happen during Andrew's 200-year life. Grace Martin, the older sister, resents him and asks him to jump out the window. When Grace becomes a biker tramp, Andrew tries to intervene. Andrew becomes Mr. Martin's camcorder. Andrew becomes frustrated with an old gramophone, calling it a piece of fecal matter. He asks Little Miss' granddaughter to slap him, and he screams IT WORKS!SPOILER Andrew eventually marries. He and his wife are lying on their deathbed together. He dies first, his wife says See you soon, fade out on a shot of two hands holding. END SPOILERYou can guess, like many a Chris Columbus film, it grabs for every sentiment that can be crammed into two arduous hours. I'm all for sentiment, but only when it happens, not when its thrust upon me without motivation. Never mind that there's no conflict except for dull legal battles; we don't want anything to get in the way of the awwwwww... The film presents interesting spiritual questions; is a soul created by emotion and kindness, which would mean that anything that exhibits these can earn its soul, or would the presence of emotion and kindness mean that the thing's soul existed to begin with, even if it's trapped in an immortal shell that could never release it, or is the supposed soul just emotion and kindness and isn't a real thing?Unfortunately, these ideas drown in romantic nonsense and is hardly explored. The film sets up how Andrew's imagination came to be reasonably well, but when we saw the still-robotic Andrew wearing a tux at Richard's second wedding, that was it. It's ironic that the film becomes more mechanical and rusty when Andrew becomes less so. "},{"Title":"just plain bad","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is quite possible the worst movie I ever had to sit through. I contemplated turning it off half way through, but my brother and I were just having too much fun making fun of it. The movie showed signs of picking up and getting better about half way through, but that was just another let down. I went into this movie expecting something like Patch Adams, a Robin Williams Dramady, but it wasn't that it was just bad. So if you want to waste 2 hours of your time and 3 dollars rent this movie, but if you posses half of a brain you should watch something different. Maybe read a book, how 'boat the book this movie was based on, it couldn't be any worse, plus reading is good for the brain. "},{"Title":"Annoying","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie really was poorly thought out. The entire concept was forced and political. The original point of the book was to portray the joy of being a human and having that privilege. Instead, we have some outrageous messages thrown into a messy story line. First of all is the movie's main focus on promoting the idea that man can be created by some crack scientist just as easily as God or even evolution. This theme was way too played out. In addition, the end of the movie where there is a world court that took it upon themselves to decide that a robot was just as much of a human as anyone else. How nice of them. I'm guessing that they had decided around fifty years earlier that a cockroach also had as many rights. And then there is the nice closing line where the movie assumes that this piece of junk metal thing was going to heaven or some other afterlife. What complete rubbish. It wasn't even an entertaining extremist anti-humanist film. The whole sex thing with the robot was also very forced and unnecessary. It was just put in to be even more anti-religion, etc. Watch it if you want. "},{"Title":"DATA DOES IT BETTER","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  BICENTENNIAL MAN is a dated, non-futuristic look at the future.After establishing that Andrew (Robin Williams) is technically superior in every way to a human, the filmakers use the rest of the film to make Andrew human.  Why bother?  Wouldn't it have been a more interesting concept to make his beloved into an android?Like the overrated GATTACA, BICENTENNIAL MAN is embarrassing low-tech (outside of the marvelous android creation and the incredible aging makeup). After discovering his uniqueness, Andrew wastes twenty years he could have spent with Little Miss searching for others of his own kind.  Hey, why not use the android locater on the INTERNET?  If he is so wealthy, why travel everywhere on foot?  Do the filmakers REALLY believe clothing and music choices 100-200 years in the future will be the same as they are now (I know, rock 'n' roll is almost 50 years old; but really!).  Like GATTACA, BICENTENNIAL MAN would have been more appropriate as made-for-TV or made-for-cable movies.  Aside from the pleasure of watching a good cast and the astonishing aging makeup, the movie has little torecommend.  Commander Data and STAR TREK TNG does it much better.  "},{"Title":"A big disappointment","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" After missing int on TV 3 times I finally got the DVD version of this and I must say it is very bad. The short story by Asimov absolutely fascinated me and had nothing to do with love and romance. The film just relies on schmaltzy love and romance to appeal to the idiots out there. The complete farce of having a grandmother and granddaughter as being identical made me realise that I am not going to like the end of this film. Sam Neill was very disappointing in this film as he has done good stuff like Jurassic Park. That annoying kid at the beginning was far too cute and it was a relief when she bogged off. There were three things that the film got wrong. 1. As I mentioned before, the story was not about romance. 2. Andrew Martin was only called Andrew because of his serial number of NDR not because that annoying kid thought android sounded like Andrew! 3. The term bicentennial man was given to Andrew because he was called a sesquicentennial robot when he was 150. There were other mistakes in this too like that stupid female robot that danced. Completely unfunny. The book was not a comedy. This was one for Williams' ego as a great actor. He really is not. Anyway, ignore this film if you have read the story. Complete tripe. "},{"Title":"Not Only Saccharine, But Sad. Skip It!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even before Patch Adams I was sick of the syrupy and sappy formula Robin Williams films about some cheerful or good person who redeems others despite an Evil Establishment by his nature, or some such rot. Patch Adams was almost sickening, but the person I was with wanted to see it.Now we have a film that is even worse. Besides the cornball cloying stuff, this movie is even sad and morose. Williams the robot watches the families he works for grow old and die right before his artificial eyes! I assume the film was meant as a depressing parable on human mortality.I've had a root canal. Had it in July. I literally would rather go through that again than sit through another Williams movie. Thumbs way down! "},{"Title":"Two hundred years and nothing happens","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I wish I could give this film a negative number for a vote just for sitting through this ridiculous film.  Robin Williams is capable of so much more than this crap.  Who was the target audience anyway?  Its too stupid for anyone over 10, and not appropriate for anyone under 10.  It seemed to last every bit of the two hundred years that this story tells.  "},{"Title":"Horrendous","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robin Williams Sam Neal Robin Williams plays the title character, a cyborg who longs to be human. And you can guess where this plot is going even without seeing the film (and I haven't). Of course the robot will go on a soulful journey to find his identity. He'll realize it's not possible because he's just a machine. A horrifying bloodbath will ensue.The Bicentennial Man's positronic brain will collapse into psychosis, bashing against the wall of human consciousness. He'll realize he is forever doomed to live an empty, souless existence. His only option will then be to replace his left arm with a flamethrower, his right with a chainsaw, and take revenge on the human race for creating him as the cold, mechanical horror that he is.I know without having stepped into the theater that soon Robin Williams will reduce dozens of men to small, steaming piles of ruptured internal organs and blood. There'll be a scene where he drills a victim's skull and eats his brain while screaming download this! He'll evicerate a man with his steel claws, he'll reduce another to a quivering puddle via a blast of hydrochloric acid from his eyes.Finally, our hero will make for himself a suit of human skin, wearing one man's severed head as a hat. He'll do a robotic victory dance across the screen while audiences weep in terror at the catastrophic physical suffering they just paid $8.00 to see.So, needless to say, I haven't bothered to see this latest abomination from so-called director Chris Columbus. And I vow never to see another film until Hollywood gives us something we can be proud of. I give Bicentennial Man one star. "},{"Title":"Dreadful Disney fare","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Oh what a disappointment. I knew it was Disney, I knew it was Robin Williams, so I went in expecting that it would be a dumbed down, family-friendly version of a intelligent and meaningful story. However I expected that they would try and keep the core of the story intact, and explore some of the issues that the original story raised in my mind (discrimination, man and machine as equals, the human condition).Sadly the film simply lurched from one tear-jerker moment to the next, filling the gaps with ham-fisted comedy. It was clumsy, slow-moving and ultimately disappointing as the story went nowhere and said nothing.I don't understand what the studio's intent was when they made this film. They certainly will have alienated any sci-fi readers like myself, but surely they are never going to attract the mainstream audience with a story about robot/woman love anyway? "},{"Title":"This depressing movie is not for kids","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This may be the most depressing movie I have ever seen.  It is full of the rankest sentimentality designed to lull you into missing the message.Andrew, the robot, in a two hundred year quest to make himself human discovers the following human traits1. Our ability to laugh at ourselves. (he's a comic) 2. Being moved in the soul by great art and music (he loves classical) 3. Our unquenchable desire to create beauty (he builds clocks) 4. The joy of love 5. The desire for freedom 6. The quest for friendship with others (he searches 20 years for other robots like himself) 7. The creation of a special place for yourself (he builds a home)At the end of all his journeys and discoveries of human condition, the the one thing that makes him human is that he can die. Ugh!And the topper in a perversion of Asimov's wonderful 3 laws of robotics, his lover suicides by having her robot helper turn off the life support.Great, humans can die and robots can kill.I'm crying in my beer and watching Toy Story 2 again.  "}{"Title":"sad","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side.sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. sad movie. everyone died. it was good but a little on the sad side. "},{"Title":"I was disappointed that Andrew chose death over immortality","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  How stupid! How can that be shown as the right thing to do?  I cannot understand that? Death is NOT right!Anyway, I thought the movie was interesting, and I am myself an immortalist, so I any movie that deals with immortality I find interesting.But otherwise, Robin Williams' schtick grew tiresome years ago.  Nice look to the film. Acting is OK.  Best thing is the exploration of the immortality theme, even if it was resolved wrongly in my opinion.  It is a rare movie that deals with immortality. I predict that as technology does begin to provide man with the tools to greatly extend lifespan, the movies will move away from sappy, deathist morality play lessons, such as what we see here in this movie. "},{"Title":"What a horrible movie","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  WARNING SPOILERS AHEADOne of the worst movies I've ever seen. In this movie they're just trying to make you cry, so they start killing every person that the robot cares about, but not all them die at the same time. Through the movie the time passes and passes until the robot is 200 years old. This makes the movie very confusing, besides you dont care much about the characters. I saw it until the end maybe because I thought it would improve, because Robin Williams' movies used to be good. But I was wrong, the movie instead of getting better it got worse and worse. There is a very big mistake. Portia was about 100 years old when she died wasn't she? Andrew was born when Portia's grandmother was a little kid. So it is impossible that 200 years had passed. "},{"Title":"Over-acted, overwrought dreck","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing a sneak preview of this film (in the broadest sense of the word) a few days ago I felt it my duty to warn others.  Never before have two hours felt closer to two hundred years.  In short, a robot could make a more engaging movie than Robin Williams (in the autumn of his career).Makes Patch Adams seem like the Bicycle Thief. "},{"Title":"I've seen better film on teeth.","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" Absolutely horrible. Crap. I'd kill myself if I ever had to watch this again. I would rather watch Robin Williams standing naked in a bucket of earthworms eating raw oysters before ever watching this movie again. I can't believe I even watched the whole thing, but I did. And to this day, I still can't figure out why. I mean, the only reason I keep commenting on this movie is to keep others from falling prey to this atrocity. Save your money. Do not rent this movie. OK, so I gotta keep typing because I don't have my 10 lines. Well, let me tell you, I could go on and on about how bad this movie was, but I'm not a hateful person. I would probably make everyone on this board cry from the vitriol that I could conjure up any and every time I think of this movie. Absolutely horrible. Even worse that his other masterpiece Flubber. What is wrong with YOU Robin Williams? "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I've seen plenty of bad movies, but none ever this bad.  There is not a single good thing to be said about this movie.  It is a complete waste of time and, from the look, a lot of money.  Never before have I seen a movie so depressing.   "},{"Title":"Overlong, overly simplistic and overly sentimental but has some limited value","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In the near future, the Martin family buy a robot to help around the house. After a fall from a first storey window, the robot (Andrew) starts to display signs of being creative. Richard Martin takes Andrew back to the manufacturer to be told it is a glitch but, rather than repair Andrew, he decides to feed him more and try to develop these qualities further. Over the years, Andrew becomes more human with emotions and aims before eventually setting out to become as human as he possibly can.Despite every advert and trailer screaming out the words 'sentimental mush' I refused to believe that a story based on the writing of Isaac Asimov would be totally without merit. And so I came to Bicentennial Man with a certain amount of weariness but still remaining quite open to the film not just being what I feared it would be. The plot is very obvious from the very start and where it goes will be of no surprise to anyone &#150; the only surprise is just how very long it seems to take to get there. Along the way the film is far too simplistic and fails quite spectacularly to make interesting or thought-provoking points out of the material, instead it just tugs the heartstrings in a rather lazy fashion without really looking for the brain to be involved. Rather irritatingly the film does this for just under two hours and then suddenly becomes rather preachy out of nowhere &#150; this was poor because it had done nothing up till this point to try and make me think about the moral complexities of the story and the characters but then suddenly it starts shouting at me? No thanks!The film has the mark of Williams all over it. His performance is far too simplistic and easy and just trades on his usual mushy performances to no great effect. His rather gooey-eyed character is just a pain and I found it impossible to attach myself to him emotionally. The various other actors come and go in various roles down the generations and the only ones that really stuck in my mind were Neill and Platt &#150; Kiersten Warren was particularly annoying here and her character made me want to cover my ears and eyes.Overall this film will appeal to some as this mush is the sort of mush that many films have been trading on successfully for years and years. However I wanted actual emotional involvement as opposed to sentimentality, and I got none of that. Also I wanted some moral complexities &#150; hell, they practically come with the territory but the film made it all to mushy and straightforward and sucked the thought-provoking nature of the story right out. To add insult to injury it is overlong and suddenly gets all preachy in the last 15 minutes. Not totally without value but I can't imagine why I would ever end up watching this film again.  "},{"Title":"Williams Fails again.","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love Robin Williams and he has done great work over the year, however, as I get older and have children watching, he seems to get cruder and cruder. I rented this and thought I would give him one more chance. Well, he proved me wrong. PG is the lamest rating for this film. Maybe a sign of the times. Williams seems to enjoy taking a wholesome storyline and delivering puke. I have seen PG-13 and R rated movies with less language and less sexual innuendos. It's just not necessary. Sorry Robin, that's the end of a good thing. The supporting cast is good and the idea behind the movie are good, just too much junk for this to be rated any higher. We didn't even finish the movie. Truth is I should have turned it off much sooner than I did. Don't waste the time or the money. "},{"Title":"This Movie Ain't for the Kids","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First, do not take the kids to see this one.  It's NOT a children's film. We made this mistake with our kids based on the first crop of TV commercials. The spots highlighted a rap number by the featured female robot, Galatea, singing Ugly to the Bicentennial Man as he watches himself in the mirror. This scene enticed my family.  The problem is that this scene is not in the movie. There's also enough death in this movie to fill two John Irving novels. Inside of 30 minutes into the movie my 6 year old daughter was bored.  After another 60 minutes of deathbed scenes she was in tears.Second, don't take anyone else to see this bomb.  Perhaps each member of the audience should get their own set of headphones with a control that lets the viewer turn off the music when you can't take another violin, oboe or overdone,sentimental piano doodle.  I suppose the few funny lines that are thrown in are to remind us that Robin Williams is in the film.  No fear.  I had 2 hours and 20 minutes to be reminded.  Completely wooden acting from the tin man. "},{"Title":"Not one for the kids","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Parents, this is NOT a film for children.  Due to the advertisements, I took my 5 and 10 year old daughters during Christmas break...the movie is full of profanity and inappropriate sexual comments and innuendos...we got up and walked out.  Save your money and the innocence of your kids... "}]