[{"Title":"In The Abstract","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"47 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  	The romantic notion of suffering for one's art has been cinematically rendered in countless films, depicting the lives of real life artists ranging from Van Gogh to Camille Claudel to Beethoven to Jim Morrison to Rimbaud; but rarely has a film penetrated as deeply as `Pollock,' directed by and starring Ed Harris as the abstract painter Jackson Pollock.  The story begins in 1941 and chronicles Pollock's life until the early &#145;50s.  It's a vivid, and at times grim portrait of a true artist struggling for recognition, as well as with the inner demons that plague his soul and are reflected in his art and the way he lives his life.  It is said that the artist `sees' the world differently than the average person, which may be true; and it is that unique `vision' that sets the artist apart.  And Pollock was no exception to the rule.	As romantic as it may sound, the reality of suffering for one's art is just that  Suffering.  For realizing that vision and bringing it to fruition is more often than not an arduous and tortuous path to tread.  Coalescing the fragments of that vision and transferring that information into reality can be a painful process, and one of the strengths of this film is that it so succinctly conveys that sense of desperation and frustration that are seemingly an intrinsic part of `creating.'  There's a scene in which Pollock, after having been commissioned to do a mural, sits on the floor of his studio with his back against the wall staring for days on end at the blank canvas stretched across the room, waiting for that spark of inspiration, that sudden moment when what he must do will crystallize in his mind's eye.  It's a powerful, intense scene that allows you to share that creative process with the artist and experience the emotional turmoil of it, as well as the exhilaration of the moment when it all suddenly becomes clear, when the vision is realized.  It's a stunning moment; Pollock's face fills the screen and you actually see it in his eyes, the exact moment of discovery.  And it's absolute magic.	As Pollock, Ed Harris gives arguably the best performance of his career; he perfectly captures every emotional level of this complex individual, from the manic highs and lows (exacerbated by alcohol consumption) to the neutral moments in between.  He totally immerses himself in the character, and what surfaces is a thorough and memorable picture of a tortured genius and flawed human being.  It's an astounding piece of work, for which he most certainly should have taken home the Oscar for Best Actor.	Marcia Gay Harden received the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her portrayal of Lee Krasner, the woman who loved Pollock and devoted herself (even at the expense of her own career as an artist) to the man and his art.  It's a terrific performance, through which Harden brings Lee to life, physically and emotionally.  Her amount of screen time seemingly should have qualified her for a Best Actress nomination, but regardless, her work here is unquestionably deserving of the Oscar.	The supporting cast includes Amy Madigan (Peggy Guggenheim), Jennifer Connelly (Ruth), Jeffrey Tambor (Clement), Bud Cort (Howard), John Heard (Tony), Sada Thompson (Stella Pollock) and Val Kilmer (Willem de Kooning).  Harris' triumph with `Pollock' does not begin and end with his extraordinary performance, however; though his acting is so exceptional it would be easy to overlook the brilliant job of directing he did with this film.  And it is brilliant.  The way this film is presented is the work of not only a seasoned professional, but of a professional artist with a unique vision of his own.  One of the best films of the year (2000), hopefully it will in the future receive the acclaim of which it is so richly deserving.  Hopefully, as well, Harris will direct again; for it is talent like his, and films like this one, that expand the Cinematic Universe as we know it.  I rate this one 10/10. 	  "},{"Title":"Jackson Pollock  An illustrated study on how to really paint oneself into a corner","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As heavy and darkly textured a film as any one of his masterpieces, director and star Ed Harris takes us into the tortured, inebriated world of abstract painter Jackson Pollock (1912-1956)and leaves us assured that Pollock is a certifiable candidate for the Hall of Fame self-destructive genius award, joining the illustrious, besotted ranks of Ernest Hemingway, Hank Williams, John Barrymore, Helen Morgan, et al. True, when has Hollywood ever bothered to put on cinematic display a gifted artist who wasn't a poster child for Betty Ford?  We usually reserve well-adjusted geniuses for quieter, more tasteful retrospectives on cable TV.Harris spares no time in letting us know that Pollock is a crude, mindless, gifted mess veering toward unmitigated disaster, taking everything and everyone down with him as he does.  Amazingly, in his brutally brief 44 years, Pollock manages to find, with a man-child brilliance, his life's destiny as a master of artistic expression and interpretation and the accidental inventor of the drip-action technique.  Harris painstakingly chronicles the little known details of this wretched genius who somehow learned how to free up his own artistic mind while confine the rest of his world to an absolute hell.The actor/director wisely manages to avoid most of the pitfalls characteristic of these grand bios of agony and angst.  In a stark, no-holds-barred performance, he lays the character out like it is -- unredeeming, hopeless, desperate, supremely gifted, yet intriguing.  Its a daunting, fully etched performance that, in lesser hands, could have been one long cliche.  He doesn't toy with the audience by thinking had the right circumstances come along for Pollock (and they DID come along with wife and caretaker, Lee Krasner) he could have somehow prevailed.  Harris is quite believable, losing himself in the painter while showing off his researched skills with a brush.  It's a true labor of love and it shows.Marcia Gay Harden's self-sacrificing Krasner breathes life not only into Pollock but the film itself.  Harden, in a rich, flashy portrayal, is mesmerizing as one artist compelled to save another, giving interesting dimension to a woman whose reasons are not totally pure and selfless.  Amy Madigan (Harris' wife in real life) makes the most of her few scenes as the eccentric museum maven Peggy Guggenheim, while Val Kilmer appears in an odd, thankless cameo.  Harris and Harden were both deservedly Oscar-nominated for their work here.Yet, problems do creep into the film.  While Harris pours his heart and soul into this show (a ten-year pet project, so they say), Pollock's before life is never set up to demonstrate why Pollock became such an inveterate drunk and monster.  As such, little sympathy can be mustered, holding viewers at bay.  Moreover, a couple of manipulative scenes also seem to be thrown in merely to punctuate the already well-worn theme of Pollock's misery and desolation.  Less is more in this case. For the most parts, however, this little film succeeds.Until now, little attention has been paid to the artist Jackson Pollock. Harris rectifies this injustice, as reprehensible as some of it is, with unsparing honesty, dedication and precision.   "},{"Title":"Dodging the biopic bullet","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"25 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Films like Pollock always leave me at a loss when I have to describe them to others.  For one thing, it's long been a labor of love for director / star Ed Harris, which maybe causes me to have more sympathy for the picture than I should -- after all, I'd hate to ream a project that he's spent so much time and energy developing.  For another thing, I usually find biopics a bit crippled because, in most cases (Pollock included), I already know the plot, and without the plot to get lost in, I'm left to look at little things like, you know, the acting, writing and directing.  Lucky for Harris (and my conscience), then, that the acting is uniformly great, the direction is mostly seamless (and downright kinetic at times), and the writing, while not being great in the Casablanca sense of the word, serves the story well.  Pollock dodges all the pitfalls that often turn biopics into boring history lessons.The film picks up with Jackson Pollock the Unsuccessful Drunk (Harris), dabbling in surrealist painting and proclaiming Picasso to be a fraud.  There's enough promise in his work, though, for him to gain a girlfriend, Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden); a benefactor, Peggy Guggenheim (Amy Madigan); and a professional critic, Clement Greenberg (Jeffrey Tambor), who champions his work in print.  From there we watch Pollock take the express train to art world superstardom, becoming one of the world's foremost abstract painters.The fly in the ointment, though, is Pollock's notorious temper, aided and abetted by his equally notorious alcoholism.  Life in New York City is doing his personal life no favors, so he and Krasner move to the countryside, and it's here that he stumbles upon his drip method of painting, granting him another wave of fame and recognition.  It is this sequence, in which Pollock makes his pivotal discovery, where Harris's talent as a director comes to the fore.  Although we're aware that we're watching an actor perform a discovery that was made by someone else more than fifty years ago, it's an exciting, dynamic moment as Harris dances around his canvas, flicking paint from his brush in a blur of motion. It doesn't come off as staged or phony, but as a moment of genuine discovery, and for those moments we might as well actually be watching Jackson Pollock revolutionize the art world.From there, though, ego, alcohol, and the mechanics of change all prove to be Pollock's undoing, leading, of course, to his untimely demise.  Through it all, Harris seethes with a feral intensity, giving a performance that should rightfully win him an Oscar (and check out the dramatic weight gain at the end.  Tom who?).  Harden, his co-nominee, is also excellent (although she's stuck uttering lines like, You've done it, Pollock.  You've cracked it wide open.).  In lesser hands, Krasner could be just another version of the screeching, wailing, put-upon wife, but Harden bolsters the anguish with a fine layer of anger; the torment of a woman who loves the person causing her misery, but who is unwilling to let go of the principles which led her to enter and maintain the relationship on her own terms.Pollock ultimately succeeds because we know how it will end, we clearly see how unpleasant and deluded the artist had become, and still we can't look away.  Harris's labor of love serves as an auspicious debut for someone who, at this stage, seems just as skilled behind the camera as he is in front of it. "},{"Title":"A good biopic...","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris has taken the biopic to a new level. Although the skeleton of the film is no more than the troubled life of an alcoholic struggling with fame, the power of the acting and sequence of the film take it a step further. The relationship between Krasner and Pollock mirrors that of Stanley and Stella Kowalski but Krasner is a much stronger character and Marcia Gay Harden more than deserved the oscar she received for the part. The only part that concerned me was the explanation Harris chose to show Pollock's progression to his drip paintings. The arbitrariness of the revelation seems stretched to me  and suggests that it is actually known how Pollock made that movement. All in all, the movie is excellent and worth seeing.Just be careful - I cringed every time he got into a car...  "},{"Title":"Art versus Life...and Life Magazine","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I think it is very hard in general to make a based on a true story sort of film, that alone can clamp a pretty heavy anchor to your ankles. Moreso when that true story is one that means a lot to you as Ed Harris has said about Jackson Pollock's biography.Based upon those precepts, I feel Harris succeeded, however I cannot say this film is an unqualified success. It is sprawling, but unlike Pollock...for cinema circulation, Harris could not stretch his canvas so wide. He gets over two hours here...but I suspect he could have filled six easily.Based upon early buzz when this came out,  including the snippet shown at the Oscars for Marcia Gay Harden, I had trepidation that this would be reduced to a shout and spittle film; that the rage and angst of Pollock and Krasner would be the story. Certainly this is one aspect presented, but not the sole one.Interestingly to me, it seemed that the more halcyon Pollock's life was, the better his exploration of his art. I went in expecting that alcohol-oiled turmoil would be presented as the key to complicated creation. An artist must suffer and so on.This shows that while I was familiar with Pollock, I was not that familiar. I could recognize his later chaotic, laced and dripped paintings...but I did not know anything about his personal life.But in the course of two hours, I did enjoy...1) Seeing a progression in Pollock's paintings. I had not seen many of his earlier works that had more blocks to them, that were more easily seen as assemblages of images. The way these were filmed, in the act of creation was well done here. Same is true for the latter works.      2) The importance of Pollock's family. I loved seeing his Mother come to the openings. I did not know that two other brothers also painted; Sande alone seems to understand Jackson's talent and torment. Their relationship could have made a film of its own. 3) Jeffrey Tambor's portrayal of Clem, a critic/king-maker of sorts. Us posters here, run the risk of being posers as well. And I think the best of us realize how subjective our comments are, a function of when we watch films, and who we are with, or how we are feeling as much as the films themselves. 4) Following on that notion, to me one thread of Pollock is how the circle of critics destroys artists with either persecution or praise. It is not a revelation, that much art is highly personal, both for the purveyor, but painfully so for the artists. Not a revelation, but still worth repeating... When we see Pollock drunk on his ascent, reading from an Italian magazine during a family reunion, that really got to me. Maybe that was more dangerous than alcohol. Even if that critical acceptance is not essential, eating is. Another thread alluded to in this film, how to work and to live as an artist.That scene also drove home the obsessive nature of being an artist, how it is hard at the same time to be a brother, or uncle, husband or perhaps impossible to be a father. Thus that obsession helps to contrast Sande and Jackson, and certainly sets up the power of Marcia Gay Harden's performance.  Krasner too is an artist,  who has had some success. She retains her name, and her dreams, but fully embraces Pollock, and Pollock's artwork. Her support of him, while aware of her limits, was presented without martyring her. She was not a saint wandering into Pollock's hell. 5) Talking to an artist about his/her obsession is problematic. They are already communicating in their chosen medium, and presumably they are communicating that way as it is easier than using words. I thought the interview with Life magazine in this film, and Pollock's notion of viewing his art as one views a field of flowers helped me. Maybe that was obvious to others, I think that way in music/sound...but in art too often I am hunting for images, for mirrors to our world.The radio interview that Pollock conducted, halting and awkward could have underscored the travails of talking about art, or it seemed like he was trying to read from a manifesto of sorts (perhaps in real life one exists). Finally, the documentary film is painted as an undoing of Pollock. Fascinating as we ourselves are watching a film about Pollock. It's as if Ed Harris the actor in character could be talking to Ed Harris the film auteur.The documentary film was to Pollock, what a zoo can be to a wild animal. The habitat corrupts the inhabitant. How Pollock puts on his shoes, when he's done painting, all control is lost...the private process made public, is made impure.No, that's not the point to this film. If you are looking for a film with one tidy point, go elsewhere. But for an abridged but admirable biopic on Jackson Pollock, with many tangled and tantalizing threads...this is one to rent. And now a book for me to read. Rarely do I watch the deleted scenes and wish they had been in the film, as I did in this case.There was a great shot early in the film where Pollock is pacing before the mural commissioned by Peggy Guggenheim. From the plot, we know he's worried about looms before him, and we get eerie shots of his shadow projected on the empty canvas to reinforce that. Harris too may have felt this was an ominous undertaking, I hope he pleased himself as he did me.7/10 "},{"Title":"impressive biopic","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Although the film doesn't exactly startle us with its thesis &#150; that the life of an artist is rarely a happy one &#150; `Pollock' manages to skirt most of the clichés inherent in the `tortured-artist' biographical genre to provide us with a complex study not only of the man himself but also of the woman who stood beside him through most of his troubled life.Jackson Pollock was, of course, the prototypical `struggling genius' &#150; neurotic, insecure, arrogant, self-absorbed and forever locked in an epic struggle with his own private demons (in Pollock's case, alcoholism).  Out of this morass of personal weaknesses, the painter perfected his art &#150; which became a reflection and synthesis of the raw elements comprising the emotionally chaotic world in which he lived.  The film introduces us to the man in 1941 when he is still a virtual unknown living in Greenwich Village, bellowing in an alcoholic rage against the success of Picasso, in whose shadow Pollock seems to be forever hidden away from public view.  One day, into his life walks Lee Krasner, a similar, though less gifted, modern artist who detects Pollock's special genius and becomes the future art world celebrity's greatest champion and lover.  Much of the fascination of the film lies in the examination of the complexities of the almost love-hate relationship that develops between the two.  On the one hand, we sense that Jackson and Lee provide just the right emotional complement for one another &#150; a shared symbiosis which lays the foundation for an environment in which Pollock's creativity and artistic experimentation can expand and flourish.   Lee, for instance, wages a fierce battle to secure Pollock's acceptance among the crème de la crème of New York's art world elite, the result of which is eventual name recognition for Pollock the world over.  Yet, Lee pays an ultimate price for her tenacious possessiveness  so all consumed does she become in the life and work of the man who will change the face of modern art that she begins to alienate him and eventually push him away.  Unwilling to share him even with a child of their own, she ends up depriving Pollock of the chance of experiencing the joys of fatherhood.  The final result is that he is truly left with nothing but his identity as a painter. Thus, as his reputation begins to become eclipsed by newer, younger artists, and as he retreats back into an alcoholic haze after a couple of years of productive sobriety, Pollock's life begins its inevitable spiral downwards into hopelessness and tragedy.Ed Harris not only stars in the film but directed it as well.  He does a superb job on both counts.  As Pollock, he supplies the brooding sensitivity as well as the physical intensity that are reflected in the artist's paintings themselves.  One never doubts the genuine love Pollock has for Lee, yet always there is the constant threat of physical violence lying latent beneath his placid surface.   Marcia Gay Harden matches Harris' performance every step of the way.  Beneath her determined, hard-edged exterior lies a woman capable of sincere attachment and a total devotion to both a person and the cause he represents.Unlike so many films dealing with the lives of artists &#150; in which we see brief glimpses of paint-dabbing followed almost immediately by views of the finished products &#150; `Pollock' provides generous opportunities to see Pollock (i.e. Harris) in action.  We sit spellbound as we watch him take a plain white canvas and, step by step, convert it into a work of beauty and art. If for no other reason, the film is worth seeing just to whet one's appetite and renew one's appreciation for Pollock's work.   "},{"Title":"Moving and mesmerizing look at the painter Pollock","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris gives it his all and succeeds here, in his (fine) directorial effort.  He portrays 40's and 50's painter Jackson Pollock, a man who drank too much, was often crazy about many things, but was a magnificent painter (depending on what you like).  Marcia Gay Harden also stars as Lee Krasner, Pollock's guidance into the benign and all.  Both Harris and Harden are exqusite here, earning well deserved Oscar nominations (Harris I think would win if it wasn't for Tom Hanks performance), with not much insight going into the method to Pollock's madness, but just his design, which is good in avoiding chiches.  Painting scenes are some of the best scenes of last year.  A "},{"Title":"Great Artist, Lousy Person","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Jackson Pollock was not a likable person. He was an alcoholic, an adulterer, an egotist and simply a plain jerk. He also was a pioneer in the field of modern art, so he became famous and hence, even had this movie about his life.Ed Harris, a jerk himself, was a good choice for the role. Harris, who looks like Pollock, did a fine job of portraying this tormented soul, a word critics love to use for famous artists (see Van Gogh).This was an interesting film and I watched it twice. It inspired me to become an artist and I did a handful of Pollock imitations, several of which sold for a decent price. I love Pollock's work, and I enjoy character studies of people on film . But this gets a little sordid as the film goes on with a definitely-unhappy ending.Hat's off to Marcia Gay Harden for her performance as Pollock's wife. She has the New York City accent down pat. She is shown worshiping her husband and it's painful to see her get hurt.The story is a bit soap operish but if you enjoy art, and especially Pollock's work, you'll find this story fascinating. More than one look, however, changes the canvas, so to speak. The story, more than the art, then will come through more and that can be too much of a downer. So, visit this art show once and leave it at that. "},{"Title":"As vivid and real as Hollywood is likely to make about the painter","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Pollock (2000)There's no question this is a well made film, and based pretty much on truth, and an interesting truth--the life of a great Abstract Expressionist. Some would say the greatest of them all.For myself, this isn't enough, and I know this is me. I'm an art critic and professor of Art in my real life, and I'm never very patient with movies about artists. The reason isn't that there are inaccuracies, but that there is a subtle or not-subtle goal of aggrandizing the subject. This reaches a beautiful but, again, romanticized, peak when Pollock makes his famous break into true gestural, raw work in a large commissioned piece for Peggy Guggenheim (who is portrayed, oddly, as a shy and dull sort, which I've never pictured). Then later he makes his drip works. And then he dies, again over dramatized and made aesthetic, as tragic and ugly as it had to have been in life.If you want to really get into Pollock's head, especially if you aren't already a fan (I love Pollock's work), this is a convincing movie. At the helm as both director and playing the artist is Ed Harris. He is especially believable as a painter, which is something of an important point. This isn't like those movies about musicians where the actor is clearly not playing. Harris actually paints the darned thing, the big masterpiece, on the cusp of the drip works. I don't know if Harris was drinking, too, but he's a good drunk, and of course Pollock was a better drinker than a painter, even.It's a cheap shot to say a movie could have been shorter, but this one sure would have propelled better with less atmosphere, less filler that is meant to create his life but is interesting only as an illustration of historical facts. It wore me thin for those reasons. Again, it might be a matter of how much you can get sucked into the given drama that is Jackson Pollock's life. It was quite a life, crude, untempered, brave, and immensely connected to what matters as an artist. "},{"Title":"Action Jackson","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  While this film is flooded with holes in Pollacks short career, we do get a glimpse of his struggle and process.  I was sorry that a few other notable artist that were a part of Pollacks art scene were not portrayed during this great period of time.  Mark Rothko, Louise Nevelson and Robert Motherwell to name a few.  Also, Pollack worked as a security guard at the  Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York for a short time.  This environment was partly responsible for exposing him to the dominant European invasion of art in America.  I would have liked more in depth insights into why Pollack began painting and why he was so tortured.  Ed Harris does a fine job with the material he was working with, but they could have covered more bases in Pollacks life and I know Harris would have stepped up to the plate.In one scene Pollack is pacing back and forth in front of a large blank canvass.  It is a stunning scene watching his shadow run along that large white surface waiting for the moment he would begin to paint.  Another scene takes us to East Hampton where he is kneeling down out in the salt marshes staring into a tide pool.  Just this pose alone suggests a precursor to removing the canvass from the wall and placing it on the floor.There are a few quiet moments that capture the subtle Pollack and I wish they explored more in this direction.  In so many of these artist portrayals the essence of the process and inspiration gets lost in the drama of their personalities.However, this movie takes on an ambitious man and an ambitious time in American Art.  I was grateful to have seen with my own eyes several Pollack shows over the years and to have studied and experimented myself with Abstract Expressionism.I think Ed Harris and Marcia Gay Harden should be nominated for their incredible portrayals of these two great artists.  Moreover, whether you know a great deal about Pollack, this film will allow you to glimpse into the life of Jackson, but it will also expose you to his wonderful partner, Lee Krasner.  "}{"Title":"Terrible Movie - Who Cares About Pollock?","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Considering the way painter Pollock is portrayed in this movie, I could not feel for him in any way. He was such a jerk - especially in the way he behaved towards those who loved him.  After a half-hour of this drivel, I just plain didn't care about him any more, and couldn't wait for the movie to end.  The only noteworthy things about the film were the acting of Ed Harris (the reason I watched the film), his cooooool car and the acting of Marcia Gay Harding (too bad her terrific performance was stuck in such a boring movie).  Only 2 stars out of 10 -thumbs way down. Oh and P.S. - even I can paint as well as Jackson - that must be why I have such a boring life too!! "},{"Title":"Missed the Pointillist","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film was a major disappointment for me, and is yet another example why you don't put actors in charge. Harris is an earnest enough actor, but a film project in general needs to understand the broader nature of the art of film. When it is a film of another art (dance, music, painting, even film-making itself) it requires an even broader stance. Else what you have is a story about just another schmuck with a messed up life.There are so many elements of this story that Harris misses, but two particularly annoy.First Art, and painting in particular, consists of producing the actual artifact and simultaneously presenting a narrative about the artist and artifact to the consuming public. Van Gogh was a great painter because of both his work and his brother's publicizing of the artist's views. A trend in art history focuses more on the accident of the narrative than the talent of the artist, and Pollock is the key example. That's because what really made Pollock was the contemporary film of him painting. His energy. The notion of brushwork so abstract that the brush never even touches the canvas. The notion of isolation from the urban dialog. That film is misplaced in this story as coming late. I recall it came earlier, and was a key in presenting the art. So what's missed is the opportunity to focus on Lee as the real artist. Rather than being a sacrificing second-rate painter, she was the real abstract painter brushwork so abstract she never even touches the brush. And the fact that the seminal film (of the real Pollock) is not exploited in this context is a tragically missed opportunity. Here, it is merely an excuse to fall off the wagon. A simple actor's device rather than a fulcrum for exploring cultural memes.Second Quite apart from the missed leverage of the historic film noted above, the medium of cinema as painting is completely ignored. Why shouldn't the nature of the film convey, at least in some small measure, the same ideas the paintings have?Compare this to 'Vincent and Theo,' where the pictures on the screen mirror those on the easel. Also 'The Draghtsman's Contract?' It would have been so easy for us to get a feel of what Pollock intended if the approach to the camera had some of Pollock's feel. Instead we get Aaron Copland? Instead we get a literal, completely composed linear camera perspective? Instead we get something we can understand? Instead we get no management of color and rhythm? Jackson would have vomited.Note the logical place for at least a titular statement of style, the sixty seconds or so right before the crash. No luck.How great a film could have been woven around the notion of itself being art and also about art; of being a narrative of art and also a narrative about the narrative of art. Damn, we'll never know now.This film is not bad because it is bad (like most films), rather it is bad because it is not good. "},{"Title":"A long way around a barn in Connecticut","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I doubt there are many folks who don't like Ed Harris as an actor. Over the last two decades he's given strong performances with a certain subtlety that is a trademark. Therefore, I'm also reasonably sure most people going to see his directorial debut can extend quite a bit of goodwill for a project Harris states he's wanted to put on the screen for a decade.My own patience was used up after 20 minutes when I realized there was no one on the screen that Harris either understood or admired. For instance, the scene where Pollock urinates in Peggy Guggenheim's fireplace during a New Year's Eve party left the audience with only one choice To laugh. The individuals at the party were portrayed as worthy of such an act because they were snobs. And indeed scorn is heaped upon any institution that's portrayed in the film Marriage, art criticism, artists, family relationships, filmmakers, friendships, lovers&#133;. Everyone gets smeared here. I guess the dog comes off pretty well, but he's got a small part.I can see why an actor would be drawn to this material. Jackson Pollock led a life that seemed destined for members of the Actor's Studio to portray. There are many, many opportunities to emote. But a film should be more than an essay on acting large. Scenes are held much longer than necessary; many are tedious or just baffling.With the exception of Amy Madigan, the acting was a disappointment for me. Harris and Harden's performances seemed in different styles, primarily because Harris is almost vacant in presence unless he's smashing bottles or overturning dinner tables. Spending so long working on this project, I felt like Harris had become so close to the material that he excluded the audience in what was crucial character information. How did he discover he liked to paint? What was his mysterious psychiatric diagnosis? Was he in a psychiatric hospital or a detox tank? What were the pills Krasner puts before Pollock? Were they helpful? Hurtful? In general a screenplay that jumps back and forth in time using only placards like `Five years earlier' or `Two months later' signals an inherent weakness that a coherent narrative hasn't been developed.It's too bad because there was a lot of effort here. There's surprising gracefulness in Harris' brushwork. But we don't know why the character--as an artist--is standing there and we don't see anyone truly moved by the result. We're told `Oh, that's wonderful,' but it's by characters who are neither trustworthy or have demonstrated they aren't sincere.The most tiresome chestnut, that artists have to be ONLY artists and not functioning members of society, is the most glaring problem with the film. When Krasner screams, `We can't be parents, we're painters!' everyone sitting in the audience really knows `You can't be parents because he's an egomaniac and a drunk.' And I don't think that's a fair legacy for artists, particularly of Jackson Pollock's stature.   "},{"Title":"portrayal of life, lack of meaning","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" a good film, though perhaps i was expecting a little more. The psyche of a troubled artist is somewhat predestined these days and maybe it is just that our assumptions are correct as they are all portrayed in a predictable way. If this is how the artist truly was then then Harris could have done nothing different, it just seems a little distant. I didn't feel at one with the artist, i couldn't sympathise with him or feel his pain. The 'intellectual' artistic debates and gendredising continuously used by his wive left me with no sympathy for her. She appears desperate from the first scene pretentiously trying to be involved with the next big thing. The most depressing part of this film is that two people can be stupid enough to waste their lives on each other without searching for the happiness which they truly seek. The emphasis is on Pollock as a man whereas i would like to see more of him as an artist, did his individual paintings have meaning or did he just do them out of hate for the world.... i guess i didn't feel you see his mind and its true agony's, maybe he was just generally mad at the world.Really not a bad film for what it is, just to me it lacked true emotion.sio "},{"Title":"Harris & Co.  -----     Try too hard","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Ed Harris was nominated for an Academy Award for his portrayal of Jackson Pollock. He also directed this pretty average movie. Pollock was the guy who invented the method of flicking paint on-to canvases on the floor. He also poured paint straight from the can. To-day there are art professors who reject Pollock as an artist...but if you want to buy a good Pollock to-day...you better have multi millions of dollars. Ed is O.K. as the alcoholic - manic depressive painter. However, he fails to get to grips with the psyche of the would-be genius. Perhaps the whole cast gave Pollock too much respect. The script does not feel real, and, quite frankly i did not learn much about Pollock the human being. (or Pollack the painter) A movie you see once...then forget about it. "},{"Title":"A Major Letdown!","Date":"28 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A biopic on American Painter, Jackson Pollock. 'Pollock' is a terrible letdown, because the late-icon himself was one disappointed man. As a cinematic experience, this one's a major letdown! Ed Harris stars as Pollock, whose entire life comes across as depressing. Harris, the actor, is in form. But Harris, the filmmaker chooses the wrong subject. Cinema is a different medium altogether. We watch movies to get entertained. And biopics, mostly, have been hugely engaging experiences. But this biopic, is simply bland! Ed Harris's direction is dull. Can't blame him, cause his biopic is upon a dull person. The Cinematography doesn't strike either. In the acting department, Harris lives his part and becomes the late icon. But the show belongs to Marcia Gay Harden, who delivers a knock-out performance as Pollock's wife. She is the life of the show! Jennifer Connelly, in a brief role, looks stunning! Val Kilmer makes an appearance.On the whole, 'Pollock' doesn't work as a cinematic experience. Thumbs Down! "},{"Title":"A good job by actor-director Ed Harris.","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I watched this having heard of Jackson Pollock here and there over the years and more recently through some of those funky art programs like Art 21 and This is Modern Art. I knew what Pollock looked like, and the basic facts of his life. I heard of Pollock the movie not overly long ago when it was released in cinemas here, I finally got around to watching the DVD but didn't realise it was made in 2000 as it only came out here two and a half years ago.I thought Pollock was an interesting character and I was looking forward to seeing how Ed Harris would tackle the role, this is the first feature of his I've seen with him in the lead. I thought he did a pretty good job, he put together a carefully crafted film and although there's the usual problem of an actor only having superficial physical similarities to the person portrayed (eg. Will Smith in Ali, Greg Kinnear in Autofocus) he was quite believable and really nailed the art bits, you could believe it was Ed Harris that painted all those Jackson Pollocks.I have no complaints about this film and thought it was intriguing, it didn't really get into Pollock's mind but gives a good fly-on-the-wall picture of his life. I'll probably have to read the biography to get a clearer understanding of the issues troubling Pollock throughout his life, what drove him to alcoholism and his last car ride... "},{"Title":"A noble failure","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film, although containing a surfeit of good intentions and ultra-sincere performances (especially Ed Harris), ultimately failed for me, despite my interest in art in general, and in Jackson Pollock in particular. Both the story and the character are opaque at best and non-descript at worst.  Real Pollock's story contains many very interesting and potentially juicy elements, for example his relationship and contempt for his true champion and patron, Peggy Guggenheim, are not given any coherent treatment and merely hinted at.  We are not given any indications as to where Pollock's rages or his alcoholism are coming from and secondary characters, including Lee Krasner are pure cardboard.  Pollock's views on art are not made clear (except briefly in a radio interview - and even here it is hard to tell if Pollock really means it or is just being facetious, or drunk - it could be either). Many scenes are simply inexplicable, like the one with the documentary-maker - it is not clear what is meant by them, what they contribute to the story or to the character. On the positive side, the movie is brilliantly shot and the painting scenes are quite well done. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzz","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The problem with most actors when they direct is their belief that performance is all.  Well, what good are any performances without good storytelling?  Pollock is as flat as one of Jackson's canvases, devoid of dramatic tension or even real character development beyond two notes.  I never believed that Pollock and Lee Krasner were in love -- they never kiss, physical contact is strictly buddy-buddy arms across the shoulders, and the only emotions expressed with any conviction are anger and despair.Something that distracted me throughout was Ed Harris' physique.  The only exercise the real Jackson Pollock got was from lifting cigarettes and beer bottles to his mouth but here he's always utterly buff.  Even at the end, when Harris put on 20 or 30 pounds, he was a buff-looking fatty.Bottom line, Pollock's life was boring, and so's the movie.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad, But Way Too Uneven to Work the Way It Should.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Pollock is one of those films that could have been a masterpiece, but stumbles far too many times to be a complete success. The titled character (Ed Harris in a show-stopping, Oscar-nominated performance) is an abstract expressionistic painter who had a short run of success when people like Picasso dominated the press of the 1940s and early-1950s. Bad decisions, a bad attitude and a bad drinking problem would cause Pollock to die way before his time in a wild car accident. Ed Harris' performance is the strongest point of the film, but the weakest point is probably his suspect direction. Harris shows his shortcomings as a film-maker as he struggles with character development and a screenplay that never does jell or engross the way it should. Marcia Gay Harden received a somewhat curious Oscar as Pollock's wife. The soundtrack is also terrible as it just does not go with the movie or the message at all. All in all, Pollock somehow over-achieves really. It is one of those films that stays interesting, but in the end the viewer will wonder So what? 4 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"hated it!","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Objectively speaking, POLLOCK is not a bad film. Subjectively speaking, I hated it from the very beginning and couldn't wait for it to end. Throughout, it seems infused with the vitriolic spirit of Jackson Pollock, Stereotypical Alcoholic Artist, creating a work that is rock-hard to warm to.Not only is it tough to watch the sullen, surly, self-aggrandizing character played by actor-director Ed Harris, but his pushy, utterly codependent wife, Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden), is another stomach-turner. `Get your own damn career and stop freeloading off his!' I found myself yelling at the screen. Put these two together and you've got the film's main focalpoint a blatantly parasitic relationship that monotonously circles the same track, with her lowering her vast black New Yorker eyebrows in scorn and him skulking around with the loquaciousness of a two-toed sloth. Don't these characters ever get to do anything but hype his `genius,' carp and stew-for reasons we're never privy to?Set between 1941 and Pollock's 1956 death, the film both tells too little and tells too much. It presumes knowledge of the artist's career and biography that the uninitiated don't necessarily have. For instance, several times Pollock cops a faraway look that apparently means something to cognoscenti, like, `I can see him composing I'M A DRIP #7 in his head right now.' But the gauzy gazes are never explained, and the audience strains to psych out a character who is so malicious, self-absorbed and boring that it's not worth the effort. On the other hand, screenwriters Barbara Turner and Susan J. Emshwiller struggle to provide historical details about Pollock's shows, business dealings, interviews, etc., making the film stilted in places. They also have an unfortunate need to plug in famous quotes `I am nature,' `I'm the only painter worth looking at in America,' etc. Using such gack-worthy lines in service of character development is a cheap form of shorthand. I guarantee we could've extrapolated that Lee thought Jack's new splatter style impressive without having her deadpan, `You've done it, Pollock. You've cracked it wide open.'WHAT got cracked open is never revealed. There's nary a whisper of his being the first abstract expressionist, nor a mention of the designation Action Painters (though we do get to watch them guzzle beer together). The film never shares that The Dripper was fascinated with Navajo sandpaintings or the subconscious or anything else, facts that might have imbued him with some intelligence and dimension besides his supposed Neanderthal charm.Characters fall out of the sky without any explanation of who they are or what their import. Clement Greenberg is just `Clem,'--as their farmhand might be `ol' Zeke'-forget that he was one of the era's foremost art critics. When Krasner and her bangs first appear, we have no idea if she's a critic or a painter or just some gal cruising the Village for a drunk to pop.The film also jettisons the talents of several supporting actors. As Pollock's mom, Sada Thompson has sorely little to say, left to express herself with the kind of glares she used to give Buddy on FAMILY, but for reasons that are, again, never explained. Bud Cort, of HAROLD AND MAUDE fame, is a terrific surprise-but in the meagerest role on earth. And Val Kilmer's bleached-out Willem de Kooning looks as if all the sunlamps and hash bars have completely overtaken him.Stay home and read Pollock's Pulitzer Prize-winning biography, or tip a few (paint) cans of your own.  "},{"Title":"An exercise in boredom","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Sitting through Pollock will test the limits of your patience. I admire Ed Harris for taking on the persona of such a complicated individual, but all I saw throughout the entire film was Ed Harris acting drunk and dripping paint. First, Harris was far too old at 49/50 to be playing a man we are supposed to believe is in his 30s and early 40s. Harris' performance was so overshadowed by his admiration for Pollock and his art that it marred the entire film. Marcia Gay Harden certainly deserved her Oscar for her performance as Lee Krasner--the most developed character in the film--but again, the actress was too old for the role. It is two hour biopic that barely touched the surface of a man's extremely complicated relationship with his family, friends, and the art world. A very disappointing film overall. "},{"Title":"A very sad subject","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film solidly portrays a very sad subject. The technical aspects are excellent. The camera work is great, the acting is professional, and the story is probably as tight and relevant as it can be. Ed Harris has done a first class job in capturing and expressing the essence of the thing. The problem is the thing itself, Jackson Pollock the man, his work, and life.Jackson Pollock is presented as the quintessential artist debilitated by alcoholism and a burning talent. Perhaps his alcoholism is a damper to the intensity of his artistic vision which burns too brightly or, perhaps there is a hint of childhood difficulty, parental abuse or indifference which is never actually revealed in the movie. A cursory study of Pollock's real life shows the reason it is never revealed is because it doesn't exist. Pollock was, if anything, a well indulged child who perhaps resented his lack of struggle. The film incidentally displays that Pollock was an alcoholic for the simple reason that he lacked self-control and had no desire and no incentive to mature. We see his alcoholic rants initiated by something that discomfits his comfortable life in some small way. Some act of people in his life expressing or acting an independent will triggers an infantile cry from the drunkard, a whining insistence that everyone must his will, not their own. In one scene a drunken Pollock is riding his bicycle to his house, balancing a case of beer bottles between the handlebars while simultaneously attempting to drink one. He is distracted by a passing vehicle, loses his precarious balance and falls to the destruction of the entire case. I suppose that Mr. Harris was trying to create a metaphor of Pollock's life in this scene and, as with the film in total, he accidentally succeeded. He meant us to see a tragic figure losing control of a precariously balanced life, but instead we see a stupid man come to the logical conclusion of a juvenile misadventure.Along with the man is his art. Many people observe the Pollock's work and don't like it. They keep their negative opinion to themselves while assured by others that his works are significant and deep and therefore difficult to fathom except by highly educated initiates with keener insight and greater knowledge. This movie does a masterful job of revealing how pointless and stupid Pollock's work actually is. We are treated to representations of his manner and method of creation. At first he squiggles brush strokes onto canvas without pattern or purpose until he creates a confused tangle of squiggles and stripes of discordant colors. Then, one day, in a flash of accidental inspiration he discovers that brushing the paint on is a waste of time &#x96; he can dribble and splash a confused tangle of splashes and splotches much more efficiently than with a brush. Voila! Genius &#x96; or perhaps the opposite, depending upon your viewpoint.Pollock is supported by his long-suffering wife, portrayed convincingly by Marcia Gay Harden and his sponsor, Peggy Guggenheim, portrayed equally well by Amy Madigan along with a host of other characters including his mother, brothers, sycophantic art critics and colleagues. One wonders all the more at his own supposed suffering as he lives the free ride, consistently supported monetarily and nurtured emotionally by a host of women and effeminate males who ooh and ahh at his every incontinence and endure his childish abuse slavishly. This story goes on for two long hours until we finally get to the end where the drunken narcissist drives himself and an innocent victim to their senseless, violent deaths, along with his mistress, who survived by sheer chance.Before I saw this film I knew that I didn't like Pollock's work. Having seen this film I know that I don't like Pollock himself either. How sad for us all. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm betting, reading over the other comments about this movie, that anyone will care for what I type here.This movie is boring.Perhaps there is dictum about artists in cinema, that if you don't like the art, you won't like the movie about the artist. Since I just made that up, I doubt there is anything specific like that, but there ought to be, or at least some thing approximate.I don't like Jackson Pollock's art. I don't think that it is art. I think it's interesting splotches on canvass. But it doesn't mean anything to me. The colors are cool, the variations, the variegations, the structure of his paintings, are interesting. Art? No way. Not to me. I need to see an idea, and there none in Pollock's art.This is all as prelude to a thought on the movie If such a tortured soul as Pollock came up with basically interesting splotches of paint on canvas, then it seems to be a complete waste of a tortured soul.There are long stretches in the film of Ed Harris as Pollock doing not much of anything, other stretches when he's being a drunken fool (urinating in a fireplace during a swanky dinner may be the way to establish a reputation as tortured artist, but in the end it's not exactly polite).Ed Harris is a great actor, he really is. And it seems he's quite an admirer of Pollock. But what Harris is to acting, in my take, Pollock is not the same to painting.I think people who watch this movie probably are artistry fans, which is to mean, loving art for the fact that somewhere, someone has called something art. Even if it's abject garbage. Sometimes literally.As from the beginning, perhaps it's the person in question I like Mozart, very much so, and so I very much liked Amadeus. I like the Doors, very much so, and so I very much liked The Doors. Still I dislike John Holmes, and yet I liked Wonderland quite a bit. Whether Porn Stars rank with artists like Mozart is questionable, though less so when compared with Pollock.Hence, perhaps this movie would be better were it about a better painter. Just throwing ink and paint and other fluids around does not a great painter make. "},{"Title":"Good acting, but the movie is a mess!","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The good part was the acting. Ed Harris was excellent at capturing Pollock's drunkenness, shyness, social awkwardness, arrogance, and passive-aggressive personality. The movie starts out showing Pollock as already a drunkard, but someone born with a gift. He is almost totally autistic, seeming to launch into his own world at the most embarrassing social occasion. As a drunk, he has no guile. He is rude, arrogant, nasty, and cruel. Yet, the same man can be quite kind, passive, and loving at times.The second good part was displaying how Pollock expressed his artistry. The film very well displayed how Pollock just took paints and appeared to throw paint around randomly. A naive person would assume that it was random. Yet, the messy, dripping paint was used by Pollock in a most brilliantly disciplined and focused manner. This rather bland WASPish artist was like a farmer with an extraordinary gift.The third part that was good was the role of Marcia Gay Harden. Playing his wife, she basically recognized his gift, and that's what her love was based upon. She put up with him for too long for her own good, but it was because she knew he had the gift. She wanted him to succeed. She was the woman of the preliberation days, who stuck with her man because she saw something in him that was worthy.Why this movie did not work is that it should have not just started out in 1941, when Jackson Pollock was 29 years old. Due to this mistake, a lot of information was left out to the viewer. I am guessing most of the audience knows who Jackson Pollock was. However, few know his story. So, this becomes a major thorn in the whole movie. The viewer never truly understands why Pollock is the way he is. We understand his extreme moods and Harris' beautiful treatment of his mannerisms. However, we have no idea what made Pollock the way he was.Instead of showing all his tantrums in his adult life, some time should have been devoted to flashbacks of his childhood. We understand that his Mom is an elderly WASPish, proper American. However, that's all we understand. We have no idea who Jackson Pollock is and how he got the way he did. The only thing we understand is that he is a brilliant drunk. This becomes a major detraction in the movie. However, I must say I loved the ending. Harris brilliantly shows how in his irrational drunkard, speeding down the road to destruction behind the wheel, represents Pollock's rage at the public who can never properly appreciate and love the man enough for his liking. However, that is the question that the movie refuses to address. Why did Pollock feel unloved? "},{"Title":"Less original than its subject","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The elements of the biopic of the artist are well defined the struggle with drink and/or drugs, the love of a good woman, the defining moment of inspiration, the recreation of the art itself and the succession of minor characters whose primary role seems to be to comment on the exact status of the hero's career. In this sense, Ed Harris' film 'Pollock' is quite similar to the films made about Ray Charles or Johnny Cash, differentiated primarily by the stubborn refusal of the narrative of Pollock's life to fit into a happy ending. Harris not only directs but also stars, and he gives a performance of studied intensity, forcing the audience to respect his unconventional art through the display of commitment to it manifested by the man. But the root cause of Pollock's demons remain hidden to us; and one wonders if there was perhaps, in a fragment of the man's troubled life, a better story than there is in the whole of it. "},{"Title":"Pollock/Harris","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I must say that this movie belongs to unforgettable ones from America. Why? Firstly because of the utmost importance of the painter and secondly ECEPTIONALLY high-level acting by mr. Harris in this case as J. Pollock. I sensed the impression that he kind of 'painted' his acting somehow. It is difficult to 'bring out' depiction of most abstruse personality to an ordinary people in the film. It's really difficult equation, but 'somehow' mr. Harris has succeeded in doing this. He expressed that agony, doubt, joy, certainty, uncomfortability etc. that precedes the phase before final breakthrough into a new dimension by the artist. It seems that Pollock transformated forever what we think about painting as an art form. There is nothing wrong in painting beautiful landscapes, portraits etc., but everybody is ( was ) doing that particularly before avantgardists. In my ( subjective ) opinion the point seems to be to bring forth ( as 'leit motif' ) certain abstruse elements in existence and it's phenomena ( multidimensionally ) in abstract expressionism. Pollock also seem to 'saw' internally kind of 'flashes' of fractal geometry in nature long before it came part of more or less general understanding. In a way his paintings kind of asks me; 'Do I have to sacrifice beauty of ordinary perception temporarily in order to elevate 'something' in me and 'see' the world slightly in the different light after transformation of my understanding of surroundings, phenomena, beauty etc. AFTER ( note this! ) 'looking' deeper into the painting? So it's linked to the philosophy as well. I see that it's the higher-arts that are in one of the key roles in changing things finally for the better by ( slowly perhaps ) getting people to UNDERSTAND ( read this slowly ). This is just one subjective opinion of an ordinary person not of a scholarist. Oh, one more thing. If there is ever to be made film of ( Great ) Andy Warhol, I suggest in to the main role mr. Willem Dafoe. Just imagine. And once more; I regard mr. Ed Harris's work belonging to the highest of level from America in the cinema-arts ( mainly ) because of his acting and because of the ( very ) DIFFICULT nature of manageability of subject matter and motives of the painter. "},{"Title":"The story of a normal bad husband","Date":"23 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Wen I saw the movie, i expected to begin a wonderful journey trough the abstract paintings of a genius, but o surprise, most of the movie was the story of a typical bad husband, alcoholic and depressing man, just like thousands in this world, with the slight difference that Pollock had a talent; i wanted to understand more deeply the heart and meaning of his paintings, but i got more confused about them; from my perspective the movie should have been more involved in the magic and the meaning of these pieces of art and all that felt Pollock in the very instant that he was dancing over the painting and the liberation he felt trough the canvas and dripping style. The Harris acting was plane and simple, specially while painting, Marcia Gay Harden makes a great role and is her character the one that leaves admiration and a lesson for live. This movie could have been 1000 times better "},{"Title":"Twos hours of Sim City music","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film is boring and awful, exacerbated by the dreadful, Sim City style score from Jeff Beal.The scenes of the avant garde painter in his bohemian flat reminded me of Tony Hancock when he went to Paris in that great comedy film of the 1960s.  He paints strange-looking stuff and is mistaken for a master.This film is a good as a cure for insomnia. "},{"Title":"Well Made, But Not Interesting Enough","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Pollock the artist is certainly one of the intriguing characters of 20th century art. Pollock the man did not have a very intersting life - he was poor and success avoided him for a while, than he met that woman, he drunk a lot, became famous, his ego inflated, etc... He was not Picasso, with all due respect, on any plan. 'Pollock' the film is well acted and respectfully directed, but the subject is simply not interesting enough to make it a piece of art by itself. Movie fans have many more entertaining options, and art fans better go to the museum to see the real thing. 7/10 on my personal scale, mainly thanks to Ed Harris fine performance.  "}{"Title":"A must-see for anyone who ever wondered...","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Regardless of your artistic background, this film is an honest and interesting depiction of a man who changed the face of art forever. Sure there are theatrics added in to heighten a moment here and there, but Ed Harris and the screenwriters got to the soul of the man who was Jackson Pollock.  It is a beautiful, tragic and invigorating film.  There are scenes that are difficult, as there should be, life is difficult.  I have seen so many films on the lives of artists, both biographical and theatrical, and as many about the life and work of Pollock as are available - but this film is by far the most far-reaching and honest attempt to give us a picture of a time, a place, a direction, and a man...a real human being...sure, there are the myths about Pollock, and his art is among the most difficult to experience. People who are not painters themselves will not find it an easy task to accept and find value in the work.  Aside from the academic/historic perspective - Pollock is just an amazing and entertaining piece of film making.  It didn't get that way accidentally.  "},{"Title":"Expectations will get you nowhere...","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The problem with many movie audiences appears to be expectation.  Just because you are unable to understand the thought process behind a Jackson Pollock work does not mean that there was none that went into it.  Just because you think your five year old can produce equivalent works, you had better hope not, at least through the self torture and demons that possessed Pollock--or you will likely be sorry.  It doesn't make it true.I especially like the comment that Ed Harris (whose job was immaculate in my opinion) never let us know what Pollock was thinking.  What do you think he was thinking?  Is there any way for anyone including his wife and friends, those closest to him, to tell us what he was thinking?  What about some of his aberrant actions portrayed throughout the film?  If they knew what he was thinking, do you not think that they would got out of his way, say for example, when he was going to be a big *&%^$#!?  How absurd and presumptuous we can be (well-you; I assumed to know nothing).I will assume however, that many people who claim to have fallen asleep during this film, either had no interest in Pollock's story, don't have interest in movies of this genre in the first place and expected Jackson to say, do a front braked wheelie on a motorcycle while shooting an Uzi and...Just because my grandparents might not understand Fast Times at Ridgemont High, would not make it any lesser.  Just because this is not your cup of tea, give talent a break and don't try to over-analyze something for which you had different expectations.  Did the movie satisfy its end?  That is the real question.  I'd say it portrayed exactly what those involved, Ed Harris at the very least, wanted.  Of course I am assuming much now...Give 'em a brake.  Pollock may not have lived the pretty life you wanted, but the film portrayed certain known aspects beautifully.  "},{"Title":"Only Artists Would Understand Pollock","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Only artists like myself would understand Pollock's inner turmoil and insecurities. He was a brilliant artist but a tortured soul and an alcoholic. His relationship with Lee Krasner was one of the rare relationships in true life. She understood him and his art. Too bad, they did not have any children. I think it would have done them good to be parents. Marcia Gay Harden deserved her Oscar for this role, not question about it. Watching the film and seeing his piece at the Tate Modern in London, England over this past summer, you can't help but notice his unique eye and vision. It's the same with Lee's work which is also at the Tate Modern. They looked for something that many of us don't see on a blank sheet of paper. You have to see Pollock at least once to appreciate Ed Harris and Marcia Gay Harden's performances as Lee and Pollock. It's not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, powerful and compelling","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This film has my vote as one of the best films of 2000.  It is a film that succeeds on every level.  Ed Harris delivers a tour de force exhibition of acting and directorial prowess in this intense and intelligent biopic on the life of Jackson Pollock.For Harris this was not so much a filmmaking project as it was a personal obsession.  Harris, who is himself a painter, had thought about making a biographical film about Pollock for over a decade.  When Steven Naifeh published the book, `Jackson Pollock An American Saga', Harris saw his chance.  He turned to Barbara Turner and Susan Emschwiller to write a screenplay based on the book, and he began to immerse himself in an all consuming mania that in many ways was analogous to the frenzied passion of the painter he hoped to portray.From a directorial standpoint, the film is extraordinary in every regard, which is quite remarkable for a first time director.   Harris creates an intricate and complex weave with a character study that is simultaneously moving, exhilarating and tragic.  The period renderings are meticulously correct, from the costumes and furniture to the cars and the vintage packages on the shelves of the country store.  The music selection is a fantastic swirl of big band and other jazz standards from the 1940's from Benny Goodman to Billie Holiday.  The photography (with kudos to cinematographer Lisa Rinzler) is excellent with some extraordinary lighting effects, especially the backlit scene where Jackson and Lee first make love.  As if all of this weren't enough, Harris induces unbelievably compelling performances out of all the cast members.Harris has always been an artist among celebrities, a hard working and accomplished actor living on the fringes in supporting roles or minor leads.  Given the freedom afforded by producing, directing and acting in this film, his talent and skill shine forth unencumbered.  His performance is nothing short of phenomenal.  He seems more like he is channeling than acting.  The DVD includes some footage of the actual Pollock at work and after seeing this, Harris' portrayal takes on an almost eerie realism.  In the painting scenes, Harris like Pollock attacks the canvas like a man possessed, with rapid strokes that make it seem as if his muscles can't react as fast as the genius that is flowing forth.  In the dramatic scenes, Harris delivers a white hot performance of a tormented and moody genius struggling with alcohol addiction and an enormous inferiority complex.  He received his third Oscar nomination for this performance, his first for best actor.  I don't know if Harris will ever be able to surpass his performance here, given the level of dedication and inspiration he possessed regarding the subject matter, but I certainly hope this opens opportunities in both lead acting roles and directorial projects worthy of his abilities.Marcia Gay Hardin gives a performance that goes stride for stride with Harris.  She won the Oscar for best supporting actress and fully deserved it.  She captures the essence of Lee Krasner's unbending devotion to Pollock, subjugating her own painting pursuits to support and promote his career (Krasner went on to become a prominent artist in her own right after Pollock's death).  Her 1940's Brooklyn accent is superb, as is her command of the zeitgeist of the intelligentsia of the period.  Amy Madigan is also terrific as Peggy Guggenheim, the flamboyant gallery owner and niece of Solomon R. Guggenheim, the benefactor of the famous Guggenheim museum (though this relationship is not mentioned in the film).This film is superlative in almost every way.  It opened in limited distribution, shown on less than 10% of the nation's screens, and still managed to gross $8 Million.  I rated it a 10/10.  I highly recommend it to the intelligent viewer and to lovers of fine art. "},{"Title":"Jackson Pollock, Modern Painter","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Based on the true story of Jackson Pollock, the film portrays the rise and tragic ending of one of the most original painters in American history. Pollock, played masterfully by Ed Harris, is such a good movie, that it draws you into the life of the painter, whether you enjoy Art or not. I knew nothing about Jackson Pollock or modern, abstract painting but I loved the film. Ed Harris does a wonderful job and the painting scenes are pretty amazing. I've actually done some research about Pollock and the film and Harris do an accurate job of portraying the painter, everything from his behaviors to what he looked like. Ed Harris definetely deserved his Oscar Nomination for Best Actor. Look for cameo by Val Kilmer, who does an awful job, must be bumming for a pay check. I will leave you a link to learn more about Jackson Pollock and his work. My take, 10 out of 10 stars.http//www.nga.gov/feature/pollock/  "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Mostly notable for Marcia Gay Harden's stunning performance that won her one of the biggest surprise Academy Awards in the history of the Oscars, this is rather a mundane biographical film, only saved by some occasional interesting moments and good acting. Harris has good material to work with in his directional debut, but besides for in the acting arena, he makes nothing special out of it, and the film is drowned in its long length. Quite okay to watch, but one could just as easily gone without. In spite of the Oscar success the film still did not find a distributor in the United Kingdom until May 2002 and in Australia until October 2002. "},{"Title":"How do you know when you are finished, making a painting? Pollock's answer, How do you know when you are finished making love?","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS - I must start this review with the statement, I am NOT a fan of modern art. To me they, like Jackson Pollock's painting, are just large doodles with broad colors. Just like doodles express a normal person's subconscious, Pollock's large, colorful doodles express his semi-mad mind. Starring and directed by Ed Harris, I give Pollock an 8 of 10, because I generally enjoy a good film based on a significant person's real life, as this one is.Pollock's productive career spanned approximately the period of 1943, when he had his first solo showing, to the mid-50s, right before he committed suicide by driving fast and crashing at night while drunk. While he had mixed, and marginal, success with his earlier paintings, after he moved to the country in 1945, while working on a painting on the floor, he accidentally drizzled some paint on the floor, noticed the pattern, and from then on adopted that technique.  His subsequent paintings remind me of enlarged cultures on petrie dishes.  Or, what macaroni and cheese would look like after 3 months in a refrigerator.By all indications, Pollock suffered from a number of abnormalities, including severe depression, anti-social behavior when drunk, and an overwhelming need for approval.  Certainly his work would have been very ordinary, had he always remained on an even keel. His wife was largely responsible for keeping him painting. However, in his later years, after his wife refused to bear a child, Pollock cheated on her regularly, and basically lost interest in living.The DVD is very sharp, but even though it has a DD 5.1 sound track, there is very little coming from the surrounds, it's just that kind of movie.  The extras are very interesting, including a making of which features some actual footage of the real Pollock painting. Overall a very fine film for those who like to study humanity and see what makes unusual people click.The final song, featuring Tom Waits' graveley voice, was a nice final touch. "},{"Title":"I don't care","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The only reason I even attempted to watch this movie is because Ed Harris was in it, whom I like, and because I heard it was supposed to be good because it got nominated for some awards. But I could not even finish watching it, I kept falling asleep and when I would wake up I would think, oh, did it finally get a POINT!!?? But, alas, NO. I could not have cared less if someone had run over the idiot and had his guts all smeared over the street. He was a pathetic no-talent loser drunk who happened to drip some paint on a sheet. My 5-year old could do that. "},{"Title":"Like watching paint dry","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This tediously long and pointless film is derivative of countless bio films of tortured artists, struggling for sanity and success, who finally get recognition just before their ultimate act of self-destruction.  Director/Producer Ed Harris has merely cut out the faces of Van Gogh, Jack Kerouac, Jim Morrison, and Janice Joplin and pasted in Jackson Pollock's, moving his cardboard character from set to set.  As true with most bio treatments (with the notable and questionable exception of Oliver Stone), the director and writer are limited in their own artistic license, hamstrung by actual events in the subject's life.  The more closely accurate the film, the more its tendency to devolve into a repetitive litany of desperate acts in a depressing downward spiral of a life.  After these, the inevitable conclusion strikes the audience more of a relief than a tragedy.And yet for all of his PAINstaking attempt to be accurate and complete, Harris misses the larger story.  Given such a dull, detailed depiction of Pollock, we leave the theater knowing only that he dribbled, drank, drove, and died.  Any clues to his self-destruction are omitted entirely.  Did his behavior result from a clinical condition, drugs and alcohol, or personal demons?Pollock biographers provide much more insight, suggesting that he was severely conflicted by his sexuality and, like his contemporary Jack Kerouac, was wracked with guilt and confusion over his affairs with men.  Not only does Harris skip this central issue entirely, he even fabricates a tryst between Pollock and his sponsor Peggy Guggenheim. Guggenheim, who was well known for having no sexual interest in men and for being gracious and personable, gets unfavorable and undeserved treatment throughout the film.  The artistic motivation of Pollock is principally ignored, as well.  The real story of his art arises out of the self-consciousness he felt next to other artists.  Unlike Van Gogh, Picasso, Benton, and even his own brother, for whom formal training provided a springboard into revolutionary forms, Pollock never mastered classical technique.  Abstract expressionism was virtually the only avenue available for an artist who, like Salieri in Amadeus, recognized creative genius but lacked the usual tools and technique to pull it off.  Neglecting this central point, Harris paints himself into a corner.  Instead of portraying Pollock's development of dribble art as an act of artistic necessity and ingenuity, he shows it as an accidental act of aesthetic serendipity.  The scene brings to mind the ape in 2001 idling playing with the bone before suddenly comprehending it as a tool.Another weakness of Pollock is its failure to capture an era, relying soley on subtitled text, references by the characters, and much-to-clear radio broadcasts to place it in time.  The automobiles are all typically in showroom condition, making Long Island of the Fifties look more like Mainstreet USA in Disneyland.  By contrast, the faded issues of Life magazine appear as if they were found in grandma's attic and dusted off.A bright spot is the cameo of Bud Cort as Howard Putzel, Guggenheim's agent, but he disappears early in this long, long film about very little.  In one defining scene, a Life reporter asks Pollock how he knows when to stop painting.  Harris should be asked the same question about filming.    "},{"Title":"Excellent Biography","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Watching Big Eyes (2014) really made me want to see a GOOD biography movie about a painter. This is the 3rd or 4th I'm watching this movie (my first watch was at the cinema).This movie is so much better than Big Eyes - everything about it is great Direction (Ed Harris himself), cinematography, score, writing. The entire cast is wonderful, especially Ed Harris - he's just excellent and all the scenes of him painting are very realistic (it's obvious he studied Pollock back and forth) - although he was only nominated for an Oscar and Marcia Gay Harden actually won one.I really like the direction/writing/acting approach of everything presented very realistically and natural, like people really act - there's no smooch and people smiling all the time, like you usually see in movies. Everything is straight forward and real. It's pretty noticeable in Marcia Gay Harden's character (acting and speech). Pollock is a broken character, with lots of damages, problems and imperfections - very far from the usual Hollywood presentation.I like the way they present Pollock as a passive character and Lee Krasner as the active of the two, doing all the decisions, pushing Pollock forward without hurting her own ego. If you want an example of a strong female character in a movie, she's a good example - I hate how people throw this term for just about any silly/weak/meaningless female character in other movies.The last part of the movie is a bit weak, but other than that it's great.This movie is one - if not THE - best movie biographies I've seen about a painter. "}{"Title":"A humbly made passion project with a captivating lead","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There is very little to downright complain about in Pollock - a well made, well acted film made very effectively for its budget. That being said, it is inaccurate to say that the film doesn't drag in places, but it is hard to point the finger and say where something could have been cut. Pollock has a niche in art fans like actor/director/producer Ed Harris, and it is to Harris' credit that he has not dumbed down the movie in order to reach wider appeal. Instead, he has created a film that does justice to the artist and will satisfy art fans. To those who are less than familiar or interested in Pollock the artist, the film still holds a must-see element in the form of Ed Harris' captivating performance as Jackson Pollock. Harris is completely at home in Pollock's skin, whether it is painting in the many techniques of Pollock, or whether he is simultaneously riding a bike, drinking, smoking and opening a bottle, the performance is simply marvelous. This is undoubtedly the performance of Harris' long career and it is a travesty that Russell Crowe took home the Lead Actor Oscar for his generic action hero role. Marcia Gay Harden plays Lee Krasner with conviction, but it is unfortunate that her skill is eclipsed to a great extent by Harris. There are some wonderful moments in her performance, but this is really Harris' show and he pulls it off with great success. "},{"Title":"well made biopic","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Jackson Pollock (Ed Harris) is famous with a Life magazine cover in 1950. The movie flashes back to 1941. He's a drunk staying in Greenwich Village with his brother and pregnant wife. Artist Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden) shows some interest and becomes his lover/supporter. His brother moves to Connecticut. Jackson breaks down which is why he can't be drafted into the war. Lee takes Jackson home acting more and more like his manager. His work eventually gains the attention of art collector Peggy Guggenheim (Amy Madigan) who gives him an one-man show in 1943. Lee and Jackson decides to move to a country house on Long Island away from the drinking and doing more work. His paintings are still not selling and then the Life article happens. Lee and Jackson have a roller-coaster relationship and then he has an affair with Ruth Kligman (Jennifer Connelly).Ed Harris directs a mostly straight forward biopic of Jackson Pollock with a few fascinating scenes of painting sessions. His directing style doesn't necessarily project Jackson mental breakdowns but his acting is able to bridge the gap. Ed Harris is not the most imaginative director visually but it is overcome by good actors doing good work. It is a good debut directorial effort. "},{"Title":"A nice story yet not so much an entertainment","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A great story about a talent in art. Still this story tells the same old song about most of the talented minds in the world, that their success doesn't guarantee they get it better in everything else in life. The screenplay is developed nicely to encompass the life stages of Pollock. The scenes feel balanced in dividing between the New York Years and the country years, the years before marriage, the married years, and even the dysfunctional marriage years. I like to see the consistent character delve done by Ed Harris here. Marcia Gay Harden also did a great job in getting into character and also getting into the the ways of the era. Jennifer Connelly and the other supporting character also give a nice addition to the movie overall. Yet the movie feels to much like Pollock's mind, empty, lonely and troubled, that it seemed a very unlikely entertainment for me. "},{"Title":"Engaging biopic","Date":"8 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is about the life, career and relationships of the well known contemporary painter, Jackson Pollock.Ed Harris' portrayal of Jackson Pollock is quite powerful. His constant temper, ingratitude and alcoholism affects me. I feel shocked and repulsed by his character, and I feel so sorry for his wife, Lee Krasner. Lee admires Pollock's creativity and artistry, and seems to love Pollock for this sole reason. She sacrifices her life to hang around Pollock, but all she gets in return is complete misery. Sometimes when one withers and the other thrives, but in this case both withers. It is a rather sad reminder of how cruel life can be.Pollock can at times be a little dull, but it has this certain magic to draw you in, making you care about how Pollock wastes his miserable life. "},{"Title":"Possessing Talent Gives You No Right To Be a Drunken Bastard","Date":"27 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" There are many good artists out there who are never given the credit they have earned, and no doubt, some of them are just as original and as brilliant as Jackson Pollock was thought to be. It doesn't give them the right to behave in the way he was portrayed as behaving throughout this movie. Was it an accurate portrayal or just the usual stereotyping of the crazy, self-absorbed, ego maniacal genius? Who knows. But if it was more or less true, then Pollock was someone I'm glad I never met. In fact, I'm embarrassed for all artists that some of us use the immense pressures we sometimes face as an excuse to act out so despicably. Little whiners like Sean Penn seem to think it makes them interesting, which it most certainly shouldn't. Poor little genius, he didn't get recognition right away. Awww, isn't that sad. And poor little genius, he had to stomach all those phonies at first condemning him and then oooing and aaahing over his efforts when they understood so little about it and him. Yeah, my heart bleeds. At least they admired what you created and made you a rich man for it. You should have counted your blessings instead of squandering them. When the clown really lost my guarded sympathy was the way he treated that good woman who really went to bat for him and basically took care of him as if she were his nanny instead of his wife. Ending up a thoroughly unrepentant drunk again, he gets himself a delectable little number who seems to be a pretty nice girl, herself, and the hell with what his long-suffering wife thinks about it. He gets bombed, as per usual, and attempts to expiate his sense of guilt and shame by taking her out for what he apparently intended to be their last ride, killing himself and her friend, but sparing HER life, at least. No wonder most people think artists are insane. Was Pollock really that much of a jerk? It's too bad he is thought to have been a genius. I'd call him more of a spoiled brat who thought only of himself. "},{"Title":"Pollock close to people around the world","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I translated a study about my favorite painter Pollock from English to Arabic since year 2000 ,same year of production the film about him I feel so proud because all the world had same care to him like me . thanks IMDb for important information given simply to people around the world.Pollock care with human exist like philosophers but he wrote his philosophy upon canvas borrowing skilled method from Indian and another Amercain teachers besides the European schoolers .I think he discover the deep meaning of our life without help from Religiosity ,so he drank too much to threaten his personal stable and end his life tragically. we fell more close to him for his using our art Arabesque . "},{"Title":"Hard but worth it. A teeny bit spoilery.","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Pollock was not an easy movie. I am glad I watched it, but it's not an experience I intend to repeat. I've always been intrigued by the idea of genius or greatness giving a person carte blanche to treat other people like crap. So often, the sacrifices that others make to/for the great person are undervalued or invisible. Lee Krasner deserves so much credit for making Jackson Pollock's success possible. Would he have been alive to break new ground in modern art without her? Maybe, maybe not. Ed Harris is one of my favorite actors. I don't necessarily seek out his movies, but his performances never disappoint. I find it amazing that he also directed this film. More amazing is that neither the movie nor his direction of it was nominated for any major awards. Every performance was perfect. My favorite scenes though were Pollock painting, the quiet passion of creation. Worth the pain he inflicted? I'm not sure. "},{"Title":"This may be the best film ever made about an artist","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Am extraordinary film; it may be the best ever made about an artist and was clearly a labour of love for Ed Harris who worked on the project for over 10 years and was so anxious to get the film made, poured most of his own money into it, directing it and playing the title role of the artist, Jackson Pollock. And it's a great piece of acting. There is something instinctive and primitive about Harris' work here; it's bold in an almost shameless sort of way. This isn't some vain-glorious ego-trip but something deeply felt and at times quite terribly moving. And there is no pretence in his direction. He gives the images a raw, intense feeling and he concentrates for large parts of the film on Pollock at work and the scenes of him painting are terribly exciting. I have never been able to look at a Pollock painting and feel anything until now. Harris taps into Pollock's psyche and the painting sequences are terrific. (There is a great moment when that first drop of white paint drips from the brush; it's one of the great moments of epiphany in a movie).As his wife Lee Krasner, Marcia Gay Harden manages to get under the skin of the woman and inhabit her completely. It's a lovely piece of acting and she was awarded with the Oscar for it and there's a great, sharp cameo from Amy Madigan as Peggy Guggenheim. But finally, it's Harris' movie, a showcase not just for the works of Jackson Pollock but for Harris both as actor and director, working at the very height of his powers. "},{"Title":"Engrossing bio-pic!","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  ****MAJOR SPOILERS**** * * Jackson Pollock is an American artistic painter whom I had never heard of until this film was made. I don't follow the art world, unless it involves photography or film. Some painters I have heard of simply because they influenced certain photographers. Anyway, I don't think you need to have an artistic background to appreciate the story of Jackson Pollock, or to appreciate the paintings he created. Ed Harris made this film as a labour of love, and perfectly recaptures the essence of the 40s and 50s. He had the dual role of directing and playing the lead character in Jackson Pollock.The film starts off a little slowly, as we are introduced to Jackson Pollock as an alcoholic living with his brother and wife in New York. His art is heard of through the grapevine in the New York art scene, and another abstract artist in Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden) introduces herself to Jackson. She forms a relationship with him, and pushes his artwork to the big wigs of the New York scene- notably Peggy Guggenheim (Amy Madigan). Jackson has some minor success as he becomes immersed in his artistic passion, yet in-between this, he is a raging alcoholic who goes on drunken escapades with his old drinking buddies. Jackson and Lee decide to go to the countryside, and out of New York, to hone in on their artistry, as well as get away from the city. Jackson manages to paint whilst trying to become known in bigger circles, as well as finding beauty in his environment. He occasionally retreats in his back to alcoholism in-between and during his painting escapades. He develops a new style of painting, and cracks the big-time with exposure on Life Magazine. It is during this period that he completely quits alcohol.However, fame and success eventually wear down on him during when his freedom of expressing himself in his art, and his self-doubt accumulates and results in a sudden turn to the drink in a violent matter. Things eventually become worse as the years and new artists emerge to steal the limelight, and Jackson cheats on Lee with Ruth Kligman (Jennifer Connelly). This eventually results in a rather sad destructive outcome!Ed Harris is phenomenal as Jackson Pollock, and Marcia Gay Harden truly deserved her Oscar for her equally strong performance. The supporting cast are also quite good, particularly Amy Madigan as Peggy Guggenheim. Criticisms against the film 'Pollock' is the lack of reasoning to explain his overall behavior, in particularly his alcoholism. We never really get much of a glimpse into his past, but in essence, many alcoholics turn to the drink because they are basically selfish. I'm glad Ed Harris decided not to sugarcoat Jackson Pollock's life, but rather depict as a biography of the time Lee entered his world, and his career really started. Also, there probably wasn't some huge tragedy or horrible childhood that made Pollock the way he was, considering that he was one of many non-alcoholic children. I think Jackson Pollock was great artist, but an extremely selfish human being, and I think Ed Harris displayed the factors that may have affected Jackson and his self-doubt, but he didn't excuse it!In relation to alcoholism, well I know a few people who retreat into it basically because they are full of self-loathing, not because of some past incident or misfortune upon the character! ***MAJOR SPOILER***Ed Harris certainly didn't sugarcoat the ending where Pollock self-destructive path takes an innocent life, a person who basically had a minimal impact on Pollock's character!I appreciate that Harris displayed the man the way he probably was in his direction and performance, and yet still tell the story of a complex American painter who influenced the art world. 'Pollock' is a extremely good movie, that recaptures the period extremely well and tells the blunt version of the life of Jackson Pollock. While some issues could have been explored more, such as Jackson's family, Harris has made solid movie. A movie that makes you appreciate the complexities of a creative being like Jackson Pollock and feel sad that he took a destructive path, but it make you realise that Pollock was a great artist but not necessarily a great person, or even a good one! And the way he should be viewed in history!**** out of *****! "},{"Title":"An American Saga","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  A true story. Yes, as we all know the story of Jackson Pollock is that of a true story. The film Pollock illustrates this particular story for us. Seeing as it is a true story one cannot judge it on it's story elements because they were not originally from the mind of a human, they just happened.The critics seemed to enjoy bashing this film in some aspects. I personally don't see what was wrong with it. First time director, and long time actor, Ed Harris did beautifully as the director. I absolutely loved his performance as Jackson Pollock. I was astounded that he did not get recognized as best actor for this performance. I was also stunned by Marcia Gay Hardens performance as Lee Krasner. Overall the acting this film was stellar and consequently underrated.The production team of this film did a fabulous job with every artistic aspect of this film. I have never seen a better imitation of a great mind. The paintings that Harris did as Pollock were almost without flaw. He learned to paint like Pollock and that is one of the reasons he should have won best actor.The film was enjoyable. Of course it did have it's sad elements. If you are looking for an interesting film that will make you think, I would definitely see this movie. Of course a lot of people don't like to think when they see a film. I hope to see that changed in the near future however. It's rather ridiculous to see a true story criticized because it was entertaining to intelligence that of an eight grader(no offense). Anyway&#133;see the film.  "}{"Title":"Movie Review Pollock","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Tammi Brown Movie Review #1 PollockBASIC INFORMATION Producers . Fred Berner . Ed Harris . Jon Kilik . James Francis Trezza Directed by . Ed Harris Studio . Sony Studio Leading Performers . Ed Harris...Jackson Pollock . Marcia Gay Harden...Lee KrasnerREPUTATION Ed Harris has acted in numerous films. One particular role, as Patsy Cline's husband Charlie, directly helped introduce Harris to acting in a movie based on a real-life character.  In the The Third Miracle, which was filmed in 1999, Ross Anthony praised Harris' acting in a movie that was `slow to get started.' Obviously, his acting stood out in an average movie as though his performance gave meaning and credibility to the film.  His acting range overall is exemplified by his role as a shy, conservative father in Milk Money, especially when compared to his character in Pollock. Ed Harris made his directing debut in Pollock.   His outstanding performance earned him an Oscar nomination for his directing.  While he never had any previous directing experience, he did play a director of a television show in the movie The Truman Show, so he was exposed to the concepts and duties of a director. Marcia Gay Harden has had much experience playing roles in movies that are very different from each other.  Unlike Pollock, she usually has a secondary role in a movie but shows promise to be a leading lady in the future.  In The First Wives Club, she played a doctor.  But, it is the plot of the movie that may have given her help with her role as a wife in Pollock.  While The First Wives Club is more comedic and based on fiction, both movies feature women who have been instrumental in each of their spouses' success and have been taken advantage of by their husbands.  In Space Cowboys she worked with another actor-turned-director, Clint Eastwood, who also starred in the movie, which probably helped her `click' with Ed Harris.  Her long list of television movies, which some are based on true stories, aided her in conceptualizing the real Lee Krasner.  Pollock has gotten Harden a lot of positive attention and reviews as a cast member and for the movie as a whole. NARRATIVE AND THEMATIC SUMMARY The film Pollock told the story of an abstract expressionist, Jackson Pollock, whose talent is hindered by his alcoholism.  While living with his brother in New York, he meets another artist (Lee Krasner) who he marries. She encourages some of his greatest work as an artist.  Krasner gives up her career to be his unofficial agent. In an effort to curb Pollock's drinking problem, Krasner decides they should start fresh somewhere new- Hamptons.  The new scenery proved to help Pollock's drinking problem at first.  During a painting session, Pollock discovered a breakthrough new painting style.  By walking around and splashing/dripping the paint on the canvas, he was able to make this incredible design.   His paintings became a huge success because of their originality and texture.  Unfortunately, the pull of alcohol was too strong for Pollock to resist despite the rewards of a successful career.  He went back to drinking heavily, which caused his career to spiral downward. He also has several affairs during this time.  Ultimately, while driving drunk, Pollock wrecks his car, killing himself and his friend. TECHNICAL EVALUATION I feel that the cinematography of this film was fairly good.  The film featured many different types of shots, including a long shot and a close-up shot.  The audience was given a long shot of Pollock's studio. This effectively showed the surroundings of the studio as quiet and peaceful, the perfect ambience for introspection and inspiration.  It was important for the audience to see the artist's working conditions as calm, not loud and distracting as if it was next to a construction site.  The close-up shot was used when the camera just showed Pollock's face when he was lying in bed. The audience could see in detail the expressions on his face, such as the stoic look that signified his upset, stubborn emotions over the negative feedback on his paintings. The film also displayed different angle shots that made the audience experience different feelings.  For example, a high angle shot was used when Pollock was working on the painting on the floor.  This gave the audience the power to anticipate the style Pollock was going to invent and let us see the painting by the same angle that Pollock was seeing it.I feel that the acting was excellent in this film.  Ed Harris became the character, which is why he was able to be believable as an alcoholic artist. It was easy to feel threatened as an audience member as Pollock picked up the dining room table during dinner and threw the food all over the floor. His anger was real and raw.  Marcia Gay Harden also did a decent job at acting in this film as Lee Krasner, first the supportive, then highly frustrated wife of a cheating alcoholic.  When Pollock started drinking again after they moved to the Hamptons, Krasner's dramatic acting was superb and convincing. INTERPRETATIVE EVALUATION Personally, I feel that this film succeeded as realistic entertainment, portraying the troubled life of a struggling artist.  Each of us can relate to trying to overcome obstacles in our lives- whether it is a bad habit, a personal affliction, or a disease.  Some people fail, while some succeed, but there is always a lesson to learn from the experience.  I interpreted Pollock's downfall throughout his life to be directly linked to his substance abuse.  Pollock was clearly inhibited both personally and professionally when he was under the influence of alcohol.However, I also feel that the film did not comprehensively include the audience in all aspects because of certain information gaps throughout the movie.  Occasionally, I would get confused by the appearance of new characters or concepts because they were not clearly introduced or explained.  "},{"Title":"Mr Harris rules","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Often these days a film is an illustration of a (comics) book, a series of skilfully executed frames, paying tribute to the technology available and the market research. Mr Harris goes far beyond that and does so in his debut as film director!I will not talk about his talent as actor, since that is very well established. My extra praise comes now to the way he constructed the film, pulling me from one scene to another, although I knew Pollock's story very well. One feels the presence of a director here, helping a group of people bring back to life the story of a troubled genius.  I want to mention 2 shots which gave me chills down the spine 1) Pollock watches a huge empty canvas, his shadow runs all over it. See this and you will understand what I mean. And 2) Pollock stands in a field, the camera uses the Vertigo `trick' but makes it belong to this film. You can find a series of creative camera shots that capture Harris painting or doing his body ballet with a brush in his hand. It may sound that the camera is the best asset of this film. It's one from a list of reasons why Pollock's life, shrunk to a book, re-expands into this film. I understand why the film had to come alive, because the way it did, it justifies its visual form of expression. No matter how many commercial/entertaining films are there, there will always be someone making films to please the spirit. This certainly is one of them.  "},{"Title":"Watch the destruction of a unique artist by American economics.","Date":"9 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Sad to say, but Jackson Pollock was destroyed by the very society that produced him.  The movie is well worth seeing for that aspect and seeing a collection of his art.  As a movie it works very well, although the subject matter might be difficult for some to understand. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable insight","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this film, it was a great insight into an artist I was interested in but knew little about.  It was well made with solid performances all round.I recommend this film to anyone who has the ability to appreciate good art house films, and those who have in interest in great artists. "},{"Title":"An honest, well acted biography","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Marcia Gay Harden surprisingly won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar in 2001 for this very unseen biography of painter Jackson Pollock, directed and acted by Ed Harris. She deserved it, but we can't despise Mr. Harris' efforts. Without risking too much, he has created an honest, sad but compelling portrait of a misunderstood artist.8/10 "},{"Title":"An Ed Harris labor of love.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  How would one provide honest insight into the life of Jackson Pollock if one were not Jackson Pollock? It can't be done. However, Ed Harris has given us a window to peek through, so that we might get some small idea what Pollock's life was like, without attempting an aritifical explanation as to why Pollock's life was like that, what some people refer to as insight.....which because it's based on assumptions, can only be a lie. Draw your own conclusions. Harris obviously thinks the audience should draw their own conclusions, too, and I applaud him for that, and for making a true labor of love movie. The performances are top notch, and I was so pleased to see Marcia Gay Harden as his wife. She is such a fine actress. This is a solid drama. Forget that it's biographical and enjoy it as drama.  "},{"Title":"Poor Man's VanGogh","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I don't know Pollock's work, to my knowledge. It can be pretty well discerned that Ed Harris did and it was a labor of love for him, due to the directing and acting credit & the huge list of what I assume to be financial contributors to the films budget during the end credits. I think the love and passion that Ed Harris put into the making of this film is far more inspiring than the film itself. Ed Harris is a terrific actor, but I just don't think he had the right material or something. The whole time I was reminded of any number of other films about artists. One of my favorites is Lust for Life with Kirk Douglas about the life of VanGogh. That is one intensely moving film experience. There's a good chance that Harris was trying to convey these same things here, but I was left with A Beautiful Mind with a ton of splattering paint. Sorry, it just didn't fully work for me. "},{"Title":"American art genius gets fine biopic.","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Whether you like the art of arguably America's greatest artist is a moot point when it comes to watching Pollock.  It's Ed Harris's tour de force.  Never has he been so convincing or seemingly passionate about his role or the film in which he is starring.It could be argued that Harris's interest in making Pollock drew more out of his resemblance to the painter than to a genuine urge to depict one of his heroes.  But judging by Harris's work here it would be foolish to put forward such an opinion.  Harris is genuinely brilliant in the title role and as director, he holds the film together, making for an interesting and thankfully unpretentious biopic of a tortured genius.The film opens in 1950, at a Jackson Pollock exhibition.  The great man himself stands delirious, gazing into space, his paint splattered hand reaching into his jacket pocket to sign obligatory autographs.  From this opening scene we can tell this is a man jaded by fame and celebrity.Jump back nine years earlier and we see the beginnings of Pollock's rise to fame.  We also witness his disease of alcoholism.  Living in his brother's apartment, Jackson's roguish and potentially violent personality is at odds with his emotional frailty.  He eventually meets Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden), a New York painter who is awestruck when viewing Pollock's work.  She convinces him to work hard and they end up in a relationship.  It seems Krasner was more of a mentor and guide than as a lover, but there is a distinctive bond between the two that is hard to ignore.Thanks to Krasner's enthusiasm for his work, Pollock becomes more productive.  He catches the eye of wealthy and influential art collector Peggy Guggenheim (Amy Madigan), eventually securing wall space at one of her galleries.  But as his stock rises, Pollock drinks even more heavily, causing him to behave erratically, hurting those close to him, especially Krasner.Pollock's transformation to pure abstract expressionist is a delight to see.  It begins with his mural work for Guggenheim and continues when he and Krasner move to Long Island.  The genesis for the 'drip' paintings is brilliantly captured by Harris and cinematographer Lisa Rinzler and the action of the execution of his work is thrilling to watch.As in all great artistic tragedies go, Pollock's life is undone by his fame and we are painfully caught up in his final years of artistic and emotional decline.  As gifted as he was, Pollock was short-changed when it came to his mental stability.  Ed Harris was deservedly nominated for an Oscar, though there was occasionally a feeling that the viewer is watching Ed Harris play Jackson Pollock rather than just seeing Pollock himself.  Harden is superb as Krasner, a tower of strength against Pollock's whirlwind of emotion and drunken stupor.  The flow of this film helps it stand above other efforts, most notably Basquiat and Surviving Picasso.  It lacks any arty pretence, simply portraying a man with at once an incredible gift and a horrible ailment.  Art focussed or not, this is a solid movie whose praise is deserved.  "},{"Title":"Superb biopic of a fascinating, infuriating man","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris both directs and acts in this excellent film of the life of the American artist Jackson Pollock.  The film is an unsentimental account of Pollock's most productive years, his relationship with Lee Krasner, and his subsequent decline.  I think the chief achievement of the film is that it manages to convey the excitement of the creative process.  Marcia Gay Harden wholly deserves her Oscar for Best Supporting Actress, and Ed Harris is in stunning form in the main role.Definitely worth seeing if you are in any way interested in modern art. "},{"Title":"Details, Details","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film.Not a critical point, but the part where Pollock is being 16mm filmed painting, the cinematographer is filming with what looks to be an old Bolex 3 lens turret model. During the filming of Pollock sitting down and putting on his shoes, we are shown the scenes supposedly appearing in this camera's viewfinder. But then it shows a cut to Pollock's shoes and him putting them on which is a zoom-in scene. Quite impossible with the turret lens on the camera. It required you to stop filming and turn the turret so that another lens covered the shutter. We either believe this was achieved with this operation or that the scene suffers from a filming oxymoron. "}{"Title":"We see how he paints, but not how he thinks","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Or Another Beautiful Mind (tells the story of a gifted but unconventional man who needs and finds the love of a good woman but doesn't treat her as well as she deserves; includes performances by (the generally under-rated) Ed Harris and (the rather over-rated) Jennifer Connelly; wins a Best Actress Oscar (no, not JC this time)... ok so it was released the year *before* A Beautiful Mind but it didn't reach the UK's shores until after that film (why? Who decides these things?)).Or A Load Of Pollocks (well we did get glimpses of many of his works).Or simply Pillock (talented chap but you wouldn't want to share your life with him). (A fellow film-goer suggested that last title. If you're reading this, thanks, Meryl!)Whichever way you look at it (and after all, when it comes to many of his paintings, it's hard to say which way is up) this film is a canvas with a great deal of paint on it but a big hole in the middle. Jackson Pollock denied any aspect of representation in his work, saying that it was simply existential. Not for him the overworked artistic justification of it means whatever you want it to mean, but instead its existence is its meaning (art for art's sake, I suppose). Indeed, to quote approximately from the film, You don't look at a bed of flowers and sweat over what it means.Fine, so the *art* exists in its own right. But what about the *man*? This is, after all, a film about the man, not about his paintings. Here's another quote from the film Art reflects the spirit of its age. Ostensibly that contradicts the existentialist credo, of course, but at least it gives us a handle on his mind, for if art reflects the spirit of its age then surely the artist is the conduit for that reflection; thus, by seeing how the art changes in response to changing circumstances, we might be able to form some idea of the nature of that conduit. Well we certainly get an eyeful of the evolution of his work, from post-Picasso through splodges to the more familiar splatter-work (although curiously not the stunning Blue Poles), but where is the corresponding social and historical thread? These were interesting times for many Americans, especially free-thinking intellectuals, but we see almost none of that; apart from an amusing romp through the ever-restless world of female fashion, it's as though the artistic community lived in a world of its own, evolving independently from the rest of us. Perhaps it did, in which case the art that it produced merely reflects... well, the art that it was producing. Now *there's* art for art's sake for you.It's by no means all disappointment, though. With the exception of Jennifer Connelly, there's not the merest sniff of a weak performance (if there was an Oscar for Best Ensemble Performance then this would surely have been a very strong contender) which can probably be attributed to Ed Harris' own long-standing passion for Pollock and his work. What film could be really bad in the end, backed by such a combination of commitment and competence? Meanwhile the scenery is as lovely as the New England coast can be, which, while ultimately not all that important, complements the acting rather as the Guggenheim Gallery does its contents. So in the end this film is, appropriately enough, rather like Pollock's paintings. Well executed, well presented, but something which is best enjoyed without asking why?.7.5/10. "},{"Title":"A Great Biopic","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Fascinating biopic A well-weighted script and fine acting (especially the leads).  Particularly interesting in that it didn't try to deify Pollock, he is depicted as the talented, but troubled, artist that he was.Also interesting in the way that it actually shows him creating his art rather than the paintings appearing incidentally.I too winced every time he went near a car!!!  "},{"Title":"Harris directs with an expressionism of his own","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  In Pollock, Ed Harris joins an elite group of actors who've directed pictures in which they also star.  I'd say that Kostner (Dances with Wolves) and Duvall (The Apostle) pulled it off, whereas Eastwood (True Crime) didn't.  Harris's biographical sketch of Jackson Pollock, the famous expressionist painter, lies somewhere in between.  On the positive side of the equation, Harris's directing style pays homage to Pollock's expressionist style with an expressionism of its own.  Harris tries to direct as Pollock might have painted.  He narrates the man's life, not with dialogue and distinct landmark achievements or events, but with carefully chosen vignettes that, together, illustrate the painter's obsession and his passion.  Like a Pollock painting, it's hard to delineate anything as distinctive.  Harris's portrayal makes it impossible to distinguish the Pollock struggling to get by in his New York studio from the `successful' Pollock living in the Hamptons.  They just sort of blend together.  Underneath, it's the same man throughout.  Harris nails Pollock's battles with depression and alcohol, a multi-dimensional approach that also depicts Pollock's dark side as a vital source of his creativity and inspiration.  By Harris's account, Pollock is a male version of the Greek goddess Persephone, who spent most of her time in Hades, and briefly returned to the living each year with her fruits.  Harris's approach to Pollock is also the film's weakness.  One never knows what Pollock is thinking as we see wrestling with his chthonic deities.  Old Socrates suggested that the unexamined life isn't worth living.  If so, and if Pollock was a man who deliberately chose instinct over reason, as Harris suggests, then his life wasn't worth very much.  On one occasion, we hear the artist say that he `denies the accident,' a Freudian idea with clear reference to Pollock's style.  But then, nothing comes of it.  It's just dropped on the ground like dead wood.  As the viewer, it's intellectually unsatisfying.  Still, it's worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Moving narrative","Date":"23 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  POLLOCK is an emotional and  moving account of the emotional side of this artist's struggles, dedication, professional breakthrough, success and arrogant fall.  For a reviewer to warn us that a mere suggestion of visual contemplation of random patterns is the film maker's unsubstantiated suggestion that the definitive interior monologue of Pollock's breakthrough is a matter of record is to deny Pollock ever looked at patterns in nature nor those he made on his studio floor. It isn't and all artists do observe what others may wish to ignore. No doubt that observation had to occur somewhere in the process of settling down to explore in works his now famed mode of expression. But, we do no more accept that sequence in the film as actual than do we think documentary the kisses and breathes and other particulars of love scenes.It is a deeply felt creation, and the depth is conveyed.Some others object that Pollock would have made more jubilant noises while painting while Harris chose to portray him as silent. Did Pollock make jubilant noises in his studio? "},{"Title":"A well done bio","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I watched this in my Film Communication class earlier today.  I went into it with a pretty good idea of what Jackson Pollock is all about, all his abstract expressionism and texture and such, so I expected the film would be done with lots of wacky fantasy sequences and abstract Lynch-like non-linear b.s., a technique that many directors seem to think brings us closer into the characters mentality (see Oliver Stone's The Doors).  I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was nothing of the sort.  In fact, many scenes are made up of one long take with no cuts.  It shows that Ed Harris is an actor who is directing because there seems a great focus on the performance and subtext, if subtext can be focused on.  He does a decent job, though.  Considering how slow paced and rather uneventful much of the film is, I found myself staying interested in what happened.  Pollock is such an anti-social and depressive (not manic depressive) type with no control over his anger, or his cigarette smoking.  It's inspiring to know that someone with as little charisma, let alone personality, who leads such a bland life (with the exception of his revolutionary painting) can be legendary.  This film doesn't make one romanticize being a painter;  it just shows one man's rather flipped out journey through being a famous painter without even really trying.  There is some nice mise en scene in the scenes of Pollock painting and some crafty camera work, such as hand held cameras following characters around (slightly nauseating but not too shaky) and even a tracking-zooming shot, something I see once every blue moon.  There's even a character with a camera following Pollick around attempting to make some cinema varite but he immediately violates the rules of cinema varite by telling Pollock what to do, step by step, while he's filming Pollock paint, which leads to one of the funniest and most dramatic scenes in the film.  The performances are all solid, even though none of these characters are.  Just don't expect the power to be from the few stars who are in here (Val Kilmer and Jennifer Connelly) cuz they are probably on screen for 10 minutes combined.  They're more just cameos.  Oh, and look for Bud Cort, star of Harold & Maude, Bernice Gets Her Hair Bobbed and Dogma.  hahaha. "},{"Title":"9/10 Ed Harris is amazing","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Pollock is a triumph in film making.  Ed Harris delivers a flawless performance as the tortured an tragic Jackson Pollock.  Everything about this film is perfect in presenting Pollock's life, and if the film has any problems, that is it.  Some of the scenes are way too hard hitting, and the film isn't a joyfull watch, but it should be seen by all those who love classy cinema.Marcia Gay Harden deservedly won the Oscar for her role. "},{"Title":"Ed Harris achieves directorship status!","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Having been a fan of Jackson Pollock since my early teens (mid-1960's) and a fan of Ed Harris since The Right Stuff, it was to me an extreme pleasure to see Harris' magnificent directorial debut with the film biopic Pollock. Harris has brought the severity of a true American artist (as Harris himself is) to the screen- and does what few films do- make you forget you are viewing a film- and make you believe you are viewing a life. The casting choices are extremely good here- not because I think the actors displayed the persons they represent to the t (and I wouldn't know that- I've neither known them or read up on any of them except to read about Pollock himself)- but because they bring their own professional honesty with them and into the viewer's heart. But Harris- continues to amaze, and delight and evoke empathy for addiction to alcohol problems while showing a genius pulling something out his own mind- without trying to say- Hey! This is what he was thinking! as so many biopics try to do. An artist's center can never be fully seen by others as HE saw it, so why try?  The film shows the outcome of the artist's emotions and thoughts and the impact of his uniqueness on the world (the world of art and art lovers anyway). And that is satisfying enough. Marcia Gay Harden does an adequate job as the companion who seems to be the only match for the soul of the man-artist. However- do I think her portrayal to be of Oscar caliber? She's a good actress for sure but my own personal theorem Yell in a film, garner an Oscar may have been proven once again. I found myself so involved with Jackson Pollock that I didn't notice local time going by. A great film to watch, curled up at 1a.m. May Pollock's art never be lost in time.  "},{"Title":"great art and great acting can't hide the cypher at the center","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris and Marcia Gay Harden earn their oscar nods as actors but as a director Harris misses a brushstroke or two with a script that holds the subject at too great a distance way too much of the time.  Harris is a satisfying painter. i want some of his stuff and the pollock pieces here evolve the way an artist's work should; but we never see Jackson Pollock as more than a collection of outrageous anecdotes he pees in Peggy Guggenhiem's fireplace or bangs her with equal incomprehensibility. Harris' Pollock is just one bad behavior after another with good art in the middle. Instead try Robert Altman's Van Gogh interpretation, Tim Roth's star making turn in Vincent and Theo. "},{"Title":"Beautiful in it's brutality","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw Pollock at the London Film Festival on November 12th. What a harsh journey it was to watch the downfall of a talented human being. I can't believe how brilliant this film was. I was sure expecting the acting to be first rate, but I didn't actually expect the film to be as wonderful as it was, as an entire enity.Ed Harris has been a favourite actor of mine since I was young, and I have never seen a film of his, where I didn't realise it was Ed. What I mean is, while watching Pollock, all I saw was Jackson Pollock. Ed wasn't 'playing' Pollock. He 'was' Pollock. He blew me away.This film was emotionally and mentally draining. How Ed Harris managed to direct and star in it, is a miracle. When Russell Crowe won the Oscar, I thought 'yes, he's totally deserves it'. After seeing Pollock, that Golden baby should have been his! "},{"Title":"The year's finest film!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is the tragic real story of Jackson Pollock, a brilliant but troubled painter who had problems with alcohol and never got recognized by the critics and public alike,at least not before his death.Pollock is Ed Harris' debut as a filmmaker and if his next projects equal the quality of this good biopic, he has a great future as director and not just as a (talented) actor.I really enjoyed this movie a lot, starting by the performances of the stellar cast.Harris is terrific as the troubled Jackson Pollock, he really gave his very best to create a sensational character,portraying Pollock with realism and heart.Harris also didn't vacillate in getting a lot of weight in order to show the last painful days of the painter with accuracy and courage.But in terms of outstanding performances, Ed is not aloneMarcia Gay Harden is good as Pollock's resigned wife,Jeffrey Tambor steals some scenes as Pollock's critic and friend,and even Val Kilmer does a good job with the limited screen time he has.But is Jennifer Connelly,as Pollock's beautiful and seductive mistress, who contributes more for the movie as a whole.Talented,charming and with a striking presence that resembles a young Elisabeth Taylor, I can't understand why Ed Harris didn't develop Jennifer's character a little bit more but nevertheless, Jennifer is always Jennifergreat and undeniable talented.The other high points of Pollock are the soundtrack (the melody that starts the film is simply thrilling), the nostalgic photography and of course, Ed's skills behind the cameras.Buy Pollock's DVD, you won't regret! "}{"Title":"Too matter of fact and sadly disappointing","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to like Pollock since I like modern art and I like Ed Harris. But sadly, I was disappointed in this movie. Until he grows a beard, I felt like I was watching Ed Harris, not Jackson Pollock. The movie is directed in a matter of fact manner with abrupt transitions between scenes. It was hard for me to believe the character change during some of the transitions, nor, for that matter, did I care. That, I think, is the major problem. I didn't care about Pollock, the person and I found it hard to believe that a person so depressed as Pollock is portrayed would be capable of creating so expressive, abstract art. As much as I didn't want to make the comparison, I have to compare Pollock, the movie with Basquiat, the movie. In my opinion, Basquiat, as portrayed in the film, was a more interesting person and artist. Pollock might have been an interesting person and artist, but not as he is portrayed in this movie. For me, Pollock is to movies what Capeman is to musicals.  "},{"Title":"Different (paint) strokes for different folks","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Jackson Pollock (Ed Harris) is a starving, alcoholic expressionist artist in New York City during World War II.  The movie is told in flashback, as Pollock's story has been illustrated by a Life magazine article (complete with pictures) covering his career to that point. When the movie begins, the artist is living with his brother in a tiny apartment and occasionally exhibiting a piece or two at local galleries. Then fellow artist Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden) discovers his work and puts her own career aside in order to help further his. The couple falls in love and moves to the Hamptons so that Jackson may concentrate more on his work than on his drinking.This works for a while, but as with so many geniuses, Pollock's life is never rosey. Even when Peggy Guggenheim (Amy Madigan) champions him, he still turns to booze. And folks, when Jackson Pollock gets drunk (at least according to the movie), he gets mean. Violent. Enraged. And even sober, he seems a little off-center, like he was smacked with a two-by-four once when still in his formative years.As with many biopics, there are cliches. But most people's lives have cliches - it's only when we see the cliches in a movie that we even consider them to be cliches. Jackson rises, he falls, he fights with the people who are trying to help him, and so on. This doesn't make any of his life seem less real, however, mostly because of a stellar performance from Harris (who also directed). Harris's Pollock is multilayered, but he's never portrayed as a nice guy to whom bad things happen; some of his misery is self-inflicted, and some is well deserved. But at the same time, Harris doesn't demonize Pollock; he's shown to be human, just not humane. It's a fine line that most actors find very difficult to tread, but somehow the veteran actor pulls it off.As his wife, lover, muse, and agent, Marcia Gay Harden is absolutely mesmerizing. You may recall that she won the Oscar for Best Supporting Oscar for her work here, and she undeniably deserved the accolade. She turns in a performance that really belies her mostly unsung acting career. Even better, the chemistry between Harris and Gay Harden is fascinating;  you can easily believe they're lovers and fighters in real life.And Jackson's paintings are not given short shrift, either; one would not have blamed the producers for showing less of his work and more of the actors interacting with each other, because expressionist art is extremely subjective, and the producers do run the risk of people saying to themselves, Sheesh, my kid could paint better than that! Well, too bad. Maybe someday that kid will get a great biographical movie, too. "},{"Title":"Am I the only one distracted by the boom mike?","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm not the kind of guy who goes to movies looking to catch mistakes, but the boom mike slipped into so many shots I really had trouble concentrating on the film.  I'd be willing to bet there were over 20 shots where this happened.  It was onscreen so much it should have been listed in the credits.  It got more screen time than Val Kilmer and Bud Cort combined. Did anyone else notice this, or did I just see a bogus print of the film? It took me out of any chance to suspend disbelief and lose myself in the film.  I liked Marcia Gay Harden, except for the fact I kept worrying she was going to get hit in the head BY THE BOOM MIKE! "},{"Title":"If you are experiencing insomnia... rent Pollock.","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The tagline to this movie should have beenbiggest sleeper of 2000I am not lying when I say I fell asleep 4 times in this movie... you know the short little sleeps you have when you wake up hoping that the movie somehow got good? Even though I only slept for a scattered 20 min of the show (my boyfriend kept moving and waking me) he agreed that there was absolutely NO character development. You are sitting there going why why WHY!!!RIDICULOUS save your money... rent something good... unless of course you need to sleep.  "},{"Title":"He must have been a nice guy once in awhile","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The problem with portraying a real person is that the writer tends to overplay his flaws. As a result, the character Jackson Pollock, became a one dimension son of b---h. We wanted him to die and the only bad thing is that he took an innocent victim with him.Ed Harris was probably miserable the entire time the movie was in production because his character was. The story of Jackson Pollock was just like his paintings, without depth. "},{"Title":"Father of the Drippy Paint","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Oh tortured artist--we feel your pain!  All facetiousness aside, this film is an adequate portrayal of the egomaniacal/insecure mouse that was Jackson Pollock.What is interesting about this film is not the story, but the performances by Ed Harris and Marcia Gay Harden.  She was captivating, and maybe even outshined Harris--but not by much.  If you are an Ed Harris fan or are curious about why Marcia won the academy award, you should definitely take the time to check this out. "},{"Title":"Typical biopic.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Pollock was a fairly typical biopic.  I found the painting sequences entertaining and I thought actor's performances were good.  He was a talented painter and, for me, his paintings resonant with emotion and depth. I think the end sequence was way too telegraphed and tried to make Pollock out to be a little sympathetic instead of the irresponsible, drunken lout he was.  There are just so many other ways that ending could have been handled instead of the Hollywoodish cliche that was used. Overall I think the movie is worth a watch and I would recommend it.  "},{"Title":"gathering dust","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This biopic has much to be desired.  I know something about Jackson Pollock so I was interested from that angle.  The film is aimed at that audience only.  If you are not interested in modern art this film will appear as a shoddy study of dysfunctional people.The film is poorly directed, however - in a twist - the actors seem to have taken over and Marcia Gay Harden in particular is excellent.  That may read like a contradiction especially since Ed Harris, who gives an excellent performance, is also the director.  The lack of continuity is blatant. Several scenes simply do not make sense or enhance the picture. The characters never connect and maybe they never did in real life. (another contradiction?)As stated the acting is very good and worth the rental price.  The overall film gathers dust quickly and that is a shame because the intent is deserving.  I wonder if Harris wanted more in the film and the studio cut him back - because that is what it seems like.5/10 for the excellent performances. "},{"Title":"Silence is golden and evocative.","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps one of the most effective methods of treating the life of a visual artist is to allow for the visual to narrate. In the case of Jackson Pollock, a man whose alcoholism and emotional travails made him glaringly inarticulate and intemperate, this visual narration speaks volumes.Pollock, in this film, is displayed as something of an idiot savant, a fact that is well accepted and understood by his wife. A particularly poignant and mordant moment in the narrative is when she rebuffs Pollock's request to have a child. She simply states that it would be too much to have to take care of two people other than herself, evidently Pollock and his prevalent tempests are enough for her. What is particularly effective about this moment is that her facial expressions, her mannerisms, the timbre of her voice express a long and involved history with Pollock, something a narrative dialogue could not have accomplished. Perhaps this picture might have been overburdened by a steady narration and the montage and close observation of the visual character of Pollock would have been disrupted. Instead, in the absence of a putative narrator we are given the gift of Pollock's art and its steady unveiling of the unveilable the human psyche.Personally I do not want to know what in Pollock's childhood made him into what he was and perhaps there is no explanation. His wife aptly describes his weekly visits to the psychiatrist with an acerbic gnashing of her teeth; the visits are not doing anything for him. So what then? Idiot savant? Alcoholic? Perpetually tormented artist? So it appears. And his undoing by his own hand? It seems logical, all the portents have spoken of his demise since the opening scene of the film. So, therefore, was this a predictable film? Absolutely, in the same timeless fashion that foibles and tragic flaws ultimately undo those who possess them. We knew the fate of Oedipus before Oedipus did. The ending, like predestination in Calvinism, was salient from the opening of the book... but did that tarnish the luster of the story? Absolutely not. Thus we have the same situation with this film. We knew he was doomed, some of us even knew the skeleton of his life story before we viewed this picture. But we did not suffer conventionality because the art of Jackson Pollock, the only voice truly capable of doing justice to the man, spoke. Bravo to Ed Harris for his mature and responsible direction. Bravo to Marcia Gay Harden and Ed Harris for facile depictions of their characters. This movie is worth viewing if for no other reason than it possesses a maturity that Hollywood seems to have exsiccated from most of its directors, the ability to be subtle and to let someone else or something else do the talking.  "},{"Title":"Cheap art book summary","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is about as bad as it gets when you try to fictionalize a life that's historically available only through quips and myths.  There's nothing to learn about Pollock, there's no insight into his art, or psyche.  It doesn't do justice to either to his romantic life or his work.  No story has been told, and too much attention given to his drinking habits, which is boring to watch, and as Lee Krasner says everybody drinks.  The movie turns out to be as big lie about Jackson Pollock as would be any rant by Clement Greenberg (his favorite pundit). "}{"Title":"Matches up to American Beauty's hidden beauty","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I am a big Ed Harris fan, so when he got nominated for an Oscar, and frankly should have won, he did much better than Russell Crowe, I went to see the movie, but by then, it was showing no where in my area, so now I have finally seen it and it lived up to its success. I don't think it was so much as a bio but more as a look to hidden beauty in his art and paintings. It did show him rising to fame and his downfall, mainly from his drinking. The resemblence between Jackson Pollock and Ed Harris is uncanny. It made it more realistic. His wife Lee Krasner, Marcia Gay Harden, was another remarkable person. She, too an artist, dedicated her life to Pollock, even through his drinking. Ed and Marcia make an amazing screen couple. The worked well together. But most of the credit goes to Ed Harris, with Directing and Producing it. Overall, this movie is very good, to anyone who likes Pollock, or art would love this movie. So if unsure on what to rent, get Pollock  "},{"Title":"It's the art, Stupid!","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Why would anyone want to add another comment to 55+ which go from adulation to whining indictment?  I mean, Jackson Pollock was a lush and his wife was a co-dependent.  One reviewer indignantly demands to know Where's the story?  Look.  Who doesn't like warm and fuzzy stories where the hero overcomes adversity.  But, life is not like that.  So, ask the others, Who wants to hear about a miserable drunk who dripped paint on canvas?  Well, viewers and fellow reviewers, I can't give you a one-size-fits-all response but it seems to me if you're willing to go see a film about an artist-- and in this case, a real artist-- you will likely be exposed to ...art.  Shocking, no?  Yep.  Art.  That's what this film is about.  Art.  Now, art as an esthetic expression can and does take a myriad of forms and will appeal to several kinds of people. But that's the miracle of it.  We all get to decide what we like.  Now, sometimes someone comes along who breaks out of the mainstream and tickles the chin of muse, creating something different.  Many of these people fail to please anyone beyond themselves.  But, every once in a while, a person comes along who gives us something much bigger than the person him- (or her)self.  It's always nice when it's a nice guy making wonderfully nice art which pleases bunches and bands of us, like Norman Rockwell.  Superb illustrator.  Wonderful depictions.  But, then too, someone comes along haunted by demons, not a particularly nice person-- in fact, someone we would not want to spend any time with-- but what they give us is both magic and possessing. This film is about that.  Not warm or fuzzy or even much of an exciting story.  No shoot-outs, no dramatic chases and only one car crash.  But, let me shut up my harping with this final thought.  This film is wonderful.  It is art too.  The convincing performances of Ed Harris and Marcia Gay Harden are as vivid on the eye and memory as the tortured splashes of paint on a Jackson Pollock canvas.  And, that is what this film is about. "},{"Title":"Ed Harris can direct?","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Ed Harris did a great job directing a pretty good story. Beyond the directing, beyond the story, Pollock has some of the best performances I have ever seen. Everybody is GREAT in this movie, not one person is a bad actor. I don't know how Ed Harris did it, but he made a movie that has 100 percent perfect acting. Art has never really meant much to me, sure I know great art when I see it, but I never at all enjoyed Jackson Pollock, at least not during his rise, splash art isn't art. Jackson Pollock, I believe is a man who was famous (like most artist) because he knew the right people, at the right time. The ego of artist is insane, what they get away with is even more insane, and Jackson Pollock got away with a lot. This movie is over two hours, and you wouldn't know it. I knew that what was going on on screen should be boring, but somehow it wasn't, and that somehow was the acting. And let us not forget the score.The music somehow makes fun of Pollock, it teases him, at least that's how I saw it. No matter whats in Pollock's life, the music seems happy, as if to say,Pollock! Shut up! You ego freak! Pollock isn't the best movie ever made, but it's a great one. Jackson Pollock wasn't the greatest artist around, but he was one.*** (8) "},{"Title":"A decade of work pays off for Ed Harris","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  After working for more than a decade to bring the story of abstract painter and artist Jackson Pollock (1912-1956) to the screen, the film paid off with an Oscar for best supporting actress for Marcia Gay Harden who plays Pollock's suffering wife in the film.  Harris got a nomination for best actor for playing Jackson Pollock and his direction of the film is abstract which works fine to match the work of the artist he is portraying.  A good film with an even tempered climax and some good observations about why so many artists are so screwed up.  Is it because they're afraid of fame? "},{"Title":"**** 1/2  Best artist biopic ever!","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris gives his most powerful and fascinating performance ever in this fantastic film biography of the great abstract artist Jackson Pollock. Doing double duty as star and director (a sure and fine debut), Harris gives us a better view of the conflicted artist and just about any other recent film besides Before Night Falls. While Carrington hardly gave us any glimpses of its subjects (Dora Carrington and Lytton Strachey) creating their artform, and Total Eclipse didn't even allow us to see its main characters (the poets Verlaine and Rimbaud) as anything but moony deadbeats, Pollock is a different film altogether, fresh in its approach to viewing its protagonist painting his masterpieces (which are the best scenes in the film), plus giving a heartbreakingly sincere look at Pollock's personal life alone and with his wife, painter Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden). As Krasner, Harden is so electrifying that simply watching her plow a garden with her husband is a miracle of great acting that couldn't be more exciting to watch. The cast is rounded out by great appearances by Val Kilmer, Sada Thompson, Barbara Garrick and most unrecognizable (but fantastic) Harris' real life wife Amy Madigan as art promoter Peggy Guggenheim.  "},{"Title":"A work of art about an artist at work","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Jackson Pollock is the painter I most frequently hear people cite when making a comment that modern art is not really art.  They examine his work, with its furious slashes of paint, its drips and dribbles of color, and they haughtily declare, I could do that, or, even worse, It doesn't MEAN anything!  They fail to grasp that the key to appreciating modern art is not to figure out what the ARTIST is trying to say, but to stand back, examine the work, and see what it says to YOU.Ed Harris' Pollock is a film that understands this.  We do not get lengthy sermons here where the artist explains the meaning of his work to a suddenly enlightened multitude.  In fact, we often get the sense that Pollock himself doesn't know the definitive meaning of his paintings.  He just stands before a blank canvas, begins spattering the paint...and he knows in his gut that it's right.Pollock is a more or less straightforward biopic.  We open with Pollock (Harris), already painting and already in the grip of alcoholism, bemoaning Picasso's success while struggling to make a name for himself.  He meets Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden), a fellow up-and-coming artist, who soothes his savage beast, and gives him the outer-world stability he needs to free his mind and his muse.  Still, Pollock often disappears for days at a time, showing up later filthy and ragged, and his demons follow him even to the country where he and Krasner take up residence on a farm.  Just as his artistry is reaching its peak, his mind begins to fall apart.  His fear that he is a phony begins to take him over, and he eventually becomes a self-pitying, besotted wreck.  At this point, we're just waiting for the moment when Pollock hands himself to his doom.  We know it's coming...and I think he did, too.Harris directs with unpretentious confidence, delineating the world of the mid-century New York art scene in a few broad, sure strokes.  Critics alternately stroke and scorn the artists, patrons demand an artist's soul and sometimes body in exchange for support.  The film was shot on a low budget, but conveys the right sense of period through simple placement of a few well-chosen period signifiers (clothes, cars, etc.).  It's convincing at every moment, and it feels right.Harris' Pollock is one of the actor's finest creations, a raging mass of neuroses who doesn't use art to escape his problems, but rather to bring them to the surface and out through his brush.  Watching him move around a flat canvas, dripping and splashing paint with fervent intensity, we realize that only when Pollock's demons are out in the open can he truly feel liberated.  When they're on the inside, bottled up, that's when they claw and wound.  Harris is probably the most convincing painter I've seen on the screen; we see him with his paint cans and brushes, and he just looks like he's really creating this work.He also handles Pollock's fiery mood swings with skill, most strikingly in a Thanksgiving dinner where he confronts a documentary filmmaker he feels is making him look ridiculous.  Front and center in the supporting cast is Marcia Gay Harden, who won an Academy Award for her work here.  Harden's Lee Krasner is a tough-talking Brooklyn-type broad, but she also possesses deep reserves of emotion and love, and we watch sadly as Pollock slowly drains them dry.  Her strength is the only thing keeping him tethered to sanity, and when she finally leaves him, we know that the end is near.Other standouts in the supporting cast include Jeffrey Tambor as a haughty critic, Harris' wife Amy Madigan (a great actress we don't see nearly enough of) as an imperious early Pollock patron, and, in an amusing cameo, Val Kilmer as bizarre fellow artist Wilhelm de Kooning.Pollock doesn't attempt to give us an explanation for the neuroses that haunted its title character, and this is both to its credit and its detriment.  We are spared the pat pop philosophizing that harms many biopics (I paint because Momma didn't love me enough!), but at the same time, we feel all the more helpless when Pollock rages.  We don't know what's hurting him, so we don't know how to help.  We are almost relieved when the inevitable comes.  It leaves the film feeling unfinished, but hey, if it's an unsatisfying ending for us, think how it must have felt to Pollock.Ed Harris has made an impressive feature directing debut with Pollock. It's a subject he clearly feels passionately about (he nurtured the project for ten years), and this pays off in a deeply felt, intensely realized biopic.  After you see this film, go out and look at some Pollock paintings. You may find them speaking to you in exciting ways you never imagined before. "},{"Title":"Slow pacing, but enjoyable","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris's portrayl of Jackson Pollock is a unique nostalgic look of one of Americas' best known expressionist painters.  We are brought into the world of what it means to be a struggling artist, trying to make a meager living.  And for this the movie has great cinematography to show it off.It gets a bit slow, and the acting is first rate from all the players, yet there's not much to say but just to examine his work.  Also Pollock was such a despicable drunk and a child trapped in a mans body that it is almost impossible to feel any sympathy for him in the film, or his wife who only sticks with him cause he knows he's a great talent.A good film great sometimes, but don't know If I could recommend it, therefore it would get a neutral rating for me.Rating 6 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" POLLOCK is a an excellent film that deserves a wider audience. Those put off by the idea that the film is about art are mistaken---the film is about a man who has no faith in himself or his abilities, yet drives himself mad when he's not the center of everyone's attention. Ed Harris (who also directed) not only looks just like Pollock, his performance is ferocious. He paints a portrait of a man constantly defeating himself. Marcia Gay Harden is every bit Harris's equal as his wife, the artist Lee Krasner---and although she won the best supporting actress Oscar, she's very much a leading lady in this film. The rest of the cast is pitch perfect Bud Cort, Jennifer Connelly, John Heard, Jeffrey Tambor and, best of all, Amy Madigan as forties culture vulture Peggy Guggenhiem. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant telling of America's Most troubled and brilliant painter","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film twice and I think to truly appreciate and fully grasp the story it is necessary to see it twice.  The first time I saw it I thought it was a little depressing but realized that it sent a very strong and timeless lesson of the price you pay to do something you love instead of something that will bring you money.  The second time I saw it I not only appreciated Harris' acting but also noticed that he is a great director, one of the greatest parts of the film Pollock is where you realize Jackson's compassion towards nature and animals when he is adapting to his new home in the country.  Ed Harris has only been allowed to show his acting through small and gripping parts like The Truman Show and Apollo 13, but now that he is basically on screen for every scene the audience gets to fully appreciate Ed Harris' subtle (while at the same time scene stealing) acting.  I don't think that many people will enjoy this movie because the main character is a troubled painter and most movie goers like a character that they can completely relate to, but for those who for one reason or another are able to understand Jackson Pollock they will be in for a real treat.  Marcia Gay Harden plays Pollock's wife who puts up with Pollock's tantrums because she understands that he is a great painter.  The main thing that I appreciate about Ed Harris' portrayal of Jackson Pollock is that he doesn't really need to speak at all in order for you to understand him, he uses silent moments in order to portray Pollock's inner turmoil.  I in a way wish that this film had come out in 1999 or perhaps even 2001 because then Ed Harris would have surely taken home the best actor oscar, but 2000 had such great performances by Tom Hanks and Russell Crowe that Harris was overlooked, but at least he got a well deserved oscar nomination for Best Actor and I was extremely pleased when Marcia Gay Harden took home the best supporting actress. "},{"Title":"Where's the story?","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"       With its superb cast and first-rate production values, POLLOCKis a shining example of the degradation of story-telling know-howin today's movies.     As the producer, director and star of POLLOCK, Ed Harris seems to believe that a movie consists of stringing together a series ofemotionally intense scenes depicting characters who are sensitive but explosive.     Sadly, there seems to have been no realization that a collection of challenging scenes for exceptional actors does not compel an audience to care about the characters and wonder what happens to them. Only a well-crafted story manages such a feat. POLLOCK thinks it's a movie, but it's actually a newsreel shot with actors.  "}{"Title":"Not the usual biodrama blaaaah!","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I watched this film at home this weekend and found myself both transfixed and angry.  It manages to convey the life of an artist that everyone loves to dismiss paticularily in todays conservative times.  Harris avoids every ploy that is usually used in biographical stories and instead delivers a beautiful film that attempts to show what this man Pollock wanted to give us as his art.  The cast is uniformly superb and I really loved Amy Madigan as Peggy Guggenheim, a role that could so easily have been given the obvious treatment since she has been written about so much.What angers me (and this also applies to Requiem For A Dream and You Can Count On Me) is that these three films show what can be made here in the US outside the usual Hollywood fare.  These films are perceived as marginal and art films, whatever that term means.  They are actually quite mainstream in lots of ways, yet the whole Hollywood machinery and the way in which movies get promoted relegates them to a marginal status in terms of box office draw etc.We need more small films that require real actors who make us sit up and take notice. "},{"Title":"This movie has stayed with me longer than any I've seen in quite some time.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Starring and directed by Ed Harris and featuring the Oscar-winning  performance of Marcia Gay Harden. All the featured performances grabbed your attention. Most notably Bud Cort, Jeffrey Tambour as art critic Clement Greenberg, and especially Amy Madigan as art patron Peggy Guggenheim--a small gem of a performance.This movie has stayed with me more than any I've seen in quite some time. It was a labor of love for Ed Harris, and it shows. All the elements work together perfectly to achieve the picture's effect. It's not an effect I can sum up in a few words, but it deals with talent, ambition, self-destructive tendencies, and how they all play out in a milieu which itself is largely constituted of those elements and feeds on them. And yet it is more than just another flawed genius movie--because it is so well done. Harris's own talent and ambition carry the day, and he must feel very proud and satisfied with his achievement. Not that he did it alone, but he was the driving force. As with any picture, many artists contributed, and for this one they all seemed to be at the top of their game. The art direction and cinematography surely must be credited for the film's homely and accurate images--right down to the bathtub in the kitchen of a Greenwich Village cold-water flat.  Pollock's New York days were pre-loft, and you really get the feel of the cramped quarters and make-do way of life that supported the work of artists in that period.And the interplay of the characters has exactly the same tone and mood. They ring perfectly true in their relationships and concerns and reveal how small greatness sometimes can be.Even the score caught the drip and splash style of Pollock's mature years when he had achieved the height of his ambition. This movie moved me and made me want to learn more about the life and times of Jackson Pollock.Loved it! Loved it! Loved it! "},{"Title":"Hello?  Am I missing something here?","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Every time I write a review like the one I'm about to write, I get a plethora of of ignorant email that uniformly makes the same assertion over and over You don't like it, Mad Matt, because you just don't get it.  So I always have to open these reviews with a disclaimer yes, I got it, I understood it, I grasped what the filmmaker was trying to say, and I still think the film was stultifying, depressing and downright annoying.Jackson Pollock may have been a genius ahead of his time, but that doesn't make his life anymore interesting.  And while I went through my intellectually prepubescent stage where films like this would leave me in awe because they took risks and were unconventional, I have grown into a crotchety old dude who has one litmus test for any film he watches (a) is there any real dramatic tension, and (b) is the protagonist--the character the filmmaker has to make me care about--someone I'd want to spend any time with.Pollock fails because the artist is a miserable man, an abusive alcoholic who sits around brooding or sulks about from canvas to fridge for beer, peering out at the world from behind these beady, agonizing eyes.  Why is he so miserable?  The film never explores this. He seems to come from a decent family, and he doesn't do a whole hell of a lot of suffering in this world. So basically, Pollock is depicted as yet another one of those dreary tortured geniuses, the kind who sit around in solitude like the goofball in Scanners who delivered that classic over-the-top line My art ... keeps me ... sane.  My art! taps his temple Saaaaaannnne!This film is like watching paint dry, or worse, the director's cut of Aguirre, the Wrath of God.  Every lingering camera shot soaks us in such menial images as Pollock standing, Pollack getting a beer, Pollack sitting, Pollock getting another beer, Pollock scowling, Pollack getting another beer, Pollack staring at a canvas, Pollock getting another beer ... and each of these shots lasts about fifteen minutes apiece until the act of getting another beer is the equivalent of an epic quest.  Have I said I found this movie boring?Only when Pollock creates does the film gather any momentum, any energy. Then we marvel at his vision, his reaction to the canvas, the rapid-fire way he races to capture his ideas before he loses them.  However, all of this imagery comes through in the finished product, so here's what you do go to an art museum and see yourself a nice Pollock exhibit and stay away from this movie.  Then maybe we can convince Ed Harris to stick with acting, which is what he does best, and leave directing to those in the industry who have a sense of rhythm and pacing. "},{"Title":"well done, better than expected","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  this film held my interest, and the acting was terrific.  Only a few anachronisms took away from it (e.g., making love was not a synonym for having sex in 1947, and a few other expressions from the 60's that were oddly out of place), but the film as a whole was worth my money & time.  Both Pollock and Krasner were outstanding; she deserved her award for her work in this film.   Speaking of anachronism, why do all the old cars in these modern films always look so perfect?  In my memory, cars tooling down the street were varied--some dirty, some dented, some missing a hubcap...but in modern films, these cars look like they came from some rich guys' antique car collection, and seem so odd...perhaps because I'm over 40, and remember many of them!  Dirty up some of those old cars before filming! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I wish this movie had a wider distribution then maybe Ed Harris might have gotten the Oscar that he deserved.  He captured the essence of being an artist in his portrayal of Jackson Pollock.  I felt that this was a very well written and directed movie and I wish there were more like it in Hollywood.  "},{"Title":"Thumbs Up","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  An impressive directorial debut from veteran actor Ed Harris.  An artfully engaging blend of imagery, sound, and silence make this portrait of painter Jackson Pollock a success.  Scenes are well acted, and shots are beautifully composed.  Ingenious but not indulgent.  Thumbs up! "},{"Title":"Best film so far this year","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Finally, finally, finally.  After 3 months of faithfully going to the movies and praying to God to see something worth my nine bucks, today I finally saw Pollock and was absolutely blown away.  I didn't know much about Jackson Pollock going in to this, other than seeing his paintings at various museums.  Regardless of how 'factual' this is (since we know how Hollywood likes to take some poetic license), this movie was extremely well done.  I was enthralled from the beginning and the ending is still with me.  I seriously can't stop thinking about this movie and now I want to read more about Pollock's life.Ed Harris.  Oh my God.  What an actor.  I heard he watched tapes of Pollock painting and wow does it ever show.  He is absolutely mesmerizing to watch.  The painting sequences are absolutely fantastic.  He won't win the Academy Award (I'm sure they'll give it to Tom Hanks or Russell Crowe, because they are so CLUELESS!), but he certainly deserves to.  For the gaps in time that some people are complaining about--this isn't supposed to be an epic.  It already ran at 2 hours and showed us what we needed to see.  For not seeing his later paintings--big deal.  He is famous for his 'drip method.'  His later paintings weren't important, only knowing that they critically were not as well received.  For 'why' Pollock painted, why he drank, etc.--it doesn't matter!  He was extremely talented, a genius, probably.  He obviously painted because he needed to paint to express himself.  And why does anyone drink?  There doesn't always need to be a reason. I highly, highly recommend this movie, especially if you are fascinated by painting, Pollock, or any other creative endeavors.  This is the best film I've seen so far this year.           "},{"Title":"When to stop making love","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Pollock is both an absorbing yet disturbing portrait of an artistic genius told in an all consuming manner by director and star Ed Harris. Its strength is also its weakness.  The character Jackson Pollack monopolizes almost all the screen time of this film, imbuing us with a tormented and tragic figure, insecure in his craft and in his own being, even as he achieves acclaim as America's greatest living artist.  He is an alcoholic apt to pout and to withdraw when he cannot have his way.  He shows insensitivity to the love around him and cannot control the inner rage that ironically propels his greatest works. Yet there is the other tragic figure, Lee Krasner, (in a well played role by Marcia Gay Hardin) who we know little about except as the support that hold Pollock up every time he falls. It is this imbalance which detracts from an otherwise earnest and powerful story.  In commanding so much screen presence, Ed Harris as Pollock, repulses more than enlightens us on this unique, pacesetting artist  "},{"Title":"I see there is a new genre of male leads graduating from Pacific Tech University.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This definitely worth a viewing. During Jackson Pollock's life America was going through the Great Depression,  World Wars one and two, Hitler & Nazism. Families started changing. Men were either drafter or enlisted, some women joined up as nurses, secretaries, and women started going to work. Stravinsky was one of Jackson Pollock's contemporaries. Either the Right of Spring or the Firebird Suite composed by Stravinsky set Paris on end. I really do see a different genre of male leads. Like you as Gallagher, Tim Robbins in Antitrust, now Ed Harris. Science,computers,mathematics, the brainy side of leads are coming across the screen. A computer whiz kid is either the villain or the hero. You guys who  were in others' shadows are now coming into your own light.Beethoven's 5th probably sounded harsh like the newer compositions. "},{"Title":"Ok! But Could Have Used Some Touch Up!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The latest moviegoer poll shows that the most loved performances of the year are those of Tom Hanks in `Cast Away' and Julia Roberts in `Erin Brockovich.' However, there have been many great performances that are even better than the latter that many moviegoers have not seen this year-  John Cusack  & Jack Black in `High Fidelity', Laura Linney in `You Can Count On Me' , and Willem Dafoe in `Shadow Of The Vampire.' I am also inclined to include in this list Ed Harris in `Pollock.' Harris' `primer' performance as the abstract painter Jackson Pollack had the right mix of artistic ingredients to make it one the most colorful ones of the year. Also, kudos must also go to Marcia Gay Harden who played Pollack's wife Lee Krasner with the right touch. However, what I did think that needed a second coating was the film's lagging screenplay and dislocated direction. Sorry! Mr Ed! ( Harris also directed the film.) All in all- just to view Harris's incredible acting is enough for you to hurry up , brush your hair, and catch this artistic flick! *** Average  "}{"Title":"Drivel about Dribble","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Overall, let me say that I like Ed Harris's work and have for a long time, and that I admire anyone who puts years into a non-commercial film that is close to their heart. Let me also say that Marcia Gay Harden and Amy Madigan were terrific, and that I knew I was old when I'm watching this old poof in the movie and suddenly realize it's Bud Cort of Harold and Maude--we were both once young. Let me also say, Bill DeKooning was way better looking than Val Kilmer, Stephanie Seymour doesn't look squat like Helen Frankenthaler, and I liked Jeffrey Tambor better in And Justice For All (he was younger then too.)My beefs with this movie are threefold First, while Harris is a terrific actor, he plays Pollock like an escaped mental patient. We never see just what is so attractive that women with a lot on the ball can't wait to hit the sack with him. He's so out of it that no one who wasn't into necrophilia would be into him.Pollock HAD to have had some charm to counterbalance the times he was incoherent and throwing up on himself. This could have been established early on, but he's a golem from the get go. I don't necessarily have to have a connect-the-dots reason for his being a basket case, but if that's all he is, I don't see why he wasn't locked up where he could finger paint.Second, while I'm sure it's true because she was pre-women's lib, what was a gutsy babe like Krasner doing playing nursemaid to this sniveling drunk? He never seems to have any confidence in himself, she has to keep telling him how great he is. Most artists, especially the testosteronated kind, have egos the size of Jupiter, and they get people to immolate themselves on the altar of their talent by projecting an aura that says I AM GOING TO BE HOT STUFF. A lush who shloomps around looking shellshocked doesn't get that kind of entourage. Picasso was a magnificent monster, Pollock-according-to-Harris a pathetic wuss.Third, I don't care whether he WAS a great artist (I believe he was sincere, unlike many artists who simply look for gimmicks I think his style came from within; and I can't tell you why I don't think he was great, but Kandinsky and Arshile Gorky were--it's not that I'm anti-abstract art.) He was a miserable human being who traded in a woman who gave him everything for a piece of fluff, and worst of all, he killed an innocent woman with his self-indulgent boozing. No paint on canvas justifies killing someone else as a side effect of your self-immolation. If you're too big a coward to face life, slit your wrists or jump off a bridge don't risk others' lives along with your own.I felt sad for the girl who died, sorry Krasner didn't put into Krasner what she put into Pollock, and good riddance to Pollock. (In the interests of full disclosure, both my parents were alcoholics I don't think it's an illness, it's a form of moral cowardice. All alcoholics should kill themselves BEFORE they have a chance to breed.>  "},{"Title":"An intense movie","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris is Pollock.  What an excellent performance.  Marcia Gay Harden played Lee Krasner with great sympathy and patience, and through her performance, shows us what a remarkable woman  Krasner was. I doubt if Pollock would have lived  to paint what he did,and become so famous without her.  This is a  movie that will not please everyone, but those who are interested in Pollock's life will learn a great deal about him.  Though Pollock is depressed or drunk most of the time, though not when he is painting, the movie is not depressing.  It contains all the excitment of the postwar New York.  Ed Harris is amazing when he is painting, I wonder if he really knows how to paint?  I did read that he studied films of Pollock painting and it shows.  His performance truly deserves an Oscar, as does Harden's.  "},{"Title":"I am impressed.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  As more and more films begin to cover the lives of famous people, who have lived since the dawn of television and other mass media, the genre of biographical movies seems to become better and better. Pollock is one of the best I have seen. I am impressed by Ed Harris, who has very effectively co-produced, directed and starred in this film. The film is attractive to the eyes, very intelligent, very realistic and very entertaining. What else could you want? Mr. Harris manages to convey the intricacies of Pollock's mental illness and alcoholism without the least bit of ham. I am sure it was a challenge. Mr. Harris seemed to have tapped into one form of the painter personality, with which I am very familiar. The screenplay was very well written. I would recommend, however, that the promoters be chastised for ruining the freshness of some of the more powerful moments in the film by using their key lines in the trailers. It was, in my opinion, a disservice to this masterful work. I look forward to seeing this film again, after a time of not being bombarded by the trailers.     "},{"Title":"Standard Artist Film (mild spoiler)","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Someday, I am confident, there will be a tortured artist with unmatched talent who does not verbally abuse and cheat on his wife.  That will be a film worth watching.  It's almost cliche, now.  How many based on a true story films have we seen where the hyped egotist destroys himself?  All of them.  I guess that's what sells tickets.Beyond this, once Pollock made the transition from painting with a brush, to dripping paint on the canvas, I found his artwork considerably less visually appealing (this is assuming that Pollock's actual work was included in the film, of which I am uncertain).  I admit, I have an untrained eye and have never seen an actual painting of Pollock's, only pictures.  From what I've seen, including that in this film, I don't find it artful. "},{"Title":"You'll have to think a little, but it's worth it.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris has been working on this film for quite some time now, and his efforts have paid off.  His portrayal of Pollock is convincing and touching. He does his own painting - in Pollock's style as opposed to an actor trying to imitate Pollock, if that made sense - and has mastered the art of speaking through stony, haunted stares. Marcia Gay Harden, Amy Madigan, and Jennifer Connolly deliver amazing performances as well.  Connolly hasn't looked this good since The Rocketeer. Val Kilmer appears in a role too small for his stature and amazing talent, but, of course, does well. Ed Harris as director and producer has pulled off a biopic of an artist that convinces and entertains.  What other critics may see as gaps in plot, and yes, it is hard to follow at times, I see as a testament to Pollock's life. The movie jumps from scene to scene, almost awkwardly, with huge gaps in time that may leave you thinking, But didn't he just.. what?  But consider this  The movie may seem to illuminate points of his life just as randomly *and* controlled as Pollock's breakthrough painting technique, and if you don't catch this, you think, Man, someone has to tell Harris about this thing called continuity.  No.  The movie follows Pollock's life, showing us splatters and smears of the 15 years beginning with his rise to fame and his eventual demise.  Once the final scene plays (and I'm not spoiling anything here, we all know Pollock died), you may be left to wonder, as the reporter from Life Magazine once did, How do you know when you're done?  You don't. The story, the paintings, they don't really begin, they don't really end. And with Ed Harris' labor of love, Pollock, which he produced, directed and starred in, we see that the movie, like all of Pollock's paintings, are threatening, serene, and dangerously alive, just as Jackson was. "},{"Title":"At last a movie to say nice things about!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  My father bought a Jackson Pollock work sometime in the fifties. It hung in his study for years and now hangs in mine. For those who know Pollock's works it is redundant to visit words like brilliant, tortured, mesmerizing.....so imagine how I felt when a movie was made about the man's incredible yet...like all the adjectives above...life. If you want to be a stickler for detail...you can find flaws in this movie aplenty.....but first and foremost GO SEE IT!!!! Then visit the minor problems if you must. What a shame that Ed Harris won't win the little gold man for this,...but we all know that story....little budget film about some....artist?....Won't make a dime and....everyone knows bucks decides the votes!  But I won't go there either.  This is Pollock's time. Marcia Gay Harden is perfectly cast as the long suffering and dedicated Lee Krasner. Without Lee, none of us would have Pollock's works at all. Perhaps the show is stolen by Amy Madigan who touches the legend of Peggy Guggenheim in the almost perfect way. Now to Ed Harris; This must have been a tremendously demanding role for him. To go to the tortured places where genius resides is no easy trip. He should be rewarded, but ...well, we will all hope. Go see this movie! "},{"Title":"A tour de force with the staccato rhythm of Pollock painting. Memorable!","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris has taken the subject of the creative process of a genius and given his audience much more than a biography. I felt the full impact of Pollock's inner drive as an artist and understood the enormity of his frustration and ambition.  People who complain that Harris didn't offer reasons for his behaviour, to my mind, don't have any insight into the creative personality. Not all artists become drunkards and self-destructive jerks...but most great ones do have a self-absorption that is necessary for the execution of their art (in whatever field)...and frequently fail in their personal relationships.  Harris,as Pollock, was fully believable...and while Harden's performance as Krasner was strong and often moving, her character as created by the writers was somewhat unconvincing. I couldn't buy that she would sacrifice her own career as an artist without once throwing that fact in Pollock's face.Harris' focus on the artist himself, often to the exclusion of the people around him, was an effective devise in the depiction of a man wholly within himself, pushed by his muse.  I found that fascinating.  The pace of the movie, its staccato rhythm, seemed just right to me as it bolted toward its inevitable end. "},{"Title":"A Towering Performance From An Incredible Actor","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely HAD to write a review (my first) of this film because I saw that someone else bashed it (predictably someone in Los Angeles).  This is an interesting look into the life of a troubled yet inspired artist who helped define an art movement and put New York City on the map as one of the world's most important centers for art.The film presents Pollock's journey from being an obscure, reclusive artist in Greenwich Village to being an icon of American art with his wife Lee Krasner in beautiful East Hampton, NY.  The beginning of the film was interesting in terms of gaining some insight into what the village was like in the 40's.  I never really gave much thought about it in the pre-50s bohemia period, and I'd forgotten about the government programs that paid actors like Pollock to encourage the development of American artistic culture.  The scenes depicting Pollock actually working the canvass are wonderfully done, as they provide a glimpse into the techniques he employed to create a new style and kick open a door for other American artists of similar style.The other reviewer of this film failed to see what I saw, I guess. Ed Harris hands in a performance of what Rolling Stone called a towering performance of bruising inspiration.  I agree, and feel that I was provided some idea of the forces that defined the artist and Pollock as a person.  If you missed it, see it again. "},{"Title":"One of the most memorable films I've seen","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this film several weeks ago and the images and dialogue are still with me as if I saw it yesterday, that is how remarkable this work is.  As a director, Ed Harris takes great care with the visual details of the film, from the reproductions of Pollock's and Krasner's paintings to the Depression glass on the kitchen table. Enhancing the realism is the jazzy soundtrack which mirrors Pollock's moments of awkwardness, silence and calmness, and then his explosions of creativity and anger. Yes, as art historians will note, there are holes in the story. But if you can separate this film from Pollock's work and even a little of Pollock's history, you will find the value of the film is in the powerful portrayl of emotions passion, frustration, self-loathing, love, guilt, contempt, compassion, the search for approval and acceptance, the need for attention and praise - not just from critics or art buyers, but from those closest to you. While the foundation of the film is Pollock's biography, which is what makes it so intense and compelling, at the same time it is a vehicle for Harris to give faces and words to his own artistic expression. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris shows what a truly great talent he is, both as an actor and director. Regardless of whether your a fan of Pollock or not or whether you agree with the disturbed artist syndrome, this film is a tour de force in filmmaking. Excellent script fueled by gutsy performances. Marcia Gay Harden shows once again what a valuable commodity she is an actress and Ed Harris takes chance few would risk. Those are the two that should be up for Oscars and SAG awards. Great to see Jennifer Connelly, getting more gorgeous with age, and some great cameos. Hats off to Lisa Rintzler for a beautifully photographed film, on 16mm no less, that looks better then most 35mm productions. You want to see Ed Harris and Marcia Harden really act with some great material? This is it, don't miss it if your a fan of either.  "}{"Title":"Full of sound and fury","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm a big Ed Harris fan, but came away from this hyphenated project in which he is star-director feeling cheated.  I got too much actor,perhaps not enough director and way too little of the person who should have been present -- the writer.Pollack --the tale of modern art phenom Jackson Pollack-- is a film with some stellar performances, but no context in which to put them.  It is essentially a series of set pieces in which we see a tortured artist (is there any other kind?) slowly sinking into alcoholic madness.Harris is very good, although a little over the top at times, but his character is hard to figure out.  He has fullfilling work, a woman who loves him and eventually, both fame and fortune.  Still, he comes off as a very unhappy man and we never quite know why.  He is also portrayed as a genius of an artist, but unless we liked Pollack's work going into this film, we don't know why he should be so highly thought of.  In fact, the big moment in his work, the development of his drip paintings, comes off as accidental. This kind of validates the idea that modern art is a giant con job and that the rich suckers who buy the stuff have no idea that it could have been painted by four year olds, or monkeys, or alcoholic parasites living off people who buy into the hype fed them by critics and gallery owners.Macia Gay Hayden is outstanding as Pollock's long suffering wife and Harris' real life wife, the wonderful Amy Madigan, is just plain fabulous as art patroness Peggy Guggenheim.  In fact, she's so good in her black dye job, I didn't even initially realize it was Amy.The intriguing Jennifer Connelly has a bit part in the end as Pollock's mistress, but her story begins near her conclusion and we haven't a clue as to who she is or what she is all about.She is just one more riddle in a picture that seems to leave almost all the important questions unanswered.Sorry to say, I came away from this one very dissatisfied. More than anything, I wished I could have learned more about what makes modern art tick.  Instead, I got a picture about a man. I don't know what made him tick, either and actually, he appears to have been such a smuck that I don't even care. "},{"Title":"Deeply committed, engrossing performance by Harris","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"     You can show a painter painting; you can show how he arrives at his style; you can show HOW he does it -- but no matter how hard a moviemaker tries, it's not possible to show us >why< he paints.  That's the weakness in this otherwise engrossing, intelligent movie about Jackson Pollock.                                                                                             As an actor, Harris can sometimes deeply delve into his roles, but generally, he can't quite get past the surface -- but since he's such a dynamic, forceful actor, that's generally good enough, especially in big-scale junk like THE ROCK.  Here, somewhat unexpectedly, he gives us a very rounded portrayal of Jackson Pollock; his performance is shaded and deep  -- at all times, we're aware that Pollock has an internal life.  We may not be able to understand what it is, but Harris does make the painter alive on screen.          There are some clunker lines, mostly the kind of rah-rah, you've-got-it-lad sort of lines intended to convince those in the audience that this really IS art, not just dribbles and smears.  But Pollock's paintings speak strongly for themselves (ever seen an >imitation< Pollock?), and his status as a great American artist is unassailable.        The film is best in telling the rise of Pollock; it is clumsy in the decline.  We don't know why Pollock becomes jaded, we aren't shown his later paintings (so we don't understand even IF his paintings declined in quality, we are simply told they did), we are plunged into a horrendous fight between him and wife Lee Krasner (but aren't shown how this state of affairs evolved).  He's even suddenly in the middle of an affair -- and we don't even know who this young woman IS.             But the film succeeds more than it fails, and all the performances (except Val Kilmer's usual smug look-at-me turn) are excellent.  It really is one of the best films to date on a modern American artist.  It's just that it could have been better. "},{"Title":"Infantile Expressionism","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I loved the ambience of this movie.  It recreates a lost bohemian milieu of cramped apartments with tub-in-kit, a time when money was scant in the art world and artists were more purely motivated (though still ambitious and pettily jealous of peers).  In mid-flick, Pollock and Krasner move to Long Island where they still live like poor bohemians but where shoreline and field provide deliverance from the choking grubbiness of the lower east side.  Again, great ambience.Women will be especially drawn into Lee Krasner's story.  She comes across as the smarter of the two, and the stronger.  She's the practical one, the deal maker, and for a while she gives up her own artistic endeavors in order to nurture his.  Yet she doesn't seem pathetic; she's in charge of her choices and knows how to set limits.  Marcia Gay Harden inhabits the role, gives it vigor and heart; it is a joy to watch her performance and listen to her Brooklyn twang.This is a warts-and-all portrayal of Pollock as an infantile man who decompensates when his mommy moves away or his mommy-wife takes a vacation. A drama prince who makes scenes, especially when sucking on alcohol's pap. His dedication to his art is absolute, however.  Were his drip paintings worth all the angst?  Ed Harris learned the technique pretty quickly for this movie.  I think Pollock's paintings are awful, but de gustiba.... "},{"Title":"Streetcar named splatter","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  At times, Ed Harris seems to have chosen the life of JacksonPollock as his dream project for all the wrong reasons I get tohave a scene detoxing where I blubber in my brother's arms! I getto have a scene where I knock over a Christmas dinner, just likemy buddy Val Kilmer in THE DOORS! I get to have a scene where Ipee into Peggy Guggenheim's fireplace... and so on and on. ButHarris gets one Pollock quality perfectly the feel of a guy with asecret to keep hidden, something that makes him look furtive anddistracted and terribly, terribly--almost irresistibly--sad. Thepre-fame Pollock has a shy-little-boy, yes-ma'm-no-ma'm qualitythat's affecting. Harris' performance, when he's not beating hisbreast, is quite fine.The movie, co-written by Barbara Turner (who wrote the similarlydoormat-for-an-actor-ish GEORGIA), lacks a dramatic motor. Italso doesn't have much of a point of view about Pollock, or abouthis painting, or anything else for that matter. (Harris, who alsodirected, does recreate wonderfully the radio interview in whichPollock is asked to explain his work--its eloquence andtorturedness are perfectly rendered.) It clunks from one vignette ofPollock's life to the next as if the filmmakers were moving througha series of index cards. And yet for all that, Harris' performance, with its secret furtively (orguiltily) hidden behind his eyeballs, and the strange rhythm of thefilm--it seems to have been cut down from a six-hour movie in asingle afternoon--exerts a weird pull. And many moments,intentionally clumsy or not, can have a Svengali-like sway on youlike a stagy silhouette of Pollock, standing stock still like Rain Man,being undressed by his harpyish soon-to-be-bride. "},{"Title":"Happy to finally see it","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had studied the work of Jackson Pollock in college and I'd heard that there was a film project in the works about 5 years ago so I was very excited to see what the result was.  I was not disappointed.  It is difficult to portray any artist on the big screen and one as complex as Pollock...well, let's just try to recreate his paintings with crayons shall we? There were aspects that were omitted but for those that don't know him, this was a good overview. For those that know more about Pollock there may be some disappointment in the film but his moods, his relationships with his family and others in the art world, all of it was secondary to the art and that was the most important thing to show.  And Ed Harris did a great job. "},{"Title":"Toronto 2000 Wrap-Up","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  9/11 945 pm POLLOCK (****)Remarkable directorial debut by Ed Harris who effectively directs himself in the title role of Jackson Pollock.  More than just a bio-pic, the film makes important statements on creativity in general.  Marcia Gay Harden is wonderful as Pollock's wife and guiding inspiration, Lee Krasner.  Ed Harris introduced the film along with producers Peter Brant, Joe Allen & Fred Berner, screenwriter Barbara Turner and actors Marcia Gay Harden, Amy Madigan and Stephanie Seymour.  Only criticism is you have to wait too long in the film for Jennifer Connelly to appear.  "},{"Title":"Pollock paints..gets p***ed..then paints again..Who cares","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I have just attended a screening of the film Pollock.  Although I commend Ed Harris for bringing this labor of love to the screen I found the end result quite disappointing.  It seems that films portraying great artists almost always fall into the same trap.  We are bombarded with his torment, his angst and of course his predictable impending doom.  This was a perfect opportunity to showcase the life of one of the greatest art geniuses of the twentieth century.  But they dropped the ball, going for the obvious. A boring narrative with over the top performances.  Each scene seemed to echo the scene previous...O.K. we get the point..Pollock was not a very happy guy..But for once I'd love to see a film about an artist through the eyes of that artist...instead of just an assaulting narrative....Nothing new was brought to this film in style or execution....It just felt flat..like a blank canvass...not to mention annoying.  I would have loved to have seen what a director like Bob Fosse with his great visual style, freedom and imagination, would have brought to this rich subject matter that just cries out to be bold and different.   I left this film depressed and not giving a s**t about one of the greatest artists of our time  "},{"Title":" Promoting  ' an  Accident  ' as Art ","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Jackson Pollack was an early, but very influential American artist of the 1950s. Based on a Novel written by Steven Naifeh the film is now directed by Actor/director Ed Harris. Audiences across the world can now enjoy this semi-biographical movie dealing with the impressionist artist. Taken from the last segment of his life, viewers observe how Pollack begins with one direction of Impressnism and developed a personal style of his own. Ed Harris is not only impressive as the real-life artist, but as director, he also imbues his troubled character with a personal passion for art, something the real Pollack often exhibited. The movie does stagnate with the constant barrage of intrusive friends and family members. However they are also the same influences which criticized, encouraged and guided his work. The acting is superb with stand-out performances by Ed Harris, Marcia Harden, John Heard, Val Kilmer and Jeffrey Tambor as Clem Greenberg. For audience members this is a wonderful film and I would easily recommend it to all. **** "},{"Title":"Harris beautifully captures the slowly evolving art world of New York in its time frame with refreshing exactitude.","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a quietly excellent film, clearly a labour of love for Harris, and far superior to much of the current Hollywood product. It is aimed at educated adults. The film is the life story of acclaimed abstract expressionist artist Jackson Pollock (Ed Harris), including his surrender to alcohol which led to his untimely death.Pollock is a superior biopic about an artist, one that really does try seriously to find a way of conveying the wellspring of creativity. The uncompromising Pollock is played with ferocity by Harris, and his supporting cast do the picture justice. Apart from its other virtues, the film sheds light on the bitchiness and jealousies rampant in the art world - and how some artists play the games of that world more readily than others. "},{"Title":"A film that stands the test of time","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" After revisiting this film 10 years post release, I have to ask myself the following question. Why did the Academy chose Russell Crowe's performance for Best Actor over Ed Harris' portrayal of Jackson Pollock? Mr. Harris perfectly laid bare the tortured soul of Pollock for all to see. Rarely does an actor so seamlessly, and convincingly, exhibit the range of emotions shown in this performance.Equally impressive was Mr. Harris' directorial debut. The story flowed coherently, something that can be said less and less often about films these days, holding the viewer's interest as the characters develop. Performances across the board were first rate and believable.I say, check it out! "}{"Title":"Pollock A movie definitely appreciated by artists; even converted some!","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Pollock A movie definitely appreciated by artists; even converted some!As I see many movie reviews on the movie Pollock, there was one in IMDb that the critic admitted that he was moved to start painting like Pollock after seeing the movie.As an artist, I still enjoy continued repeated watching of this film. I wonder now how many people that view it and especially the critics, do they paint? How would a non-artist view this film as compared to accomplished artists? I ask people sometimes, have you ever painted? Done any creative art? If they answer no, I ask why not? The reasons are always the same. I don't think I'm good enough. I can only draw stick people. My art teacher in school told me that my art was not good enough. I wonder what the world of people who might discover that they could be great creative artists would do if there was a weekend event to just demonstrate up close how to start and learn, that many might become regular serious artists.As an artist of sorts my entire life, award winning astronomy photographer, more recent my technical large pastel sketches of the sun and moon are featured in NASA web sites, I can say that Harris' portrayal of Pollock's style of painting is well acted. *POSSIBLE SPOILER FOLLOWS in next three sentences The moment of discovering the drip technique that Harris enacts, I believe may be quite real to the history books. That scene in the movie brings tears to my eyes. The moment of great artistic discovery! Those who have never painted might not get that scene. I feel that non-artists do not appreciate that moment in the film. I am sure artists get it though. This is what bothers me about the general populace. They know only to watch a film to be entertained but they may not know anything about the creative process or how to experience it by creating it for themselves.I believe that if this movie did anything, I could care less what critics here say about it not being anything more than another copy-work biopic style. Their comments are worthless to an artist or anyone who appreciates the 'artful history' that Harris enacts to tell of this great figure in modern American abstract expressionist painting. I believe that Harris did a great service to the average movie-goers that maybe just a few might pick up a paint brush and learn to be a creative artists for the first time in their life.I felt that all the actors did a great work on this film as I personally worked as a background extra actor on a recent film set and brushed paths with Marcia Gay Harden. I commended her for her award for acting as Lee Krazner, Pollock's wife.I was first alerted to the film after seeing Ed Harris interviewed by Charlie Rose about the film making before the films release here in Portland Oregon in February 2001.Mark Seibold, retired artist-astronomy educator, Portland Oregon "},{"Title":"Pollock","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Wonderful drama about the life of the breakthrough painter of the modern era. Ed Harris gives a masterful performance and is as believable in both looks and actions as Kirk Douglas was a Van Gogh. WHile I have always enjoyed the paintings of Jackson Pollock yet knew little of the man behind them. AFter viewing this movie, I felt like I was there to watch him paint. I highly recommend this for all art lovers, of any media. The only criticism I have of that the plot sometimes stalls and you just wish the movie would move on. However this does not happen often, and certainly will not take away your enjoyment of the film. "},{"Title":"One man in search of his true legacy.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"       A friend once asked me what legacy I would leave behind when I died. I thought for about 5 seconds and then I said My children. Watching Ed Harris's film Pollock reminded me of my epiphany. Harris very subtly displays to the audience that the reason artist Jackson Pollock turned to drinking and other women is not his Bohemian lifestyle nor his lack of critical success but rather his wife's refusal to give him a child. One of the most poignant scenes in the movie is when Pollock's brothers visit and he is so absorbed with his own art that he fails to see his brothers and sisters in law and how they happily interact with their own children. We see Pollock as a man who has truly sacrificed his chance at fatherhood for ars gratis. After watching the film, I realized that a man could produce hundreds of paintings that sell for a million dollars each but bringing one child into this world is a much better legacy to leave behind. "},{"Title":"Sorry about this, Ed..","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" ..but you made a boring movie and its over two hours long...but I forgive you!  Just don't do it again.The story of Jackson Pollock's life feels at times like its running in real time.  See Jackson do food shopping.  See Jackson have a fit.  See Jackson get loaded.  All I really wanted to do was see Jackson paint - these scenes had some life to them, the man was being revealed to me. If Lee was half as loyal as she is portrayed on-screen, then he should have built a monument to her.  She is completely dedicated to the artist in him and will tolerate the rest for the sake of art.  In other words, she was an unappreciated saint.  I can't say any of the actors made this better than it would have been.  Many scenes could have been cut to make this more watchable.  The ending won't be revealed by me, but suffice to say that it was thoughtless, brutal and sad.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Saw Pollock last week -twice!! I know the reviews have been mixed, but I have a theory about that. First of all, Ed Harris spent approx. 10 years making this film, so he knew exactly what he was doing. Now to my theory. . . some of the reviews complained that there were plot holes, etc. and that there was not enough explanation about why Pollock became a painter in the first place, why he drank, why he stopped, and then started again, why a mistress out of the blue,why was he so  destructive, etc. etc.etc. I believe that something very sad has happened to audiences (and reviewers). We are so used to watching tv with nice, compact, dumbed-down stories and plots, with everything spelled out, answers to everything, nothing left open -a package with no room for doubt or questions. This film was like a Pollock painting a mysterious thing of beauty, a work from the heart. It respects the audience enough to leave much open to the imagination. Let US interpret, analyze, brood, or rejoice. Ed Harris produced, directed, and starred in a masterpiece. So many scenes just took my breath away. And the entire cast was brilliant, especially Harris and Marcia Gay Hardin. "},{"Title":"Bravo!!","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the best portrayals of an artist I have seen yet!  Ed Harris and the writers are deeply devoted to the acurracy and details of this great artist.  The viewer has the benefit of accessing a powerful time in our culture as well as a marvelous insight into genius.  The cast is absolutely amazing, Ed Harris and Marcia Gaye Harden deserve nominations for their performances.  This is one of the finest pictures I have seen on an artist and one of the best pictures of the year.Go see it!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A flawed work about a great artist","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Pollock is a rather straightforward biographical tale of the life of Pollock as portrayed by Ed Harris, who also directed the picture. Pollock ascribed to the laws of Picasso, as did his equally talented wife Lee Krasner (Marcia Gay Harden), even as he desperately fought to forge his own identity. His is the typical story of the struggling artist fighting poverty and seeking fame while translating madness into art. The film comes full circle but falls a bit thin and offers little insight into Pollock's artistic process.Clement Greenberg (Jeffrey Tambor), an abstract expressionist and art critic, serves as an interesting nemesis to Pollock. He critiques Pollock's paintings with the panache one would expect from a struggling painter, but his criticism of Pollock seems to be on key Pollock's style, a cross between Picasso's Cubist Period and Blue Period, will wear out it's welcome if Pollock fails to find his own voice. Pollock, a sensitive yet emotionally unstable soul, doesn't take highly to criticism of any kind and usually takes his anger out on the people around him.A better name for this picture might have been The Misadventures of Jackson Pollock From Guggenheim Prophet to Long Island Drunk, as the film is nothing but a series of scenarios that finds Pollock making a fool of himself at every turn. His behavior is, for the most part, loathsome and the audience is provided with little opportunity to sympathize for the devil because Harris doesn't give us much to like in the man. Although it is clear that Pollock aspires to paint, there is little subtext in the film to show why Pollock has become the unstable, modernist rebel that took that art world by storm.Also baffling is why Harris chooses to treat the film as a quasi art history lesson. One scene in the film finds Pollock experimenting on a canvas as Lee walks into the room only to start commenting on Pollock's work with terminology best fitting a college expressionist professor. Her brand of double-speak seems shrill and gratuitous, best fitting an art critic and not a woman whose husband is all too familiar with the glossology of the painting process.Marcia Gay Harden is, in many respects,  the heart and soul of the picture. She's a fine actress who has never gotten the kinds of roles that her talent deserves. Her character in Pollock is perhaps the only three-dimensional character. Although Lee is a woman who adamantly defends her place in the art world she puts her career on hold in order to act as a manager to Pollock. She takes him in, forces him to paint and tries to control his bouts with liquor. She selflessly defends her right not to have children but still nurtures her relationship with Pollock even as he slowly chops away at the foundation, flirting and sleeping away with an endless string of women.Anyone familiar with Pollock's life eagerly waits for Harris to capture the full glory of Pollock's drip period. Equally reviled and praised during its time, his drip paintings are astounding works that feel like the coded blueprints of Pollock's internal, emotional climate. It's almost blasphemous to see Harris dubiously portray the discovery of Pollock's famous process in a scene where he accidentally splashes paint on a floor while working on anondrip painting.Still, the moments where Harris portrays Pollock's drip process are the best moments in the film, if only on a visual level. The truth of the painting process is still shockingly absent. Pollock seems to find an identity during his drip period but for some reason his life continues to go to seed. I can relate to the moments of a man staring at a blank slate, searching for inspiration within the mind and soul, and loving the spectacular results when an impassioned brush meets the slate. Pollock's worthiness as a man and as an artist lies in the hopeful beauty of the finished art and they seem to promise transcendental hope. But there is a contradiction on the screen as Harris, the director, paints the transitional elements between his scenes so cloudy that his characters motivations seem nothing less than random and misinformed.One horrible scene in the film finds Harris trying to elicit some kind of suspense by making us wonder if he can ride all the way home without a case of beer falling to the ground. See Pollock paint, see Pollock pee into Peggy Guggenheim's fireplace. See Pollock paint, see Pollock overturn tables full of food. This seesaw scenario escalates for the entire duration of the film and it adds up to very little. It's as if Harris, in an otherwise admirable performance, is more concerned with playing the more dramatic moments of the painter's life than the quieter, more informative moments.We get a sense that this man hides his emotions behind a false display of bravado but we never, for one moment, get a sense as to why he embraces painting so much. I would have rather seen moments that explored Pollock's inspiration, motivations and the rationale behind his return to drunkenness than a series of incidents more fitting the life of the town bum. Certainly I don't expect something wholly blissful but everything portrayed on the screen seems incidental at the end, as if Harris is trying to translate snapshots of Pollock's life to the screen without focusing on the meatier connective issue.  "},{"Title":"An excellent labour of love","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" To me the difference between a vanity project and a labour of love is the value of the finished project a vanity project is generally self-serving and ruined by ego whereas a labour of love is much more about the subject and carefully managed by those involved. Sometimes there can be a very, very fine line between these things and in Pollock Ed Harris has produced a very definite labour of love out of a project that, in lesser hands, could have been all about him. What I have seen of Jackson's work I have generally liked but I must admit that I knew nothing of the man and wasn't that interested to find out.So it was to the film's credit then that I was taken in and engaged by the story and the characters. I'm sure the film does the usual thing in biopics of merging characters, skipping issues and taking artistic license but, aware of this potential, I don't think it really affected my ability to enjoy and learn from the film. Some viewers will find it all boring of course because it is a patient film with no car chases but such people are not the target for this film and nobody feels their absence. To me the film was occasionally a bit of work (I felt it laboured his descent without saying anything new across many scenes) but generally it flowed well and was consistently interesting. Harris' direction is a big part of this because his eye is keen for the material and he does well in passing this over to the audience.Of course it is rightly his performance in the title role that he got the praise for because he is excellent. He produces such a convincing portrayal of the artist and manages to bring so much out &#150; conceit, anger, fear, descent and mostly does it while avoid hamminess or showboating. Harden is almost as good in the secondary role &#150; together the two are excellent and their natural performances kept me with the characters. Support is roundly good but I did have to wonder why Val Kilmer bothered to show up for such a minor role. Connelly, Heard and others all round out an impressive cast though.Overall a great film that has been carefully and caringly crafted by Harris. As director he is strong but it is his performance where he gets it all right and is the rock that the film is built on. Some will find it all boring of course but this says more about them than the film because this is an engaging and enjoyable biopic. "},{"Title":"Great acting of an unlikable character","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Pollock is, yet another, biopic about the 1950's modern art painter, Jackson Pollock (Ed Harris), and how he came to fame through discovering the drip/splatter-paint method. The film also stars Marcia Gay Harden as Lee Krasner, Pollock's wife.A film about a painter didn't really appeal to me, but I remember seeing Harris nominated for Best Actor at the Academy Awards, and it sparked my interest. Netflix told me I would like it and it got great reviews at Rotten Tomatoes, so I put it in my queue. When will I learn to trust my instincts? Don't get me wrong, Harris and Harden were spectacular in this movie, but the movie itself was pretty boring to me. I didn't feel anything but disgust for Pollock since he was portrayed as a selfish, egotistical drunk. An my feelings for his wife were no better because she chose to stay with him. Besides the good acting, I also thought the cinematography was wonderful. There were some great shots done with interesting color and some others of the New England countryside. "},{"Title":"Splatter film","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Jackson Pollack was childish, difficult, and brutally drunk a lot of the time. Pollock was also the greatest painter in American history. His paintings were expressions of inner-agony, as well as a celebration of energetic, limitless creativity. Ed Harris shapes this film perfectly. He portrays Pollock as a defiant, tortured American artist, who was only alive when working. Marcia Gay Harden is perfect as Lee Krasner, the mothering-wife that Pollack needed in order to survive(aka paint). This film is extremely moody(like the man himself), but frequently explodes with the joy of painting(like...). If You think I sound snooty with this review, then go watch the latest Adam Sandler vehicle instead. This is important stuff. The scenes with the prick documentary filmmaker(Pollock's excuse to fall off the wagon and eventual selfish death) are crushing. Harden desperately screaming Paint!!!!! is heartbreaking. Endlessly self-destructive, Pollock pushed his loving wife away and stopped painting(Death). No sappy nonsense, this film hit all the right notes. "}{"Title":"A dreary, standard biopic","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Pollock progresses in the same pattern as most biopics about any creative artist the early years of creative and financial struggle, the people who believe in him from the beginning, his personal demons (in this case, alcohol and depression) that never goes away, his difficulty of loving another person because of his work and finally his tragic downfall.When Ed Harris (as Jackson Pollock) is actually painting a canvas, it was very interesting to see how he paints. It becomes even exciting seeing a painting that's being created in front of my eyes. What is more difficult to understand is Pollock's inability (or his incapability) to relate to anyone in his life other than his paintings. Although Harris and Oscar Winner Marcia Gay Harden (as wife/confidant Lee Krasner) gave good performances, I also found their performances to be to flashy and problematic. Surprisingly, I found both characters to be rather boring. They may have been creative individuals but I wouldn't want to meet either of them in person. Perhaps I'm asking for too much but for film where the characters are unlikeable or difficult, they at least should be interesting. I though Pollock and Krasner were only partially interesting. Amy Madigan gave the best performance as Peggy Guggenheim. Although she appears in a few scenes, Madigan seem to breathe some life in the film with her character who is way-out-there.Despite the admirable effort by the cast and crew, overall, I found Pollock to be a dreary exercise about another creative but self-destructive artist. "},{"Title":"A Wretched Excuse for an Art Movie","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Jackson Pollock was one of the major innovators in the history of 20th century art, but this movie goes back to the worst tradition of high-toned schlock like Vincente Minnelli's Lust for Life (1956) in depicting Pollock as an artist/madman who makes life hell for everyone around him while creating masterpieces on the side. The film throws out names from the New York art scene like handfuls of confetti, but no one unfamiliar with the history of American painting in the 1940s and 1950s would have the least idea who these people are supposed to be. Nor does Pollock make any more than a limp attempt to explain how the artist arrived at his highly idiosyncratic approach to painting. I admire Ed Harris as an actor quite a bit, but this whole project seems to me to have been incalculably ill-conceived. Anyone interested in seeing a truly well-made and imaginative movie about a great painter should go to the nearest video store and rent Robert Altman's impressive Vincent and Theo, about Vincent Van Gogh.  "},{"Title":"Excellent bio with fine performances","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris' film doesn't drill down into Jackson Pollock's psyche, and we're probably just as well off -- Pollock wasn't a big talker, and whatever theories the writers could have inflicted on us probably are best confined to print. What we get instead is a terrific picture of a painter at work. Pollock was the kind of artist who depended completely on his medium to establish a sense of himself, and this comes through strongly here. His disintegration once his store of inspiration -- or whatever it was that he drew from to paint -- seems sadly logical and tragic. Nothing is overdone in depicting the final years -- but Pollock has become a sad man struggling weakly to find a new path. He doesn't. But this is not at all a depressing film, as what we see of Pollock painting, and of his marriage to Lee Krassner, is exciting and full of life.Harris' direction is fine, the pacing is assured, and he recreates the period well without calling too much attention to the details. Pollock has been criticized in some quarters for not giving enough space to the other, equally compelling people in his life -- de Kooning, Krassner, Clement Greenberg, etc. But they're here in nice cameos, and in any case, Pollock himself was such a handful that he simply can't occupy a 2-hour movie without occupying pretty much ALL of it!Finally, kudos to Harris and the screenwriters for sparing us any post-mortem funeral scenes full of crappy dialogue! Would that all artist biopics were as perceptive and appreciative as this one of the artist's own experience. "},{"Title":"A Piece of Modern Art","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Ed Harris should have been given the award for having the best performance by an actor in 2000. But for some strange and popular reason, Russell Crowe was given the Academy Award for sword fighting. My opinion, the world was not ready to place Ed Harris in the same role as great actors such as Laurence Olivia, who also directed himself in the original Hamlet back in the black and white days of film. Look closely at the storytelling Ed Harris tells in his direction. A great deal of long shots and takes, the film is like looking at a painting. A painting of Pollock's life. Amazing. Amazing Direction, Acting, and Story. Ed Harris' biggest triumph since Knightriders! "},{"Title":"A excellent but marginally interesting film","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Pollock tells of the life of American abstract expressionist painter Jackson Pollock. A excellent film in most respects, this tour-de-force by Ed Harris has one glaring flaw. Pollock simply wasn't a sufficiently interesting subject to expect his biopic to have mass appeal. We've all seen films of alcoholic, neurotic, tormented artists and Pollock is just another to add to the muddle of Van Gogh, Picasso, Toulouse-Lautrec, and others. Pollock should appeal most to those with an interest in painting. "},{"Title":"The Artistry and the Egotism","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" An ambitious and brilliantly realised film biography of the American artist Jackson Pollock, Ed Harris stars, directs and paints on-screen. Harris' performance is a tour de force, superbly portraying a challenging (and challenged) individual, and Marcia Gay Harden is excellent (and rightly recognised by the Academy) as his wife, artist Lee Krasner.It's apparent from Mr. Harris' portrayal that Pollock was a difficult person to deal with and it seems clear that he had mental health issues &#x96; quite possibly being bipolar, in spite of his talents as an artist he is not a likable character for whatever reason.But despite the fact that neither Pollock's art nor his personality do anything for me, Mr. Harris' film is absolutely compelling and a very rewarding watch. The painting scenes are remarkable, they have a hypnotic quality and in their raw creativity are a stark counterpoint to the destructive tendencies that the man exhibited at times. They also present moments calm in the alcohol-fuelled whirlwind that apparently surrounded Pollock for periods of his life.If you like biography I think you will enjoy this piece, it's a career-topping performance and a brilliant portrayal of an intriguing talent and the people around him. "},{"Title":"this is what a 'biopic' ought to be about!","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Brilliant! Ed Harris is not only interpreting Jackson Pollock (January 28, 1912 &#x96; August 11, 1956).......he IS Pollock! The beginning might be a bit foggy for the uninitiated, but then again, if you chose to watch this movie you already know a bit about the artist. Shows the complex, bio-polar and alcoholic personality of the artist without being vulgar. We learn about his relationships, family and artistic development chronologically. We discover how he searched for a distinguished style and his famous Dripping-Technique. Excellent faithful reconstructions of real life events, interviews and photographs of which we all know are conserved on film (even on YouTube!). All other cast framed Harris' work wonderfully, especially Marcia Hayden as Lee Krasner, Pollock's artist wife. Historically and Biographically totally accurate.Watchable with Teenagers. Short, (without being over pretentious) a very good biopic an instructive BIOgraphy within a very well acted moving PICture.(I only take off one * for the sometimes abrupt editing) "},{"Title":"Artists had a bleak cycle of hatred/idolatry/disregard to face in 1950s USA","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The coolest thing about Pollock is that it doesn't glorify him. After it was over, I felt as if I had actually gotten a grasp of the person, as opposed to the way I feel after most movies, that I've been watching a movie made by fans, or by enemies, or by fans that are trying very hard to put their idolatry on hold. But with the tantrums, the sober, unflinching tone, the cold hollow stare Ed Harris gives, the devotion of the Lee Krasner character, and the ending drunken crash, I got the feeling that the cast and crew weren't out to make the case that Pollock was a better more graceful human being, but rather to show the almost impossible personal and professional challenges involved in the life of an artist, the demands for an artist to be completely exposed to the world, personally and professionally, and, all simply for a fleeting bit of fame. Pollock was far from being a graceful, mature human being, but he had the temperament and situation to embody the role of one of the best painters in the world, and thus by looking at his life, we can see what artists in the United States during the 1950s had to look forward to, and it was not a very rewarding lifestyle. The problem seems to be three-fold the level of fame of a few select artists, the lack of support for artists who struggle, and the stranglehold that privatization has over those few artists that happen to break through. It ends up being a document to compare with our present situation, and because of the lack of progress, and perhaps even worsening of conditions, the movie serves as an impassioned plea to society to re-evaluate its treatment of artists. "},{"Title":"Honest portrayal of a flawed man","Date":"12 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I always try to catch this film when it's on TV, but I always stop watching before its terrible ending. Jackson Pollock was a great artist, thanks in no small part to his shrewd wife, Lee Krasner. She was the intermediary between this disturbed and ultimately psychotic man and the sophisticated New York art world that never knew quite what to make of him. Compared to today, the postwar New York art scene looks quaintly innocent. All it took was some pontificating by Clement Greenberg and a spread in Life magazine to make Pollock's career. Ed Harris plays Pollock well, and the scenes where he actually paints are fascinating. The film also does a does a good job of showing how artists actually lived in fifties in New York. By today's standards, it was a grubby life in dilapidated walk-ups painted in the harsh, cheap white paint favored by cheap landlords. But it was possible to be poor and still live in Manhattan. In a way, Krasner did her job too well. Pollock was emotionally unprepared for his fame and it sent him (and ultimately poor, innocent Edith Metzger who had the bad luck to be in his car at the wrong time) over the deep end. Pollock is an honest movie that is obviously a labor of love on the part of director Harris and the actors whose performances are excellent. "},{"Title":"You've done it, Pollock. You've cracked it wide open","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm always curious about movies based on an artiste's life. Provided that they do justice in presenting an as accurate as possible overview of the artiste's life (taking the director's artistic liberty into account) and introducing some of his/her work to filmviewers, these films often fascinate me. Movies like 'Frida', 'The Hours' and 'Finding Neverland' rank among my favourite and I can easily add Ed Harris's 'Pollock' to that list.Ed Harris shows great understanding and appreciation of the late artist's life and works. He mentioned in an interview that he's been working for 9 years to get the film made. It all started when his father had given him a book on Jackson Pollack as a birthday gift. Since then, Harris has been intrigued by his works and finally he's gotten to make the movie.As director Harris shows dedication and devotion to his work. He tries to be as true to history as possible without turning this into a documentary and I think he did a splendid job in introducing his works to viewers. His execution is very subtle. The score is used very subtly as the music is toned down most of the time. The cinematography and editing are solid. There are no lavish sets or spectacular special effects which works to 'Pollock's benefit because it captures the rawness of the time and of the hardship and poverty the artist experienced. Harris also effectively portrays the relationship between Jackson and his wife Lee, his struggle with alcoholism and with meeting up to expectations of others and his hunger for fame.Ed Harris was perhaps a little too old to play Pollock but this is one flaw that is easily overlooked as Harris immerses himself into the character. He is brilliant as the shy painter, the alcoholic loudmouth, the quietly loving husband and the passionate artist. Marcia Gay Harden is spellbinding as Lee Krasner, who very much functions as a driving force behind the artist's work. she tries to keep him guarded and motivated but soon despair gets the better of him. Amy Madigan is superb as Peggy Guggenheim and Jennifer Connelly leaves a mark in a brief role.'Pollock' does right by providing a general overview of a great artist's life and works. Many seem to disregard it as a typical biopic but I disagree to that statement. If by typical biopic one is referring to a birth to death account then this is certainly not it. Pollock was a complex man who lived a complex life. He seemed most satisfied when he was painting for himself but things changed when he was required to paint for the world (well, America, in this case). I believe this movie has more to offer than a typical biopic. "}{"Title":"Suffers the Fate of Many a Biopic","Date":"13 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Pollock suffers the fate of many a biopic about famous artists. It makes the mistake of thinking that people who produce interesting art are by extension going to be interesting themselves, and they're so frequently not. Usually, they're messed up, but in the same old tired ways in which everyone else is messed up, and I leave a film like Pollock wishing I had just looked at some Jackson Pollock paintings instead of spending time in the man's head.But all that criticism aside, Pollock is a fairly accomplished film, and it's clear that director/star Ed Harris cared strongly about his subject. His performance is good, but by definition one-note and a bit obtuse, because Pollock himself was apparently those things. It's Marcia Gay Harden, in the obligatory and thankless suffering consort role that all biopics have, who gives the most impressive performance.Grade B "},{"Title":"Pollock","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I knew this was a biographical film about an artist, I found out about it mainly because of Ed Harris, also directing, and the protagonist has the same first name I do. This is the true story of artist Jackson Pollock (Oscar nominated Harris), who towards the end of the 1940's, was trying to find his spark again. He was an expressionist who only painted what he wanted, and had no care for meaning or genre. First he used his brush and painted random lines and shapes, but then he found that he could create much more interesting expression with the brush by dripping the paint onto the canvas. His paintings made a real breakthrough, and he had critic praise, including an article in Life magazine. But old demons were bound to come back, and his wife Lee Krasner (Oscar winning Flubber actress Marcia Gay Harden) had to tolerate his alcoholism, which was ultimately forced her out, and killed him in his fatal car crash, along with one of two women. Also starring Amy Madigan as Peggy Guggenheim, Jennifer Connelly as Ruth Kligman, Jeffrey Tambor as Clem Greenberg, Bud Cort as Howard Putzel, John Heard as Tony Smith, Val Kilmer as Willem DeKooning, Stephanie Seymour as Helen Frankenthaler, Sada Thompson as Stella Pollock, Kenny Scharf as William Baziotes, Barbara Garrick as Betty Parsons and Everett Quinton as James Johnson Sweeney. Harris gives a very convincing portrayal, as well as good directing skills, and Harden does give an Oscar worthy performance as his patiently suffering wife. The story does have some powerful structure, and the highlights for me are both the creation of and finished paintings. Very good! "},{"Title":"Ed Harris should have won Best Actor","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" With Pollock, Ed Harris proved himself as adept as a director as he is an actor, playing splatter artist Jackson Pollock. We see Pollock as a talented artist who seemed to grow more and more messed up (maybe even disturbed) as the years went by. Equally as good as Harris is Marcia Gay Harden as Lee Krasner, for which she won Best Supporting Actress (and unlike so many people, Harden can do a believable New York accent).All in all, a great movie. I would like to assert that Ed Harris actually did a better job here than Russell Crowe did in Gladiator. Also starring are Jennifer Connelly, Bud Cort, John Heard, Val Kilmer, Amy Madigan and Jeffrey Tambor. "},{"Title":"The actor paints!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Most astounding accomplishment. If I ever have the pleasure of meeting Ed Harris, this is the film I will ask him about. An inspiring insight into the creative process, the chaos, the idea, the fevered imaginings, the immediacy of the act of flowing paint onto canvas in a way never before done. To see the artist pissing into his wealthy and influential patron's (or more accurate, matron's) fireplace, to see him falling off his bicycle amidst the detritus of beer and glass, to see him befriend the normally distant crow... all of these scenes are a perfectly brilliant use of the art of cinematography and a testament to the greatness of Jackson Pollock. But then I always make a point of watching any film about artists, poets and musicians. "},{"Title":"Who cares?","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Why would anyone care about any of the characters in this movie.  They are uninteresting and pathetic and make no progress.  The fact that they have art talent is of little interest.The performances of the actors, while commendable, tell a dull and repetitive story.  It is a very long two hours to endure. "},{"Title":"Boring biopic starring Jennifer Connelly... where did I hear that before?","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'll admit it instantly I'm an art-illiterate. At times you can find me staring at the old masters, but I've got nothing with modern painting. I've got nothing with Jackson Pollock. And I've got nothing with this biopic about him.Ed Harris stars as Pollock, and to be honest, he does well. He shines a lot brighter than Gay Harden as Lee Krasner, still she got an oscar for it. Life ain't fair.The story tells about the life of Pollock and his alcohol problems, his cheating on his wife and his paintings. But if you don't have any interest in the latter, it's just another biopic on a person you couldn't care less about.4/10. "},{"Title":"A Matter of Coherence","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  One may readily agree with all the compliments and award nominations for this film without simultaneously enjoying it as a film.  Bits and pieces of genius do not a whole masterpiece make.For me it was episodic and very predictable, because I was either put off by its stop-and-start pasticherie or already aware of the artist and the undeniable quality of his work.  I am also biased against intemperate alcoholism at any level, whether it be the harmless town drunk or the brilliant bon vivant altogether too full of himself to avoid descending into mindless lechery or self-hatred when tipsy.All that aside, where is the center of this film?  Indeed, where does it begin and where does it end?  I fell asleep twice as it wound down, then turned it off entirely as it approached the inevitable conclusion.Great art, just bad editing. "},{"Title":"Boring music","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" What's surprising me is that the music was not that good as it could have been. There was used a irritating large amount of 'film music' in stead of music which was connected with the spirit of his generation or art. When the credit appears then there starts some good music. Of course there is good music when there's is a party or when they listen music at home, but overall the music is boring. On the official website is nothing mentioned about the music they used, except from the music supervisor Dondi Bastone. Jeff Beal did the music too and there was this Tom Waits' song The World Keeps Turning. It is hard to find more information about the music used as if it's indeed not worth to mention it. "}]