[{"Title":"Unfairly Bashed","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"162 out of 244 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen many reviews bashing Mission to Mars. I see why they've attacked the film but I think they missed that the excitement, action and deep humanity of this film far outweigh the forced quality of a few scenes. There is scene after scene in this movie that pulls the viewer's heart and mind nto some of the deepest veins of human emotion. More than once I felt myself drawn into the middle of intense depictions of love, terror or excitement. If a little subtlety were mixed into just a few scenes this movie would have stood out as one of the greatest and lasting human dramas in science fiction history. I heartily recommend this movie; it will transport you and involve you if you are just a little forgiving. "},{"Title":"A difficult derivative sci-fi film","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"152 out of 242 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After a second viewing, I can say that I am still not sure what to make of this film. Many will see this as something of a remake of 2001. And yes, the film is visually almost plagiaristic of the Kubrick masterpiece. The two biggest problems are a lack in originality and thoughtfulness. From my rating, you can see that I did not despise this film. It's visually nice, and the performances are all good. However, I am not sure I can recommend it.I'm a sci-fi fan, and a scientist, so I was initially intrigued by the notion of a big-name dramatic film-maker doing a sci fi epic, which appeared, at least initially, to be hardcore sci-fi. By hardcore sci-fi, I mean fiction based on scientific reality, not fantasy with a tiny bit of science thrown in for decoration. An example, also using Mars as a vehicle, is Ben Bova's novel Mars - which focuses on the very edge of plausibility, only occasionally overstepping the bounds of scientific possibility. Film has rarely achieved this - a few interesting exceptions are Alien (the original), Outland and Silent Running. Hardcore sci-fi, which, I argue, this film could and should have been, is careful about that boundary. And 3/4ths of the way through Mission to Mars, it's still a hardcore sci-fi flick. Then suddenly, it's something else. I will leave that something else for you to discover, and stay focused on what the director and screenwriter were trying to do here.What we have here is not really a single plot, but a pastiche of plots that have been strung together into one long, mysterious and grandiose story line. The film starts out with a couple of scenes which might have been lost in Appollo 13 - providing a little bit of character development and letting us know that we are about to witness the first manned space flight to Mars. That flight ends pretty quickly, as virtually everything goes wrong. And as a rescue mission begins, the question then becomes, why is everything going wrong? Up to the point where the rescue mission enters Martian orbit, this central question is sustained and developed skillfully, but then , in my opinion, things start to go wrong with the film itself. There are major problems with what could have been the best aspects of this film. The spaceships are remarkably flimsy and poorly designed, but they look great! The safety protocols for the mission, about which we hear so much, are either not followed or incredibly naive. The heroes are not particularly clever about heroism, and seem to forget, at times, what the actual possibilities are for mobility in space (why not use the tether three times - twice out to Woody and once to get back after you run out of fuel, Terry?). The guy who authored the safety protocols does not appear particularly concerned with safety, or even protocols. The evolutionary biologist on the crew is amazingly poorly informed about the Paleozoic period of earth history and the evolution of species. I could go on.The film is broadly derivative of 2001 A Space Oddyssey, The Abyss, Star Gate, Event Horizon, Fifth Element, Contact, and a few dozen other somewhat entertaining but not particularly believable space / sci-fi adventures, but while it resembles, and in fact pays homage to these films (especially 2001), it never entertains quite as well. Why? Because these films do not pretend to be based on scientific ideas, but rather, aesthetics and humanism. While most of these films invite interpretation, Mission to Mars simply repeats ideas from previous films and doesn't even bother to recast them into an interesting new light. Mission to Mars is something that has been done many times before, and in more interesting, entertaining, and thought-provoking ways. Technical proficiency, which is something this film exudes, is no substitute for a compelling story and interesting individual characters. Unfortunately, even in terms of technique, the film has some flaws. Some will disagree, but I found the soundtrack irritating, and the pace of the film very uneven to say the least. And the characters lives are so intertwined in the few character development sequences that only Sinise, Robbins and Bennings' characters develop rudimentary individualities. Despite his reputation, I can not hold Brian De Palma up to standards which are different than those of other film-makers, and I can not condone creating a special vocabulary or a sophisticated argument to permit interpretation of his films as part of some over-arching theme which only he and a few of his fans understand. There is a fine line between flattering imitation and shameless copying, so I'd rather not get into an extrapolated meta-film discussion of this film's relationship to 2001. I don't think this film is worthy of such a sophisticated analysis. There are some truly great moments in Mission to Mars. This should not be too surprising with the wonderful cast, big budget, and talented production team. What did surprise me about this film was the 2001-like 180 degree turn it took off of the map of scientific possibility 3/4ths of the way through the film, and I can't say that turn and its outcome really impressed me.If you're a sci-fi fan, or somebody with a very casual interest in science, you should probably see this. But if you haven't seen 2001 first, by all means, wait until you have. And don't take this one too seriously when you do get around to it. This has much more to do with fiction than science fiction. "},{"Title":"A Visually Stunning and Vastly Underrated Film","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"133 out of 208 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Visually, Mission to Mars is stunning.  Nobody tells a story better with pictures than De Palma.  The scenic design and photography kept me riveted to every frame.  On the recommendation of a friend, I watched the movie in widescreen on DVD using a high resolution monitor.  The visuals are so important that I cannot imagine watching a pick and scan version on a conventional TV set.  Too much would be lost that way.The scene, early in the movie, where one of the Mars astronauts gets blown up made me levitate.  Also, I though Tim Robbins' and Connie Nielsen's weightless dance in the spaceship on the way to Mars was lovely.  The scene with the startling all white surroundings that the astronauts faced in the faceship (to coin a phrase) was also well done.  I thought the performances were uniformly excellent.  That fact and the wonderful visuals overcame sometimes excruciatingly bad dialogue so that it did not really detract from my enjoyment of the film.  That being said, though, I loved the exchange where it was observed by one character that the mere three per-cent difference between the genetic makeup of men and apes gave us Einstein, Mozart and a second character adds, Jack the Ripper.Some reviewers complained about the similarity of the film to 2001, but that is exactly what De Palma had in mind, I think.  Mission to Mars pays homage to every sci-fi cartoon and movie ever made, from Buck Rogers to Close Encounters, and does it well.  Anyway, De Palma proved to me again that he really does march to his own drummer.  I was hugely entertained and highly recommend this film -- but only if you watch it in widescreen on DVD or, better still, in a theater.  Eight out of ten. "},{"Title":"A Visual Masterpiece","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"145 out of 239 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So many critics blasted Brian De Palma's Mission To Mars, that I feel I must have seen an entirely different film. Perhaps people were expecting Armageddon, or any other number of space films.  This is a film about people, not space.  People who are great friends on earth, who must face challenges to their friendships and their humanity, while in space and on Mars.  They could just as easily have been in Kansas.  Brian De Palma (the greatest living visual director), takes us on a glorious journey, with his camera.  The sets and special effects never overshadow the actors, who blend in seamlessly, to create a visual treat for the eyes.  This is a tender and moving film about people and their relationships.  It's a beautiful film, told in a very slow, deliberate manner.  It pays homage to many other films, but it is its own entity;  unlike any other space movie you have ever seen.  The film features wonderful performances from its cast, an effective score by Ennio Morricone, and peerless direction from Brian De Palma.  The nature of its stunning visuals demand that this film be seen in widescreen, ONLY.  Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Even Worse Than Body Double","Date":"26 June 2015","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers AheadThe first thing is that the dialog is idealized at the level of THE SOUND OF MUCUS. Does Brian think this is the way astronauts talk to each other? They are all saints descended from heaven devoid of all the qualities that make associating with people such a joy. Envy, jealousy, anger, hatred and resentment none are present here. These people do not exist anywhere but in Brian DePalma's imagination. Gus Grissom's favorite expression was #$%$ the pooch. Does that sound like these people? The opening party scene is a natural emetic. One gooey, maudlin line after another; are these astronauts? Are we in Heaven? The next problem is aliens, putatively benign, who react to someone sending the wrong transmission by unleashing a ten story sand tornado that sucks the people up and rips them into pieces. Gee, do you think these aliens might not be so friendly after all? I love New Ager's deductions if it hears the wrong frequency it goes postal on the transmitters but they cling to their benign deduction. We saw this in THE MOTIONLESS PICTURE, it cannot tell scans from weapons, even though we primitives can, so it blows everything up. Hey, maybe we should entertain the hypothesis that they may be slightly inimical, what do you think?Did they buy that rescue ship on sale? Do you know how many sensors are on the space shuttle for the sole purpose of saying Attention, monkey boys, trouble with your hunk of junk. Peruse your hunk of junk breakdown warning lights. Here, way in the future, their space ship does not let them know that their fuel lines have more holes in them than swiss cheese? I think it might have intoned loudly Monkey boys, do not activate engines your stupid fuel lines are leaking badly, just a guess on my part. It kinda seemed a bit unrealistic to me. Does Jim have a death wish? Why does he refuse about thirty warnings that the air is thinning? Is he late for a big bowling date? Jim, if you turn purple and die that hurts our mission you big dummy! Yes, Dr. Pepper saved the day and got a nice product placement all at the same time. If you were Woody and your ship had more holes in it than a colander would you tell the monkey boy computer, hey HAL we are going to hold up on that there orbital insertion to see if we can see through our ship first, OK silicon boy?Now, if all your friends got wiped out by psycho aliens who unleash the twister from the WIZARD OF OZ on you if you send the wrong transmission, would you still want to meet them? Did the person who wrote this write PROMETHEUS? Non sequitur, they would get back in their ship and get the hell out of there. Obviously, people who react with mass murdering frenzy to errors in signal transmission might be slightly hostile. When we do meet them they are plenty stupid looking. They look like retarded, weepy giant Cellos all that was missing were the bows to play them with. Come on, the film sucks big time. RED PLANET was bad but it was not retarded like this. It also had realistic human dialog with the requisite number of jerks and idiots. I expected to see Julie Andrews come out with her guitar here, the dialog is right out of that insipid movie. Save yourself, it is just awful. "},{"Title":"My Review","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"86 out of 147 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My Mission to Mars was a pleasant adventure.  Departing from today's incessant need to combine blood curling aliens with one's travels through space, Mission to Mars provides an intelligent ultimatum.  The film lies somewhere in between 2001, The Abyss and Lost in Space, forcing us to examine our roles as humans throughout the ages in this unexplored territory.  Sprinkle a touch of action, and a pinch of suspense, and you have yourself a sci-fi film for the new millennium.The film stars such veteran actors as Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle, and Jerry O'Connell; an ensemble where only first-class acting is possible. So let us move onto the direction.  It is Brian DePalma's foray into science fiction.  And masterfully done to say the least.  His shot composition is reminiscent of  Scarface and The Untouchables, mixing filmmaking from the days of yore with today's MTV aesthetic.  DePalma's talent for filming suspenseful action sequences is in full swing in this film.  The spacewalk scene will be one that will not be forgotten for quite some time.  Could possibly be one of the best spacewalk scenes in films to date.  The hidden jewel for me was the unpredictability of the film.  Each corner turned was a pleasant surprise.  I can't remember that last time I saw a movie with this quality, especially coming out of the Hollywood mainstream.The cinematography was astounding.  Imagine Lawrence of Arabia lensed on Mars.  Professor Jenkins from Scientific America was correct when he said that the images from the film were identical to those photographed from the actual planet.  And that is not a small feat.  "},{"Title":"Hits home as a solidly great sci-fi movie","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"86 out of 148 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In this day and age of computer generated eye candy, it is very common to see movies that are based solely on special effects and nothing else. Movies like Wing Commander have great graphics, but the story line and acting leave you back at the ticket booth.Mission to Mars does not fit in this category.  When I saw previews, the special effects looked great, but I could also tell that there was a plot to this movie.  For once, I was right on the mark.  Mission to Mars made you think about what was happening and what the consequences were going to be. The suspense takes a firm grip on one's eyelids and pulls them up to the ceiling.What truly makes this movie stand above others of its ilk is the great acting of the characters.  In sci-fi shoot 'em ups, the viewer develops a way of not caring for the characters, as they are uncreative and inflexible. Mission to Mars made me care about every single character; I was eagerly awaiting every twist and relished every event.The climax (which I will not at all spoil) was hair raising and at the end extremely satisfying.  Upon leaving the theater I quickly realised that I haven't seen a better movie all year.I give every recommendation I know to go see this movie.  And, by the way, look out for some foreshadowing.  It's in there. "},{"Title":"Forget the Critics!","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"115 out of 210 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was GREAT!  People are forgetting the fact that they are seeing a MOVIE!  And this movie Rocks (The mind). This movie is for the hardcore Sci-Fi fans, like myself.  Yep, I like seeing space, space stations, planets, aliens and stuff other people might find boring.I thought is was facinating that the base camp on Mars was so close to the Mars Face.  Of all the places that NASA has sent probes (in real life) they seem to be going to the wrong areas.  It's like someone from another planet sending probes to the North or South pole on Earth and expecting to find life or signs of life there.  I'm not implying that there really is something up there on Mars but just thinking from the scientific side of reality of what if?I read and heard all the negative reviews on this movie and I had to set them aside and see it for myself, and I'm glad I did.  My girlfriend was upset that I didn't take her to see it and I'm kinda sad that I didn't. Maybe next time.  "},{"Title":"The Eye of God","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"35 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.In my experience, there is no filmmaker like De Palma. As with Kubrick and Greenaway, you have to know what to expect going into a theater, because they do not concern themselves with storytelling in the ordinary sense. De Palma doesn't make films about life, and is unconcerned with the drama one normally finds there.He makes films about films, and since the target is an abstraction in the first place, the dramatic focus is flat, the acting obvious, the stories predictable -- all by design. By definition, we've already been wherever he goes. The value of the experience is in how he takes something that is ordinary and examines it in new ways. Its the 1890s Paris painting scene, where the eye is everything.We've seen him do Hitchcock, Kurosawa, Antonioni, and more. Here he tackles Kubrick, and the results are astounding.Kubrick does an end-on entrance of a spaceship with majestic passing; De Palma does too, and then enters a window to show Robbins and wife in an elaborate view, dancing the camera around them with Robbin's face reflected just incidentally. Kubrick has a clever shot of a man walking around the gravity ring; De Palma elaborates on this a hundred-fold with comings and goings and ups and ins and reversals until we are dizzy. 2001's spaceships were the stuff of pulp covers, but here we have even accurate rivet patterns, everything scrupulously close to NASA specs. 2001 has a cheap Kaleidoscope passage and some clean room visions when the makers are encountered. M2M's `makers' are encountered in an ever-cleaner, ever more abstract room.Incidentally, in the only clever element of the script, those makers show images of how they `seeded' Earth, with an  ambiguity between the making of the image and the act itself.One doesn't go to a film like this expecting a traditional Lucas-like ride. This is intelligent, self-referential stuff targeting not the mind but the eye. I suppose a question is whether it can also be entertaining for kids. I suspect not. Kubrick himself never tried. The fault is with the marketeers who try and sell these films in the same way as simple thrill rides. Shame on them. Regrets to all the ticketbuyers expecting Spielbergisms.If you are an IMDB visitor and reading this, chances are you are serious about film. If so, I recommend that you see 2001, then this in one evening. Forget about story, acting, drama, and focus on where these gents take your eye. The thrill is that you become God -- what higher fantasy do you wish?  "},{"Title":"Exquisitely bad","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you're a Sci-fi fan like me, you will find this movie competes only with the other worst Sci-fi title in our contemporary times, War of the Worlds by Spielberg.This movie is crud from the start. First, we are to believe that NASA now seeks out married couples to fly in space - ain't gonna happen in real life. Then, when a rescue mission is called for on Mars the decision to launch one is not made by NASA (as real life might have it) its made by the star-studded cast.As the stupidity rolls on in this film you can find some parts that are just plain horrible writing. For example, the crew flies this amazing hi-tech spaceship to Mars, but just before landing they have a fuel leak. Somehow, someone forgot to put a fuel pressure gage in the ship?!?!? Then we get treated to some of the WORST acting you will ever see. Up to this point in the film we are supposed to believe that Tim Robbins and Connie Neilsen - married in the plot - are deeply in love. But when Robbins 'heroically' dies trying to save the ship, within 10 minutes Connies seems to be 'over it'. We see no further effects that she has lost a husband - and in fact, boy did she recover quickly.You, as the viewer, are then treated to more insults to your intelligence when the crew finds Don Cheadle there on Mars where he has been stranded for many months. Oddly though, Cheadle has no problem breathing on Mars - hmmm, must have brought his own atmosphere - and shock of shocks, he has plenty of electricity to run his fancy computer (which answers all the technical questions) even though he has been there long after batteries would have run out.Now that DePalma has you completely in his power (if you're stupid enough to keep watching) he then lays the biggie on you. Where did Earth's population come from? Mars. Yup, years ago they seeded our planet before leaving their own decaying world. This might be a nice premise for a movie, but here of course, its just the vehicle to explain what to that point has been the mystery in a tedious and boring movie.But the ultimate insult awaits for us in DePalma's utterly ridiculous end of the movie. Gary Sinese will now join the long-exiled Martians somewhere in another galaxy. Yup - but how does he get there? A water pipe essentially... Ya, so much for writing.What I find most amazing about Mission to Mars is that fine actors like Sinese, Tim Robbins, Connie Neilsen, Don Cheadle and many others MUST have read this script first - HOW they could have signed on to this mess is beyond me. Must have been good money.Mission to Mars is without doubt one of the worst Sci-fi movies in history, asking you the viewer to ignore stupidity, lousy writing, factual blunders about space flight, and a cast that seems so 'numb' to the horribly crafted mess that they just 'do the lines' to get the darn thing done.This movie, along with such classic crud as Spielberg's War of the Worlds, or Alien versus Predator, belongs in a Sunday marathon of Sci-fi movies where the Director presumes his audiences are brain-dead. Certified garbage - from start to end. "}{"Title":"Another great idea down the drain","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm disappointed. No, actually, I'm sad. No, in fact, Iäm rather angry - I have never seen such a great and wonderful idea be turned into something so insanely sappy and corny and cheesy and stupid in my entire life.It could have been so fantastic - it could have been a Contact-class sci-fi flick. Instead, we are served the lowest kind of americanism staring into space; uttering Oh my God a hundred times and at every single event, small or great; A crying alien - PLEASE!; holding hands; the mandatory loss of someone dear; the lone hero who has nothing to lose and so on and on and OOOONNNNNNNN!!!!!! There is only one leniency to be found it IS fairly scientific and believable, except for the fantastic feat of landing the satellite thingy exactly on the spot.This is by far the most disappointing film I have seen. It is always terrible to see a really bad movie, but it's a lot worse when they trick you into thinking it could actually be worth watching. This one certainly isn't... "},{"Title":"Sci-fi -- for the thinking spectators, that is","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"52 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" No laser beams. No alien attackers coming to consume Earth. No Will Smith and no Charlize Theron in sexy outfit. Not frightened yet? Read on...I saw this movie in a cinema with my girlfriend - a Physics teacher. What we both liked was how it followed laws of physics - it was perhaps the first sci-fi we saw which showed properly how space works and what vacuum is all about.I read in one review that the scene where they raise the USA flag is pathetic, when they should be running into the base to look for survivors; I disagree Since they arrived nearly a year AFTER the incident, rushing doesn't make any sense.I liked the puzzle part of the movie, as well as the final moments when the truth is revealed. Some laughed at that point, but I liked it a lot.Remember how Space Odyssey plays with the idea that the intelligent life on Earth might be a product of targetted imprinting? Well, M2M suggests yet another possibility, and I find that extremely appealing.The cast seemed brave to me No top-class stars, no pretty faces, but instead good actors that are believable (after all, Garry Sinise played in Apollo 13 and Jerry O'Connell played a similar role in The Sphere). "},{"Title":"Overwhelming disappointment.","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Even though I had already noted that the IMDB had rated it 4.8, I still was prepared to give Mission to Mars a viewing, based merely upon the special effects, and the fact that I am a sucker for Space Movies. What a terrible mistake. Mission to Mars is a 10th rate rip off of 2001, a Space Odyssey, except with terrible acting, no character development, and, just to add insult to injury, an insipid soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Wow.  Just wow.","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"39 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I caught this a little into the movie. It was at the incredibly cheesy scene when Sinise is looking at video of he and his friends at a party.It was laughable but it only got worse. So I watched for about 45 minutes before I just couldn't take it anymore. Not a single second of this movie was believable. From Dr. Pepper trick to the tether scene outside the spaceship. Sinise is a relatively talented actor and Robbins has his moments, well one anyway (Shawshank), they couldn't rescue this flick.After the 45 minutes I was anxious to get here and see the reviews from the disappointed. And yes, they are here but I am truly shocked that people not only liked the movie but actually are praising it so highly. Thus my summary tag line. Amazing that viewers can be drawn in to a film of such low quality.Watched it on a 65 TV with a high end surround sound and there are a couple of moments the movie utilizes the technology available to it but by and large the effects, by today's standards, are amateurish and very low caliber. This would have been visually stunning in 1976 but in 2000, and certainly now, it's somewhat of a joke.But the effects aren't the only downfall. The dialog is equally pathetic. Acting marginal to awful. Direction atrocious. It fails at every level.And there are people that like it. That is awesome and utterly amazing. "},{"Title":"Mission to Farce?","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm sorry, but this was a crappy one! I went in to the cinema with great expectations, but left with a feelin' that I'd rather spent my money and time somewhere else. Poor storyline combined with a movie that never kicks off made this one something I'd rather forget. Problem is; I can't! And what of that martian!(my 2 year-old niece can draw better than that!) If you haven't seen it DON'T BOTHER!!! My rating 1/10(couldn't go any lower) "},{"Title":"A true sci-fi movie Real and moving!","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"49 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You would think that we were reviewing Attack of the Space Pimps by most of the comments written about this movie.  As an avid sci-fi reader and movie watcher, I was impressed by the reality and moving aspect of this film.  Mission To Mars is a very good sci-fi movie.The acting is well done and REAL.  These are astronauts.  Trained professionals that have to deal with extraordinary situations or die a terrible death.  The relationship between the astronauts is portrayed in a REAL manner (even down to Robbins selfless sacrifice).  All of this moved me greatly.  The awesome moment when the first crew finds the face on Mars and unwittingly activates its defense system (and they just stand there in complete awe), is REAL.  The life-altering moments inside the Mars face, is REAL.  REAL reactions to extraordinary situations is what MADE Mission To Mars.What were you expecting?  A slimy creature that absorbs the astronauts lifeforce?  A testesterone-laced ending like Armageddon (drilling through unknown metal with Earth-made drills and Bruce Willis' gruff determination)?  A Will Smith cool line ending such as in Independence Day?Mission To Mars is awe-inspiring to say the least! "},{"Title":"Good Lord!  This was TERRIBLE!","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I know good science fiction isn't tremendously fashionable these days, but this piece of dreck was almost an insult to science fiction fans.SPOILERAMASAURUS...Those ridiculous M&Ms! Rotating happily around each other in a DNA helix! WHY? If they were attached to each other in some way it would merely have been a hideous product placement but in this movie they completely *flout* the laws of physics in an obvious attempt to looks science fictiony! Objects (unless they are the size of planets) do not simply go round and round each other in circles in zero G just because doing so makes nice patterns! ARGH! Don't even get me started on the jockish, rubbishy dialogue. Jocks don't watch science fiction movies, Hollywood. If you want people like ME to enjoy and continue watching your movies, stop scripting them for people who are never going to watch them. Eurobabble. FEH.And that cruddy alien! And the stupid giant face! And the entirely pointless noble death scene (incidentally,what on Earth was Tim Robbins doing in this movie? He can *act*)! And the toy spaceship taking the good ol' boy astronaut off for a ride at the end of the movie, puttering along like a cheesy 70s pimpo golf cart! It's not even at the level of Plan Nine from Outer Space! *Unimpressed*, peeps... 1 tiny cheap tin foil star pasted onto black construction paper for this effort, filmed in a wobbly way with your Dad's cruddy camcorder... and that's only because I can't give it *zero*... "},{"Title":"Mission to Misery stay far away from this one!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"28 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars was one of those movies that I had  intended to see at the theatre, but missed it until it came  out on video.  Well, that was the best eight bucks I ever saved.The banal dialogue, awful acting, bad special effects, and  predictable storyline leads me to wonder who approved the budget for this film.  Did they read the script first?  Was there a script?I may have saved eight bucks at the box office, but I wasted three at the video rental place.  Save your money.  Leave this one on the shelf. "},{"Title":"sh*t in cellophane","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"35 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Rarely has a sh*t this bad been packaged this nicely.I didn't catch the beginning of this movie, but from second one i did see, it was so screaming with BAD i just had to continue watching. Such an overload of clichés is not easy to find. I have an urge to say the acting stinks too, and although it is absolutely true, the actors are totally excused, simply because there's nothing to act on. You simply cannot utter sentences and act out story bits seen and heard so many times and have an expression, apart from cartoon-like mimic and eye-brow work. EVERYTHING was so bad here, from direction to acting to perhaps-good-but-totally-misplaced score to camera, i just had to comment aloud all the time, although i was home alone! I don't do that usually; it was really that bad. Occasionally, computer graphics would appear which, to my surprise, looked exceptionally good (although very kitchy). This made me think how the hell a director and a story this crappy got so much money for CGI??.When after the film i read that this is a Brian De Palma movie, i was shocked. Something MUST have gone terribly wrong in the production of this. A badly timed deadline? Urgent need of money? I don't know. And i don't want to know. I want to forget this, as soon as i write this review.Now, as a youngster i was a great fan of sci-fi literature, and even today i like to see a good SF movie; alas, by now i already realized there is almost no such thing; with very rare exceptions. So i continue to watch the bad ones, this piece of crap included. Thus, as a principal SF fan, i agree with all the people here who say they are sick of all the 'fight the alien monster' movies. But, contrary to most of them, i don't think that making aliens nice and wise makes it a good film, or even story. _Sh*t_stinks_, whatever shade of brown it may be. Not to forget shameless ripping off also stinks, especially when it is so obvious, as this rip-off of 2001 Space Odissey is; and even more so when the rip-off is such a simplistic version of the original. As i watched, i kept thinking When this guy (i.e. director) was young, he wished he made 2001 SO. Eventually he did, and he screwed it up to last bit, and he called it Mission to Mars. "},{"Title":"Recycled Hollywood garbage","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those movies that makes you think, primarily about how anyone could spend so much money to make something so bad and why decent actors like Robbins and Sinese ever agreed to be associated with it. The script is filled with stilted, cliche dialogue (We'll bring him back alive -- that's a promise; the characters are less interesting than house plants; the story is clunky, plodding, and tedious - a clumsy amalgam of assorted flotsom from 2010, Contact, Apollo 13, and Close Encounters. The special effects aren't even that stimulating. If I'd paid $8 to see this in a theater I'd probably try to sue the studio for a refund. Having spent $3 to see it on video I merely feel cheated. "}{"Title":"HOLY S**T! This movie SUCKS!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst movies I have ever seen... My heart goes out to Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise, two of my favourite actors. Okay, the first half is not a total loss, but when the second mission to mars comes along... phew!!! Stink-city! One major point The parts of a DNA-helix are NOT called chromosomes!!! Chromosomes are made up of DNA!!! A good description of the second part Vulgo-Disney. (A friend of mine who saw the movie at the same time...)Don't see this movie! Instead see 2001 and/or Contact. You'll feel better for it!!! "},{"Title":"Really unbearably bad","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of those movies that you wonder how it managed to make it into theaters. A lot of the positive reviews are about the visuals. Yes, it's visually stunning, but so is a lava lamp. Doesn't necessarily make it a good movie.The acting is flat, the characters unlikeable, and the plot confusing and barely-believable. Someone else mentioned the score - it's a real scene-killer. There are parts where, for example when Tim Robbins' character dies, that the score actually FORCIBLY tries to make you care about these one-dimensional characters, but you can feel the effort. That scene in particular was terrible, and very drawn-out. I was praying for him to just die already so the movie could end...Don't listen to the people who like this movie - they must all be high. "},{"Title":"Mission for 'tards (spoilers)","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" For someone who's so highly regarded in certain quarters, Brian De Palma doesn't half make a lot of bad films &#150; for every Untouchables there's a Snake Eyes, for every Carlito's Way a Raising Cain and for every Blow Out a Body Double. But of all De Palma's bad films, Mission to Mars must be near the top. It's a film that doesn't work on any level whatsoever.The most frustrating thing about Mission to Mars is that it has no clear idea what it wants to be. Is it an adventure film? An action film? Or is it science fiction in the vein of Solaris and 2001? Well, it tries to jumble all those things together and ends up being nothing. It's an unholy mess.The story, for what it's worth, focuses on a Martian rescue trip to get a stranded astronaut (Don Cheadle) back to Earth. Yep, this is the sort of film where earnest heroes tell annoying bureaucrats that they're not going to leave anyone behind &#150; the mission controller is kind of like the Stupid Chief in a detective film and the astronauts like the renegade cop. It's also the sort of film that plucks bland archetypes out of the sky. We have the young, jokey astronaut (Jerry O'Connell); the slightly smug but good-hearted commander (Tim Robbins); the tough woman (Connie Nelsen); the family man (Cheadle); and the guy with a tragic past (Gary Sinise). None of them are sketched in anything but the broadest strokes. I mean, there's even a scene where we get to see Sinise watch horrible home movies of his dead spouse. They're hackneyed in the extreme (as well as the narration saying it was 'love at first flight' (vomit) there's a bit where we get see wifey as a girl &#150; she has braces and pigtails!). And then to show what a wonderful person she was we get to hear her make a speech about her outlook on life. The universe is not chaos, it's connection. Life reaches out for life. Nonsense. Life is complete chaos and life reaches out to throttle life.But all the attempts to achieve some level of emotion are depressingly amateurish. For instance, there's a scene where Tim Robbins' character sacrifices himself so that his fellow astronauts may live. We're supposed to get choked up as he lies stranded in space and as he removes his helmet so that no one risks their lives by trying to save him, but because no effort has gone into fleshing the character out and because the whole situation seems so contrived, you can't help but roll your eyes.Another eye roller is the scene at the end where the astronauts disappear into a goofy alien head and find out that a Martian race planted life on Earth. It's like the scriptwriters have watched 2001 over and over again, missed the point and then concocted this tripe &#150; 2001 works because it only gives you questions; this film fails because it wants to give you nothing but answers.But the ending fails for another couple of reasons. The first is the alien &#150; it's poorly designed and doesn't look remotely real. The other is that it's far too saccharine. There's even a bit where the astronauts and the alien stand in a circle and hold hands. Dear Lord, the gods of our world are touchy-feely hippie types. Even the angry, homophobic, genocidal sky-god is preferable to that.And slow death is preferable to having to hear Ennio Morricone's hideous score. Tell me, how does such a great composer create something so awful? He, like everyone else, seems to have totally lost the plot. I mean, what's with the pipe organ music in the depressurisation scene? It's aural rape.But the aforementioned scene also commits visual rape. There's a bit where Connie Nielsen, in a bid to find the hole in the craft, uses Dr Pepper to locate the breech. It really is quite amusing/depressing how long the shot lingers on the logo. Plus Nielsen seems to hold it in her hand for an age. But who can blame her? As we all know, every astronaut needs some Pepper.I think the only scene in the film I kind of liked was the zero G dance. It was nicely choreographed, and with no bad dialogue to get in the way, the characters seemed kind of likable. But unfortunately the characters soon opened their mouths again.And I also have to admit that some of the photography is nice. But then again, would you really expect anything less from a De Palma flick? He's always been a stylist.He's also, in the past, been a superb director of action (Scarface and The Untouchables being the two best examples), but here his touch deserts him. I've already mentioned the depressurisation scene, which clunks and plods along, but there's also the scene where a bunch of astronauts get killed by a Martian hurricane. We get some lacklustre CGI, a Russian gets a rock in the face, and then worst of all, an astronaut gets spun about by the wind at such a velocity that his limbs snap off. The only possible response is derision.Also worthy of derision is the fact that Gary Sinise seems to be wearing eyeliner. Then there's Jerry O'Connell's character, a buffoon who unfortunately doesn't meet a grisly demise. And of course, how can I forget the film's assumption that we're all stupid? At one point a character notes that there's nitrogen and oxygen in the atmosphere. Otherwise know as air, Cheadle helpfully points out. Of course it's meant to be a joke, but I think the lack of respect for the audience is genuine &#150; the filmmakers really don't expect us to 'get' it without pointing everything out, thus robbing the film of any mystery it might have possessed. "},{"Title":"God awful!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not a single redeeming thing about this film.  Perhaps the visual effects, but otherwise, this was heavy handed and pandering.  The characters were ill developed and their interactions subsequently forced.  Just not a good film. Sorry. "},{"Title":"Say Wha?","Date":"24 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Gary Sinese wears a transistor radio (well don't they all?), gets sucked up into a plastic tube and learns to breath under water. We are all Martians. Our space suits were ripped off from Stanley Kubrick. What's not to love? Ghastly would-be (two-star) epic of a flop, this one. A last resort on modern-day cable if you really have lost your remote and can't change the channel by getting up to push a button on the TV itself. The countdown to escape just started but somehow I have an odd desire to just stay here and get blown to pieces! My dear, I just don't give a damn. Three measly late-night cable TV stars, but watching Internet porn is better. "},{"Title":"Deceptive Sci-Fi","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In 2020, a crew of astronauts has been prepared for a two-year international mission in Mars. Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise), Woody Blake (Tim Robbins) and his wife Terri Fisher (Connie Nielsen), Luke Graham (Don Cheadle) and Phil Ohlmyer (Jerry O'Connell) are best friends and Jim lost his chance to land in Mars when his beloved wife Maggie McConnell (Kim Delaney) died.The team of four astronauts land in Mars but a mysterious storm kills three of them and only Luke survives. A rescue team with Woody in command and Jim, Terri and Phil heads to the red planet and discovers that only Luke has survived. Their further investigation shows that the storm that killed the three other astronauts was artificial and created to protect a Face that lies on Mar. What might be the intriguing Face?Mission to Mars is a deceptive sci-fi directed by Brian De Palma and despite the great cast. I saw this movie in 2000 and yesterday I decided to see it again since there is one scene that was basically repeated in the Oscar winner Gravity, when the astronauts are lost in space and need to reach another station and Woody misses his target. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) Missão Marte (Mission Mars) "},{"Title":"A Real Sleeper!","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies ever! This movie lasted longer than a real flight to Mars. At least Ed Wood, in his science fiction movies, didn't waste so much money on special effects.  A real sleeper, which I mean this is a definite cure for insomnia.  Did anyone else notice that Gary Sinise, who is normally a fine actor, was wearing so much make-up that it looked like we were watching The Birdcage or La Cage aux Folles?  Terrible.  "},{"Title":"The Hardest Part Of This Mission Is Sitting Through It","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Earlier today, I watched Mission Impossible again.  I really enjoyed it.  I rented Mission To Mars this evening and saw Brian De Palma's name in the credits as director.  He coincidentally directed Mission Impossible, too.  I figured Mission To Mars had a chance at being a great movie once I saw who the director was.  Well, I was wrong.  I never should have made that foolish assumption.  I think it takes a great script to make a great movie.  Several people wrote Mission To Mars.  Some of it felt like a Disney movie and some of it felt like Supernova (what a horrible movie that was).  It lacked a certain feeling.  It was more like a messy collague of the writers' different visions.  I rented this movie because I was curious to know what was in the alien ship I saw on the commercial.  I wish I never found out.  I couldn't stop laughing.  And that wasn't a good thing, because this movie wasn't intended to be a comedy.  Save your money and choose something else if you come across this title at your local video store. "},{"Title":"Keeps getting better","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"20 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Throughout his career, Brian De Palma's sensibilities have been at odds with mainstream audiences. He's a trickster and a formalist, and those looking for realism and carefully sketched characters are often left confused by his constant homages and emphasis on technique. Mission to Mars introduces its playful intentions with its very first shot. A toy rocket, accompanied by carnival music, shoots up into the air and explodes. De Palma is here to play with his toys. The very next scene is an overly elaborate long-take in which all the film's characters, their loves and losses, are introduced. As a formalist, De Palma often calls attention to the artificiality of art. Here he has two astronauts holding video cameras as a CGI beast veers toward them. We focus on Don Cheadle's eyes as he watches these two film-makers, the word synthetic stencilled in bold letters behind him. This whole action scene is fake, created for the audience. De Palma wants you to focus not on story, but the design and look of the thing. Likewise, the aliens at the end of the film are themselves artists who've designed man. As such, they demonstrate this knowledge to their audience (the astronauts) with a film. De Palma once said that space travel and scientific conquest are the only things that he can generate genuine optimism for, and one feels this in Mission to Mars. The film has an overwhelming sense of earnestness. De Palma characters have never seemed so pure, optimistic, good natured and filled with humanity. There's no cynicism or bitterness here. Upon first viewing I found this all very cheesy, but now, coupled with Ennio Moricone's sweeping and romantic score, I find the film's broad brushstrokes very moving. Mission also continues De Palma's trend of turning classic films on their side. He's done this to Hitch, Fellini, Anotonioni and Hawks. Now he does it to Kubrick (one scene literally has 2001 A Space Odyssey's monolith on it's side). Does this make De Palma a hack? No, It makes him a giddy delight if you're a film fan. Mission to Mars is a bit more straightforward than 2001, it's a little friendlier, but it's practically the same movie. Just replace the monolith with the Mars face, and drop Hal. Both films' spaceships also look alike, and the white room used in the climactic scene strongly resembles the room at the end of 2001. And of course, where Kubrick gave us spaceships dancing the waltz, De Palma gives us astronauts dancing in zero gravity.But De Palma doesn't stop at Kubrick. His film has a character named Luke who spends one scene talking about a mysterious force (Star Wars), a spaceship commanded by a man named Jim (Star Trek), and many overt reference to Flash Gordon, Robinson Crusoe and Teasure Island. Noticing that his tale is a virtual rehash of The Abyss, De Palma also tips his hat to James Cameron by having Gary Sinese become submerged in oxygenated water (like Ed Harriss) during the film's finale. And of course both films have a CGI tentacle. Cameron gives us water, De Palma gives us sand.Everything De Palma touches has been covered before. He acknowledges this. But it's how he touches, that's magical. His entire film is elegant and fluid. Every shot is just a little bit wider or closer than usual. His camera pans and tracks with robotic precision, dancing, points of views shifting, perspectives changing. There's a perfection in his form. Every shot is beautifully precise. But what about the trite story, critics say? Yes, the story is silly, stupid even, but it's all told with such an earnest awww shucks feeling that it sucks you in. And besides, De Palma is never about story. Compare Femme Fatale to Double Indemnity. Compare Vertigo to Body Double or Obsession. He takes the core ideas of all these films and multiplies them by ten. You want Double Indemnity? De Palma gives you triple indemnity. You want Hitchcockian voyeurs? Hell, De Plama's voyeurs are watching voyeurs who themselves are being watched by even more voyeurs. You want illicit Hitchcockian affairs? Screw that. De Palma gives you Vertigo with incest. You want a slow-mo Hitchcock knife stab? Hell, De Palma kills you with a power drill and chainsaw. Nothing in De Palma's cinema is real. He knows that all films are about other films. Everything he's done has been done before. This is what all formalists (Coens, Tarantino, Leone) are about. They're interested in the act of watching and how we catalogue what we see. After 4 viewings, the only flaw I see in Mission to Mars is the film's unimaginative ending. Someone concerned with style and superficial form really should design a more imaginative ending. De Palma's silly alien hologram feels hokey, though Morricone's score does lend it an emotional sweep.But this fault, I think, can be blamed on Touchstone. The studios had an 80 million dollar budget on the line, and weren't happy with where the film was going. They wrongly thought they had another Appolo 13/Gary Sinese rescue movie on their hands. And so looking to save cash, they chopped the budget and gave De Palma several months less to shoot the final act. Hence the film goes nowhere after the EVA sequence. But this sort of studio meddling is typical with De Palma (Snake Eyes, Mission Impossible, Casualties, Dahlia, Obsession, Bonfire etc were all taken away at some point). 8.5/10- The film has aged well. Gorgeous visuals, beautiful music and an affecting sense of optimism. The only flaw is the last act, which still works thanks to Morricone's score and an emotional flashback montage. Requires several viewings. "},{"Title":"Kiddie sci-fi","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A rescue team is sent to Mars to find out what happened to a previous ship and its crew. They eventually get to the surface of the angry red planet, to find a single colonist alive. They also find a sign of intelligent life from elsewhere that may be ignored at their peril. Other than one grim sequence involving Tim Robbins freefalling toward the Martian atmosphere, the movie is strictly a G-rated affair about first contact with benevolent beings from another place and time. I have always thought Gary Sinise as one of the astronauts was miscast here, but considering the films he normally appears in, here is one he can safely show his kids and grandkids. MISSION is like those kiddie sci-fi novels of the 1950s with their simplistic, garish covers, and plays a little like some of those simplistic sci-fi flicks of the 1950s, only with far superior visuals. Don Cheadle plays the surviving colonist. The ending will thrill 8-year-olds everywhere, and may be a little hard for adults viewers to swallow. So be it. "}{"Title":"I really enjoyed mission to mars","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars isn't your average alien movie. When I first heard about it I thought, Oh, another alien movie. People go to Mars, aliens on Mars, aliens kill people and so on. But when I saw it, it made me think, What if, that was true? We'd be Martians on Earth! Mission to Mars is also setting itself up for a sequel. People will want to know what happened to Gary Sinese when he left in the pod? Did he fly through a star and sizzle himself, do aliens kill him, or whatever. I think Mission to Mars was the best alien movie I've ever seen. I give it a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Giving Breath To Imagination","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When did we as a society lose our imagination?Having seen Mission to Mars on opening night, I was a little surprised by the undeniably negative reviews that it had received. With disparaging comments lashed here and there about a weak script and tacky characterizations, I was left with the distinct feeling that we have given up film as a medium of entertainment only to have it serve our seemingly needful purpose of artsy criticism. So it's not Titanic...it's better. It's pure imagination to its fullest-the whole premise of what if and what lies beyond is beautifully encompassed in a film that crafts plot, SPFX, and strong acting into a fabulous hour and a half ride to the Heavens. It's courage, it's friendship, it's the bravery to look beyond.Mission to Mars carries a magic that once was in the world of film-making, and those true explorers among us will appreciate its insight into space travel and planetary evolution. I congratulate the cast and crew of Mission to Mars, and thank them for bringing a little bit of the Red Planet to us back home. I am in your debt. "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't know why so many people put this movie down. It had a good story, great cast, and wonderful special effects. It was nice to see a sci-fi movie without aliens ripping everyone to shreds. The ending was absolutely beautiful!  "},{"Title":"Earth History X","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  the ending of this movie spoke volumes to me regarding the theory we are not alone.  however unlikely this ending (or entire idea, even) may appeal to the right-brained population, it is my feeling that since i have no recollection or memory of other-planetary habitation, it does not mean it did not happen. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the other comment on this page I had to say something. This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen in my life. I'm not that picky of a movie watcher, and if something is entertaining then it makes up for any other defects. Case in point, I loved Independence Day, and I also loved 2001A Space Odyssey, just to give you my range of taste. I especially like Sci-fi, and for anyone to suggest that this is a sci-fi must see is purely blasphemous. What existed of the plot was horrible and completely obvious. The characters basically did not exist, let alone any development, which is unfortunate because they were actual actors, they just weren't given anything to act. Not to mention the actual physics of the movie in a lot of parts were completely wrong. Oh yeah, and the action sequences? What action? They were ridiculously boring and anyone who was on the edge of their seat was there because they were about to walk out on the movie. "},{"Title":"Solid, Intelligent Entertainment","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"19 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"    I do not understand why this movie was slagged so badly when it came out.  I finally watched it on VHS, and I liked it much better than Red Planet, its companion Mars movie.  Sure, MTM steals from lots of other movies, but what film doesn't?  The opening is lifted directly from Apollo 13, but it serves the purpose of setting everything up rather painlessly.  I love the cast, and they do establish a sense of camaraderie here.  I am not an aeronautical engineer, but I do know enough science to appreciate the way the fight to survive the entry into Mars' atmosphere is based on the limitations of their equipment.  In most action movies, the hero has limitless ammo, fuel, food, etc.  It was truly heartbreaking to see Tim Robbins' character make the choice he did.  Overall, Mission to Mars is very enjoyable.  It felt like a short story lifted directly out of the Sci-Fi of the 60's, which I grew up reading.  The pacing is very good, the acting is good (given some of the cliched situations), the script does not insult your intelligence, and I liked the resolution very much.  Fun at the movies, what more can you ask?   "},{"Title":"Really good in parts","Date":"14 March 2005","Score":"21 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie and another one that deals with an expedition that goes to the Red Planet came out about the same time. Mission to Mars is by far the better of the two. It is very well acted and has many good technical points in it. The only part I didn't like was the accident that befell the relief expedition and the spacewalk after that. Other than that whole scene sequence, the movie was very good. The ending is very emotional. I guess that is why some really hate it or like me love it. The movie really says more about our need to explore than anything else. By reaching out constantly, we assure our survival as a species. It probably disappoints many viewers because it doesn't have monsters or evil people. In this sense it is more realistic. The people that go into space are pros and not likely to go bonkers. It is not as 'dramatic' as some but certainly more satisfying for those of us that see a future for the human race. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film with heart","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a beautiful movie on many levels. It's fascinating and believable science fiction and gorgeously produced. Cinematography and special effects are first rate with a most intriguing story line that reminds me of that other excellent science fiction movie, 2001, which I think this equals.This is not the typical Spielberg/Lucas comic book sci-fi flick as seen with Star Wars or Star Trek. There's an artistry and depth here that pulls you in emotionally on many levels. The acting is excellent as is the outstanding musical score - Ennio Morricone was at his best here.The story and music go so well together and have a level of emotional impact that's rare these days. I don't at all understand the cynical view of this movie taken by others. I was shocked that the cable TV rating system gives it only one and a half stars. In France, it was rated the 4th best movie of the year. There must be some psychological damage with American audiences. My personal suspicion is that this movie explains life's origins outside the context of religion, and in the American Puritan culture, this isn't liked, accepted, or tolerated. The way the film portrays human origin, evolution, and development doesn't jibe with their biblical and religious traditional beliefs based on God and creationist stories. What a pity.I highly recommend this movie as one of the all time best in science fiction. "},{"Title":"One of the years BEST!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this film. I thought Brian DePalma presented a realistic future and didn't settle for either Fairy Tale Every one wins situation, or Everyone dies but one last guy action movie genre situation.Earth wasn't in trouble, we were still all just plodding along, exploring space to the best of our abilities, just as we are now. Yes there have been technological advances in DePalma's vision of the future, but we're not all wearing silver spandex suits and beaming ourselves from one place to another either.I thought that the acting was fine, and the pace, while a little slow, does help to create the sense that it takes time to get anything done, or go anywhere, in space.The graphics and special effects don't have to be cutting-edge whiz bang. DePalma based them on REALITY. Things that we see every day with space shuttle lift offs and mars explorer units being operated by remote control.If you like Science Fiction that's based on Science Reality, you should like this movie. If you like Science fiction based on Aliens blowing things up, you would not. "},{"Title":"the idiocy is almost compelling","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At some point while watching the ersatz sci-fi adventure Mission to Mars a question presented itself to my wandering attention what exactly is it about the Red Planet that excites the worst tabloid reflexes of our collective imagination? In other words, who can we blame for this sometimes willfully ludicrous mess of a movie? Certainly not director Brian De Palma, at one time a reliable filmmaker (when he wasn't aping Alfred Hitchcock), but now just another hired hand on what, truthfully, is little more than expensive B-movie boasting Grade-A visual effects. And it wouldn't be fair to criticize the efforts of a hardworking cast trussed up for hours on end in awkward space suits.An easier target might be the relay-race tag team of screenwriters, with three original story credits plus additional help on the actual shooting script, the total giving fair warning to veteran filmgoers of obvious developmental shortcomings (too many cooks, so forth). And in this instance any claim to originality is strictly for giggles, considering the degree to which the (less than fresh) fruit of their collective labor follows an already long line of overwrought fever dreams about our most Earthlike celestial neighbor.The result is a high-tech mix of up-to-the-minute science fact and stale anti-science fantasy, tailored to the wishful thinking of a wide-eyed public still clinging to the now discredited fancies of Percival Lowell. Armchair stargazers will recognize the name of the Arizona astronomer, who in the early 20th century championed the idea of artificial canals crossing the arid Martian landscape, proof of what he believed was an ancient and (of course) advanced civilization. This was at a time, keep in mind, when projects like the Suez and Panama canals were considered the acme of engineering achievement. If he were living today Lowell would likely be touting evidence of Martian high-speed Internet access and cell phone technology.You would think all the hard data returned over the last few decades by the Mariner Probes and Viking Landers would have put to rest the more imaginative misconceptions cluttering an already fascinating scientific record. But as H.L. Mencken himself might have said, no one ever lost money by underestimating the credulity of an audience hooked on pop-culture fashions, and the scenario on sale here panders to the same low-brow expectations, revolving around the latest (to date) grail of primetime pseudoscience the Cydonian Face.We've all seen the photos, the low resolution satellite imagery showing a rock formation carved as if by design into an uncanny (but entirely coincidental) semblance of human features, staring mutely skyward with all the portentous gravity of Stanley Kubrick's celebrated monoliths in '2001 A Space Odyssey' (another obvious point of reference for De Palma and company). Here's the set up the first manned flight to Mars has come to grief, mysteriously (and fatally) silenced while on a routine extravehicular reconnaissance. Back on Earth a rescue team is hastily rocketed into action, led by Gary Sinise and the ace astronaut husband/wife team of Tim Robbins and Connie Nielsen.But the entire rescue effort is only an incidental plot hook. What they ultimately discover in the shifting sands of Cydonia is the answer to an age-old enigma that will challenge every notion of who and what we are, and where we belong in the grand scheme of things. Too bad the big surprise is presented with all the sincerity of a virtual reality sideshow pitch. Viewers with a weakness for such New Age wish fulfillment will likely find it a compelling speculative drama, but would it be too much to ask for a little more science with our science fiction? All right, go ahead and say it Lighten up, it's only a movie! Perfectly true, and summertime crowd-pleasers don't usually merit this level of pinpoint scrutiny, especially from such an unreformed spoilsport and self-confessed film snob. But make no mistake any movie taking itself this seriously deserves the courtesy of a likeminded response, and 'Mission to Mars' is nothing if not reverent toward its cosmic mysteries. Any less so and it might have been a legitimate guilty pleasure.The dialogue certainly qualifies. Visually the film borrows liberally from Kubrick's '2001', with De Palma's direction limited to choreographing the elaborate zero-gravity tracking shots, making space travel look like just another thrilling theme park ride. But the strictly earthbound exposition is more suggestive of Peter Hyams' empty-headed sequel '2010', relying almost exclusively on generic techno-jargon (&#x85;check rad levels, switch to infrared&#x85;) and space jockey clichés (We're ready to light this candle, says Tim Robbins, firing his retrorockets).It's almost hard to resist a chuckle when, after finding the traumatized sole survivor (Don Cheadle) of the earlier Mars expedition, Connie Nielsen explains in a sotto voce aside to Gary Sinise, &#x85;long term exposure to low gravity can have an adverse reaction on the brain&#x85; If true, the authors of this turkey were clearly working in a vacuum.Smart-alecky criticisms aside, there isn't much else to recommend the film, except for some of the boldest and most blatant product placement in Hollywood history. This may be the first NASA mission sponsored by Pennzoil and Kawasaki, with the logo-covered Mars Lander looking like a contender in the Indy 500. Later, a crisis in deep space (&#x85;we're losing pressure Jim, you could embolize&#x85;) is averted by a timely deployment of Dr Pepper. And the secret of the Cydonian Face is finally solved with, believe it or not, a handful of M&M candies. It's enough to send even the most stalwart viewer straight to the snack counter.So what's left? A lot of cool Martian landscapes, employing what must have been every orange filter in Los Angeles County. And the dispiriting realization that despite all the bright, shiny, futuristic hardware on show here, despite even the daring anti-Darwin revisionist history of the origin of life on Planet Earth, we still haven't evolved far beyond the pulp-fictions of Buck Rogers and Edgar Rice Burroughs. "}{"Title":"Too harshly judged","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I saw this movie a few nights ago on cable, and I don't understand why everyone is bashing it. Yeah, there were some moments that made me want to flip channels until I found the Jay Leno reruns, but for the most part, I liked it. Yeah, you heard me! I LIKED IT! Come on people, this isn't supposed to be a -film-. It's an action/ sifi (and I use the terms loosely) -flick- with a sweet underlying story about relationships and friendship. The whole Woody/Terri thing was nice(good acting Tim Robbins! I actually believed the whole lovestruck husband routine, and that's a lot coming from me. Plus he (Tim) was cute... up until the point he turned into a human ice cube) and Jerry O'Connell's character Phil was great. The whole Phil isn't here right now. He left five minutes ago! thing was my fave line of the movie. I didn't like the ending, but there were a few good moments like the scene between Jim, Phil, and the M&M woman, Woody & Terri dancing (This is my last chance to be graceful. Once we're back on Earth, it's back to shuffling my feet and grabbing her butt), and the part where a major character sacrifices himself to get another character to return to the ship instead of trying to save him. This -flick- is no Deep Impact or Armageddon, but it's better than a lot of movies I've seen. 7.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies that has probably been silently and secretly loved by many people who have seen it. A colleague of mine introduced it to me many years ago and I have watched it many times when I needed to feel there is much more to life than what we know today.It is a science fiction drama. Focusing on the good side of human beings and the endless possibilities out there in the universe. It is a feel good movie and it gives me hope in the future to see such films.The cast is not fancy but fantastic. Very good performance from all. Some scenes are frightening in the beginning but it is well made/edited so that the viewer understands what really happened and that it was not meant to be something tragic.What I also like about the film is that it is also very beautiful. Space and the planets are presented beautifully that just watching the film gives us a visual satisfaction of entertainment.I personally liked the film very much and can recommend it to people who like to see films that give you something to think about after watching it. I also like films like this one because it makes you feel good in the end since watching a film does effect my thoughts and emotions. "},{"Title":"Fantastic!","Date":"3 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" OK, I won't make it long. Here's how I liked this movie1.Plot 100% 2.Music 100% 3.Special Effects 100% 4.Characters 100% 5.The ending 100% 6.Innovation 100% 7.Engagement 100% 8.Emotional Element 200%This film has everything you'll ever expect from a sci-fi movie. The combination of romantic love with a space journey is wonderful. This shows us how those spacemen leave their families behind to find the answers and what great sacrifices they make.This film is a tear-jerker, very thought provoking and very effective as well. I'll add this to the list of the best movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Not Perfect, but not bad","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars was a good flick.  It wasn't great, it had hollywood's usual mix of good science and tabloid junk science.  It had parts that were outright hokey (such as Tim Robbin's death when there were at least 3 ways to rescue him) to beautifully executed (such as the micrometeorite/air loss scene).  It was a fun film that, yes, could have been done better.  But hey, even Private Ryan and The Matrix had their flaws.  And as no one ever picks the jewels out of fair films, I think I will.  The air loss scene was beautiful.  That eerie music in the background, the emotionless computer calmly announcing how much air was left.  The crew's hustle to fix it.  Absolutely chilling.  I loved how the crew drilled and drilled and drilled again for orbital insertion.  I don't care how reliable computers get in the future, an astronout will NEVER just push one button and sit back while the computer does all the work.  I love how the Martian ship filled with liquid for its flight.  Water is incompressible and any human in a ship like that would withstand huge amounts of force.  So while M2M is not the finest film in the world, it is a very worthy effort.   P.S. PLEASE quit whining about ripoffs in Holywood.  I would give $20 to anyone who can find a movie since the 70's that doesn't at least take some of its ideas from a past film! "},{"Title":"I am amazed...","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I cannot believe that a movie this bad was actually made.  The special effects were absolutly terrible!  The story was shallow and unbelievable. The fact that a third grader could spot errors was evident - the fact that Mars has far less gravity than Earth, yet the characters walked as one would on Earth, the fact that a survivor survived for more than a half of a year without oxygen (he tries to make you believe the small collection of plants he has provided him with enough!), the way they just launched another mission at will, even though no more planning was necessary than having the next 747 take off from o'Hare!I could not help think of how much the ship taking off at the end of the movie looked like the one from Flash Gordon (and I do mean the old B&W films!)  The Martian was so poorly done, I thought I was going to laugh! The special effects are anything but, and the dialogue is childish. Someone should also point out how to make people look weightless and not like they are hanging on wires!It is truly sad to see some great talents waste their abilities on such a waste of film!  "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars gives a little hope to sci-fi!","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Saw Mission to Mars. I was extremely surprised at how good it was. The best way to sum it up is that it was a cross between 2001 and Apollo 13, with a little Contact thrown in. I loved the fact that at any given time, you had no idea where the film was going. And it was full of unexpected surprises. Finally a smart and exciting sci-fi film has come out! "},{"Title":"De Palma's Visionary Space Opera","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma, perhaps the most gifted visual stylist working in the American cinema has crafted a visionary pop masterpiece with MISSION TO MARS. The lack of intelligence in the reactions of the majority of critics and audiences to this film is alarming. Have we gotten so cynical as a society, that we are unable to accept, on it's own terms, a film so beguiling, so wondrous, so brilliantly conceived and carried out as this one clearly is? Why people choose to bring so much baggage to a film, that it makes it impossible to enjoy, is beyond me. This film is a marvel of state of the art effects and good old-fashioned storytelling. De Palma has always produced great looking films, but this time out he has surpassed himself. The movie is otherworldly in it's physical beauty. The camerawork, production design, costumes, and sets are all of the highest order. The acting is naturalistic by design, and all the more affecting because of it. There literally is nothing not to love about MISSION TO MARS, so do yourself leave your preconceptions, and all the negativity in the lobby, and sit down and enjoy the finest science fiction film since 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY. "},{"Title":"A really good movie","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars was a really good movie.  The visual effects were really good, as was the script and acting.  The movie was cohesive and did not jump around like many claim it does.  Mission to Mars and other movies (i.e. Mission Impossible) are really well produced films--the problem is the American moviegoer wants to be entertained for an hour and a half, not forced to think.  Both Mission to Mars and Mission Impossible are very intellectual if you will.  Heaven forbid you have to think while watching a movie!  Note Mission Impossible 2 had much gratuitous sex and violence and was much more popular, but in my opinion, much less entertaining because it was mindless trash.    "},{"Title":"Good Sci-fi + Fabulous Special Effects","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It still seems that Sci-Fi is not seen as it should be. I pity for the undeserved rating given to this film as I gave an 8.Despite the acting which could be better (but is not so bad), when I watch a good Sci-Fi movie there should be out-of-this-world special effects (which this movie has loads of them) to accompany the action and story flow. I don't think the story is weak. I am glad to watch such an evolution in movies since 2001 going through Blade Runner, the Abyss and arriving at Mission to Mars. There should be more open-mindedness in watching sci-fi movies, as this film is really great, and the discovery of the story is quite fascinating. If you like sci-fi and have an open mind (not everything should be intellectual) go and see it. It's worth watching. "},{"Title":"hauntingly beautiful","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Probably Brian DiPalma's best film. A loving tribute to Stanley Kubrick's 2001, DiPalma actually improves on some of 2001's most memorable qualities, while eliminating most of its worst.2001 was among the first films where the effort at producing innovative special FX overtook the plot and characters, to such an extent that the essential theme of the story, and its inherent drama, was lost. We don't care about any of the characters in 2001 - except for, maybe, HAL the computer. But there was indeed drama to the story, if Kubrick had bothered to direct for it.Nonetheless, Kubrick's emphasis on special effects did have one real benefit - 2001 has a marvelous sense of wonder that many viewers carried with them for years - including myself; it wasn't until I saw that film 20 years later that I realized that this wonder was more show than substance, but never mind - that's how you got wonder back in the '60s.DiPalma has managed to preserve this sense of wonder, and he has given us a story rich in characters and drama. No, this isn't an action sci-fi movie. It's a film about love, loss, and the ceaseless human yearning for other-worldly discovery. Beautifully photographed, well directed, well acted, with a pace that may appear slow to some, but which is actually realistically cautious. Yes, it requires patience - but the viewer will be amply rewarded.I also must point out this is the absolute finest film score ever composed by the absolutely finest soundtrack composer of his day, Ennio Morricone. If you aren't so interest watching the film, just listen to it! - the music is fully embodied, yet ethereal at the same time - hauntingly beautiful.On an off note here, while commending DiPalma's performance here, I must also add a rider - Yet ANOTHER tribute film from Brian DiPalma? The talent and skill going into this film indicated that we should have expected more originality from this director.Oh, well, let's be thankful for what we get here, because it's pretty darn good. "}{"Title":"definitely a spiritual experience","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It was a spiritual experience for me, because of my firm belief of life in other planets/worlds. I felt that the writer for this movie, was/is definitely a spiritual person, but then who knows? very very interesting. the only mistake i saw though was that the alien lady was not human. Other than that, thanks for the great movie.) "},{"Title":"A welcomed return to enjoyable science fiction","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From 12 to 47 age wasn't a factor in my family's enjoyment of this movie. Yes, there were some parallels to 2001.  The segments I've heard decried as rip-offs were simply good sense as to what a mission to Mars might entail. Of course I never did like the idea of solid black domino's controlling the universe.  The movie is interesting, the special effects are above average, the acting convincing. Oh yes, the end leaves you wanting a sequel.  Go see it. "},{"Title":"Intelligent sci-fi","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very entertaining.  Kind of a cross between 2001 and Contact, but sometimes the sum is more than the parts and MTM is one of those surprises.  I would say maybe the best sci-fi I have ever seen, and I have seen almost all of them.  It didn't leave you hanging like 2001, or wrapped up in monsters like Alien(s).Just believable people trying to survive, albeit space and Mars.I felt connected to the characters.  If stuck in an impossible situation, it's always nice to have Tim Robbins around. "},{"Title":"I really liked this movie","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read some of the comments that were posted here and I disagree with most of them. I think this movie has been judged too harshly. I really liked this movie.If nothing else, its interesting, it keeps your attention the whole way through and delivers some shocks along the way. The cast was perfect, no wrong there. The plot was even better. Its an intelligent film thats actually easy to follow and also delivers some good action, three things I havent seen together in a long time. I guess thats why I liked it so much. "},{"Title":"Houston, we have a problem","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"65 out of 127 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is such a mess that I had to wonder as I watched it, if I wasn't watching a rough-cut (a cut of the film shown to preview audiences, sometimes before end credits, some visual effects, or music is added). While there are some films that are so bad, it seems they never should have been started, this one probably shouldn't have been left on the scrap heap and never finished. Imagine the money they would have saved on visual effects, which are awesome, and have some serious sound design to go along with them. Everything else (acting and storytelling), unfortunately, is treated as secondary. It's as if director Brian DePalma were trying to beat an impossible deadline set by the studio.A committee of writers wrote this thing but, despite this, the story is promising. It's the year 2020 (a bit optimistic, I'd say) and we've managed to open an orbiting, multi-nation mission control station. From there, the first manned mission to the planet's surface is launched, led by Luke Graham (Don Cheadle). I was disappointed that they skipped past Man's First Steps on Mars and picked up the mission a few days in. Guess they figured we'd see the real thing soon enough. Before long, the crew meets disaster when they are attacked by a really cool special effect. Mission control has no idea what happened to the crew of four, but they have reason to believe someone may have survived. Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise), was supposed to be the first man to Mars but was forced out when his wife became ill, will now finally get his chance.DePalma is very dependable when it comes to staging action sequences and incorporating special effects (the only factors that saved Snake Eyes and Mission Impossible, his last two films). Too bad he can't always get David Mamet (DePalma's The Untouchables) to write his scripts for him. This one seems thrown together, having been either written on the fly or ignored. Just about every cliche' ever used in movie dialogue is dusted off and incorporated somewhere in this script. I felt sorry for this seasoned crew of actors (Tim Robbins, Jerry O'Connell, Kim Delaney, Connie Nielsen, Armin Mueller-Stahl, Sinise, Cheadle) who did the best they could delivering their stupid lines. At times, I just wanted to cover my ears because I couldn't take it any more. Speaking of covering my ears, I could have done without Ennio Morricone's score. When he composed this music, was he watching the wrong film? The inappropriate, distracting score actually ruins some well-executed action sequences.My conclusion about Mission To Mars is that this could have been a decent sci-fi film if it weren't ruined by amateurish oversights. The finished product, a curious melding of two genres, the realistic space mission movie, ala Apollo 13, and science fiction, is a mere shadow of what it could have been. The studio probably envisioned something along the lines of Cameron's The Abyss or even Kubrick's 2001, but fails.  Unfortunately, this means Verhoeven's Total Recall is still the best Mars flick around.Grade D-  "},{"Title":"Some couples dance, others go to Mars.","Date":"12 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It was the year of two Mars based movies, with the other being Red Planet, of Pitch Black and the chaotic history that produced the Supernova. Plenty of sci-fi around but sadly few decent offerings.Mission to Mars is a film you can see had good ideas on the page, some brainy and emotion based narrative threads. Effects work is OK for the era, while there's a very impressive cast put together to tell the story. Yet the script stinks to high heaven, the surprises are as absent as Martians are, while the steals from previous sci-fi movies grate on the nerves. The odd sequence has quality about it (dancing in space, woo-hoo, storm attack, yay), while the finale - all be it still a steal - is well constructed and further proof that someone somewhere had the kernel of a good story idea, but it's laborious trite and devoid of the basic film principals - to entertain and engage.So many things wrong here, so much so the names of all involved have been spared. Join this Mission to Mars at your own peril. 4/10 "},{"Title":"De Palma's Odyssey","Date":"17 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma's Mission to Mars, scorned by critics upon its release in early 2000, is not deserving of so. It has its flaws, yes, and it certainly can be overbearing at times, but I'd take a filmmaker who goes over the top any day over a filmmaker who doesn't give a damn.Loosely based on the Disney Tomorrowland attraction, De Palma utilizes his crew to their fullest extent, specifically his cinematographer Stephen H. Burum and composer Ennio Morricone, and delivers an exciting action/adventure with the fundamentals of true science fiction. But De Palma, always the mischievous filmmaker, toys with his audience, both fulfilling and averting genre conventions to them. Even the film's opening act where - some thing - causes a team of astronauts to go on a rescue mission to the Red Planet, completely seems out of place, but knowing De Palma, this is exactly what he wants.An addition to the boom of space exploration movies following the success of Apollo 13, De Palma's film doesn't concern itself with the story so much so as how De Palma wants he audience to feel the story. De Palma and Burum dance their way to elaborate, hypnotic camera movements while the great movie maestro Ennio Morricone provides the symphony for said dance. The camera weaves through the interiors of the spaceships every which way it can, and on the surface of the Red Planet it exudes a terrific sense of wonder and mystery, something akin to the golden years of science fiction.Some of the dialog is hokey and some moments admittedly goofy, but again, this also could be a throwback to the Golden sci-fi era, and besides, De Palma wastes no time on those trivial script moments. He is more of an artist than a storyteller, but there is a story being told here, and the journey is indeed mesmerizing and a lot of fun to watch. De Palma and the producers also made the right choice in picking genuine talent for the characters and not the superstar of today.And then there are the effects. Both practical and computer-generated are put to heavy use here, and the results are nothing short of spectacular, even by today's standards. (OK, well maybe not a sequence near the end). It can really be seen for itself, that actual imagination and talent went into the production design of the film, even though it clearly evolved from Kubrick's Odyssey. The effects do not just serve as pretty eye candy, De Palma utilizes them to bring out an awesome exhilaration and sense of wonder from the audience. Again, playing with them, like a piano.What I think really divided audiences and critics alike was the climactic act of the film, which some would consider it as Space Odyssey-lite. I do not find that an insult to Kubrick, rather I find it complementary that, in today's science fiction films that results in George Lucas mentality, that here is a director that pays the perfect tribute to both the greatest science fiction film of all time, as well as its creator.Ultimately, Mission to Mars is a brave and severely underrated blockbuster that, not only is it exciting and hypnotic to watch, but leaves so much to the imagination long after the main story is finished. This is delicious eye candy high on nutrition. Before you set your kids on 2001 A Space Odyssey, let them see this first.De Palma is a post-modern filmmaker, a director who shows his love of movies by making other movies (especially his love of Hitchcock in many of his earlier films like Blow Out, Sisters and Body Double), and allows film fans to play games with him by watching them. The main difference from other filmmakers who do the same than De Palma, is that he genuinely exudes his own playful style to the film he works on, no matter a low budget art-house indie, or a big-budget studio blockbuster. If De Palma decides to return to big-budget filmmaking (as of this writing, it is his last studio picture) I would really love to see what this American auteur can come up next. "},{"Title":"Ackward with feel good ending","Date":"5 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've watched this movie last night. I've always wanted to watch it, but never had the chance to see it.I am foremost a sci-fi movie fan, so I had pretty high hopes. Seeing who starred in it, made me want to see more. Yet, as I saw more I was actually confused. Was this really a Brian De Palma movie? Or was it miscredited by my network? I quickly looked it up during the break. Well it is.The whole time I was watching I felt I was watching a TV-pilot, a TV-show's extra or a for TV produced movie or something. It made me keep watching, 'cause I wanted to know where it went. Not 'cause I was sucked in or amazed.I must say, despite Don Cheadle, a funny Jerry O'Connell and Tim Robbins, I thought is was pretty mediocre, sometimes half attempted to be more, and quite disappointing actually. (NOTE The soundtrack, the movie's music by Ennio Morricone got very irritating and a lot of times it didn't felt right or just too much.) The ending however (no, I won't spoil anything), was worth watching it to the end, though. Almost looked like they've spend all the money on that. It was a great visual, slick settings & SFX, but all and all, a little bit too late.So all together a very thin plot, not the best work (acting or directing) of big names, TV-show SFX, and.. feel good ending.A great movie for a lazy Sunday afternoon with a hot choco and nothing else to do, but definitely not a must-see or a must-have!Vote 6 (at least it a had an okay ending "},{"Title":"Exploitation of Mars","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  the movie itself is visually stunning.  The plot is so so, but on a personal note I like it a lot.  It has drama and some base in science on an actual flight to Mars.  SPOILER SPOILER The best part of the film is when GAry Sinese decides to continue on his personal expoloration of Mars's past people.  I think its his small step for humankind's giant leap with all the pitfall and tribulations of any scientific journey, especially to such a remote place like Mars.  For any Mars fan, this is a must while we wait for another quite like it.  "},{"Title":"What is Brian De Palma doing?","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been retitled mish mash to Mars, it really is a mess.Firstly it is disjointed the start is laclustre and boring showing no insight into the characters and causing confusion about who was or wasn't going to Mars. Then we leap 13 months and the first group are on Mars and when the party is all but wiped out by a very good special effect, I didn't know or care who was dead and who survived.Then comes the rescue mission. The actors should have been rescued from the awful script. The characterisation was poor there was no tension, partly due to everyone thinking that all the other members of the crew were wonderful. The big mistake for me was the casting of Gary Sinese in the lead role with Tim Robbins in a relatively minor one. Sinese is not one of my favourite actors but he is particularly one dimensional in this film.Finally the music was inappropriate and intrusive.Brian De Palma has tried to make a modern 2001 and has failedI voted 4.  "}{"Title":"Not De palma's finest hour...","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ever come out of the theater debating whose fault it was that a pretty good idea, which seemed impossible to screw up, turned out so badly? Most of the actors have proven time and time again that they are capable of churning out something so much better. It's a bad sign when a movie that focuses on character development fails to make you care whether they live or die. Gary Sinise, who worked with De palma on the equally unimpressive  Snake Eyes, is given nothing to do but stand around looking bored. His final speech was so cliched, I was able to recite every line before he was. Most of the movie was slow, and the few and far between action sequences were eclipsd by the incredibly irritating music. One you should consider only if you bring your sense of humor. 4/10  "},{"Title":"Mission to entertain","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The worst film ever made? A statement almost as ludicrous as considering it the best film ever made! If people don't like this they can't like Alfred Hitchcock for instance, or indeed any film made by anyone in the world before the 1960's because family entertainment nearly always came before Art back then &#x96; plot non-sequiturs, nonsensical plot holes, fuzzy mcguffins, logic cliffs and scientific balderdash was the norm in the effort to entertain ordinary people. Scientists and art critics came probably near the bottom of the expected target audience. Those people who consider this to be the best film made probably have never seen a Kurosawa film though. This film is merely entertainment with a dodgy sense of realism but a great line in viewer engagement.4 astronauts from NASA land on Mars, only to encounter a violent mysterious disaster. Rescue mission is sent heavy with emotional baggage but light on serious planning to encounter further mind boggling problems. To me it's a very well done soap opera for example Woody's loss in space, Terri's horror and Luke's later realisation of his loss is so expertly handled I'm always impressed. Nothing wrong with soaps &#x96; millions of ordinary people watch 'em every day while Artheads snicker. The acting is OK, production very good, stirring music as usual from Morricone, story (for non-scientists) is great. It must be good because that wonderful Arthead director Ridley Scott ripped off the main idea in Mission To Mars for his Prometheus 10 years later, unless Quatermass from the 1950's can be considered as the original.It's corny, witty, emotive, deadpan, infuriating, satisfying &#x96; in fact all ingredients in a good movie. "},{"Title":"It is in my movie library","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have to admit, at first I thought this movie to be another visiting Mars kind of movie, I was very gladly surprised! If you get into the story it will take you along, but if you are just into it for the special effects, then there are enough to stimulate you a little, but as the end gets closer, they and the story gets better. I enjoy this movie from start to finish now, and everyone that contributed to this movie did their job.I can't comment on the music or anything else because, I was going along with the story, and paying close attention to it. Rent it, it's well worth the price. "},{"Title":"Outstanding story beyond Sci Fi","Date":"17 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This was a great movie. What is with some of these reviewers? This is more of a Sci Fi Drama. Mission to mars has more in common with Apollo 13 than it does with Mars Attacks.The Story is solid First team that goes to Mars has unexplained problems and goes out of com. Second Team goes to save them and also has problems. There is no cheesy infighting, no lame plot twists, just good acting with a good team trying to survive. Impressive that there is 2 stories going on at the same time. Crew in orbit trying to fix the space ship and crew stranded on Mars trying to get back in to space. So many good actors in this movie and they all had excellent parts Don Cheadle, Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins. They even did a fantastic job of making sexy smart women (not easy to do in Scifi movies) Kim Delaney and Connie Nielsen. The filming was fantastic. This movie had more in space filming and space walking than just about any movie I have seen in a long time. The cinematography was outstanding. This is one of the best movies I own to watch on my big screen at home.Giving it 10 of 10 to try and get it to a better rating it deserves. "},{"Title":"The Mystery Of Mars","Date":"15 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mission To Mars is about a failed Mars mission and the subsequent mission sent to rescue the possible survivors. By all accounts Mars is supposed to be a dead planet. But with the possibility now more strong that there is water on our moon, could Mars be as dead as it appears from earth given our greater powers of observation and recording data.Don Cheadle leads the first Mars mission and it's to find out what's happened to him that Tim Robbins leads another. The rest of Robbins' four person team is Gary Sinise, Jerry O'Connell, and Connie Nielsen.Sinise is the big question mark. He's had a lot of personal issues to deal with since the death of his wife, played in flashbacks by Kim Delaney. Director Peter Outerbridge gives him a reluctant OK for the rescue mission at the pleading of Tim Robbins. It turns out to be a fortuitous choice.The desert of Jordan substituted for the landscape of Mars. Twenty years earlier The Martian Chronicles was shot in our Arizona desert so I'm thinking that labor costs must have risen quite a bit in those twenty years so that the producers probably felt that it would be cheaper to shoot Mission To Mars in a third world country that also happens to be an ally. They do quite nicely, Brian DePalma had some great sets constructed on the Jordanian desert and the cinematography is nice.A lot is explained in Mission To Mars and not just what happened to Cheadle and company. It includes some of the mysteries of the Universe itself. I'm not sure of the science part whether it would hold up, but it's still entertaining. The players are all well cast in their parts, I wouldn't miss it. "},{"Title":"At last a realistic sci-fi movie!","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I heard this was slated for plagiarising 2001 A Space Odyssey.What's wrong with that? If you're going to copy any movie that's the one to copy!This is a sci-fi movie of the NEAR future. None of this fantasy lark which probably isn't going to happen. It isn't a great movie, but it isn't a stupid movie and that should count for something.Positives visually stunning, intelligent, realistic, some tense moments. Negatives a little overly-sentimental, acting poor, characters a bit naff, and the conclusion is iffy.But overall well worth watching for sci-fi fans who want a bit more sci and a bit less fi. "},{"Title":"Expectations...","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" At first, I want to say, that I never heard about M2M, till I got the 2-DVD-Set for a throwaway price at a video-tape library. I bought it, toying with the idea, that I can't do anything wrong for that low price. I was not disappointed. I've watched it with some friends, and we all had an entertaining moment. Nice story, nice FX, Gary Sinise (!!! ;->), All in all a likable and cute movie. Possibly not the best of all Time, but quite entertaining. During reading about this movie in the net, I got more and more bad critics about this movie. Some people complained bad acting, other ones liked the acting, but hated the FX, then there were some guys, who loved the FX, but didn't like the story, others disliked the music, and so on...... Some people were getting downright mad and angry about this movie.... I was asking myself How can one single movie make people angry??? Yes, a movie can be bad, and a movie can be really, really bad, but it is still nothing more, than a MOVIE! What the heck did the people expect??? A movie is nothing more, than a story, out of someones mind, and if you don't like it, that's OK, every movie has some people, that dislike it, even the real big ones!M2M is not a big one, not a perfect one, and not one of the movies, the mankind will remember in 30 years. But I think most of the people were expecting exactly this. Well known actors, well known director, great FX... But this doesn't mean, that it has to become the next 2001. It's easy, to be disappointed, if you're expecting too much. The expectations were broken by FX, acting, music... Everyone has something, to be discontented, if he has expected a blockbuster.Yes, there are similarities to other movies, there are scientific mistakes, and there are stupid lines. But as well, there were likable characters, beautiful pictures, funny ideas, and in my opinion still good effects, for example the dance in the weightlessness ;-) (Nearly nobody praises the good points of this movie!)For an entertaining evening, I accept scientific mistakes, and I accept similarities to other movies like 2001 or The Abyss and some more movies, but M2M at least adapts the Ideas quite good, look at all of this awful Star Wars-Adaptions, This are bad movies.... I loved all of the borrowed movies, after all, I'm a Sci-Fi-Fan. Mission to Mars in my opinion is not sooooooo bad! I like it as long as the movie itself makes at least a little bit fun, sense, and satisfies me for some time.I'd give M2M 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"I loved this show!","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have no idea why this show received such bad ratings on this website. It is truely a work of art providing you have a little bit of imagination. It basically takes theories that have been pondered for centuries like how was life on earth started, is/was there life on mars etc. And combines them with updates like the face on mars etc and twists it all into a very intriguing (fictional) understanding of who we are and where we come from.  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I quite like this film, and I suspect that it will become better regarded as time goes on. The long tracking shot that begins the movie as the credits roll is so artfully and subtly done that one almost misses what a very long tracking shot it is....And I say that as someone who does not like DePalma's work and generally regards him as the most unsubtle and derivative of directors. This one take earns him big-time director's chops.It is difficult to see how a hard SF fan could be disappointed by Mission To Mars. The effort at technological verisimilitude is really commendable and is largely persuasive. There aren't very many really hard SF movies out there and,at it's best, this one conjures up memories of Kim Stanley Robinson's Red Mars novels. The film only misses fire at the end due to the gooey, sentimental and thoroughly anthropomorphic alien (Tear ducts? Gimme a break.) Not an action flick in the least, but lots of points for intelligence. No 2001, but coming off second-best to Kubrick isn't so bad. "},{"Title":"SciFi with an interesting plot, but fails in execution due to boring storytelling and stupid characters","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The thing that made me watch this movie despite all the bad reviews, was its plot .. I found it interesting, although not surprising .. There are many movies that have similarities with the plot (or parts of it) .. Even a few Japanese anime (Macross - Protoculture, anyone??) mentions about extra-terrestrial life and how life originated on earth .. So, the plot is far from being unique but still has the potential to attract SciFi fans (like me) ..But why all the bad reviews and ratings ?? ..There are two main downsides of the movie .. Firstly, the story is dragged too much .. The movie is full of unnecessary scenes, which have no affect on the story direction - scattered here and there, merely to pass time .. You will have a lot of yawns till the end .. The story is never enriched more, the 'reality' stays shrouded behind a semi-transparent curtain .. You know it's there, you know its shape, but you have to wait painfully for 100 minutes, to grab it ..Secondly, the characters are just plain stupid .. You will scream Why the hell are they doing that, if they do that way, everything will be just fine .. You will not understand where the dialog will lead to in most cases, and things just happen, making you wonder when the decision or argument took place .. One minute, a character starts yelling Say It, Say It! .. What the hell ?? .. You cannot fell the enthusiasm of his .. Actually, the cast is really good, but the characters are dull and their interaction is really incoherent in this movie ..And, yes .. The effects were far from good, even pitiful .. But I think, this is a minor problem ..The only thing that kept me watch till the end was the overall plot (idea) in the movie .. And here is my advise .. Read the plot .. Watch the Sand-Wind-Creature scene .. Listen to the dialog in the last few minutes .. And that's the movie .. The rest deserves to be in the trashcan .. Spend the 100 minutes of your life with something else .. I think I was being too generous with my rating of 6 .. "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the whole world (or so it seems) thinking this is a bad movie, I think it is a great one. Not only is the acting good, the story interesting (despite a few scientific mistakes) but also the camerawork is excellent.From the opening (bbq scene in almost one take) through the space odessey (pun intended) until the images on Mars I really enjoyed the movie. I enjoyed the DVD so much that after I saw the movie, I watched it again with the audio commentary from the director and CG-guy. This movie is cinematically an hommage to 2001 with great shoots. "},{"Title":"Mind-blowing, stunningly original, unbelievably underrated science-fiction film of the decade","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film combines the best of near-future timelines, harsh realities of space, and mind-boggling dramatic plots.  Mission To Mars does not go overboard, as its depiction of our future is very realistic, only two scenes contain gore and violence, and it cleverly mixes 2001 and Apollo 13 in an unimaginable and unique way.  In no way is it drowned in special effects. While they add a marvelous touch to the film, the intense storyline will keep you going and the climactic secret to it all will leave you breathless. "},{"Title":"The most realistic space movie ever","Date":"25 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Some of the scenes are literally cinematic history. If people got off on 2001 by Kubrik, they should be putting a shrine to this one. The drama that unfolds in the space scenes is out of this world. Not since Dr. Zhivago have I seen more grand film making. The cinematic score is embedded so well it feels like a direct extension of the visual cortex. Ennio Morricone has not written more fitting music since The Good, the Bad & the Ugly.I initially was put off by the ending. I guess I felt it fizzles into a Utopian aliens-are-like-us kind of escape from better screen writing. Well I still am disappointed. But that can never take away from the breathtaking accomplishment that is the first 4/5ths of the movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is horrible. From a Sci Fi fan","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't know what to say other than this movie is.... BAD. It really is. I've watched it a few times and it's always bad. For one, they use the same music over and over. Like for the entire movie. I don't know why they couldn't afford more music but it's the same stuff over and over and over and over and over. Seriously. Watch it. It's the same stupid music. I can't handle it. And then at the end they find some stupid alien that wants to hold hands. While the same stupid music plays. It's bad. Really bad. Maybe it's the music situation, but the end is really bad as well. So, in general, this movie is bad. Go watch Red Planet. Much better although that was called bad, it's a hundred times better than this movie. Promise you that. "},{"Title":"De Palma's Worst Mission?","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mission to Mars (2000) Dir Brian De Palma / Cast Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen, Jerry O'Connell Misguided science fiction thriller about a quest into the unknown. A crew of astronauts fly to Mars where Don Cheadle becomes a victim to unknown forces. Gary Sinise heads a rescue team to bring him back. Not much of a plot with the death of one of the astronauts being totally unnecessary. The ending also leaves much to be desired. This is not one of Brian De Palma's best moments since he has made such superior films as Sisters and Dressed to Kill. Sinise makes the best attempt but even he cannot save this disaster. The rest of the ensemble are flat including Cheadle, Tim Robbins, Jerry O'Connell, and Connie Nielsen. Cheadle being missing could be explained easy. The film is so bad that it wouldn't be surprising if he just bolted from the set. And Robbins gets to die because he probably got fed up with being associated with it. Nielsen is featured because the screenplay required a female and she obviously qualified. Jerry O'Connell can be a funny guy but he is in the wrong film here. There is no reason to see this junk other than to reflect that De Palma can do much better than this. Maybe this was an off day to the highest extremes. Complete with enchanting visual wonderment the film is a mission to remain awake. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"...very well made sci-fi mystery","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" i totally enjoyed this movie and must have watched it 5 times over the years and enjoyed it each time. its rating of 5.5 out of 10 here on IMDb is a shame. i know already that critics have bashed this movie but i never bother to read any of those articles so i do not know why. here are 2 big negatives if i were a critic of this movie. 1) it plays around with creation and religious western themes and 2) come- on, a brian depalma outer space sci-fi flick...totally out of his territory..., and i have never seen 2001 but have seen countless clips over the years and that is the first thing it reminded me off.who cares? suspend your disbelief before you watch this movie and you will probably enjoy it. it is a work of SCIENCE FICTION so i feel they are allowed to do anything they want as long as its well done and not too over the top. i think the movie accomplishes that task very easily.on top of that you have a very very good and likable cast with multiple Oscar nominations between them and a great director known for movies that have a-lot of tension and he is great with mysteries and thrillers. so, this movie is a sci-fi, thriller, mystery movie with a great cast and a great director...try this out with an open mind, you won't regret it. i gave this movie a 7 because it is very under-rated at 5.5. "},{"Title":"Not Without It's Flaws, But Still A Wonderful Experience!","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Before watching this film for the first time the other night, I knew this film got middling reviews and after watching it, I can't see why. Just like 2001 A Space Odyssey, Mission to Mars gives us a sense of wonder, of hope, and even of awe. The final half-hour of the film really gives us these emotions. The first part of the film may be a little boring or I shall say intellectual, but I found it interesting to watch. The visuals are really good and especially on Mars and that make the film pretty to look at.Brian De Palma's film is about how the first manned mission to Mars goes very wrong thanks to a catastrophic and somewhat mysterious event. A rescue team goes to Mars to see if anyone is alive and they discover something that may enchant them forever.This film has a pretty good cast and it seems like they had a good time. I don't see much of Gary Sinise anymore, but he does a good job as Jim. Don Cheadle is awesome as always. I can't complain about Tim Robbins since he usually does a good job in anything. All in all, everyone has good chemistry here.Overall, this is a decent, wonder-inspiring sci-fi film. It may not be perfect thanks to some corny dialogue and some times of slowness, but it's much better than what people give it credit for. It's also a film that gives a possible view on where we people from Earth came from. I can't believe people say Morricone's score is bad, but it's far from bad. It's a haunting, stylish score that will stick with you, just like the movie. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have read some of the critics' appraisal of Mission to Mars. All I can say is that they don't appear to have watched the same film that I just have. The very human story, combined with the beautiful Morricone music ( which is no more repetitive than any other film I've seen) and the very moving ending, almost on a par with Close Encounters of the Third Kind makes this one of the best sci-fi films ever made. I don't really care what some critic with personal problems thinks. I LOVE THIS FILM, and I bought the DVD! My advice is, if you still haven't seen Mission to Mars after thirteen years, then you should do. "},{"Title":"Wasted Opportunity","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film had some great ideas and probably, a great vision originally, but the execution was abysmal. I can only imagine this was tossed around and over cooked. Firstly, here are the few positives I can say* Decent cast (exception being Jerry O'Connell, who seemed to think he was in a school play). * very good set design. * Quite reasonable effects/CGI, considering it was 2000.The negatives* Absolutely inappropriate score, completely jarring to the entire experience (I love Morricone, but this was not the right film for this score). * Dialog is at times horribly cheesy and badly placed. * An mending that makes me want to rip out eyeballs as a sci-fi person. * Forget science, this is fiction first for me (we have no idea what started evolution? What about amino acids, RNA? come on!) * Forced emotion throughout, perhaps enhanced by the ridiculous score, make me recoil at any emotional investment to the characters. * The alien defence system is just plain illogical, considering the other advanced tech they had inside the 'magical face'. Couldn't they simply scan any approaching life form? And also, why treat any other life form as automatically hostile? It is basically a story about stupid aliens who have a shoot first, ask questions later attitude.This film actually made me feel angry, it feels like an offence to the science fiction genre. "},{"Title":"This is a good movie for 1974 but in the year 2000 it's horrid!","Date":"6 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mission to Mars is just simply one of those BAD movies I have to comment on. After all it wasted a part of my life so I feel justified in wasting a little more of my life writing about the time it stole from me.Simply this movie has the WORST Soundtrack ever. And I am talking both! Both the soundtrack with real bands and score. I am not sure which is worse though I am leaning towards the score. Because it really had moments that had me reaching for the mute button. The movie editing was TERRIBLE also, it was choppy and the music didn't fit in with any scenes either.The special effects were OK for its day, sort of. But still&#x85; they were terrible too. Yet the WORST part of this movie was the fact of how cool it thought it was. It was one of the most pretentious movies I have seen in a long time with how dramatic it tried to make itself with cheesy scripting and inappropriate music. The acting was terrible too&#x85; or maybe I should say Out of this World? In any case it was simply bad Bad BAD! Spoiler&#x85; Worst ending ever seen in a movie? A flash back of the moments of the movie. This movie truly had me asking what year was this made knowing full well it was made around the turn of the century but thinking This is a good movie for 1974 but 2000 it's horrid! Avoid Mission to Mars because a movie like this should never be seen by Human or Martian eyes again. "}{"Title":"Fascinating presentation of a simple concept.","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is perhaps one of the few sci-fi movies that contain some art of fiction based upon fact and believable hypothesis. The plot never seemed too much farfetched. The course of the story was much realistic. In the end, the film appeared as a very skillful but controlled venture in the realms of imagination, aided by a simple yet attractive hypothesis that we've known for years, but never experienced through such beautiful presentation.The acting was, to be precise, very well considering the story and the roles the major actors were provided. Gary Sinise delivered a beautiful performance as Jimmy, the astronaut hero of the film. He perfectly suited with the role, eccentric, dutiful, with wife dead, leadership-skilled... a complete hero. Tim Robbins, though his role lasted short, was fine as ever, casual yet responsible, relaxed yet ready to sacrifice his life. Connie Nielsen was surprisingly excellent in her role. She looked beautiful, acted beautiful, talked beautiful but there had been a certain solemnity in her appearence. The one who could not satisfy me was probably Don Cheadle. But that doesn't count much unless you give a thorough notice. Acting has never been a foremost point in this type of films and so I was a bit overjoyed to watch this part.Coming to direction and cinematography, one has to say both are well. The Martian atmosphere was finely produced. Application of special effects was perfect and realistic, as was expected from this kind of movies. The sound effects, especially the Martian storm, were brilliant. Full credit goes to Brian de Palma for a fantastic direction too. Actually watching this movie was a very pleasant experience and it deserves 4/5 from me.   "},{"Title":"Great Film!","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well i have to admit i adore Sci-Fiction films so ,ok that could be a reason ,but i see on the other hand no reason to vote low i vote a 9!,for story and plot,act's was also good  nothning unreal things  to me so yeah! ,i love it and recomand it to all who also love and adore Sci -Fiction films! "},{"Title":"Some accurate space science... so not all the money gone *dust*","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, so you know perfectly well from all the other reviews here that the movie was not good. In fact, seeing that much money been just blown away, and on such a derivative and boring film to boot is quite sad. However, there is some merit here, I mean some (no, make it SOME) science done quite well.I'm not talking about that ludicrous hybrid-drive auto in the 'space-party' segment (oww, horny astronauts drinking champaign right out of the bottle day before takeoff - Armageddon, we're NOT missing you), made entirely of cheap plastic and two Lego motors. Well, I guess that's the way future transport will look in the future... I'm not talking about that un-vacuum-dried Dr Pepper and M&Ms. I do not even think of that climatic ending and that intestinal worm of a Martian (was I the only one to say Oh, it's Derek, and he's gone ape sh*t at the very end?), I'm not....Well, what I WAS going to say? Oh, yes. Space ship designs. The main ship is just what it will be when people at last go to Mars. No, seriously, it is all right. It has that small artificial gravity rotating ring (small of necessity, just to sleep and stay in and keep metabolism right). When it has to be stopped for repair, it stops as it should - they do not forget of rotary impulse conservation law this time. All space interiors look realistic and, well, space-y (one more punch in the face of Armageddon, though what's better - boring somewhat-competent movie, or hyperpatriotic cheesy incompetent one is hard to tell). Mars explorers, both automatic and manned are good. Inflatable Mars modules and orbiter - look just right... But then... Oh my God, then...Since when manned spaceships use one-component liquid fuel (this is the only way to explain that massive spark explosion)? They do not and they will not - exactly because it is unfittingly dangerous. An astronaut not getting on his helmet in danger - shoot him now, he's alien in disguise. All the Dr Pepper thing. Landing an orbiter on Mars (there is good reason they don't show it - so utterly ridiculous it really is). Sustainable ecology under some tent on Mars - how I wish it were this simple! And so much more, not linked with spaceship design.Resume some realistic designs do not save this movie. Instead, they make us think of what it might have been. "},{"Title":"Not that bad...","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this movie. I taped it after a free Showtime weekend. I didn't think it was as bad as everyone is making it out to be. I actually liked it. The only part I wasn't crazy about was the ending, etc. but that's because I like a more reality-based movie. I can get into sci-fi/fantasy, but I prefer real endings. It's the main reason I don't like Stephen King movies/books. The ending to Needful Things? Ugh, puh-leeze.Anyway, I haven't seen 2001 a Space Oddessey, so I don't have anything to base comparisons on. I think those who are really into the sci-fi thing won't enjoy this movie. Wait, not *think*, but *know*. But for those just looking for something to do, this is an enjoyable movie. I may be biased, though. I'm a big fan of the major players - Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise, and Jerry O'Connell. I knew about Sinise, but the other 2 guys were a pleasant surprise. And the line Phil isn't here because he left 5 MINUTES AGO!! or however it went, was hysterical. I give it a 6 out of 10. (but hey, I also liked The New Guy.) "},{"Title":"Mission Complete","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In 1996 Brian De Palma completed a mission with Mission Impossible. Four years later, in 2000 he did it again. Mission to Mars is one of the best sci-fi movie I have seen in my life, and I can`t understand all the bad comments from different people. At first I have to say that Gary Sinise is a great actor. I loved him in Forrest Gump, and I loved him in Mission to Mars. Tim Robbins and Don Cheadle are also both good actors.When it comes to the movie I think it`s a great adventure about the big question everyone is asking themselves Where does life come from? De Palma does a great job answering this question with a film that is much better than the comments it has recieved.You have the music, which is very good, and you get a nice feeling when you listen at it. And then you have the great actors(I already told you that), good effects and a reasonable plot.As a movie in it self it is a little masterpiece, and Brian De Palma is one of my favourite directors(afterall, he made MissionImpossible!).I`ve seen Mission to Mars several times now, and it is just getting better and better. If you haven`t seen it yet, don`t listen to the bad comments, just see it yourself and then you can say everything you want about it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is fantastic! Not only because of the amazing special effects, but also because the message on it. The explanation on how life has started is very clever, and makes us think Why not? I have to confess that when I started to watch it I was thinking ...boring..., but at the end I was truely involved in the movie! I have to say Great Movie 4 out of 5 stars   "},{"Title":"An amazing film","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most thought-provoking, original films I have seen in years and I average about 100+ films (domestic & foreign) per year. Although it gets off to a slow start, the casting was well done (with the exception of Connie Nielsen, who cannot emote in this film to save her life), the music was phenomenal (extremely moving) and the special effects were well worth the wait.De Palma keeps up with his track record to provide the audience with an explosive ride right up until the end.GRADE  A+ "},{"Title":"I can't believe the bad reviews !","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why this film is getting such a hard time here ! OK, so it's no 2001 - a film with which is has much in common - but it's certainly no Battlefield Earth either.The story is engaging - the action sequences are realistic and entertaining - the special effects are excellent, with very realistic spaceship designs and photography. The main criticism I can level at the film is that is totally avoids some important scenes, such as the first landing on Mars, or the landing of Mars 2 crew. Also the initial scene is drawn out and there's far too much hugging going on !This is an intelligent, but low-key film - it reminded me of some mid-fifties sci-fi, like the Thing. Perhaps audiences today are less sophisticated - having been brought up on a diet of poor action movies and even poorer Star Trek 'science fiction'. Mission to Mars has a more realistic basis, is less flashy - and I don't think there's even one explosion in the whole film.If you enjoyed Contact or 2001 and want more of the same, then Mission to Mars is a definite must-watch. It's a shame that a quality film like this is getting panned so badly, as movie studios are more likely to avoid similar projects in the future. Would 2001 be made today ? I doubt it. "},{"Title":"Classy SciFi Sacrifices Drama for Realism","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars could best be described as a futurist docudrama. The script is more like a novel than a movie. The storyline takes place over between two and three years, and is certainly not as tidy as one would usually expect.  One of the major characters is dead before the movie begins and all of the wrong people get killed, which I am certain is why so many disliked this movie. The editing and overall pacing of the film is a bit sluggish as well.  Nevertheless, I think Mission to Mars is an earnest, ambitious, terrific movie.  Special acting kudos should go to Tim Robbins (whom I usually avoid for his big mouth political posturing).  I found the music unsettling, which I believe was composer Ennio Morricone's intent.   Those like myself who find the mythology of Mars fascinating should check out www.enterprisemission.com and read the latest data on the face on Mars.  I believe they will be convinced the movie is closer to fact than fiction. "},{"Title":"Great Science Fiction","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I finally saw Mission to Mars last night and thought if was one of the best sci-fi movies in recent years. The acting was beautiful. I thought the story was great and the music...Oh God, the music!! Loved it. The f/x were great and didn't totally dominate the picture. If you can sit back and let it happen, De Palma will suck you in with some nice, slow, pretty sequences and then BAM throw a big fly in the ointment and stress you out for a bit. However, there are parts of this film that are (gasp) not based in scientific reality (where do they get the nerve?).The movie doesn't have that comfortable, this could happen to you quality that is so very important in science fiction movies...uh...what did I just say? Science fiction? That sounds suspiciously like it could mean fictional science. Nah, that would never fly. We need total realism, like droids rolling on wheels across the top of a spaceship flying at top speed without falling off, or a big-ass spaceship that causes mailboxes to shudder when hovering nearby, but doesn't even cause a hair to fall out of place when hovering over people. Mission to Mars is not a NASA approved instructional video on how to survive Mars with only a tent and a bag of M & Ms, but rather an adventure in what if?. "}{"Title":"Good Sci-fi","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've just finished watching 'Mission To Mars' on video (which I must admit I got for free in a 3 for 2 deal) and I have to say that it is a lot better than some of the sci-fi junk pumped out in recent years.Obviously I am going to compare this to 'Red Planet'. And while I thought they were both ok, 'Mission To Mars' has to be the best out of the two.The plot is reasonable and held my interest, it did keep me wondering what was going to happen, and there were a few moments of 'awe' in this film such as the first time the face is seen for proper and when you discover what it actually is.The effects are very good throughout (apart from one very goofy alien) and the whole thing seems at least slightly plausible (unlike Red Planet which was just plain silly in places).Mission to Mars also has some very dramatic moments which 'Red Planet' completely lacked, the acting is much better all around.The soundtrack is ok, in some places (such as the flybys of the ships) it is quite involving and it does a reasonable job of upping the tension. I wouldn't buy the soundtrack, but it does it's job.......In conclusion this is a pretty good sci-fi film, with a reasonable plot, good acting and good effects (APART from the goofy alien)7/10 (better than 'Red Planet') "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars takes the viewer on a fantastic voyage of self-discovery.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A science fiction film that creates realism by means of spectacular special effects (by Industrial Light & Magic) and by trying to keep it as NASA-accurate as possible, Mission to Mars may be regarded as a visionary film that portrays technology as the means by which man finds proof of the origin of life.Set in the year 2020, Mission to Mars follows the experts' prediction that by that year &#133;we should have a manned landing on Mars, as director De Palma states in an interview. The film's plot begins with Commander Luke Graham's (Don Cheadle) and his crew's arrival on the Red Planet. The film portrays their dramatic encounter with a phenomenal, unexplainable life-form that prompts a second crew's rescue mission. Undeterred by the improbability of the first crew's survival, Commander Woody Blake (Tim Robbins), Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise), Terri Fisher (Connie Nielsen) and Phil Ohlmyer (Jerry O'Connell) embark on a trying six-month journey to Mars.The careful set, prop and costume designs reflect producer Tom Jacobson's effort to adhere to the factual science and physics of astronauts&#133; and allow for realistic visual representations. Narrated by a moving camera (which pans quickly or tracks slowly), and by the revealing nature of the music (which often precedes --and therefore, leads-- the plot), Mission to Mars succeeds in luring the viewer into accepting the cinematic world it portrays. However, Mission to Mars ultimately fails to support this realism because it lacks an equally realistic conclusion. The visual veracity that the film initially established is followed by a fanciful discovery at the end of the journey, where the unknown entity is defined and the mystery is undone. Consequently, the astronauts begin to appear to the viewer as characters playing astronauts, the realistic sets become stages, and Mission to Mars is transformed from a fictional representation of scientific Truth to a scientific representation of Fiction.  "},{"Title":"A rescue team sent to Mars uncovers the origins of man.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first mission to Mars meets with disaster and a second team is sent to rescue possible survivors.  Garry Sinise (who was to lead the first mission but dropped out due to his wife's illness), Tim Robbins, Terri Fisher, and Phil Ohlmyer are outstanding as the group of astronauts who pit their lives and collective wits into their race to save lives and discover what happened.  As in real life the unexpected nearly destroys the second crew who must improvise in a desperate bid to stay alive. The picture is directed well and the pace builds steadily as the crew slowly uncovers what happened to the doomed first mission.  The score is excellent and culminates beautifully as they discover we are not alone in the universe and the origins of mankind are gradually revealed. If you enjoyed October Sky or Apollo 13 you will certainly enjoy this well acted, exciting picture. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  when i first saw it i thought of another alien movie. not so. a very well made film with great actors like robbins,and Sinise. a movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat but not alot of fright. so a good film. the  twists in it make the film better. just when you think you've got it figured out something changes. and the secret of mars is worth watching the movie for. good movie to rent . "},{"Title":"Spoiled by careless writing","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The critics hated this movie. As did most viewers apparently. So when I finally got to watch Mission to Mars on DVD I was prepared for the worst. Luckily it did not come to the worst. M2M is definitely not a good film - but it is not THAT bad either. I particularly liked the looks of it.The rotating spaceship, though not a new idea, was well done, and the looks of the Mars-set were intriguing. The cast was good too, and the music, which received so much harsh criticism from others, I found rather beautiful.Spoilers coming. Be warned! What spoils the picture are mainly its huge plot holes. A lot of things happen by mere coincidence. It is by coincidence, that the first mission from all the surface of a whole planet chooses a landing spot in the vicinity of the buried face. It is also by coincidence, that the spaceship of the second mission gets hit by meteorites when it reaches mars orbit. There is just too many things in the story that lack an explanation. Why, for example, did the martians equip the face with a defense mechanism? Whom did they expect to attack it? After all Mars is a deserted planet - and the humans were obviously welcome. Why could three high profile astronauts not think of a way to save their commander, when at least half of the audience in every movie theater can? Why did the face's attack fry all the computers, mission 1 would have needed to return to earth, but spare the one that is needed to decode its message?Too much careless writing around a storyline that is not really new anyway. (Anybody remember Peter Hyams' film 2010?) It is a pity. All the ingredients were there. This could have been a really good movie. It is not. "},{"Title":"Pilfered storyline, spectacular special effects","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Imagine building a car completely from parts of various classic automobiles without any original equipment and you have a basic understanding of the creative process for `Mission to Mars.'  However, despite being utterly unoriginal with a disturbing amount of banal dialogue, it is actually a fairly entertaining film, thanks to Brian De Palma's innovative camera work and some outstanding special effects.The film was panned by the critics and a loser at the box office, but it really didn't deserve quite as much abuse as it received.  Though the story was a patchwork of ideas pilfered from other films, they happened to be the greatest sci-fi space adventures of all time (`2001 A Space Odyssey', `Close Encounters Of The Third Kind', `Apollo 13' to name a few).  If we had never seen any of these films before seeing M2M, we probably would have thought this was a terrific film.  However, almost everyone has seen them, so this film suffers from comparisons with saints.If there is one area where this film shines, it is the special effects. This film has the most realistic space scenes I've ever experienced.  The weightlessness is superbly done and the extravehicular shots are indescribably beautiful and convincing.  De Palma's innovative use of the lens, filming from various angles with multiple cameras, gives the space scenes a genuine disorientation where there seems to be no up or down.  The shots of the Mars surface looked eerily like the photos from the Pathfinder Rover a couple of years back.The story itself was good while it was focusing on the rescue mission, but once they got into the alien contact portion, it got very hokey.  There were four writers working on this script and it didn't fit together well.  They tried to do too much making it an outer space action-adventure suspense thriller, a human-interest story, a romance, and a philosophical mindbender on the nature of the universe.The acting is of excellent quality as one might expect from the high caliber of the cast.  Gary Sinise turns in another outstanding dramatic performance. Tim Robbins is just a bit too syrupy as the lovebird, but he makes up for it in the mission commander scenes.  Don Cheadle also does a bang up job as the stranded astronaut.There is a lot to criticize about this film, but there is also a lot to like.  I rated it a 7/10.  I would suggest seeing it and keeping an open mind.  If you don't compare it too fastidiously to the classics from which it is derived and just enjoy the outstanding visuals, you might find it to be a very entertaining science fiction flick. "},{"Title":"Beautiful film","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hard to see why so many people hate this. M2M isn't a masterpiece, but still quite a good film and it beats many of the recent sci-fi flicks easily. Of course parts of it are naive and acting isn't top-notch but it is a film about reaching back to the stars, not about space-action heroism. Expect that and you surely will be disappointed. I enjoyed the experience. "},{"Title":"It's not that bad!!!","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this film expecting the worst.  From what I'd heard, it was the stinker of all time.  It was actually a pleasant surprise.  Of course, if I'd heard it was a potential Academy Award winner, I would have been disappointed.However, it's actually quite entertaining, if you can see past the cliche-ridden, mindless dialogue, cornball acting and plot flaws.  The special effects are pretty good, there are some pretty exciting, tense moments, and all in all, it was a very diverting couple of hours.  The movie is about a 95% on the cheesy factor, but I still think it's worth seeing if you want to be entertained.Anyone who liked Armageddon or Independence Day can't possibly hate this movie.  Just leave your brain at home and enjoy! "},{"Title":"2001 left unchallenged by this one!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film features some of the worst dialogue, heard on screen this side of The Phantom Menace. No, the dialogue in this film makes the dialogue in The Phantom Menace Shakespearian. The acting is very plastic too. Take the seen in which Woody dies, very badly acted indeed.The only thing that may save this film is the SFX. (Barring the very poorly rendered alien)My Rating 8/10 for the SFX, 1/10 for the rest.  "},{"Title":"Oh my God!","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't fully recovered from this nutcracker of a movie quite yet. I'll try to systematically, and in no particular order, inform you about everything that can, and did, go wrong with this stinker. It's such a shame, since Brian DePalma has always been one of my favorite directors. It's hard to believe this film came from the same man who gave us Scarface, Body Double, Blow Out and Dressed to Kill.1. Ennio Morricone has to start thinking about retirement real soon. This score was probably the worst musical score since Tangerine Dream scored The Keep in the mid eighties (good movie, though). Here he's rehashing his themes from The Thing, Once Upon a Time in America and every other movie he's ever scored. Not a single note feels newly written. Even worse, it's totally disengaged from the screen action, playing sweet notes when it should be playing the opposite and vice versa. Completely wrong, all the time.2. Characters. You don't care for any of them. Mainly because what they say, and do, are all clichees. Ask yourself one question while watching this movie again (yeah, as if!) Have you heard any of the dialogue before? Yes, in every b-grade sci-fi movie ever made, actually. And don't even get me started on the cheesy sentimental scenes Gary Sinise's character has with his dead wife on tape. An endurance test, if there ever was one.3. Rip-offs Such shameless rip-offs have rarely been seen in modern history. 2001, Abyss, you name it. And yeah, what exactly was the point of showing the spinning gravity room scene, other than to show off the production values?4. Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise and everybody else was just phoning it in. I hope for their sake that they got a lot of money for it. These are seasoned pro's, they should know better.5. SPOILER. Ending The benevolent, divine and godlike alien in the end (overused CGI anyone?) was just too much. I could not stop laughing, nor could the rest of the 300 people watching it with me. Granted, it's nice to encounter a friendly alien once in a while, but do they have to hammer it home? All to the tunes of Ennios annoying tearjerking (at least that's what he thinks) score. "}{"Title":"A lowbrow 2001  (positive, spoilers)","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What is the deal?  Why is everyone trashing this movie?  It's fun, exciting, has some awesome effects, geez what is the problem?This movie has taken a lot of flak concerning the dialogue and character development...is this why we watch sci-fi movies?  NO. I really enjoyed this movie.  Yes, there were some scientific boo-boos, like the rotating M&Ms (catch the inside joke with the title there?...guess not), and the stuff about DNA was...less than perfect, but who cares?All in all, I found the characters were likeable and the plot and dialogue were fine.  Heck, 2001 didn't even have characters, plot or dialogue! Mission to Mars has many similarities to 2001, the spacecraft design, the 'voice print identification' (DePalma's nod to Kubrick), and the alien encounters.  In a nutshell, 2001 was more cerebral and amazing. Mission to Mars was quite a bit less amazing, but lots more fun.Movie highlights were the zero-g dancing, the meteor shower crisis, and above all the above mars spacewalk  all were totally awesome.  The camera work emphasises the vertigo of space very effectively in all these scenes and add to the sense of wonder (of which this movie has lots).I only found the ending to be a bit weak.  It was serviceable, but lacked the gumption to go over the edge and show us something really wild.  I was hoping for more here, if there were more, I think this movie would be great instead of just good.But overall, it good old-fashioned sc-ifi fun, relax and enjoy it--and for goodness sake lighten up! "},{"Title":"Really bad","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truly terrible movie.  The dialogue is stilted and lousy from scene one right up to the end; the premise is preposterous; the scene where Tim Robbins and his astronaut wife dance in a weightless chamber is painfully embarrassing; and, despite the filmmakers' obvious intentions to appear politically progressive, they still manage to sneak in a little bit of racism.  Tim Robbins must have pleaded for a way to bail out 2/3 of the way through the movie, and he's lucky the producers let him go.  If there really is life on Mars, they'll want nothing to do with us after they get a glimpse of this movie. "},{"Title":"Breach in the plot, this movie's going down.","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that Mike from New Jersey got the front page, this movie was terrible. The other science fiction movie he liked was Steel Magnolias. C'mon people, a mission to the depths of my rear end would be more eventful and I guarantee you would find more intelligent life forms. I can't say anything good about this film other than the fact that it ended. The feel good moments would have made me puke if my entire body weren't paralyzed, caused by a sickening regret and that missing seven dollars in my wallet. "},{"Title":"I don't understand why people don't like this movie.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't understand why people don't like this movie.  I'm getting very tired of movies whose only reason for existence is to throw violence and special effects into your face.  I found Mission To Mars a pleasant departure from this type of movie. (That's not to say that it didn't have its share of impressive special effects.)  I also found it very realistic, which is more than I can say about a lot of other science fiction movies nowadays.  I found the movie powerful, emotional and suspenseful.  My IMDb vote is 8/10. "},{"Title":"In Space De Palma does not equal Kubrick","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  And in space, there is no sound.  Only Kubrick seemed to get it.I squirmed with embarrassment throughout this film.  Embarrassment that such fine actors had to deliver such tired, hackneyed lines, and misery that such fine special effects had to be wedded to such an inadequate plot.  The tedious, sentimental pauses, when time is a thief of life, covered up for the fact that the story wasn't long enough. I SO wanted this movie to be edgy and hard-punching instead of mushy and full of cliches.It's like looking for a needle in a haystack. How verbally original.Does that look like a hostile gesture to you? How scientific.Ponderous footsteps on Mars.  They can simulate weightlessness but they can't suggest walking on a world with considerably lower gravity?  And, hello, a greenhouse in a tent?  No provisions made for violent dust storms on the Red Planet?The script reminded me of the worst of Sliders, or other scifi tv writing pitched at teenagers. And the Sliders actor was annoying, and his jokes forced.The only thing that redeems Mission to Mars is the thought that De Palma was satirizing this genre he's so new to, along with the consumers of science fiction. To believe he was earnest in this effort, while copying Kubrick's spaceship right out of 2001, is just too painful. "},{"Title":"Well, I liked it.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have been reading some of the reviews for this movie preceding me on this list. I cannot believe how many hated it or considered it a blatant rip-off of 2001 and other movies like it.  Hey, good ideas are always borrowed. That's life. Get over it.  It was a great movie. Great effects. Music was overly patriotic but it is set in 2020; how are we to know what the future's little details will be?If the people who hated it and considered the movie a rip-off, then they are looking too hard for something that is not there. Let's see you movie scrutinizers try to make a movie that is not ripping-off another movie - I'd like to see you try.And Mission To Mars dialogue was not that bad; they're supposed to be astronauts, not writers.I give it 7/10. "},{"Title":"Remake of 2001","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don´t want spoil anything but prepare to be disappointed. Despite a very good trailer this movie doesn´t live up to the expectations you get after you have seen the trailer.To begin with the story is almost a copy of 2001  in fact I would dare say that the entire movie is a remake of Kubricks masterpiece. Well of course there are some small differences. Like better special effects but we have all seen that before.  There is also some cool space scenes but it doesn´t change the fact that it´s very very similar to 2001.  I also noticed that they like to zoom in the symbol of NASA and the American flag, however not enough to rival Independence Day and Air Force One but it still bugs me. The story  about the origin of life on earth is not what we think it is it is also very much 2001 . To sum up I think you can say this is 2001 but instead of the moon its mars. It could have been good but I´m afraid it isn´t. "},{"Title":"Incredibly bad story!  Horrible movie even for Sci Fi fan","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" review sh*t in cellophane is spot-on! I too watched it alone and found myself exclaiming out loud how horrible this movie is. It is really that bad.It started badly with an amateur introduction scene where every piece of dialog at a going-away party explains the history of the mission. Every movie must paint the picture of the situation but this was simply done incredibly poorly.The movie simply did not get any better from there. The cinematography is very good but a complete waste when the story is so bad. It is a crime to put that much work into such a bad story. I simply cannot over emphasize how bad it is. The acting was bad because they had no words to work with. "},{"Title":"A Straightforward but Sincere Sci Fi Movie","Date":"22 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This outer space sci fi contribution might be assigned the 2001 A Space Odyssey for 2000 (its release date) with a number of parallels without the computer. The strange signal scene, the spinning space station scene, the extravehicular scene, the ending back to home scene are echo the movie 2001. Yet in other ways it is also a more popularized version but not quite as stereotypical nor clique as the movie 2010 Odyssey Two (1984). There are the few technical or design flaws such as the sound in space and the unnecessary door noise in the strange face experience. Overall Mission to Mars attempts to remain rather faithful to its seriousness using a script that in some ways is too plain and too disarming in its both brief scary, ominous send up and its more sugary, syrupy themes. For some this movie likely lacks the requisite action though there is some suspense, for others it may be too cerebral and thus boring, for others perhaps to straightforward and thus boring. Nevertheless, this movie makes its point without fanfare and doesn't attempt to really become overly dramatic for the audience but lays its cards down straight with a simple message. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars","Date":"25 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" In 2020, a small crew on Mars, led by Luke Graham(Don Cheadle) come across a metallic object which causes a catastrophic sand-storming tornado, which coils like a snake, killing nearly every member thanks to an accidental miscalculation using radioactive waves. Luke's friends, astronauts at a space station, Woody Blake(Tim Robbins), Jim McConnell(Gary Sinise), Woody's wife Terri(Connie Nielsen)& Phil Ohlmyer(Jerry O'Connell)convince their superior(Armin Mueller-Stahl)to allow a rescue mission to Mars to see if he's still alive. The film documents their harrowing journey to Mars and the unforeseen complications that arise. And, especially what they find on Mars, a specific face which shows itself after the massive dust storm erupted killing Luke's crew.Who'd have thunk it..a family friendly Brian De Palma movie. A rousing score from Ennio Morricone and state-of-the-art special effects(..the best money can buy)highlight a rather artificial 2001 wannabe. While the setting is 2020, the characters seem like they were from 1965, in modern dress of 1999. The use of product placements, something of an object of critical scorn, such as Pennzoil and Kawasake, along with an amusing use of Dr. Pepper during a crisis, is certain to get under the skin of those who notice them blatantly paraded on screen(..heck, someone had to pay for the visual effects on Mars, and set designs inside the space station and rescue ship, not to mention the outer designs). It's clear that Kubrick's masterpiece inspired the filmmakers(..the rotating sequence in the rescue ship where Woody and Terri are dancing as Phil walks nearly upside down in zero gravity)and the ending aspires for grand heights when our remaining survivors find out exactly what gave birth to the Earth we live and how Jim's life will change forever when he accepts an otherworldly invitation. The film attempts to give the characters a little exposition. We have the opening barbecue party(..a going away for Luke and his other three crew members set on a course for Mars)where De Palma shoots in one long uninterrupted take it seems as his camera follows the main characters who will become a part of the action of the story. We find that Jim has lost his beloved Maggie(Kim Delaney who just glows with beauty)to a terminal illness and has suffered for it to the point where his planned mission to go to Mars is not granted due to his difficulty coping with such a shocking loss. Woody and Terri are planning to dance at her sister's wedding. Luke will not be able to read bed-time stories to his kid once he goes on the trip to Mars. Most of this is developed in the first thirty minutes so that the filmmakers can get that back-story out of the way as the action starts. You have the trusty suspenseful meteorites attack ship sequence which brings the astronauts through a complex situation where Oxygen is running low and the ship is losing pressure. You have the horrifying loss of an important character when he overshoots a mini capsule, giving his life for the others by attaching a hook-line so that they could make it to Mars. You have the typical astronauts meet an alien, straight out of the Close Encounters of the Third Kind(..even the alien favors the one which greets Earthlings from the ship). This is a commercial effort which might generate positive reactions from science fiction fans, particularly when the crew discovers that the alien they're attempting to communicate with is testing them(..how Jim discovers this through the use of M&M candies is another rather amusing form of product placement). "}{"Title":"The answer to our quest(ions)","Date":"13 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie is very much underrated. I would give it a big 8. The characters ar nicely build up during the beginning of the movie. The trip to mars was not that spectacular but i think that the makers wanted to make a movie that was based on facts en very much likely possibilities. Thats why it was easy to believe the story, it felt absolutely plausible and true. The discovery of the stone on mars reminded me of the story's of Staley Kubrick's A space OdysseyI remember the feeling when i saw the end/plot of the movie. It was beautiful and it gave me a warm feeling like now i finally understood where we came from ...like all the pieces felt in place. "},{"Title":"Seeing this movie may be a hazard to your mental health.","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are bad movies and then there is Mission to Mars.This movie is such a utter load of trash that I can't work out for the life of me how it ever made it onto the big screen. The fact that it did is an insult to all the straight-to-video movies that have ever seen the light of day and, of course, the audience!First of all, this movie is seriously lacking a plot. It's almost as if the actors were making it up as they went along. In fact, on several occasions I heard lines of dialogue which have been stolen straight from other sci-fi movies!Secondly, that ending!! Wow... what a stinker. The whole white-room thing was an absolute joke. I know it's sci-fi, but sheesh! Can't that make it at least remotely believable?Ultimately, that's what's really lacking from this movie - a sliver of credibility. Perhaps they should have made it a comedy... then I wouldn't feel so bad about laughing all the way through it. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable sci-fi flick with romance","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the relationship of the characters in this film.  Two characters were married and their love for one another is endearing.  Another's wife had died and how he and others respond to the loss is incorporated into the movie.The scientific part of this movie is flawed, but it didn't matter to me, as this is one of favorite sci-fi flicks.  A moving story of how mankind may have come to be, but more than that, one of hope and inspiration.  a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"you can dream","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I was a teenager I spent an inordinate amount of time reading scifi novels and short stories.  I particularly remember one where a future scientist in charge of rebuilding a planet destroyed by earth during a war has to choose between sacrificing his life or letting the planet he is on be destroyed by a booby trap left by its former and now dead inhabitants.  He chooses sacrifice.Obviously, this is not the greatest movie ever made nor by any stretch of the imagination nor is it a very good scifi flick.  But the Gary Sinise character at the end does make a decision to give up his life (on earth) for his dream.  And dreams are what sci fi is all about, as far as I am concerned.  It's about looking up and away.  To new worlds and to dream of standing on them and looking for even newer worlds in the distance.  Let's just say it's a dream I share and more power to anyone who chooses to live that dream.  Even in a movie. "},{"Title":"I don't think I can watch this, Dave","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (Health warning review may contain spoilers and / or traces of nut)Instructions for making a really bad filmTake the plot of a cinema classic.  For the sake of argument, let's make it 2001 A Space Odyssey.  Granted, I didn't much like that, but lots of people did, so it'll do for this.Gently knead this plot until such a point that it still resembles its original form, but looks different enough for you to not be sued for copyright infringement / plagiarism etc.  At this point, you should also remove the only good part of the borrowed script (I don't think you should be doing that, Dave).Next, take some well known (and rather good) actors... let's say (for the sake of argument), Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins and Don Cheadle, and add them to the mixing pot.Have these well known (and rather good) actors walk around looking meaningful and saying rather silly things for around 2 hours.For a little extra flavour, add in some Jerry O'Connell and spread throughout the mixture in such a way that he pops up every now and again, but is generally unimportant and forgettable.Add in a scene which is supposed to be extremely tense and dramatic, but instead makes the audience think nothing except Cool! Space conga!.For the finishing touch, send the cast into a completely white room for 45 minutes where they can talk to large CGI jelly people about Life, the Universe and Everything.  Other colour rooms may work, but white is artistic and meaningful, or something like that, so it may win you some kind of award.Bake in a preheated oven at 275 degrees centigrade for around 6 months (just enough time for the hype monkeys to think up something good to say about it).When all this is over, you should be left with a pretty pathetic excuse for a film, which will still somehow manage to make you a bit of money. "},{"Title":"This movie should have been called Touched By An Alien","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was so utterly disappointed by this movie that I felt the need to comment on it.  Yes, the special effects were good but all of the action is included in the trailers.  The entire movie was extremely sappy for a sci-fi flick, so much so, that I was making gag gestures in the movie theater.  What I don't understand is why all these great actors agreed to be in this awful gag fest! "},{"Title":"Not 2001 but a nice movie.","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars despite its panning is an enjoyable movie, and even though it isn't in the same class as 2001, its central story line is just as thought provoking, in that it just might be real. The space special effects were impressive, and the characters though lacking in some depth were believable.  Contrary to the above comment, I found the sound track and especially the closing sound track nice and fitting to the movies end. In short a none violent film for space enthusiasts, with the right amount of tension, and an interesting mystery that is real enough. "},{"Title":"Brian De-who?","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With all due respect to Mr. De Palma, this movie is terrible. I wasted two hours of my life, squirming at a pathetic rip-off of Kubrick's Odyssey. Unfortunately, Hollywood's Suits' ridiculous need to turn a reasonably decent disaster-movie plot into pseudo-intellectual babble reduces this film to new levels of commercialism, robbing it of any redeeming qualities. There is no internal logic to this film, no drive and certainly nothing as good as an imaginative plot. And who the heck would assign such a sensitive mission to someone as Neurotic as Mr. O'Connell's character? He never should have passed the psych screenings. A complaint has already been issued to NASA. "},{"Title":"Bad script, BAD direction, wasted $7.50.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mars was like De Palma doing the Spielberg version of 2001. How many times should one audience have to endure the speechless, mindless, gaze of one actor to another. I find it hard to believe Gary Sinise or Tim Robbins would have agreed to appear in the movie after reading the two page script. Maybe they just cut out dialogue when they found out the actors were being paid by the word. If it weren't for the fat guy from Stand By Me, there wouldn't have been any entertainment at all. "},{"Title":"Want My $7.00 BACK","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is yet another case where the previews of a movie lure you in, thinking it is a hint of something more. WRONG.  All the cool stuff seen in previews to this movie were the ONLY things even worth looking at in this movie.Plot holes aside.... because I don't see ANY movie for the realism, I LIKE science FICTION, but come ON.... this movie dragged on and on and on and on... I was so disappointed. I can't even believe they had the cast that they did to make this movie. Can any one tell me WHY it was needed to put eyeliner on Gary's eyes like that? It bugged the hell out of me, but at least it gave me something to think about. The movie itself sure didn't.   "}{"Title":"I thought the definition for mission was something else.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As we were getting ready to go see this, my friend kept saying that he heard it was bad and he wanted to see Boiler Room.  After seeing the movie, I told him I would NEVER doubt him again!  It was awful!  I think Brian De Palma just paid them to have his name on it (although I don't know who would willingly put their name on it).  Where was he during the filming of the movie?  It was one of the only movies I have actually wanted to walk out on. It was embarrassing.  I didn't even pay for my ticket, but I felt sorry for the person who did.  This is a WARNING, WARNING, WARNING to anyone debating the viewing of this.  DON'T DO IT!!!!  I swear there are a million other things you would rather spend your money on.  When reading the other comments, I was suprised that some people said it was good.  Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise got short straws on this one.  They are great actors and were made fools in this film.  Besides, who would cast Connie Nielsen in a film EXCEPT to look pretty.  The only other movie I liked her in was Devil's Advocate and even THEN, she was iffy.  PLEASE HEED MY WARNING AND SPEND YOUR MONEY ON SOME POKEMON CARDS INSTEAD.  Yes, even Pokemon cards would be better than this.  What a disappointment!!! "},{"Title":"Monkies and typewriters...","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Without really spending a lot of time on this, I think a lady I overheard last night summed it up best  If Godzilla was written by 100 monkies at 100 typewriters, this movie must have only used 10 monkies and 10 typewriters. With no correction fluid.What made it even worse is that I like Cheadle, Robbins and SineseBad monkies.... "},{"Title":"Woof!","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is without a doubt the worst movie I have ever seen!Let me say, that I wasn't expecting much from it, either, and yet it failed to live up to my low expectations.  A shame considering that a number of fine actors signed up for what doesn't hold a candle to any number of sci-fi TV show episodes.I have noticed many people comparing this to Armageddon, stating that it is no worse than that movie.  It was, however.  Much worse.Armageddon was no great film.  It was fluff, pure and simple.  There was nothing deep and meaningful about it.  What it was, though, was a great ride.  It didn't try to be anything other than entertaining.  I was stumped as to what the intent of Mission to Mars was.  It didn't encourage me to ponder the origins of our existence; the end of the movie supposedly answers all of those questions.  It didn't thrill me with the wonders of space travel.  And, sadly, it didn't entertain me.I am hardly a sophisticated moviegoer.  I am one of those people who looks at movies in the same way I look at art - if I like it, I like it.  Period.  I have never had this much difficulty in finding something positive to say about a movie, but I saw plenty of negatives- The dialogue was childish and tiresome.  Countless spoofs have been done of movie conversations in which one of the characters sets up a scene with a tidbit like Oh, Jim, you trained so hard for this.  If only your wife hadn't succumbed to a vile illness, and died, and you hadn't had to drop out of the program....   - What was with the score?  Music should enhance or complement a scene, not overpower it.  The use of music in this movie was one of it's biggest problems.- Better special effects wouldn't have been enough to save this movie, but it couldn't have hurt.  In many places the effects were just not that realistic.  I know, I'm being demanding, but with the technology available today, if you're going to use special effects, do it right.Alas, this one will grab a big chunk of everyone's money before it makes its way out of theatres.   "},{"Title":"Spoilers within...but then, who cares?","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission To Mars was BAD BAD BAD. The science fiction ideas were weak and have all been done before--and done better. The action sequences were contrived and ridiculous. (Why *wouldn't* you put your spare helmet on during cabin depressurization, if not to inject tension into a lackluster sequence?) SCIENCE fiction? Science was simply *absent* from this movie. It's as if they had no technical advisors at all. I mean...Dr. Pepper BOILS in space, it doesn't freeze.  Human DNA consists of slightly more than six base pairs. There was good marketing-fiction, though. Kawasaki Mars rover...uh-huh. Sigh. I can understand why people go see manipulative, butt-stupid dreck like Armageddon. At least there's lots of purdy 'splosions and sparkly lights. But why would ANYBODY like M2M, which has NO tension, NO action, NO original ideas, mediocre FX, and NO reason for being, other than to separate you from your eight bucks? WHY? Why, when it's ALL been done before? M2M shamelessly ripped off Apollo 13, The Mummy, 2001, 2010, Star Wars, Close Encounters, and even The Abyss (right down to the damn WATER!). It's infuriating! I can only think that the positive reviews seen here were written by studio hacks to try kicking up the word of mouth on this piece of filmic fecal material. Well, here's my word of mouth SUCKS. And one last thing, merely a stylistic note to the writers...the  typical human reaction to having a hole blasted in one's hand by a tiny piece of rock is not to sit in your chair and blandly utter, micrometeorites. It's more like AAAAAHHH!!!!! AAAAHHHHHHHHH!!!!! MY HAND!! OH, GOD, MY HAAAAAANNNNDDDDD!!!!! "},{"Title":" I have always wondered why we felt so at home in outer space ","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Throughout the short history of space travel, the imaginative dreamer, the professional astronaut, and the supportive earth observer have all had one goal in mind, to enjoy the Final Frontier. Comparing reality to flights of fancy is easy if you've overly critical. But if you have an fanciful heart, the flaws are easily overlooked. In this offering which is called  Mission to Mars  Hollywood reminds audiences that when a first mission is launched into the unknown, it won't be long before a 'rescue' is sure to follow. Once a spacecraft lands on the Red Planet, it's expected that things can go terribly wrong. Thus when a mysterious but gigantic Martian storm destroys the landing craft, it's presumed all the original crew members were lost. This story begins with that disaster and a Rescue is sent. The commander is Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise) who with Woody Blake (Tim Robbins) and Terri Fisher (Connie Nielsen) return to Mars and seek to discover what happened to the original crew. What they discover to their astonishment is a sole Astronaut Luke Graham (Don Cheadle) tending to a hydroponic garden and some very bizarre facts which promises to make the rescue extremely interesting. So much so, the rescue crew will eventually learns much more than anyone could have possibly conceived. The cinematic photography as well as the planetary backgrounds are fabulous as are the incredible scenes outside the space vehicles. The result is a movie well worth the investment of your time and attention. **** "},{"Title":"Good enough","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mission to Mars is interesting, but a difficult film to appreciate unless you've seen '2001 A Space Odyssey'. Like '2001' and It's sequel '2010', This movie is more of a visual spectacle than an adventure story. The special effects of outer space and the surface of Mars are convincing, but lack the ethereal feeling that is present in '2001'. While the story is never really strong or compelling, in some ways it is step up from Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece, although not a huge one. Mission to Mars has more character development and dialog. It manages to be touching at times, but unfortuanely, it fails to be thrilling or suspenseful when it tries. There are also moments when the movie is so scientifically inaccurate that some might find it amusing, but for most of the time, it avoids going over the top. Ignoring the various other holes, Mission to Mars is decent as a science fiction movie, but may be not for everyone. "},{"Title":"Better than Red Planet","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  	Mission to Mars is superior to Red Planet because (A) It has an uplifting, forward-looking ending, while Red Planet is nothing but an action movie in space. And (B) because Mission to Mars doesn't gratuitously announce that Mars must be colonized because decades of neglect by humans has all but destroyed the environment on Earth as Red Planet does. 	That said; I was only impressed enough with Mission to Mars to rent it twice, not to own it. Although Gary Sinise's character is our protagonist, I was more impressed with the sacrifice of Tim Robbins' character. I've never liked Tim Robbins in a movie until this one. His character makes the ultimate sacrifice, and nothing anyone else does can equal it. 	The climax struck me as a little too neat and clean. The suspense over whether Terri and Luke will make it back to the ship before it lifts off isn't suspense at all because we know they're going to make it. 	The special effects surrounding Sinise's boarding of the alien ship were overdone. And what was the point of immersing him in water? Do the filmmakers really believe we'll think he's going to drown? 	The ending would have been better if Tom Hanks had reprised his Forrest Gump role and met Sinise in the alien spaceship. Lieutenant Dan! he would say, I've been waiting for you. "},{"Title":"Rules for Mission to Mars","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  1. Do not watch this2. If you watch this, watch ita. With friendsb. With your girlfriend3. After the disaster is overa. Make stupid comments with your friends about it and laugh your bums offb. Make out with your girlfriendc. If you watch it alone stop the movie and do something that is more fun (you can also do this of course with your friends or your girlfriend if you don't like my suggestions (see above))4. If you watch this one alone and you still haven't stopped the tape and you are determined on seeing this film to its end, then may God be with you, course nobody else on this earth will (except maybe those who already saw this film)Short summing up of what the film includes Good effects, good intro (till the guy explodes!!!), bad actors, bad script, bad lines, average directing, crappy music (like an 80's video game), no tension, no excitement, no suspense, no feeling, you don't identify with the characters, predictability and one good line that really fitted me, while watching this film and I think it went like this (thank you Jerry O'Connell for saying this) 'I don't like the dark. I want light!' I thought that too during that totally wasted 113 minutes (OK a few less) of my life, plus I also spent (wasted) 5 bucks on this crap (10 guilders).I seldom give this vote (never not even for Taxi Driver, only for Avengers I gave a 1, but hey that was so much crap it doesn't count), but having seen the commercial and the intro, this could have been much much much much much much much much much much better.2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very Brief and to the point!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you haven't seen this film and are thinking about renting it, please don't!  This is the worst film ever to come out of any studio in any country on the face of this earth!  On second thought's, rent it, and see for yourself how absolutely awful and diabolical this film is.  It's such a shame as it could have been so good! "},{"Title":"A multi-faceted story full of surprises!","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"32 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  NASA's plan to include women (in this case wives) on the crew was more the author's license to make the long 6 month journey to Mars more enjoyable--- is debatable.This is a story of a rescue mission which turned into something far greater. I loved the movie, thought it was highly entertaining and especially liked the special effects(EVA's) and absolutely fabulous cinematography!  If you are a SCIENCE FICTION buff you have to put this movie on your must see list. "}{"Title":"Mission to Bordem Directed by Brian DeOutdated","Date":"2 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm a huge fan of Brian DePalma movies and I've put off watching Mission to Mars for years and finally last night i viewed it. WOW...what a waste of time. I can't believe they spend over a hundred million dollars to finance and distribute this pile of crap. No wonder it failed miserably.In the theatrical trailer for this film, they put A Brian DePalma Film, which is followed by director of Mission Impossible. So therefore i was expecting great suspense, on the edge of your seat thrills, and great action similar to Mission Impossible but on A MISSION TO MARS.The film does have moments of DePalma's genius with suspense and tension along with his uncut takes signatures shots however, the characters are flat and almost one dimensional. It was hard to relate to any of them and so my viewing experience was just about watching for the sake of watching rather than being immersed in the film.Most of the visual effects in the film are great however, The Martian looked like an unfinished 1990s carton animatic. Perhaps the most annoying part of this film is its score, which i found dated, boring, distracting, and stupid. I'm not a fan of this composer at all. His music sound like left over crap from The Thing score that wasn't used in that film as well.This composer also killed another Brian DePalma film that i thought was great, The Untouchables. In that particular film the score made the movie sound like a live action cartoon of Ben and Jerry. "},{"Title":"Need to watch again","Date":"7 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I have no idea why this film is completely avoided by the critics. Of coarse if you get paid for your opinion then you might get taken serious. I however like to watch movies because the fill a hole in my life and transport me somewhere I have never been. This movie did exactly that. I can honestly say it even moved me at the end. Did it make me think? Yes. Was it a bit sappy? Yes. However the movie as a whole was very good. Not the greatest, but very good. If you liked The Astronaut then you will love this movie even more. I honestly think The Astronaut is a rip off from this movie. So, why is this movie hated and that The Astronaut is not? Not sure, but please watch with an open mind and you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"I will be very interested to discover","Date":"22 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I will be very interested to discover if IMDb will post this review or not. The posts that I had gone to describing as bluntly as it sucked were apparently were denied, yet again in their irrational and rude behavior as not even telling me they were denied and why. So what to write about Mission To Mars, instead of going back to using the Species plot scenario, or creating a new Mars exploration movie, here is a novel idea. Mission to Mars was interesting in that it centered around what appears to be from earth a face, being the last hold out of a race that evolved on Mars before it was hit by a asteroid making it completely inhabitable. The Martians were advanced enough to have created the chemicals, or basic molecules hardy enough to survive the severe environment of primordial earth. The last scene we saw was Terri, Phil, and Luke on their way back to earth and Jim on his way to another planet in a galaxy where the former inhabitants of Mars went to. Now I see they are coming out with a sequel to Independence Day, I would really enjoy a sequel to Mission To Mars as well. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sci fi flick with a few bumps (2014 review)","Date":"24 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I first seen this film when I was barely a teenager around when it first came out. I just caught it again on Encore some fourteen years later and thought I would write up a review. Mission to Mars is actually a decent sci fi movie. It follows the tale of a group of astronauts going to Mars after one mission went weary and lost communication. A second backup crew is sent to investigate and make some interesting discoveries along the way. Along the way the movie has mystery, suspense, and a handful of other elements thrown in.It's not by far Gary Sinise's best work or anyone else's best work for that matter. Mission to Mars is filled with cheesy dialog, bland music, scientific inaccuracies, and some cringe worthy acting in between. If you wanted, you could probably rip this entire movie apart finding tons of fallacies in the plot and everything else. The direction of this movie is questionable but in between, it has it's good parts. The set design of the NASA spacecraft's and Mars atmosphere is still pretty convincing in 2014. The suspense and dramatic moments are pretty engaging at times. And overall, even after seeing the movie a few times already in my life, I still enjoy sitting through and watching the movie. I won't give away the ending of the film, but personally I did not like it mainly due to CGI reasons... At best, this movie is a 7/10. It's an average space flick and pretty enjoyable if you have an appeal to science fiction and astronomy. Overall Mission to Mars ends up being a touching story about the human endeavor to reach for the stars. There are certainly better films out there in this department and this isn't entirely the type of film I would add to my blu ray collection, but it's worth at least a stream if you can't find anything else to watch in the the space exploration department. With of all that being said, it would be interesting to see a reboot of this film done properly with some of the poor dialog and CGI revamped. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Mission To Mars","Date":"5 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Title Mission To MarsCondensed Storyline The story of this movie is easily summed up. Something happens to the first manned mission to mars. So a rescue team is sent to go and find out what is wrong, until they find out that aliens are behind this and that aliens also lived on Mars before it's atmosphere depleted. And they also sent DNA to Earth and that we are their creations, Jim stays behind to explore the stars. Notable Acting The only character who I cared about in this move were those played by Gary Sinise and Don Cheadle, mainly as the others were written in a way which made me expect them to get killed throughout the move, and needless to say I was partly right on that call as 3 CONI (Characters of no importance) die and one secondary character dies. But they did decent acting when they were still living and the ones who lived through the movie made it fun and enjoyable to watch. Noticeable Camera work Zooming out/in shots for the beginning rover scene is used a bit, but is still decent in the talent of film. POV shots in the first sandstorm where one of the crew dies and the others and trying to run against the storm. Nothing else notable apart from that. Graphics The CGI in it is mainly kept for the scenes in space and to make the alien and stand storm monster. The rest looks like practical effects.Overall Feel I have noticed a lot of problems with the science in this movie, and I shall list them down here. Needless to say, there are a lot of factual errors with this movie, but these are just the ones that I noticed while watching. Mars is 0.38 on the gravitational chart. Earth is 1, that 38% of Earth's gravity, during this movie you will see the astronauts moving around and walking like they are on Earth, or another planet like Venus, Uranus or Saturn. Planets which have similar surface gravity to Earth. The dust storm wouldn't have been dangerous to the crew and wouldn't be able to blow them around as the air pressure on Mars is only 6 millibar, compared to Earth which has 1013 millibar. So what would constitute as a violent storm on Mars would be harmless to a human. But seeing as the storm stopped once the crew were dead or incapacitated, it would be presented as alien made and could be possible due to their technology. When Woody overshoots the REMO he takes off his helmet to stop his wife going after him, you will see that he freezes within a second. A body wouldn't freeze up in space, you would die of asphyxiation first as all the air in your lungs and bowels if pulled out by the vacuum, you would then black out within 15 seconds from lack of blood reaching the brain. You wouldn't freeze because space is a vacuum and due to the law of thermal conduction you wouldn't lose heat as there is nothing to lose it to, mainly because a vacuum cannot absorb heat. The pink liquid shown at the end that Jim is submerged in is scientifically imposable and has been done before on lab rats, but it is extremely unhealthy. Mainly because our lungs are designed to breath gases with modest amounts of oxygen and high levels of nitrogen. Not high levels of oxygenated liquids. Now onto my views of the movie. In simple terms, I enjoyed it. It suffers from the same mistakes as most of B-listed disaster movies, some factual errors here and there. But the acting is good, the props are good and the story overall is good. It looks like a lot of hard work went into making this movie. But I do feel like the whole movie spent all this time building up to this great 3rd tier of the movie and it feels like the movie is missing something at the end. Mainly because it's such an anti-climatic ending. "},{"Title":"Underrated sci-fi film (I guess not enough people get killed by those aliens))","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a fan of science fiction movies. I guess in my rather large DVD collection I have one (Stargate; although that's not to say there aren't other good SciFi films that I've enjoyed...just not generally my thing). So, I sat down to watch this film not expecting much...probably would hit delete from my DVR...but no, I actually really liked this film. Of course, later I found that it isn't considered very good in this genre. Go figure.I like the story. Astronauts go to Mars, 3 out of 4 get blown away, 1 survives (but why?). A rescue mission is sent and what do they find on Mars? Well, down deep, you know. But as Bullwinkle used to say after Rocky looked into his magic ball, But are they friendly spirits? I thought the film was good, solid, all the way through, but I thought the closing minutes were superb.Gary Sinise is a much underrated actor, and does very nicely here as the commander of the rescue mission. Tim Robbins -- who ought to spend more time in front of the camera -- is equally good as another astronaut. Don Cheadle is as great as always as another astronaut...the one who initially survives. Kim Delaney is excellent as a female astronaut on the rescue mission. And Jerry O'Connell does rather nicely as sort of the junior astronaut (at least in terms of his role).I though the early special effects were disappointing, but they got much better as the film progressed, and overall were relatively impressive (at least in terms of getting the job done, though I have seen better in other films).I think this is a generally underrated sci-fi film (maybe not enough people get killed???). Give it a watch. If you like sci fi and haven't seen it, you may enjoy it! I particularly liked the evolution sequence!! "},{"Title":"Not a Phillip K. Dick Book or Story&#x85;More a Story Book","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Slightly Disappointing Visit to the Red Planet, mostly because the Stakes are so High, but it is Nonetheless a Visually Impressive Space Trek and the Ending may be Familiar to Most Science Fiction and Ufology Speculators. The Final Revelation will No Doubt Raise the Ire of Fundamentalist.But the Biggest Disappointment to just about Every Critic that Trashed the Movie, and that is just about Every Critic, is the Dialog and Script, that Admittedly is not going to Win any Awards and is a Dumbed Down Disaster. The Astronauts, Tim Robbins aside, have about as Much Personality as, well, Astronauts. Have You Ever Seen Footage of any Real-Life Astronauts in Interviews, or just being Themselves? Not the most Charismatic of Geniuses. Director Brian De Palma has Toned all of that Recent Cinema Space Stuff to a Level that Even Fourth Graders can Understand and that is Understandable. if Whiz-Bang, Laser Guns, and Mega-Marathons of Space Wars and Gruesome Aliens is what You Seek, there are (Carl Sagan's Voice) Billions and Billions of Movies to Choose from.Overall this is a Sonewmat Different Sci-Fi that Utilizes Standard Science-Fiction as Fairy Tale and it All Plays like a Kid's Bedtime Amusement and De Palma Certainly is not Trying to Impress Academia with Any Notions of Textbook. This is Story Book. "},{"Title":"Some good, some not so good, and some really silly.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" De Palma is in his typically suspenseful form in the eerie early scenes, and the sequence of the failed attempt to save one marooned rescuer. He is out of his element in the sappy, sugary, maudlin ending that reeks of Close Encounters. Lots of typically bad Hollywood science all around, which is what everyone should expect anyway. The ending is really dopey, totally unbelievable. The Martians left their dying planet to travel to another galaxy rather than just hop over to Earth!? Instead, they drop some DNA onto earth that evolves into modern mankind, and they can show this evolution to the three inside the face monolith even though IT HAD NOT YET HAPPENED when the monolith was built?! Oh, and they are such a benevolent bunch that they'd slaughter anybody who comes up with the wrong answer to their DNA quiz. Yeah, right, totally believable. And how about this, they just ignored Earth for thousands of years while they built their galaxy-traveling spaceships? Want to see a good film of what happens to Earth when Martians have to leave Mars? Get a copy of Five Million Years to Earth, AKA Quatermass and the Pit. It's like Five Million times better than this. "},{"Title":"A New Men From Mars Story?","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS! Mission To Mars is a mediocre science fiction movie.  But inside it is some interesting theories about life on Earth.  The movie explores the possible theory that all human life on the planet Earth may have descended from visitors from another planet.  The Face of Mars also figures into the story, even though NASA reportedly disproved the mysterious Martian landmark with recently taken photos from the surface of Mars.  So if Mission To Mars does not entertain you, it may at least make you think. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From the first time that I saw the trailer for this movie, I knew that it would be a definite favorite of mine and I was right. I loved Mission to Mars from start to finish. With good performances all around, a somewhat plausible storyline and awesome special effects; I couldn't ask for anything more. (except for maybe a different alien)In my opinion, the special effects alone are worth the admission price. Definitely some of the best that I have seen. (again excluding the alien) When the characters are floating in orbit, there is a red reflection of the mars surface on their space suits in almost every shot or how convincing mars looked when they arrived on it or maybe how the vortex formed from the top of the mountain are just some scenes. Nice job to ILM. Although there were a few cheesy lines in the movie, it didn't ruin it for me like 'the Binks factor' or anything.I liked this movie alot and recommend it to sci-fi fans.  "}{"Title":"An inspired rant on how much this movie sucks","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (I'll put a SPOILER WARNING on this one. But it really doesn't matter. This movie doesn't have a plot worth being spoiled. It comes spoiled. Rotten. Putrid.)I generally do not dislike movies. One big exception to that is *The Thin Red Line*. That movie was heaped with critical praise and hailed as high art, though. This one was almost universally lambasted by critics, and with good reason. I had no idea a movie could be so bad. I was still trying to comprehend how bad it was the next morning.Tell me, oh tell me, in what kind of a movie is the pivotal moment the revelation of something the trailer has already told us? You see, the trailer makes the movie sound action-packed and cool For centuries, man has been looking for the origin of life on Earth. We've been looking on the wrong planet. Oh, so this is going to be a movie about the origin of life on Mars! And there will be Martians, and pseudoscience, and maybe the ramifications of this revelation on Earth! Um, no. The movie acts as if the revelation that life originated on Mars is a spectacular end in and of itself, and proceeds to end, not caring what happens next.In the first half hour, a group of astronauts go investigate something on Mars, and a giant whirlwind tornado thing attacks them, ripping one guy into lots of pieces. THIS IS THE BEST PART IN THE ENTIRE MOVIE. Really, this is the one scene that has action in it, and the trailer makes it look like the whole movie is this cool.Then the movie spends, and I kid you not, an entire HOUR on generic space disaster crap that has absolutely no point beyond dragging the movie on for an hour. Now, if they had taken this hour and done something useful with it, like WRITE A GODDAMN MOVIE...And they have a character who dies. He comes along for the ride, and he dies. They try to make his death all dramatic and stuff, but who cares. We feel nothing for these characters. Nothing. They're just there. According to the back of the box, this space disaster crap and dying is supposed to be about the theme of friendship. Only their friendship can save them now... Whatever.Oh, and the music! It's just so...stupid! During all this space disaster crap, there's this dumb jangling piano thing, which I guess is Brian de Palma thinking he's Stanley Kubrick.This movie is just plain bad, people. I don't see how it's possible for ANYONE to like this movie. Really, it's that bad. How CAN you like it when it revolves around telling you something you already know that has the possibility for making a good movie, but they don't bother with making a good movie after finding out the something. They just make a bad movie to find out the something. At least it's not three damn hours long, like *The Thin Red Line*....If you have any doubt that there is such a thing as a bad movie, hey, watch *Mission to Mars*! "},{"Title":"Tedious, but the alien was nice","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a yawn fest this film turned out to be!  I recommend it for getting you off to sleep without medication.At first I was wondering whether the over-pally astronauts were ever going to end that over-long (a word used a lot in describing this film) barbecue at the start, and then go Mars-side.     More a sickly excercise in how folks interact with each other, than a sci-fi movie, this.  Gallons of tedious dialogue, references to many other flicks (especially Close Encounters and The Abyss, at the end).I must say it was well shot, and it was great eye candy, shown through my DVD - the special effects were nice - especially the planetarium piece at the end.The encounter with the alien was the only really enjoyable bit in the film.  That was one beautiful alien.  The idea of seeding the Earth with DNA is not new, but it was well portrayed here.  The evolution scene was lovely.  I cannot, however, understand why the guy who went on the alien ship, had to breath liquid.  Perhaps as a buffer against the forces of swift interstellar flight?  Many unanswered questions...perhaps it added to a mysterious feel the film did seem to have.      Too much dialogue, too much shmaltz.  The final chapter, watched via a DVD machine, just about makes it worth while.  Glad I rented it, and didn't buy it...   "},{"Title":"This is a Brian De Palma movie people!","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This work of art is one of the most underrated movies ever. The plot is a mixture of Apollo 13, Contact and 2001A Space Odyssey, yet delivered with the unmistakable touch of De Palma. There is the element of suspense and drama all over the movie, a trademark of the director. Also the acting is really great (especially Tim Robbins who is fantastic) and the pace is quite fast - no boring space preparation sequences here.A lot of surprises throughout the entire film and a touch of beautiful special fx interventions, create a most entertaining movie. And this is why this movie came out - to entertain us. If you want scientific facts, please go get the latest NASA reports on space travel and download all recent academic publications on AI.Give this movie the attention it deserves. "},{"Title":"*** 1/2  Lacks stuff but is gorgeous filmmaking","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Slow-moving but gorgeously designed space adventure that undermines its audience by half-delivering a lame ending after a huge buildup. Some have criticized director Brian DePalma's Kubrickian-ripoff pacing as being far too dull, but I thoroughly enjoyed the opportunity to watch science-fiction that was at least trying for the level of seriousness it never really achieves. The film benefits mostly from Ed Verreaux's stunning production design and a great ensemble cast including Tim Robbins, Connie Nielsen and Don Cheadle who more than make up for Gary Sinise's lack of ability as a heroic leading man (and what was with his eyeliner?).   "},{"Title":"Something for fans of old-fashioned Sci-Fi","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If it weren't for the up-to-date special effects, this movie feels like it was made completely in the 1970s.By todays standards, it seems to contain too many slow moments, simplistic and cliched dialogue, and poorly thought-out scientific concepts. Reading all of the user comments here, these criticisms come up again and again. Very well, but re-watching most memorable Sci-Fi movies from the 1970s reveals very similar flaws when judged by today's standards.So, if you can think of this movie as a journey back in time to the Sci-Fi haydays of 2001, Close Encounters etc, but with state-of-the art effects, you will enjoy the movie. Yes, there will be times when you shake your head at the dialogue, but if you manage to look past the small problems of the movie and overlook some of the technical flaws, you will be treated with a classic, old-fashioned, slow-moving Sci-Fi flick that will give you suspense and wonder.To put it in other words If you still love old Star Trek and Doctor Who episodes and are not distracted by the simple special effects and silly dialogue of those old shows, but just let yourself be entertained by the concepts and ideas contained therein, you will also enjoy this movie.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good production","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't get to see this movie when it was playing in theaters. For some reason, I knew I was going to like this movie, and I did. I'm surprised that many people have trashed this movie. I didn't think that it was a bad movie. It was slow at first, but then it got interesting. From early on in the movie, it was evident that the inspiration for this movie was 2001 A Space Odyssey. The 2001 influence was obvious in the look of the space station and the ships (which are all similar to those in 2001), and in the presence of an advanced intelligence. Like 2001, this movie contains fantastic visual effects. The way that Mars was projected to look is great. The production design was of top quality. The story might be considered lame and perhaps it could have been told better. But then again, the same thing can be said about countless other movies. One that comes to mind is Contact. Now THAT was a good-but-disappointing science fiction movie--the story started out one way and then it took a sharp turn.  Like I stated before, Mission to Mars is not a bad movie. It's an absorbing science fiction movie, with good action and some shocking scenes. I enjoyed watching it. I especially liked the theme of an extraterrestrial connection to us humans. I certainly would see this movie again. "},{"Title":"A Good Space Adventure","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma enters the Mars race with this entry, a movie that highlights his famous use of visuals. The story however, by Jim and John Thomas (of Predator) is derivative of all kinds of science fiction films, just like Predator was derivative of Alien and tough-guy action flicks. So, you know that when you see a certain scene, you're gonna think, Oh, 2001 A Space Odyssey, or Isn't that Close Encounters? You get the idea.Still, it's a solid space adventure, helped a good deal by visual effects by ILM, including Star Wars Episode I expert John Knoll (he did the Pod Race among other parts). The cast is pretty impressive, really, with Gary Sinise (for my money, one of our best actors), Don Cheadle, Tim Robbins, etc. The score, however, by Ennio Morricone, is very low key, when a rousing score is what, I believe, was needed. If you want to get your science fiction fix, or if you're waiting (along with everyone else) until Star Wars Episode II is released, check this out.(6 out of 10 Stars) "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as they say it is.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this with very low expectations, but was pleasantly surprised.  I have to say I am a sci-fi fan so perhaps that explains why I enjoyed it while others did not.  Ok so the tech parts are a bit inaccurate (see goofs) and the cliches abound, however I still liked it.  It is like a remake of 2001 A Space Odyssey but clearly not as groundbreaking for its time.  If you liked movies like Armageddon and Apollo 13 you will probably like it. "},{"Title":"Very similar to another well-known Mission to Mars","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Overall, this movie had similar aspects to another well-known movie called, Mission to Mars, but they are both quite watchable.  Actually, the ending (although there was not too much of a surprise) was better in this movie than in the other.  Being a movie buff myself, I will likely purchase this movie in the future if I happen to come across the right price.Overall, I rated this movie 6 out of 10 stars for lack of sensationalism.(POTENTIAL) SPOILER ALERT!!!!!!!!!!!  SPOILER ALERT!!!!!!!!!!!!For those of you who had seen the movie, have you been able to discern why the robot need to have combat programming for such a potentially passive mission?  Other than to add a bit of suspense to the movie, there was no practical reason for it.  They themselves said the planet was lifeless and barren.  Since I did not read the back cover of the movie when I rented it, I expected the movie to be more like Starship Troopers, Pitch Black or The Arrival (all entertaining movies). "},{"Title":"Competently put together boredom","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie starts at a barbeque, which really set my interest down quite a few pegs. Then we go to Mars and experience an accident and some impressive sfx. You think that well, maybe there is something interesting here after all. But no, we are quickly transported back to boredom with talk, talk, talk and some astonishingly un-suspenseful suspense. Technical mumbo-jumbo is then turned into new-age mumbo-jumbo as we, together with the wide-eyed crew, experience even more impressive sfx in some supposed profound statement. And isn't it strange that the ones that are killed by this alien force and non-americans. Well, to sum it up, don't waste your money on this. You will do better with Event horizon. Not that it is a good movie, but at least it's fun sci-fi. "}{"Title":"What? Huh?  What am I looking at! (May contain spoilers)","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a headache inducing mess that makes me wish I had never seen the amazing trailer that made the film look fantastic.  The opening sequence of the film contained all the beautiful imagery that was shown in the trailer, so I knew the film was in trouble.  I was right.  The film uses all of it's energy in the last fifteen minutes, and after the movies over your confusion will be staggering. Some of the ideas conveyed in the film were interesting, but trying to stomach them so quickly gave me indigestion. The alien looked like something from a Looney Tunes cartoon.  Overall, the film is Brian De Palma's worst film since The Bonfire of the Vanities. "},{"Title":"Mission to messup","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh man - where should I start? This was another one of those movies that you think is going to be really cool, but instead is a real let down. It had a great cast of stars - Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle, Jerry O'Connell, etc. but not even they could save this falling spaceship. The beginning was boring, the end was corny and the big chunk in the middle was just ridiculous. They might have benefitted better if they focused on the alien entities more and the people less. I think the director should be sent to Mars and stranded like Don Cheadle was - that'll teach 'em.  "},{"Title":"Too much to handle for Sci-Fi viewers...","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I feel like I have an open mind for movies and I try to enjoy them for their strongest qualities.  However, as much as I tried, M2M could not provide the qualities that I expected in a big-budget sci-fi flick.*** WARNING *** SPOILERS AHEAD! *** WARNING ***First of all, I must applaud the special effects and music in this movie. For the most part, they were the best feature about this movie.Regarding my disappointments, let me not repeat what many of my peers have previously stated.  For the direction and acting talent that this film boasts, much of it is diluted and lost due to cheesy and predictable quotes and scenarios.  Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise are two of my favorite actors, and yet the script prevented them from acting their best.  And poor Tim, did he have to die such an artificial and contrived death?As one who appreciates SCIENCE fiction, I expected much more from the science advisors (how much do they get paid, and did they even go to school??).  Most of my gripes have been previously addressed, such as the many possible ways to save Tim Robbin's character, or oxygen rich tent that is open to the martian atmosphere, or the lack of leak detection on the spacecraft (you'd think that health monitoring would at least detect such a large drop in fuel deliver as it would on our own shuttle), or even the fact that a few DNA base pairs could be human (we have around 3 billion pairs to establish humanity).However, one striking disparity has remained blaringly obvious.  The last scenes appear to show a Contact-esque explanation of a more supreme being and an explanation of the origin of man.  The aliens must have been extremely smart, to the point of predicting all the evolutionary forces and stresses that would allow their microorganismal DNA, which they sent to populate the earth, to eventually evolve into humans.  Not to mention that the aliens would know what human DNA would look like 4 billion years later (assuming that you can really determine that by a short sequence).  It seems very presumptuous that the aliens would expect their DNA to evolve into an organism that looks much like themselves (similar facial features, arms, hands, and limbs).  How would they even determine the physiological characteristics of us to provide a breathing atmosphere in the head and let us breath while immersed in water (assuming that it could be done).Needless to say, M2M is yet another movie that tried to present a connection between humans and a greater species... and has failed. "},{"Title":"All that motion picture talent but this mission still fails.","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How can such fine all around talent result in such a stinker like this? Who knows. I came away from this picture the same way I did with The Abyss. What is it all about? Is it a love story? A Sci-Fi story? An adventure story? A character study? The plot holes were so obvious it was hysterical.  I'd say view it and come up with your own conclusion.  "},{"Title":"The Humanity 2001 Left Out","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was prepared to hate this film, since the only other sci-fi film I ever thought worthy of being considered great cinema was 2001. I admit, that were I not struck by Connie Nielson's graces in Gladiator, I absolutely never would have watched this movie.But from its very opening, this film, the title of which sounds like another adolescent marketed space-pablum glitter and cliche fest, reached out with some very emotionally engrossing and intelligent characters. Each character was an accomplished, fully alive human being, willing to subsume individuality to the team effort at hand. A very positive, motivating theme by itself.Add the grandeur of interplanetary space with sumptuous heavenly bodies and intriguing Mars-scapes contrasted with the unforgiving vapid expanses, and you have a touching, memorable setting in which it was a delight to venture with our charismatic, charming crew.  I found that the techno props of spaceflight were done with eminent artistry and finesse, not burdened by the overreliance this genre of movie usually puts on them, but serving the story but without sparing any of the fascinating details the astronauts' world can bring to the interested spectator.I found the story's ultimate discovery of humanity's roots very similar to that in 2001. Except here it was conveyed without the pompous symbolism that rendered 2001, although magnificent in imagery, unfathomable as a story for anyone who hadn't read the book.In Mission to Mars we have an Oddysey which delivers us to that beyond our humanity, but also saved a round trip ticket for our grateful return to living the lives of mere mortals who are yet capable of being excellent.Five Stars and an Earth "},{"Title":"Send it to Mars","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe that a movie this bad makes it to our TV sets, let alone the big screen.  Forget the sad acting and the hopeless attempts early on to establish depth of characters.  Forget for a moment the sound track that may well have been more appropriate it played backwards.  Overlooking these points (if you can), I have two questions for the script writers.Firstly at one point in the movie there is a major fuel leak in the rescue craft in space.  Wouldn't you expect that in the year 2020, with a mission going to Mars, with technology so advanced that one man was able to survive unassisted to 12 months (cough cough) on a bare planet, wouldn't you at least see a flashing light warning in the case of a severe loss in fuel pressure immediately prior to a burn?Secondly, the hole jet-pack scene where Tim dies (lucky Tim!) is flawed. The jet packs would only need a short-burst to establish the direction and velocity required to rescue Tim's character.  The movie depicted a full-burn required in order to maintain any momentum.  I fear that Mr De Palma has spend too much time in boats.  When you stop burning your jet-pack you don't drift to a halt as you do in a boat!Send this to the IMSH - Internet Movie Scrap Heap "},{"Title":"Very good Movie","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read those other comments about Mission To Mars and those people don't know a good movie when they see one but I will admit that the ending wouldn't very good but the rest of it was very good. The saddest part in this movie is when Woody (Tim Robbins) kills himself because he didn't want his girlfriend to get killed trying to save him. The weirdest part in the movie is the end when Gary Sinese Is in that spaceship when that liquid covers him and then he realizes he can breath under it. I really liked this movie and if you like Scifi, drama, or action this one has them all.  "},{"Title":"Honestly, it wasn't THAT bad!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first time i saw mission to mars i thought it was alright.  i saw it again on starz! and realized that this was a pretty good movie.  The parts using the piano music and then van halen's dance the night away were very unique.  The ending got me, i didn't expect it, but it was good.One thing i didn't like was Tim Robbins character.  He acts shady like he is plotting something, or he is evil.  I don't really understand what the guy was trying to tell us.  Plus Gary Sinise at the very end staring at the camera kind of freaked me out. At least it was better than the contender. "},{"Title":"A mediocre flick with a few good things.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Watched this one with the family.  We'd just gotten 5 new dvd's and this was one of them.  My dad chose this one (I wanted to see either Sleepy Hollow or Gladiator) and I was not at all excited.  I thougth this would rank down there with Armageddon.  I was wrong.The score was horrible, sounded like something that could be played at a baseball game.  Gary Sinise was horrible, as was Connie Nielsen.Not all was lost however.  Tim Robbins was really good, I actually cared about what happened to his character.  Don Cheadle was good as well and the film was excellent after the first 20 minutes, until  *SPOILER* the first team is killed and the second team is dispatched.  Much has been made of the ending being horrible.  It was a little dragged out and irritating.  Overall, a C+ movie, one for the boys of MST3K if they were still around. "},{"Title":"Wish it had been better.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just adding another disappointed comment to the list.Some great ideas and pretty current scientific theories are poorly knitted together in this truly slipshod effort.The opening scene is needlessly stagey (although it has a lot of DePalma's usual camera-move flashiness) and the characters are never fully developed (with the possible exception of Don Cheadle's Luke).As mentioned elsewhere, the science (this is SCIENCE-fiction) is very poorly researched.  A base pair of DNA is not a full chromosome and Isaac Newton would've kicked over his TV during Tim Robbins's final scene.  A visit to a local library branch would've helped the writers greatly.On the plus side, the Mars scenes are beautifully rendered and the alien effects are pretty good.Overall, there were just too many times when the viewer could shout out the next line of dialogue or could recognize a scene cribbed from another movie. Not original, and seemingly not fully thought through.A puzzling and disappointing offering from a great cast and crew who can do better. "}{"Title":"Overblown and self important but still kinda fun","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Purists claim that there never has been a good sci-fi movie made. That theory stands unchallenged by Mission To Mars. The effects are excellent but the story is silly and melodramatic. It tries to emulate 2001. Indeed some of the effects obviously are inspired by those in the earlier film. It's an enjoyable enough movie if you don't take it as seriously as it takes itself and if you turn it off about 20 minutes before the end. But then, if you do, you'll miss one of the all time most ridiculous closing lines of any movie ever made.  Maybe I didn't read it right. Maybe it was a comical send up of sci-fi movies rather than an oh-so-inspiring piece of symbolic cinema. Never thought of that until now. If so I'll have to raise my 4 rating to at least a 5. Now that I look back, it was pretty funny. "},{"Title":"What has happened to Brian De Palma?","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The man that brought us such excellent cinematic fare as The Untouchables and Carlito's Way seems to be quickly and drastically losing his touch.  Mission Impossible was okay--high-powered action, cool gadgets, neat stunts and little else.  Snake Eyes seemed like an exercise, the kind of by-the-numbers movie a college film student would make.  Now we have Mission to Mars.Mission to Mars borrows heavily from such films as Apollo 13, 2001 A Space Odyssey, and even 2010 The Year We Make Contact.  In fact, it borrows so much (covering everything with a thick layer of American cheddar CHEESE) that the first two-thirds of the movie fails in every way to establish an identity of its own.  Instead of watching a movie, we feel like we're playing a game of Which Movie Did That Come From?Aside from some excellent special effects, the only saving grace in this movie is the final (third) act.  It is at that point that some real suspense begins.  Unfortunately, as nice as the payoff is, it is nowhere near enough to make this movie worth the effort of enduring the first hour.  Skip it, and hope De Palma either gets back on track real soon or gives it up all together. "},{"Title":"M2M a flawed, but very watchable movie","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this film during a freebee Starz cable weekend, and was expecting the worst, given all the awful theatrical release reviews as well as most of those posted here.But I must beg to disagree with these dismal pronouncements.Caveat This is not a perfect film, or even close.However, in spite of (or perhaps because of) my expectations, this movie drew me in, and I found myself thinking this isn't nearly as bad as everyone says.Maybe this film attempts to do too much, shoving many of the science-fiction themes of the last half-century against what is essentially a love story.Many moments in this film I found very touching, but then again I'm one of those geeks that gets all choked up at the end of 2010 (the year we make Contact).Don't forget that David Lynch's 'Dune' was also universally panned on release, and its stock has risen steadily since then.I suggest viewers forget the pundits, and judge this film for themselves.Bottom line warts and all, I enjoyed 'Mission to Mars' - 7/10  "},{"Title":"Terrible movie","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am slightly confused as to the ending.  Why did the one person, cannot remember his name, remain on Mars?  I can honestly say this is the worst movie I've ever watched.Thanks. "},{"Title":"Not Outstanding...But Not Crappy!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is certainly not the Motion Picture of the Century. But it was quite enjoyable. It presents a whole new view of how life on Earth began, although I don't happen to believe it started that way, it was still fascinating. I personally would love to see a sequel to this movie. 8\10 "},{"Title":"an insult to anything living on Mars","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok that was lame but this movie sucked sooo bad. I really like Tim Robbins but he couldn't save this movie. It started out alright but then just got dumber and dumber, you will be very disappointed with the ending and how silly it really is I have no idea why this movie was even allowed to be made the producer should be shot this is probably the worst movie I've ever seen, and I've seen Will Smith movies! "},{"Title":"Journey you might not want to take","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma doesn't follow the rules of Hollywood-storytelling, and sometimes it really pays off. Not this time though, this mission is doomed right from the opening credits.All the main characters are introduced socially at the very beginning, but their lives and destinies remain irrelevant to a viewer throughout the whole film. As fellow human beings they seem merely boring and clishe-like, as astronauts plain stupid! Sometimes they act reeeally slow, sometimes they just make too irrational decisions considering they are in fact astronauts!Choices of actors are odd as well, and the rhythm of the story is weird; you never get the feeling of take-off, things just happen and it feels like there's no timeline. Maybe that is supposed to state the surreal feeling of someone traveling through emptiness towards something called Mars? Then again, why is there this awful music when there should be silence instead? The biggest mistake of Mr. Palma however is making superb actor Gary Sinise look so bad! I mean, take a look at his hair and make-up... mon dieu.On the cover of the DVD there are two astronauts staring at the camera trying to look frantic and intense. Well, to me it seems that the only thing echoing inside those helmets is one question WOA..? "},{"Title":"Brian de Palma and Science Fiction?  not too bad the result","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is pretty unusual to see how a Great director as Brian de Palma could shot a science fiction film like Mission to Mars.You should not expect from this film anything like super special effects, aliens and things like that. It is a very typical American film starting with a barbecue party with all the astronauts friends and families ready to leave to Mars. This expedition has problems due to an unexpected and strange storm in Mars and a second rescue one leaves the earth.There is some philosophy in the film and also the strong believe that we are not alone and the strange desire and need to change our life.Rating 6/10     "},{"Title":"Shocking!","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have never seen anything so bad, not even Wild Wild West! This film had the promise of being a good space movie, and something that you could see happening in the near future, but towards the end, it turns into a routine Sci-Fi movie with aliens. Another bad thing about this movie is that it has an awful soundtrack. The music should be tense and exciting (like it was in Apollo 13) but in reality is soppy! The only redeeming feature was some good acting by Gary Sinise. I give this movie 1/10 "},{"Title":"Not 2001, but not that bad","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I seem to be in a minority of one here, but I rather enjoyed this film. The effects were obviously superb, with a 2001 Space Odyssey feel that was clearly identifiable, and contrary to what everyone else seems to think, I didn't feel that the script was so bad.COMMENTS BELOW MAY SPOIL!The husband/wife on a mission thing didn't really work (where were the arguments), and Tim Robbins' character seemed to accept his fate a little too readily, the rest of the characters were reasonably believable if not somewhat underdeveloped. The ending was a bit far fetched and flawed, although I didn't guess it in advance. It struck me that if our highly evolved Martian ancestors were capable of colonising a distant galaxy, and creating life on earth, they might somehow have been able to prevent their homeworld from being devastated by a mere meteorite. Not to mention whether Gary Sinise's character would've been able to track them down 4,000 million years later! "}{"Title":"Ooops","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With a great cast, I really did expect a hell of a lot better from the film... although the cast did the best with that they could... they couldn't bring the film back to life. With its horrible soundtrack (including a Hammond Organ solo), bad make-up (Gary Sinise's eye liner) and average special effects (the alien! what the hell was that?! And those 2D cardboard-cutout backgrounds! Eeek!)I can see why this video was on rental for $0.50 cheaper than the others . The only saving grace was that I didn't pay to see it in the cinema. "},{"Title":"Mission To Mars","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought the movie Mission To Mars was great but the part where Tim Robbins's character dies seemed like it could have been possible for him to be saved, he supposedly didn't want his wife to come any closer because she wouldn't be able to get back to the ship and would also risk the rest of the crew trying to save her but if she did come closer to save him, and when they returned only made it 90% of the way back to the ship, one of the other crew could have come the 10% of the way to save themthe ending of the movie reminded me a little of the what happened in the ending of Close Encounters Of The Third KindI hope there will be a sequel to Mission To Mars to show what happens to Gary Sinise's character when he reaches the martians new homeworld "},{"Title":"What is Brian De Palma doing?","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been retitled mish mash to Mars, it really is a mess.Firstly it is disjointed the start is laclustre and boring showing no insight into the characters and causing confusion about who was or wasn't going to Mars. Then we leap 13 months and the first group are on Mars and when the party is all but wiped out by a very good special effect, I didn't know or care who was dead and who survived.Then comes the rescue mission. The actors should have been rescued from the awful script. The characterisation was poor there was no tension, partly due to everyone thinking that all the other members of the crew were wonderful. The big mistake for me was the casting of Gary Sinese in the lead role with Tim Robbins in a relatively minor one. Sinese is not one of my favourite actors but he is particularly one dimensional in this film.Finally the music was inappropriate and intrusive.Brian De Palma has tried to make a modern 2001 and has failedI voted 4.  "},{"Title":"A Good Date Movie in Space","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is first and foremost a very touching love story set in space -- but Disney didn't have the courage to promote it for what it was. I think a lot of people just sat there watching and waiting for the usual shtick  a breathless, explosion-laden, lights-flashing outer space thriller with the good guys battling some unstoppable ooze-dripping alien.If that had been what I was expecting, and I was inflexible, I guess I'd have been disappointed too.  My own expectations were completely open, having not seen the trailer or even read the reviews.  Mission is not without its flaws, but it made me care about the characters and what happened to them.  What's more important in a movie than that?Mission has the nerve to feature a romantic zero-gravity dance scene, certainly a sci-fi first.  And it works, wonderfully.  It's one of the touches that make the later spacewalk scene with the four astronauts not only utterly gripping but more heart-wrenching than anything I've seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone says","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I skipped seeing this in the theatre because of all the bad press it got. Everyone makes this film sound like a dissaster, a total mistake, a movie that is one of the worst ever made.  It is not. It's kind of silly at times and it's not clear whether the director meant for this to be or not, so in that sense it has some weird scenes that make you wonder what the heck the point is. But from start to finish, it's fun to watch. It's not a bad rental. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie very much.","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think it is a great movie.  I have seen it several times and have enjoyed it every time.  I can't understand why it seems that so many people did not like it.  People want to tear the movie to pieces without just setting back and watching the movie for what it is.  Who cares if it is inaccurate, it's a good movie.  I thought the special effects are great and the movie very touching. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie can be make better but as i watched it, only 15 minutes of the first part is good.The special effects is excellent. This is what i like about this movie but the acting is extremely poor. One of the leading actress, after losing a husband, you should show a very sad expression, tears, red eyes and huge emotion but i've seen nothing, it just like nothing had happened. It is only 10% acting skills only.Although there are many big casts on it, the story is not as promising as it was.  "},{"Title":"This could have been good....","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With more work put into the story this could have been a good movie, but it seems rushed and unpolished. I just wander....when did DePalma realize that this movie was going to suck? I guess most people thought so about 30 minutes into the story, at least I wanted to throw something at my dvd player at that time. This movie proves it once and for all...good visuals doesnt do sh*t for a movie if the story is neglected. Just look at what Ridley Scott accomplished 22 years ago equipped with just a rubber puppet!(and Sigourney Weaver). At least Stephen Hopkins(lost in space)now has company in the shame of making totally pointless space movies. rating 5/10. The 5 points is to the visuals. Its the ONLY good thing in this...whatever. Tip Of The Day Suffer from insomnia? Rent this movie...it'll do miracles for you!!  "},{"Title":"Delicious subject botched again...","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mars hype was at it's peak when this son-of-a-scifi was made and it really shines from it. Almost every scene is taken from other sci-fi movies and made worse, then patched up into a full length film. The characters are thin and unconvincing, so is the dialogue, which is in many cases embarrasing. However, first part of the movie is bearable, mainly because of big budget special effects. Space walk part might even be called exciting. But then the movie gets bogged in red dust and ends to a ridiculous multimedia show of what happened and how. Altogether, a good no-brains sci-fi for those who haven't ever seen one, others shouldn't bother. Total Recall is much more inspirational and intelligent red planet movie than this mediocre flop.I give it 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"Glad To See Others Liked It Too","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't see this movie in the theatres because everyone said it was so horrible.  Then, I didn't rent this movie for so long because everyone said it was so horrible.Well, after finally seeing it, I really liked it.  I don't understand all of the discord.  Hey, beautiful science fiction films aren't released everyday, let alone every year.  Was the acting trite?  Sure, maybe.  Were the characters well developed?  No, not really.  Was the movie anywhere near scientific accuracy?  No, especially given that the actual face on Mars does not appear to resemble a face afterall...  not to mention the DNA business.However, I love sci-fi, and this movie was absolutely beautiful and filled with wonder.  Any movie that gets me thinking about the stars instead of life on this planet makes me happy so long as it's not some dumb, sci-fi horror flick or Starship Troopers or something.And besides, I'd place that scene with the Alien inside of the Face Museum/Starship up there with the greatest moments in sci-fi history.One more note, sometimes sci-fi is simply over the heads of under-educated, MTV watching, conformist, psychologically underdeveloped time wasters. "}{"Title":"A perfect movie = A perfect 10 !","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Got one word 4 this movie - brilliant !! Um i´m kinda shocked that kinda no 1 likes it? What´s there to dislike? It´s a interesting story with the face on mars and just like their version of what it could be and stuff...I find it very cool....but that´s not all the movie...they´re also space scenes when they gonna travel to Mars. The part where they gotta go out of the spaceship and jump to another 1 with just their spacesuits is like the best thing ever made...I was glued to my seat, couldn´t move... Mission to Mars is really damn good ! "},{"Title":"A good cast, numerous allusions to other great sci-fi flicks, and a hole-filled plot combine to produce a mediocre film.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Earth's first mission to Mars is all but wiped out in a hard-to-explain disaster (an accident that is even harder to rationalize once you know the whole story).  A hastily-planned rescue mission leaves Earth orbit, has its own problems, finds the lone survivor of the first mission, and learns Mars' great secret.  Yawn.  Some good suspenseful moments, some wildly improbable scenes, and beautiful Marscapes can't save it. "},{"Title":"Do NOT see this movie!!!!","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is officially the worst movie I have ever seen.  It even beat out Bordello of Blood, at least I knew before that Dennis Miller can't act.  I was frankly horrified at the wooden, disinterested acting from all of the cast members, especially Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins.  I mean, I like these guys a lot, but it looked like they filmed everything without rehearsing and didn't have enough time to do another take.  I don't want to waste any more time typing bad things about this movie (the annoying computer voice, the poorly animated alien, the emergencies that are sooo pressing that we can't be bothered to hurry our asses up), since I don't think I can express everything awful about this movie in less than the 1,000 word maximum.  I have seriously seen better special effects on a episode of The X-Files.  Anyway, don't even bother renting this sad piece of poop, and warn all your friends not to waste their money.P.S. What is with people comparing this movie to Contact?!?!   Did we watch different movies? "},{"Title":"Science fiction in its purest form","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are very few movies from which I leave the theater thinking I can't wait until I can buy this.  Mission to Mars is one of them. This film is science fiction in its purest form which is very rare coming from Hollywood. Good science fiction focuses on the science and the human condition that comes from it.  The viewer should be transported to a day in the life of some future world.  2001 A Space Odyssey was the bench mark and Mission to Mars is in that league.Traditional Hollywood sci-fi deals with scary alien monsters or epic dramas surrounding some super villain. Good science fiction ponders the question what if? Mission to Mars does this by examining the origin of life and postulating what if it happened this way?  When the character of Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise) learns of his place in the universe the realization changes his life in a grand way.  It is a satisfying film moment that brings tears to my eyes.I am shocked to read other IMDB reviews trashing this movie.  It is sad that visionary and moving science films like Brian DePalma's Mission to Mars and Robert Zemeckis' Contact don't get the main stream following as so many lesser quality movies that pollute this genre. If you are looking for a movie that paints a beautiful vision of the future, put Mission to Mars on your list.  If you like space movies for ray guns and comic relief aliens, don't bother. "},{"Title":"People, don't be so rough on this film!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really don't understand why people are so hard on this movie. It is JUST a movie- Sci fi is not usually realistic... Anyway, yes, there are some slow moments, there is too much time spinning in zero gravity. BUT, I still enjoyed the film and the f/x. Not being able to see it in the theaters, I was probably less disappointed maybe because I didn't have to shell out quite so much $$ for the flick, that may be, but I pretty much enjoyed it anyway. I didn't know what to expect because I didn't check out the reviews before watching it, and I am glad. It may have disuaded me. But what I got, I liked. I wasn't comparing this movie to every other sci fi out there. You have to have some imagination and let go of reality to some degree to enjoy this type of film. And I thought the premise was awesome(What the group learns at the end)!although the last line left the plot open to a sequel, perhaps? Kind of a silly line, though, I must admit. Regardless, it was enjoyable. And that Alien at the end, that everyone was criticizing- my husband and I both thought that it was a hologram, and that's why it looked fake like that. Anyone think of that??? The whole evolutionary lesson was a hologram. Don't you people watch star trek? Get over yourselves and enjoy a decent, maybe even a pretty good, movie! "},{"Title":"Could the future be so bleak?","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If this film is any indication, the most positive thing about the future is that people will still be listening to Van Halen in the year 2020. I guess rock 'n roll will never die after all.It's really too bad MST3K is no longer around. They could have had fun with this movie... "},{"Title":"Has that rushed feel about it.","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Almost seemed like they wanted to get this movie over with.  While it's not the worst movie on the earth, don't expect a long drawn out movie like Deep Impact or Armageddon.Worst of all, the alien looked fake.  At least Steven Spielburg knew how to make an alien.  Even 1970's type special effects looked more real.  I'm not about to believe a cartoon alien.  What is this Roger Rabbit??By the time they'd all land it looked like the ruins of a couple of other movies...  Lost In Space (98) or Star Trek's The Wrath of Kahn.  Not the most original movie out there. But if you're looking for a movie the whole family might be able to watch... perhaps this is the movie for you. (Unless your kids can't stop laughing at that fake alien.) (opinion only) 5/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good sci-fi entertainment.","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm kind of surprised to see this movie doing so bad on the ratings at IMDB. It's really not that bad a movie (I give it a 7) and is pretty good sci-fi entertainment.  Considering dreck like Starship Troopers is higher rated here I'm very surprised.  MtoM is a kind of updated for Y2K Flash Gordon-ish or maybe Space1999 sci-fi movie.  It presents an interesting theory for life on Mars & Earth.  The acting is decent, and the characters are kind of predictable but appropriate for the situations. "},{"Title":"Only movie I ever walked out on","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I walked out on this movie after about 30-40 minutes.  The things I remember the most about this show are the silly product endorsements.  I should have known this movie would be no good after finding out how prominent the Face on Mars played in the plot.  I will not get this turkey on video either.  Enough said! "},{"Title":"Great Cast","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A good Sci-Fi with an outstanding cast make for interesting viewing.  The movie tends to leave the audience with some valid questions but very good graphics and photography turn this film into an enjoyable experience.  Values for the whole family, although more satisfying to the true Sci-Fi fan.  I rated this a 7.  "}{"Title":"LOST IN SPACE RETURNS!!!!","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would have sworn that I was watching an old LOST IN SPACE show, with Tim Robbins and Dana Delaney in either the Guy Williams/June Lockhart or Goddard(?)/Kristen roles. The only thing that MIGHT have saved this MIGHT have been an appearance by Dr. Smith and the Robot! All the obvious painful aspects of this film have been covered, but my personal  'favorite' part was how much of the Martian landscape looked exactly like a red sand covered soundstage. From beginning to end, I didn't feel there was ONE moment where sheer disbelief could be suspended. If you plan on seeing this, all I can say is, 'DANGER, WILL ROBINSON! DANGER!' "},{"Title":"Mission Aborted","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was made for anyone who will believe anything.  If you like space fantasy, the producers seem to feel, you'll accept whatever they throw at you.  And here they throw the klunkiest special effects, an inconceivably preposterous story and phony heroics that are an insult to the real men and women who work in the space program.  Rover vehicles are shot at the wrong frames-per-second and skitter around like the toys they are.  (That was one of the more convincing bits.)  Inside the spacecraft, in the few genuine sequences of weightlessness, the astronauts look fine and are fun to watch.  Except for one thing.  No camera, beamed to viewers on earth, is aimed at them, and it's hard to believe that when they're en route to Mars on a rescue mission they're not well past frisking about just for their own enjoyment.  In the more expansive, EVA weightless scenes, they look like unmoving dummies on invisible wires.  On at least two occasions, supposedly trained and experienced astronauts venture for no reason into wholly unexpected and terrifying situations without taking any precautions whatsoever.  They just blunder blindly on because the writers hope the audience will be intrigued.  Every new surprise gets a well-earned laugh.  I can only hope the film-makers involved in this thing attended theatrical screenings.  Wouldn't it be great if there were no other people in the audience?  They'd deserve what they got an empty house and a really inept movie. "},{"Title":"Evermore forward","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Set in the not particularly distant future (2020 AD) the First manned Mission to Mars is a complete success, but not without cost. A quartet of astronaut land on Cydonia , Mars, then encounter a force of natural Martian energy unlike anything ever seen on earth.This energy results in the death of three astronauts. The survivor, Luke, finds a way to survive for a year on mars, vegetation playing a vital part. The rescue mission to Mars culminates in the mysterious ominous  and enigmatic face on Mars inhabited by someone known to Gary Sinese on earth. Evermore forward. "},{"Title":"Good f/x but lame dialog","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some of the special effects in this movie were fantastic.  The hardware was realistic and at times the movie reminded me of 2001 A Space Odyssey but where 2001 was evocative Mission to Mars was lame.  Even in very suspenseful scenes, like the hull breach, the movie was strangely slow and tedious.  Another thing about that scene, don't you think a micro-meteorite the size of a M&M through the hand would hurt.  Don't you think the hand would be incapacitated.  It didn't seem to affect Jerry O'Connell much at all.  Other lapses in logic really bugged me.  The cast seemed good but they were hampered by a script seemingly written by cliche merchants, AKA studio executives.  What a waste of good effects.  I rated this movie as a 8 for effects - 2 for the lame script. "},{"Title":"Looks like the philosophy and the plot had a train wreck","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can see where this movie had alot of potential...and I went into the movie not expecting alot of action or alot of philosophy, but a good mix between the two...I came out sensing neither. It looks like the philosophy was there in the beginning, and then the plot was added, but the two didn't seem to mix together and since they probably ran out of time (and money) they had to cram the two together....they did a very TERRIBLE job at that. Now i'm not sure if it was the acting or the bad plot (or taglines) but what came out from the actors was bad either way. Character development was also very weak...I was left wondering if we were supposed to know anything other than they are astronauts....often times when the referred to places or people I was left wondering what they hell they were talking about. Was the ending supposed to make you excited wanting to see the movie again???? I certainly hope not because it was very weak. I personally thought the movie could have ended right about when they leave the white building...but the escape sequence put the icing on the (terrible) cake.The only good thing about this movie was the graphic sequences, but since the sometimes the underlying physics laws were ignored the graphics scenes could seem some what off-balance. Don't rent this movie expecting some philosophical wonder or any great (or at LEAST mediocre) action scenes. This movie gets and F+ on my scale. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mediocrity (minor spoilers...very minor)","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The general consensus so far in the past comments is pretty much summing it up.  This movie had a great premise, great cast, fabulous special effects  (good gawd that dirt snake thing was really cool).  But I found myself all too often wrinkling my nose at the dialogue and some of the obvious cliches and rip-offs from other movies (the spinning portion of the ship and the white room in the face...).  Not only was the script bad, but DePalma's extraordinary long sequences allowed us the opportunity to watch great actors grope for something to do while the scene finished and they had nothing left to say.  It was painful at times.  I gave this movie a 6.  Without the dirt snake thing (mentioned above) this movie was a 3.  =) "},{"Title":"Wooden dialog, overblown soundtrack, overtly poignant, dull","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a disappointment from Mr. De Palma.  I found the dialog wooden and while Robbins and Sinise did their best with it, it was still difficult to watch.  The drama of the sound track exceeded that of the events on film. It's classed as action/sci fi but with the exception of the attack of the sand and rocks, it was very dull and self consciously poignant. "},{"Title":"Remake of '2001'","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed the movie, as a special-effects animation.What other people have mentioned, and what killed me completely, was the degree to which this was essentially a direct ripoff of '2001'.  I clicked on it earlier, I guess, than other people did, so all through the movie I was seeing nothing but a piece by piece reproduction of '2001' but with year 2000 special effects and a Brian DePalma take on the characters.The long centrifuge scene was where it hit me.  What was the point?  And I started trying to figure out how they did it, and decided they must have essentially done it the same way that Kubrick did the similar scene in '2001'.  ...very similar.Kubrick had integrated the scene very smoothly (Poole jogging) in a way which established mood, characters, and defined the sense of the whole Mission to Jupiter sequence.  DePalma, obviously, admired the scene and wanted to 'do his own'.  Which he did, but the only purpose the scene served was to be 'DePalma's version'.  It's like watching a little kid drawing pictures of his favorite comic-book or video-game heroes;  it's cute but it serves no purpose and is definitely not original.  The best you can say is that they're -as- good as the original.The center of the action is ... an enigmatic stone structure which is waiting for human beings to find it and indicate that they have advanced to the point of space travel.  Wait, am I talking about MTM or 2001?  I forget.The resolution is ... a human is taken by the aliens to an enigmatic evolution to a higher level in a dazzling special effects sequence.  Wait, which one am I talking about?You get the idea.It's an uncredited remake.  Like 'Fistful of Dollars' to 'Yojimbo'.  Or more like 'Last Man Standing', inasmuch as it is a lame pastiche of cliches with nothing to recommend it which wasn't done better in the original.My advice?  Rent '2001' on DVD and see it again. "},{"Title":"Good try, but not too successful","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film got a lot of stick when it came out, and perhaps rightly so. However, being a fan of cinematic sci-fi, I felt I ought to at least say a few things about this film in its defence.Let's start with the easy things first. Visually, this film is very watchable. The space scenes are directed by DePalma with his usual style and technical excellence, and he brings lot of tension to the piece. The scenes on Mars itself are also very good; the martian landscapes were beautiful yet chilling, something we haven't seen for a quite a while. 1979's Alien is the best in this area, but M2M gives it a good shot. I hope he isn't deterred from trying his hand at sci-fi again. Special effects are, needless to say, also of high quality, except in one scene perhaps.The acting is also good, particularly from Sinise. He is an underused leading man, who can bring weight to many a thankless roles.Which brings me on to the bad points. The music is at times effective, at other times downright annoying. But otherwise I would lay the blame for the flaws in this film solely at the door of the script. The cliches spouted out here are at times mind-numbingly awful, and you can't believe the actors managed to say them without laughing or cursing. The build-up to the climax of the film is gradual, and done pretty well, but the pay-off really doesn't work in the way it would wish, and reports of laughter from cinema audiences are unsurprising.To remedy this (and admittedly this is drastic), I suggest you see it by yourself. Not a good sign for a film, I know, but if you enjoy a good sci-fi adventure, then you could certainly do a lot worse than to see this. There is a fair bit to like in M2M, and I just wanted people to know this. "},{"Title":"First third was horrible, then it got interesting.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  40 minutes into Mission to Mars you're still wondering what the hell is the point. They say more dialogue in the first 20 minutes then they do in the last 80 of the movie (similar to 2001). When the rescue mission finally reaches Mars, I was stuck. It actually got pretty good. Some cool special effects and a re-treaded sci-fi plot point here and there, but still a watchable film. Glad I rented it vs seeing in the theater, but make your own judgement. Cut out the first 40 minutes and it would've been an A- -- the first 40 minutes definitely killed this movie. Poor acting and dialogue and just plain boring! Then it started to take itself seriously. Overall --> C- , a 70. 7 out of 10. My favorite line Or maybe he saw his whole crew die and he's been stuck by himself for a year on Mars.  "}{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seemed to have so many bad reviews, but I rented it anyways and enjoyed it thoroughly! I was bored with kubrick's 2001 a space odyssy and had trouble sitting through it. This movie seemed to translate that movie but in a different(unique) way. I think this movie succeeded where it wanted to and is definately worth seeing when your bored. "},{"Title":"I was still in shock.....","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am what you would call a huge sci-fi enthusiast , mind you, it isnt all a like, but I tend to like and sometimes love everything that can be passed under that label, namely sci-fi. Such names at Star Wars, Star Trek, Babylon 5, Contact, Even Horizon, 2001, 2010 pops into mind when thinking of scifi,though I mostly lean to scifi that is deeper than your regular explosion with effects type of story, the kind where you are left with a deeper sense of existence when the credits starts rolling, a good example of that would be Contact.I seek the net frequently to check if there will be a new scifi movie release in the near future, and I remember reading the line Mission to mars the first time thinking it would be a cool movie to watch. But when the movie reviews started coming in near the premier I got scared since it got all in all slaughtered. Ok I thought, the press is mostly wrong anyways, so I sat that aside. But when I saw that most of the IMDB members voted it down the tubes I though it must surly suck. I didnt therefor attend the movie premier.5 months after it came out on dvd. I though long and hard, and finaly decided to buy it. Then I watched it 2 days later. When the last credit has rolled past the screen I was still in shock..... I could not believe that SOOOOOO many IMDB members thought it was no good, because I had just had on of the best movie experiences of all time....close to 2001! AND THAT should tell you a thing or TWO!  I cannot imagine what does other members where thinking, but they must be out of their minds, or maybe to immature or just not the super scifi fan that I am.Had it not been for a minor thing or two in the movie it would have gotten a SMASHING 10 OUT OF 10, but I had to drop to 9 OUT OF 10.The movie is superb, with super mind dazeling camera angels and superb special effects!If you like scifi, this is more than a MUST SEE!! "},{"Title":"Misses the mark","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have always had a fascination with science fiction films .. inparticular, those that deal with the afterlife and/or the mysteries of life in general and evolution. When I saw the preview for this movie, it looked promising, but I found the actual movie to be quite a disappointment. I think the main problem I had with M2M is that it tried too hard to get the audience to care about the characters .. and I just didn't care at all. I was only interested in the 'discovery' and was extremely annoyed by the character development scenes. There are scenes where it is revealed that the character of Gary Sinise is actually a widow and is still coming to grips with the loss of his wife, and there is another scene where one character loses their own life to save the life of another. Perhaps in any other movie where the plot was more character-based, this might have worked. But this is sci-fi here, and I just wasn't moved at all. I wish they would have entered the strange place at the beginning of the movie and spent the rest of the time really focusing on the main theme of the movie. But instead, we end up wasting about an hour and 20 minutes actually getting to that point. Once we do get to that point, things start to get interesting, but just not interesting enough to make up for the time that was wasted getting here in the first place. "},{"Title":"Not that bad...Contains Spoilers","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I walked in the theatre without any expectations on a boring afternoon.OK, the first part was awful. The dialogs were just plain stupid, corny, cliched, too sentimental, and gave absolutely no depth to the characters.The second half was a bit better and wasn't that predictable. I actually enjoyed it.Some said that physics is ignored. I disagree. Except for the whole alien technology stuff, everything seems to be realistic (at least compared to the vast majority of the movies). The atmosphere and gravity on Mars seemed higher than normal (too Earth-like) but it's not a problem.The idea with liquid used for compensating high accelerations was nice (and it's quite old, since Jules Verne I believe). The fragile look of the aliens was interesting too, it suggested that it was possible exactly because of the lower gravity.SPOILERS Many have complained about the tear on alien's face. It was a metaphor! Just like everything in the silent story presented. They knew everything about us, and a tear is the best way to express sadness. And if we accept angry aliens, blood-thirsty aliens, why can't we accept sad aliens?In the end, not something to remember, but not a complete waste. "},{"Title":"I see a LOT of people back-pedaling in about 10 years...","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to know what to tell people about a movie as ambitious as this one, which then receives almost universally lukewarm reviews from professional critics. It gets harder when one's own friends and relatives come back from the theater with disappointingly similar reviews.Disappointing because I had so looked forward to its release - and then the echoes of the pros sounded by my own kin actually dissuaded me from going to see it in all its 70mm, Dolby SurroundSound glory. What a sad mistake that was. I keep thinking I'll learn someday, but...The people who complained about the script failed to grasp the film's intent. The people who complained about the characters have been brainwashed by cultural elitists. The people who complained about the science don't know their science (the one concession they get is the issue of sound in space - but even that has its own kind of artistic integrity, potentially as a representation only of what crew members hear on board the ship or in EVA suits). The people who complained about the acting are simply off their rockers, perhaps SO jaded that need to find fault with everything, even if confabulation is required. The people who complained about the derivative elements are simply ignorant of this particular director's M.O.Mission to Mars is glorious - and I make this proclamation fully cognizant of the fact that director Brian De Palma was very likely under some pressure to keep this film strictly within PG guidelines. Any familiarity with De Palma's other work will quickly lead a viewer to the conclusion that M2M could have been MUCH edgier. But with such a high-minded concept - NASA scientists consulted heavily on this project - the studio was probably wise in thinking their greatest chance of financial success lay in ensuring the broadest possible appeal, and in the current cultural climate that means family movie.Not that there isn't plenty of edginess to be found in M2M, but I'm rapidly coming to the conclusion that viewing this film requires some kind of background sensibility with regard to the issue of space exploration - to wit, the reasons it is a worthwhile enterprise, the risks involved, and so forth. As a moon shot baby (I have the vaguest recollection of Armstrong's historic footprint being pressed into the lunar dust) whose father was a commercial airline pilot with fairly remote albeit very real involvement in NASA, I had this sensibility bred into me.De Palma deftly weaves his craft through the tale of Man's first visit to Mars in anything other than a remotely-operated vehicle. It begins with a purpose essentially identical to the one we currently envision for a first Martian landing, but leads to a discovery no one could have dared dream. I don't want to give anything away, but it speculates on a resolution to a couple of different scientific mysteries, and if the speculations about certain facets of our solar system's natural history contain even a grain of truth, I dare say the human species is on the verge of a collective conscious shock at least equal to the one delivered when Copernicus decentered the Earth.Along the way there is an awful lot of miscalculation and blundering and death (accompanied by some mild gore), but hey, this is all part of the high price we pay for knowledge and experience, and when such conceptual concerns lie at the heart of a movie, garden-variety complaints about two-dimensional characters start to sound just a tad silly. Do the comparatively nonexistent personalities of the characters in 2001 A Space Odyssey dilute reverence for that sci-fi art film? Of course not. And while De Palma does borrow from Stanley Kubrick's classic (among other sources), the characters in Mission to Mars are in fact filled in with just enough brush strokes to allow us to understand their actions - this was an absolute necessity, particularly with regard to the main character's (Sinise) final decision.Indeed the actions rather than the motivations are the central focus here. This movie is primarily about big events, and although such concerns are out of favor with critics, here they are handled with great aplomb amid a cast of characters infused with warmth, humor and spirit, if not any personal dramatic transformation, which seems to be the only true basis on which a film's ultimate merit may be judged - at least in the eyes of cultural elitists. Mark my words ten years from now, Mission to Mars will be considered a modern classic. Don't miss it!  "},{"Title":"MovieWorld Law #3","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the opening scene, a busy afternoon party with about 50 guests is in full swing in Luke Graham's (Don Cheadle) garden. Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise) arrives late and is able to drive straight up an empty driveway and park just opposite the barbeque.This is a classic example of MovieWorld Law #3 No matter how busy the party/nightclub/accident scene is, you can always drive right up and park right at it "},{"Title":"We've all seen this movie countless times before.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars has so many cliches in it, you wonder how the writers could even get credit for this.  Now that doesn't mean that this movie is an absolute mess, it's just that it brought so many other, better, movies to mind.I'm not going to list all of the cliches in the movie, instead I'd like to list some of the good points.  There were some very intriguing moments in this movie, some very creative.  I liked the scene where a ration of Dr. Pepper saves the lives of all on board (they'd better be glad they didn't drink Sprite or some other light-colored beverage, else they'd have been history).  And how the leaky gas tank freezes in the atmosphere, floats behind the rockets and the ignition causes a chunk of the ship to blow off.  It didn't seem like enough gas to do that much damage, but I'm guessing rocket fuel is pretty highly concentrated stuff.There was a awesome yet disturbing scene that must've slipped by the MPAA board seeing that this movie was only rated PG.  When the crew first lands on Mars and some thing in a whirlwind-sandstorm-like fashion sucks up all but one, we see one of the crew members spinning around violently in mid-air until he bursts into pieces.  Pretty graphic.But some scenes just carry on too long.  When the crew abandons ship and tries to land on a vacant craft Tim Robbins overshoots himself and goes flying off towards the Mars atmosphere.  Then there's a long laborious scene where the female character wants to risk her life and put the others' safety in danger by going after him.  But of course Tim Robbins gives one of those forget about me, save yourself speeches that carries the scene on for seemingly 10 minutes.  One thing I noticed is all these people are amazingly calm during terrorizing situations.  I don't know about you, but I think I'd be screaming if there were meteorites whizzing by my head, the atmospheric pressure in the cabin got too low, or if the door behind me in a potentially dangerous alien-infested chamber closed suddenly, but no, these astronauts keep talking in the same monotone voice.Many movies came to mind while watching this  Event Horizon, Sphere, 2001, and the far superior Contact.  If you want a movie that shows how extraterrestrial life wants to communicate with us without some corny alien wrapped in orange aluminum foil at the end, watch Contact, one of my favorite movies of all time.**1/2 (out of 4) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I expected...","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I went ahead and saw it despite what all the comments and critics had said.  I went to a second-run dollar theater, so I'm not out much money.I have to agree that the story was a little thin, and could have been padded up in some spots.  The storyline, I felt, was sound and had good characters with real issues.  The special effects and scientific realism were good, too.However, this movie seemed rushed to the box office, when it probably could have used about 30 more minutes of footage.Scientifically speaking, did anyone wonder why Sinise was enveloped in oxygenated fluid prior to his journey?  It's because dense fluids don't compress like gaseous fluids.  This way, they could travel at incredibly high rates of speed with acceleration and not crush him.   "},{"Title":"Eyeliner?","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read all these comments regarding how horrid this movie is, and I agree of course, but hasn't anyone yet addressed the most pressing issue here? WHY IS GARY SINISE WEARING SO MUCH EYELINER? Good LORD! All through the stuttering mass of tomfoolery DePalma tries to pass off as a movie, we are subjected to the moist puppy dog eyes of the gentle yet determined Spaceman Gary. Puke.. I simply was stunned that such a movie was made. What is wrong with this film has been said best by everyone else so I will refrain from listing something we already know, but I just had to mention the frickin' EYELINER! There I can go eat my breakfast now. "},{"Title":"A huge failure, just like NASA's mission to Mars","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian de Palma is full of surprises. You never know what you're going to get, a classic like The Untouchables, or a flop like Mission to Mars. I have always been a fan of sci-fi films, and it's because of this that I can forgive some of the chaos in this movie (the way too long opening scene, the annoying music, and some scenes that are just plain silly). But as much as I tried to like this movie, it was useless. I think it's a waste of good actors and a good director, and frankly I'm not sure who's to blame. One last thing I never thought that Van Halen would be considered classic music for dancing in the year 2020... spooky. "}{"Title":"What a blunder (SPOILERS MAY APPEAR)","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was really looking forward to watching a worthy sequel to 2001... oh boy. The plot is incredibly far fetched and the end a terrible rip off from 2001 Space Odyssey. The only touching scene is when Robbins commits suicide, floating in front of Mars. Nice shock-effect and very romantic indeed. But that's the only memorable moment of this failed attempt to make an epic scifi movie. I rated MtM 3 - 1 point for the suicide, 1 for the modeling of the space ship and finally 1 point for the attempt to make a real old-fashioned science fiction movie. "},{"Title":"Actually not that bad","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading a lot of bad reviews about this film I didn't have much expectations of it. Sure it has some flaws, for example it's a bit too slow paced and the end is very naive. But overall I pretty much enjoyed my 2 hours in the theater. Just don't expect too much and you may enjoy it too )  "},{"Title":"I'm a huge sci-fi fan, but this movie was so bad , i cried","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are certain rules in a Sci-fi that add to the look of the movie, like never show the alien's face in total detail and light, then you know its so fake !!! and it leaves nothing to the imagination, and the sad drama of pitiful astronauts in love ??? give me a break !!!  there was little or no action and the plot need to be edited a million times over. I'm sorry but this movie sucked. "},{"Title":"Mission impossible","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Before going to watch Mission to Mars I hadn't a clue what it was about, nor had I heard any reviews, good or bad.I was at first disappointed with the acting, considering there were well known and respected actors like Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins. Their performances did not demand much, but they didn't seem convincing in their roles. I found the story very slow moving especially on their way to mars in the spacecraft. The effects were by far the best thing about the film, but they could not make up for the lack of excitement and unimaginative script.The ending of the film made me laugh. I think it's what I enjoyed most as I found it comical more than anything else. A typical Hollywood movie. Haven't we seen enough of those? "},{"Title":"There are no memorable quotes for this film!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie would be good; emphasis on thought.  It had a decent cast led by Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle and Tim Robbins.  It had a tried and basically true director with Brian DePlama.  The special effects in the trailers were awesome.  But then we had to put it all together or that's what they should have done.  Instead you get a catastrophic mess of a film that starts out promising and leaves you with nothing.  When the credits start to roll, you sit there wondering what just happened and it took me several days to decide whether this movie was just bad or whether it sucked. Then it hit me; it sucked royally. "},{"Title":"Mission Too Much","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After messing up with The Mission Impossible, Brian De Palma messing up Mission to Mars. The movie deals with many plots, more than he can handle. It's true, he might want to interpret our humanity side in space travelling, but there are too many problems he created unsolved, even as the curtain closed.It is such a waste with these many gifted casts, we can see these talented characters built the story higher and a drift in the vacuum space.One to be noted is the brilliant vision of the cinematographer. Smart-beautiful pictures are presented hand in hand with the special effects. The camera move it's angles creating the same dizziness and stage the characters might have from our point of view.I don't mind the story. Any absurdity and fantasy is acceptable in these science fiction movies, but I regret unsolved matter in this movie. And the story changes it's plot in undesignated course, not mentioning partially predicted. Too much to handle.But it's a good science fiction movie. Recommended to be watch at night, to recapture the beauty of this life and love we have. And cherish them.  "},{"Title":"A worthwhile attempt to combine fantasy with a serious space-travel drama.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Any space travel epic will always be compared to 2001 and usually unfavourably. Despite giant leaps made in special effects and the introduction of weightlessness this movie also fall short of it's illustrious predecessor. The astronauts are so nice to one another at the send-off party it is almost sickening, but once the mission gets underway Tim Robbins as the stoic Woody frowns often enough to remind us that something really serious is on. It does have it's lighter moments, the dancing in micro-gravity scene was quite special. Luke is a real trooper and quite reminiscent of OJ Simpson in Capricorn One. But what could possibly happen on Mars? We all know it ain't the kind of place to raise a kid. You've got to expect the unexpected  in  the shadow of Phobos and Deimos.  Will Woody and Terry join the Million Mile High Club? Will Jim find that special world that he has been looking for? Will the special effects budget run to just one more eye-dazzling, ear-shattering crescendo? "},{"Title":"Great potential, but only half the movie","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It all starts great, so many exciting things that happen and give you the impression it's going to be a very good movie, which it actually is, the first 3/4 of the movie... Excitement is built up minute after minute... until the rescue mission arrives at Mars, and then it all falls apart. The things that happen from that moment on are no match against the start of the film, the end being the most stupid part of the movie. As said, the story started with great potential, but ended very boring "},{"Title":"sometimes great, sometimes awful - WARNING contains spoilers","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" WARNING THIS CONTAINS POTENTIAL SPOILERS. DO NOT READ ON IF KNOWING TOO MUCH OF THE PLOT WILL SIGNIFICANTLY LESSEN YOUR VIEWING EXPERIENCE. Thanks.Mission to Mars is a curious mix of some very good, with some very bad, bits. Basically, it feels like a pretty solid director was at work - only, for some reason, he had to do all the editing in a rush, or he had someone else do it for him, and as a result some of the greatest points get squeezed to a minimum, while some nearly useless scenes will last 5-10 minutes.On top of that, the actors were directed in such a way that, for whatever reason, they do not seem to believe in their parts at all, and this for about 75% of the film.Examples? A hugely long scene, at the beginning, where the astronauts are having a last BBQ before taking off for Mars, and there is this great pilot (Sinise) who should have been part of the mission, but was taken off the list because he was depressed after having lost his wife - that scene lasts over 10-15 minutes, easy. But then, we do not even get to see man's first steps on Mars!Or else there is that scene on Mars where a whole mountain lifts up in the air about 50 yards away from the crew of four, and guess what, they continue to observe and film, without ever considering running for their lives (so they die).Or there is the message decoding / recoding scene, which will remind one very strongly of Contact - but in this case the scene barely gets one minute on screen, even though it could have been a high point, had it been given more time, and had Contact not existed.Then there are numerous references to other sci-fi films, and it is difficult to decide whether this is a tribute, or a joke, or what - but it spoils the fun because of the strong air of deja vu. The Mars space ship is a (smaller) copy of the ship in 2001 A Space Odyssey, same antenna, same spinning wheel for gravity. There even is the same running around the wheel scene - the only difference being in that the scene is supplemented with a zero-gravity ballet. The catastrophic re-start of the engines is a copy of Apollo 13 - and then it is also Sinise, like in Apollo 13, who ends up being the saviour. The benevolent smile of the Martian reminds one strongly of the alien in Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind.It feels like there was enough talent available from both the director, and the actors. It also clearly feels that there was enough money on the table. So, why screw up the editing in such a way? Don't know. I just hope that they kept the bits that were cut, and that we can hope to see a more smartly cut version of this feature some day.Antoine "},{"Title":"Simply a cynical studio product.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Something must have gone terribly wrong early on in the making of M2M (as it was `catchily' referred to in ads), and no one was able to put it back on the right track. The plot is more or less completely derivative, primarily from Kubrick's classic 2001 A Space Odyssey and (believe it or not) Star Trek The Motion Picture. Every conceivable cliché of sci-fi drama is exploited, so much so that several emotional, tragic scenes draw laughter and ridicule from the audience.The introductory party scene is so poorly written that it could pass as a Saturday Night Live parody of a dramatic farewell scene. It doesn't get better. The farewell scenes in space similarly come off as painfully drawn-out and tedious examples of bad writing and lousy direction.The stylistic imprint of director Brian De Palma &#150; usually so easy to identify &#150; is more or less absent here. Often unreliable, De Palma at least used to be reasonably entertaining, even when bad (as for instance with Snake Eyes). Here, he is only boring. Several camera-tilting scenes in Mission to Mars are not so much the auteur trademark they were in Casualties of War or Carlito's Way (or any other De Palma film), but rather dull rip-offs from 2001 and its dizzying portrayal of weightlessness and `artificial' gravity.In some recent science fiction films (and some not so recent) special effects have been ostensibly more important than plot and direction (Armageddon leaps to mind), but even the special effects in Mission to Mars are dull and predictable. It is simply a cynical studio product, and the New Age ending is both tacky and morbid.  "}{"Title":"All hail De Palma's new direction","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Many people immediately dismiss MTM for it's lacklustre script, acting, story, special effects, direction, originality and the fact that it copies ideas from at least 5 other better movies, but I don't.I embrace these factors and say, May we never be content. I watch the movie and think Let the chips fall where they may. MTM is a story about eternity, about the timeless endeavour of humans to locate other lifeforms like, or unlike our own and to communicate ideas, thoughts and basic emotions. The story, done before in the much inferior Contact, is as simple as that. The possibility of intelligent lifeforms other than our own excites even the simplest of people. De Palma embraces this and runs with it in a tour de force of a lacklustre script, bad acting, lame story, dubious special effects, lame direction, complete lack of originality and the fact that it copies ideas from at least 5 other better movies. You have to realise that someday De Palma is going to die, until you know that, you are useless. His ode to the SCI FI genre is fitting in that it encapsulates even the smallest emotion. We empathise with Tim Robbins' missus when Robbin's removes his helmet. We feel overjoyed at the reunion of Gary Sinise and the metaphorical John Malkovitch at the end when he takes the chance to leave his empty life and reunite himself with his dead wife. Even Don Cheadle's son gains a warmth because of his loss only 5 minutes into the film.MTM will forever be misunderstood as a lame attempt by De Palma to do Science Fiction. It is however, a deep exploration into the human psyche, examining what goes on between the ears of the common person. A story about love, the unattainable, the unforgettable and a story about the journey of a lifetime. We should just be thankful that De Palma allows us to go along with him. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What do the people expect, when they watch a Brian De Palma movie? De Palma copied all the way. First the Hitchcock thrillers, then some other thrillers (Carlito's Way could be by Scorsese) and Mission Impossible is like a Bond movie.Now De Palma copied a sci-fi movie 2001. Kubrick's masterpiece is slow and difficult to understand. De Palma made a remake, a 2001 light version. Who are we? Where do we come from and where do we go? Already answered in 2001. The spaceship to Mars is a 1  2 model of the Discovery. Even the AE 35 unit is there.But De Palma is a master of suspense, and this is what he learned from Hitchcock. In Mission Impossible it was the single drop of sweat on Cruise's eyebrow. Here it is what happens when the ship reaches Mars orbit It is really breathtaking.Entertaining. Not more, not less. "},{"Title":"A great popcorn film.","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed M2M.  It was no shoot-'em-up.  It was man against physics.  Get a bag of popcorn and a coke and sit back and enjoy! "},{"Title":"The Self-destructing Mission to C","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is a mult-faceted story so full of cliches and ideas stolen from other movies that it is hard to like the movie.What seems like a possible concluding trilogy to the 2001 & 2010 movies, M2M (as set in 2020) does deal with finding life, but it is nothing special.The darth Vador like breathing, the Alien-esq environment of fear, the Mad Max type desert, the Star Trek feel, and the 2001/2010 like spacecraft, and many others give M2M a been there, done that feal.The acting is also no-hum as we are never really sold on the love or the importance of the mission, or anything else, because the writing never allows one to fully develop over the other.  In all, this movie is cheese with a capital C. It is not terrible, nor any good.  Instead it is low grade fodder that self destructs as a quality mission.Rating 5 Viewed 35mm (scope)  "},{"Title":"The Weeping Astronaut","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  That's what I would've titled this film. I was expecting a bad, boring movie. And what I saw was actually not that bad, but it did get boring, and I was wondering why the writers chose to place so much emphasis on the characters' personal lives. Yes, character development is important (so-and-soes ex-wife is dead, maybe he's a little emotionally unstable, etc... yawn...), but isn't A HUMAN STANDING ON MARS FOR THE FIRST TIME just a tad more interesting? The film completely glosses over such events, as if it's old news already. Come on! Where's the sense of wonder and discovery?Instead, we have all this heavy, teary-eyed back-story to contend with that doesn't do much to further the far more dramatic, paradigm-shattering discovery THAT HUMAN LIFE STARTED ON MARS! It reminded me of why I hated Sphere so much A really intriguing scientific discovery plays second-chair to humdrum pop psychology. To make matters worse, the actors seemed to be sleepwalking through the leaden, predictable script. I don't blame them. Not exactly challenging material.I won't bother with detailing all the plot holes and scientific blunders (other reviewer handle that quite nicely here). I could've ignored them had this been a more engaging film. As it was, I had ample time to ponder these oversights while yet another highly trained astronaut cries in the middle of an personal crisis. "},{"Title":"Why do people burry this film?","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't get this! I was waiting for this film for two months now, and I was keeping up with how it went in the box office. It seems that the first weekend, the film was a major success, but from then on a bunch of critics cut its wings. They said it was stupid, unreal, rough-cut and they literally burried it in every possible way. I was really curious until I got to see the film a couple of nights ago.I was so amazed at the end, that I had to wake up the next day to remember that even one critic burried this. I mean, come on guys what's so wrong with this film? Some people even say that they burried this because it hit a nerve in the extraterrestrial coverup.  Well, I can only say that the film was beautiful. The acting was OK, the music sounded fine, the graphics were absolutely breathtaking (spacewalks, landscapes, etc.), and despite the fact that it was made in a hurry it is just fine.My advice Ignore the critics and go see this beautiful movie! And who knows? Maybe a part of it is actually true. "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad - quite solid, actually.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Dunno what film those other people saw, I'm not sure it was the same that I saw. My comments in brief* Solid story, even though it was nothing we haven't seen before.* Very solid acting, especially from Sinise and Robbins.* Did the production company force DePalma to cut about 30 minutes from the movie? A slower pace might have helped in some places.* Probably not technically sound enough to please the average nitpicking sci-fi aficionado. Good enough for the rest of us, though.* DePalma has watched 2001 a few times too often, or he is an avid fan of that movie. The amount of references was impressive.In brief n othing extraordinary, but solid entertainment. You money for the ticket is NOT wasted. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars Misses the Mark","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!Seeing this movie dubbed into Russian probably helped, judging from some of the other reviews, which mention inane and/or insipid English dialogue. Russian translations of American films for the most part tend to sound somewhat more intelligent.When the Cydonian face thing attacks with the sand storm, I saw one big movie quote - THE MUMMY!Really, there are too many quotes. Later on, I suppose this film might be enjoyed as the hokey piece of fluff that it is - a very minor camp classic.I mean, I'm one of those people who thinks that appallingly bad sci-fi can occasionally be appreciated as comedy. I loved CREATURE a.k.a. TITAN FIND (a film with similar space suit helmets as this turkey and 2001), but the difference there was CREATURE has one or two genuinely humorous moments, and Klaus Kinski knew he was in a bad movie and just had fun, which is more than I can say for the cast of MISSION TO MARS.Personally, I would have much preferred seeing Tim RobbinsÕ head explode (like the heads exposed to zero atmosphere in OUTLAND) rather than freeze when he takes his helmet off in space. That would have made the movie for me! I mean, it would have been more spectacular.Other than this one point, the  sequence in question - the approach to Mars was pretty good. It's perhaps the only decent scene in an very flawed movie.Really, can anybody tell me what ACTUALLY happens to a human body when it is exposed to vacuum?The alien was a bit much. I mean, was it really I.L.M. doing these effects? TheyÕre kinda cheap-looking! The tear falling from its eye was an example of the worst kind of sentimentality - the computer generated kind! The whole last sequence in fact is insulting to the intelligence of the audience. The film lets its audience down in the worst way imaginable - it trounces on their suspension of disbelief.Remember Bry ol' pal - You're only as good as your last picture!  "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars Misses the Mark","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!Seeing this movie dubbed into Russian probably helped, judging from some of the other reviews, which mention inane and/or insipid English dialogue. Russian translations of American films for the most part tend to sound somewhat more intelligent.When the Cydonian face thing attacks with the sand storm, I saw one big movie quote - THE MUMMY!Really, there are too many quotes. Later on, I suppose this film might be enjoyed as the hokey piece of fluff that it is - a very minor camp classic.I mean, I'm one of those people who thinks that appallingly bad sci-fi can occasionally be appreciated as comedy. I loved CREATURE a.k.a. TITAN FIND (a film with similar space suit helmets as this turkey and 2001), but the difference there was CREATURE has one or two genuinely humorous moments, and Klaus Kinski knew he was in a bad movie and just had fun, which is more than I can say for the cast of MISSION TO MARS.Personally, I would have much preferred seeing Tim RobbinsÕ head explode (like the heads exposed to zero atmosphere in OUTLAND) rather than freeze when he takes his helmet off in space. That would have made the movie for me! I mean, it would have been more spectacular.Other than this one point, the  sequence in question - the approach to Mars - was pretty good. It's perhaps the only decent scene in an very flawed movie.Really, can anybody tell me what ACTUALLY happens to a human body when it is exposed to vacuum?The alien was a bit much. I mean, was it really I.L.M. doing these effects? TheyÕre kinda cheap-looking! The tear falling from its eye was an example of the worst kind of sentimentality - the computer generated kind! The whole last sequence in fact is insulting to the intelligence of the audience. The film lets its audience down in the worst way imaginable - it trounces on their suspension of disbelief.Remember Bry ol' pal - You're only as good as your last picture!  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is enjoyable, if you don't think too hard. I entered the theater with an open mind, because of all the bad reviews I read, and I was pleasantly surprised. True, there are many, many plotholes (we never see the take-offs nor the landings), but the acting is really good and the special effects (yes-that massive twister kinda thing) amazed me. If you want to be entertained, this is definitely one to watch. If you want to see mind-blowing stuff, be some place else. To me, it's worth a 7. "}{"Title":"Comic strips, anyone?","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, my title is a joke. I am sorry for the people who claim they never wasted a second with comic strips. I don't know a better way to learn how to read or how to speak a foreign language (in my country, original versions are not welcome.) A fan of BDP, I hurried to see this movie at its first showing,with only two reviews, both negative, on my stomach. While I admit it's no 2001 or ENCOUNTERS OF THIRD KIND (strange, nobody remembers this one), the movie is entertaining and I didn't hear anybody snorring (not even me, and, at 73, I often doze in my seat). For me, the Earth and Mars were brought to life by those creatures, before Gary Sinise joins them for another adventure. And I agree that there was no use to show a take off or a landing, it's like spelling a or z to a grown-up. According to the ads, this movie costed $125 million, that's a billion of our Francs. With so many bad reviews and comments, I wonder whether the producers will get their money back, and I am afraid I may have to wait a long time before BDP comes back with another thriller. For the travelers, I point out that the movie's exteriors were filmed in Jordan, probably at Wadi Rum, where LAWRENCE OF ARABIA was equally done, 40 years ago. It's easier now to get there, and it's worth every cent of your dollar. henry caraso "},{"Title":"I have always wanted to try non-gravity tango!","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  An astronaut team is about to be sent out to Mars to explore, when something unexpected happens... A rescue team is being sent out to look for any survivors... It´s not a very exciting film or anything extraordinary about it but I liked the effects and the story even though the acting performance where not to good, Tim Robbins were much better in Arlington Road. Gary Sinise though as you saw in Apollo 13 is always a pretty high-performing actor, he was good.In the end you get a fresh theory on how we humans were born. Do I believe the theory? No! But it´s a whole lot better then the one I read in the bible.I think this movie is definitely worth to rent. "},{"Title":"this is dePalma, no doubt","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Certainly this film has its shortcomings, but dePalma has his own view on how to create a sci-fi movie! You not only get a sci-fi movie here. You also get lots of film quotes from classics (like 2001, to name the most obvious one ;))! Sure, some dialogues are pretty cliche, but the composition of pictures and the special FX deserve to be seen. It is very interesting to see how much time is taken by dePalma to get the film started! The calm and slow exposition is standing out here. Sure one could also opt that this is too slow and almost boring but one can also argue that this is a very daring approach to science-fiction-film-making. This film definitely needs its time! "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Like I said, I liked it.  You could tell that they put a lot of thought into the realism of the movie, at least as much realism there is in a sci-fi flick.  NASA was consulted as to how the international space station would be set up and what we might expect on Mars.  And instead of confusing the viewer, as in the case of Space Odyssey, this movie tried to answer some age old questions.  The performances were great.  The characters were real and human.  However, they were reading the wrong book. Basically, it was a fun movie.   "},{"Title":"Not a sci-fi director","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, Brian DePalma is probably one of the most gifted film-makers of his generation, which is saying something when the likes of Coppola and Scorcese were his peers. His previous films have been memorable affairs. His status as heir to the suspense mantle of Hitchcock is pretty much unquestionable. Body Double, Dressed to Kill, Carrie most overtly in the opening scene. As action films, even Mission Impossible succeeded, although John Woo should have helmed the first one aswell as the second. However, he is by no means a director of science fiction. Mission to Mars had a talented enough cast. The largely underrated Gary Sinise. Always reliable Tim Robbins, who was wasted in this role, for what there was of it. But the story and script were appalling. Sitting through this felt like you were waiting for something wonderful and cosmic to happen at the end, some universal truth to be revealed at the end about Man's interstellar origins that had never been revealed on celluloid before. It simply didn't happen, though. I'm sorry, but this trite nonsense was the kind of trite nonsense that was ground-breaking fifty years ago. Now, the entire idea that this film expounds is simply passe. Had DePalma been versed well enough in science fiction, had he earned his sci-fi spurs shall we say, as Ridley Scott in Blade Runner and Alien and Voerhoeven in Total Recall, then he would have doubtless realized that he was shamefully under-achieving in this film. By all means, the movie was aesthetically pleasing. The production crew did a fantastic job creating the Martian landscape and the stellar vastness. Their talents just seemed wasted on this insipid sci-fi by numbers affair. DePalma should get back to what he's good at- keeping you on the edge of your seat wondering when the killer's gonna strike next, just like his mentor, Hitchcock. Worth watching, simply to see how good it could have been. "},{"Title":"Are we talking about the same movie?","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was reading some comments before I went to see the movie, so I was quite curious to see if it's really so bad or not.And, it was proven again that you can never trust any review, even if thousands of people say the same thing. This movie certainly isn't bad. In fact it's quite well done.It's not less credible than any average Hollywood-production and in fact there were some well thought details. OK, there are spoilers or physical nonsenses like the paper thin tent on mars, protecting the plants and the astronauts from storms, temperature and too much CO2 but compared to movies like Armageddon, where astronauts run through ridiculous wide tunnels on MIR (even with gravity!) this is nothing.  The fact that no rocket starts were shown is just proving that the movie doesn't want to focus on things we all know and have seen for so many times.This movie gave me everything I want An interesting plot, not just pure, dumb action, tension (very good scenes are the ones with the mini-asteroids and the discovery of the missing astronaut on Mars), and quiet moments with stunning views. Another thing well done is the face on Mars as it opens and invites the crew into the white interior which is such a good contrast to the evil and dirty surface of Mars.  The only moment when I had to shake my head was when the alien appeared. This could have be done much better. The body looks too artificial (maybe it's only a projection like all the solar system in the hall) and really isn't a proof of much imagination. And how about getting rid of that stupid light all aliens seem to come out of, just to make the moment of contact a bit longer?My message to everyone interested in this movie Go see it! The movie can best be compared to Contact but certainly not to Armageddon and other pure action movies. Mission to Mars isn't a comedy but a serious movie. And just like with every hype you should also be careful with anti-hypes because sometimes people tend to adapt there opinion to those of the masses, that's normal. "},{"Title":"Worst than the expected","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILERS*I have one word for this movie. Yes, Mission to Mars is TERRIBLE.The plot is one of the worst that I have ever seen. All that stuff that the life on Earth comes from Mars creates a boring, tedious and terrible plot. Also, Brian DePalma tried to copy Stanley Kubrick's magic and he failed.If you have seen this movie, compare it with 2001 A space odyssey. Even good actors like Sinise and Robbins, this movie enters from my Bottom-film list from all times.Grade 2/10 (The only reasonable thing from this movie are the special effects, from Industrial light and magic) "},{"Title":"the trailer is better than the movie","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the few movies i regret having paid for. The previews looked pretty good, so we decided to go see it. But all good scenes were packed in the trailer and what was not shown in the trailer was not worth a second look. The acting of Gary Sinise was lousy and the story didn't make much sense.  "},{"Title":"best sci-fi in years","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well,this has been quite entertaining film,considering that noone dares to do sci-fi nowadays...More realistic than armageddon,better acting,and of course the high quality visual and sound effects present with De Palma's personal touch. Noone should ask more from a sci-fi film. All in all,a nicely spent 2 hour period of my time. "},{"Title":"Just take it for what it is.","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you take this movie for what it is, (a heart filled space adventure) then you will fell very good after the movie has ended. I loved this movie and the only reason i can see that people didnt like this movie is theres no launch seqeunce. The characters talk about the mission for awhile and all of a sudden they are there. But that makes no difference. The budget was only $75 million which is not alot to make a space epic. If they would have made a launch sequence then they would have had horrable effects which was one of the many things that made the movie good. "}{"Title":"Hey, it wasn't that bad!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading all the negative views of this movie on the net and in magazines I decided to see for myself - and was entertained. Yes, it is somewhat derivative (The Abyss, anyone?) and one line of dialogue was utterly cringeworthy (needle in a haystack... oh please) but nevertheless it was a enjoyable science fiction action-mystery-thriller. And you always get good value with Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins anyway. Now let's see if Red Planet with Val Kilmer does any better... "},{"Title":"The worst space movie of 2000 so far!!","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The film started out well. It had the makings of getting the Mars movies planned off to a good start. Once landed on Mars to find Don Cheadle it all went sour. I could have drawn a better alien myself.Out of it all Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins & Don Cheadle deliver good performances.* out of ****  "},{"Title":"or Brian De Palma slides deeper into Hell","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this film was going to be the better of the two Mars films opening this year. I'm an avid science fiction fan, and i think it's about time someone gave the red planet a good go, as it's probably going to end up as our next port of call in the universe, if we actually make it. Just as the moon captured the attentions of sci-fi writers and film makers in the 40's, 50's and 60's, so Mars could do the same now. However, of the two mars films out this year the other one stars Val Kilmer, and as i'm not his GREATEST fan, i thought i'd like this one instead.To cut a long story short, i didn't. Brian De Palma had directed Carlito's Way, a very good film, so i was shocked when Mission to Mars failed to turn into a good film. I honestly waited with baited breath for it to pick up, but it didn't. The cast are all good actors, and the director is usually quite good.... i think the blame lies with the script, that is cliched, unintentionally hilarious, disjointed, lazy, and several other bad things all rolled into one. The film was like one of those essays you write in a rush because it has to be in the next day. It would have possibly worked as an episode of The Outer Limits, but as a feature film it died on it's feet.It's a very strange sensation, hoping that Val Kilmer will make a good film. "},{"Title":"Waste?","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I do not like to speak badly about a movie. There are lots of people who worked hard for at least a year, and thus their efforts should be appreciated. However, for me Mission to Mars just didn't cut it. I and some friends went to see it this evening, and they all felt the same. Why?The first half was okay, maybe even good. I will not give away spoilers, but it is interesting, beautiful and well-acted. It was after the break that the disappointments came. Everything was just too old, i.e. it was all done before. The end also was as lame as it was cheap, and I think this film did not deserve an end like this. Although it is certainly not a waste of your time, there are simply enough better alternatives. "},{"Title":"Boring, slow-moving, nonsense physics Contains spoilers","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am totally confused about what is the point of this film. The plot is more or less a blueprint of the plot in 2001 A Space Odessy. The difference is that everything is done in a much more clumsy and less subtle way. (Even the spaceship and the spacesuits look as if they are taken from 2001.) 2001 managed to create a believable story (although fantastic) and a quasi-religious feel that made it very fascinating even for an atheist as myself. The story in Mission to Mars is clumsily told, and not very well acted.Another thing that bothered me is the scientific aspect of the film. I studied physics a few years back, and I can say that much in this film makes no sense. Let me mention an example. (This may reveal a little bit too much if you haven't seen the movie, so don't read on if you are going to.) One of the astronauts takes off his helmet in space, with the result that his head immediately freezes. I guess the idea is that it is very cold in outer space. That is true, but for the head to cool down something has to lead away the heat. It is almost vacuum in outer space and that means that an object will only loose heat by radiation. It would take a very long time for it to loose even a few degrees. On the other hand, there is almost zero pressure in space, so I guess it would have been more likely for the head to explode than to freeze. This is just one of the many physically absurd things in the movie, which makes it clear that it is made with no scientific insight whatsoever. Kubrick on the other hand had the intelligence to actually confer with scientists which resulted in a movie that is still very convincing after more than 30 years. (Is Kubrick the only director who knows that you cannot hear sounds in space?)  "},{"Title":"Beggars belief","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I came out of this movie feeling physically assaulted.  I have tried, but words cannot describe how bad I think this film is.  What I cannot believe is that people were actually coming out of the theater commenting on how good they thought it was.  At one point I think Tim Robbins comments Let's hurry this up so we can go home.  My reply of Here, Here! had a number of people sat around me in giggles.  The best part about the film has the guy sitting next to me S!£TING himself when Don Cheadle sneaked up behind Gary Sinise.MST3K material if I say so myself. "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad...","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the other reviews posted here, I went to see this film with some trepidation. But, having nothing better to do that Sunday afternoon, I figured, why not?True, the film is full of cliches, the plot is far from original, the science stinks, and the ending makes you reach for your movie-sickness bag, but, hey, I've seen worse. At least there's no annoying little brat (like in The Phantom Menace), the American patriotism is kept to a reasonable level (except for the scene where they put the American flag back up on Mars, but at least they stopped short of saluting it) so we non-Americans can watch it without throwing up (at least until the end of the film), and the special effects, while not the best in recent films, are fairly impressive.So if it's Sunday, it's raining, and there aren't any game show reruns on TV, yeah, why not go see it?  "},{"Title":"A visually stunning masterpiece","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Visually a triumph. Depicts scenes in Mars orbit that are stunning.  The script is lacking, but the outstanding staging and visuals make this a movie to enjoy.  If this movie had been done 20 years ago, it would have been legendary.  Highly recommended.  It is not a space opera. It is a thoughtful, realistic approach to Mars exploration.  With a big twist of course. "},{"Title":"Like the curate's egg - good in parts","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma is known for his thrillers and his ability to craft a story along Hitchcock lines - Dressed to Kill, The Untouchables and the like were stories which kept the audience in their seats, paying homage to the great noir directors of the past.  All this made a great deal of sense until he signed on to direct Mission to Mars, a big budget space adventure which relies on the tried but true science fiction premise of What if?.  Obviously, De Palma wanted to challenge himself with the visual pyrotechnics as he had done with Snake Eyes.  Mission to Mars is not a hit - but it should not be dismissed outright.  It will not appeal to the modern movie-goers who require thrills and spills with every  handful of popcorn that misses the mouth.  This film is slow and paced - sometimes too methodical for its own good.  When the film does shine, it shines very brightly but it is let down by cardboard characterisation and too obvious references to 2001 A Space Odyssey.The year is 2020 and as the film opens, we are at a party celebrating the imminent launch of the mission to Mars.  A superb single take makes up for some banal expository dialogue between Don Cheadle, Tim Robbins and Connie Nielsen  all of which is meant to segue seamlessly  to the angst ridden entrance of Gary Sinise.  De Palma then cheats us of the actual first footprint on Mars, preferring to cut to much later when the expedition is almost wiped out by a vicious sandstorm - a teaser shot of the &#145;face on Mars' and then we cut back to another sequence.  Herein lies the problem with Mission to Mars - it is a series of marvellously staged set pieces, one of which builds superb tension, genuine edge of the set stuff, but is let down by some shoddy writing and dodgy exposition and characterisation - a kind of Lloyd Webber in space.The ending is trite and is a complete let down after all that has gone before but this film looks great on the big screen and should be seen there.  De Palma is a good director but his later films have all suffered from a lack of good script writing and solid characterisation.  This is a disappointing film but not a bad one; it certainly beats tripe like The Haunting and The Deep Blue Sea hands down.  An entertaining curate's egg.  "},{"Title":"Was it worth it?","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very Poor ... Very poor indeedMission To Mars is a waste of time.  While the effects are good, the script is as cheesey as they come and plot is virtually non-existent.Not even the usually excellent Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise  couldn't rescue this when they have to deliver lines like lets go to mars!A bad film. "}{"Title":"Fails to add anything to the genre.","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first thing I thought when leaving the cinema after watching this film was; why make this film when we have 'Apollo 13' and '2001 A space Odyssey'? Even if done well it would lack the charm of being based on real events, such as the former, and couldn't hope to have the visual style of the latter. And it is not done well. The script is terribly poor, so full of cliché's I was able to predict every second line, that try as they might the, admittedly excellent, cast have little hope of making any ground. The direction is awkward, with many missed opportunities, and far to many supposedly 'emotional' pauses. The best thing this film has to offer is the effects, which are passable but not great. A decidedly average film. "},{"Title":"Makes me feel good","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The story, well, isn't too exciting, but I was like listening to a person telling me his or her opinion about the origin of life. while watching. I feel fine with the ending, though there are quite a lot of absurd moments. I also think the special effects are great. It's a lot better than I thought though and I enjoy it pretty much.  "},{"Title":"Mission doomed from the start...","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Never has so much talent and so much money been expended by so many people to produce such a disappointing and overrated movie. I gather the producers got their script from the current NASA Mars project, a major undertaking in itself apart from one or two major gliches. Leave Mars to the experts fellas and just stick to good old planet earth.PS one major redeeming feature. The never before attempted do or die space walk by the astronauts to the orbiting capsule. The tension was so tight and the margin for error so small that for one second you nearly had me there. Almost but not quite. "},{"Title":"Not messy, just painfully stretched out","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, so I read most of the reviews before I saw the movie, and I almost decided I would not see it, but then I got a free ticket and after all it IS an SF flick, so I changed my mind. I can't say I'm happy I did.This movie suffers from two major problems really bad  score and a really stretched-out pace. They could have told the same story in half an hour shorter time.The acting wasn't as bad as some people here say, but it could have been a lot better. There were a few clichés and plot holes, too, but not blatantly obvious ones - quite the average of what you could expect from an SF movie. That doesn't mean I'm prepared to file this film in the so-so folder instead of c**p, I'm just pointing out that the plot holes are not the major problems here.The CGI alien was rather cute, if they had made it more lifelike it would probably just have looked either stupid or like an X-files rip-off. The explanation as to how life on earth began wasn't very original or believable, but it was well executed and fun to watch. "},{"Title":"The mission that should have stayed on Mars","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (This review contains several mentions of plot references. Please discontinue reading if you have not seen the movie and do not want any sequences within the movie revealed)Mission To Mars is a misaligned, disjointed, and misinformed movie unworthy of the film stock it is developed on. Dragging and ludicrous, it is a movie that should have been left on the cutting room floor.Banking on the current Mars exploration trend, Mission To Mars seeks to paint a picture for the masses of the excitement and unveiling mystery of the red planet, but instead made a grotesque painting unfit for public viewing. It is a badly written account of the misadventures of two ill-fated exploration teams sent to Mars, and it ends up being a trip not worth taking, figuratively speaking. It is filled with gratuitous melodrama that NEVER works, and it is a technically unsound piece of film-making that looks rushed and unfinished.  The editing looked thrown together (probably due to the rumor that post-production began even before shooting ended!) and resulted in the poor plot flow. But the story would have suffered even with better editing; it is an anti-climactic hodgepodge of rather unimpressive visuals that are a dime-a-dozen in todays effects-laden motion pictures.There is only one interesting moment in the whole flick, and that is the progressive death scene of the first batch of astronauts sent to the planet, but even that bit of cinematic originality falters in lieu of the entire show. The movie might remind one of classics like 2001 A Space Odyssey and Close Encounters Of The Third Kind, but a classic this will not turn out to be.Acting is mediocre, but that is most likely the result of bad scripting. The most engaging character is played by Jerry O'Connell, but even he nor the top-billing Gary Sinise can save this film. The scoring detracts from rather than enhances the mood of the film, and there are several scenes involving a NASA Martian rover that looks suspiciously like a palm-sized model on a sound stage (viewers eventually find it out to be a large vehicle, to everyone's consternation). The physics they so brazenly flaunt as truth in the movie are mostly wrong. In a scene, several astronauts had to do a space walk. Now, everyone knows there is no air in outer space, making it a vacuum, therefore there is no air resistance. If there is no air resistance, what is there to keep a bodily mass from stopping? Why then do all the astronauts have to keep using their thrusters to get around and eventually run out of fuel? All it takes is one little burst and you'll go flying! One of them dies due to this grave error in logic. Another glaring mistake is continuity, and what a monumental mistake it is. Gary Sinise, while space walking to an orbiting capsule with his co-actors, says that the pod can only fit two passengers. Later next scene they ALL mysteriously end up on Mars without a scratch. How could all three of them land safely on Mars in the capsule when there was only space for two on it? And even then, they were riding an orbiting capsule...meant for ORBIT, and certainly not for landings.All in all, the movie constantly tries to suspend disbelief, and eventually ends up disproving itself at the same time. It is a waste of time and money and it should never have been released in the state it is in. It's a shame that so much was spent for so little. "},{"Title":"A poorly constructed movie from a great director","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  2001 A Space Odyssey, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and Contact are all represented in this movie. You'll find bits and pieces of them sprinkled throughout, but in a less compelling form. The dialogues were hackneyed, the scenes poorly edited, the soundtrack irritating, and the plot predictable. I was even more surprised that this film was a product of Brian de Palma's directing -- what happened since Dressed to Kill? With such an incredible cast and director, I expected much more from this movie; but this sci-fi fan was sorely disappointed. "},{"Title":"Empty","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As I went into the theatre I noticed that the three of us had double the audience, this should have set of alarm bells, but the tickets had been bought so what the hell.Things start with a feeling of an Apollo 13 launch party, same lame dress and food, odd then that it is 2020, but perhaps fashion moves on that little bit more slowly in America. Then Mr top dog space man turns up in an Isuzu concept car, now in the US they do like their cars, if not fashion and in year 2000 I saw one of these in Glossop (not the soft top but close enough). Now Glossop is not a mecca of the high tech. Yet 20 years later some American hot shot is driving one, oh give me strength. Luckily the all time macho cliche car was there in the shape of a now very elderly Sting Ray, red of course. To put this into perspective 15 minutes of the film has gone and four major cliches have been wheeled out on screen. It is not looking good, maybe the theatre is empty for a reason.To talk about the rest of the film is just too damn up setting. The story line doesn't die just changes every 15 minutes and no mention is made to any earlier plot lines. Acting never really breaks out (Tim Robbins not acting now that is not an easy thing for a director to achieve)and the effects have the feeling that the money had to be spent before the end of the tax year. They are good but what real part do they play. The ending had the feeling that it was a choice between the given ending and 'then I woke up and realised it was all a dream', and they made the wrong choice.But the real insult was it wasn't bad enough to be cool and funny, just bad enough to be dull. Mission to Mars doesn't have anything to recommend it unless you like sitting in the dark listening to people laugh at the stupid plot and dialogue and even that gets boring after the first hour. This film should carry a health warning This film will waste your life.Next time the theatre is that empty I think I may just cut my losses and run. "},{"Title":"Poor, lazy effort","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Guys, What a mess that was. It's terrible to think that not only has sci-fi filmaking not improved since 68/69 (2001 a space odessesy) but in many ways it has regressed. CGI used at every oppertunity (nearly as guilty as 'The Mummy'for that)I can't warm to it. It makes a flick so cartoonish. It just dosen't look/feel right when compared to the space scenes in flicks like the alien series and 2010 or Event Horizon.with them, u can nearly feel the cold of space and the potential dangers even when nothing is happening onscreenThe story was pathetic, no attempt made at all. I love the way they explained our whole evolution cycle in 2 minutes and without saying a word! And of course there was the mandatory 'God Bless America' theme displayed right through the film just like the woeful Armageddon and the more entertaining ID4. It really upsets me to see plonk like this given the green light and millions to spend when there are much better stories out there to be told. Not blaming actors and Brian dePalma must have been under some corporate pressures to get this thing out as quickly as possible to avoid coming into direct competition with the 'bound to be better' Mars offering due out later this year with Val Kilmer and Carrie-Anne Moss. Keep the faith......  "},{"Title":"Nice idea, shame about the ending","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The whole premise of Mission to Mars sounded good in a Total Recall kind of way go to Mars, solve puzzle to activate alien artifact, discover the origins of Man, etc.The film gets off to a promising start, some nice shots of spaceships rotating and some pretty nifty special effects, particularly the alien twister but in the end these amount to nothing more than eye-candy to disguise the weak plot.There are also gaping holes in the plot of the film. When the rescue party have discovered that they have to enter the correct DNA sequence into the face the whole process of doing this is not shown. Maybe it wouldn't have made good cinema but it just gives the impression that no-one in the film knows what they are talking about.Then ending was surprisingly bad. The CGI people could have made some attempt to make the Martian look vaguely realistic, or maybe it was meant to look so ridiculous. As for the bit where they all held hands around a hologram of the Earth. Words fail me.Oh, watch out if you get motion sickness. One of the people I went to see it with had to leave halfway though because he felt ill.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely great!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't see the trailer before I went to this movie, and reading some of the comments posted here that was a good thing. This is not an action movie, it's not a special effects movie, it's not a character driven movie, but one along the line of '2001' and 'Contact'. If you don't like these movies, then don't go!However, if you like SF with the emphasis on 'science', this is a must. The story told is terribly exiting, and although overall the film is predictable, the details are not, keeping you wonder all the time.I absolutely enjoyed this movie to the fullest! "}{"Title":"Orbital Velocity","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Objects orbit planets at tens of thousands of miles per hour.  To suggest that someone could just step into space from their spaceship, even with a high-speed fishing reel, and latch on to a satellite is ludicrous and insulting to anyone with a basic understanding of physical principles. The director is suffering from SPACE MADNESS.  But the special effects were good, and the high-tech fishing reel was cool. "},{"Title":"Great fx, but awful plot...","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear. This film had such a lot going for it; an excellent cast, great fx work, a great director and composer... and yet it all went wrong.First things first- I have never seen any other film with such a mismatched score. Did Ennio see a different film? MTM needed a powerful, driving score, not this wimpish romantic nonsense. Every time the film kicked into gear the music dragged it back down.Really though the plot-or lack of it- really buried this movie. Man's first journey to Mars will be the biggest event of all time, full of tension and drama. And yet thirty minutes into MTM we are there and its yawnsville. One of the greatest stories ever told passed over in a dissolve. Such a missed opportunity.Instead we watch great fx and fine cast wasted on a mismash of a movie that doesn't know what it wants to be. A serious film like 2001, a testosterone-fueled action drama like ARMAGEDDON... instead it winds up like a twisted child of both. It makes the ultimate sin of giving us 'heroes' we just don't care about- does anybody in the audience really care when Tim Robbins dies?For sci-fi fans it is worth seeing for the spectacle of the excellent fx work (ropey Martian aside), but this is really doing the genre no favours at all. There are better stories every week on tv shows like FARSCAPE, VOYAGER etc.  "},{"Title":"Come on--Lighten up- A 2001 it ain't- but it's not bad","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! when I saw the low scores and read some of the reviews for M2M I was stunned! It's not THAT bad. Get some fresh popcorn and give it another go! Jeeze!    The special effects made me dizzy and a little queezy! Never had that happen before!   The plot? GRADE-B.  The acting? GRADE-B.  The script? GRADE-B The directing? GRADE....  Are you getting the message yet? This is not great cinema, but a regression to those cheesy B pictures that we used to love so much on Fright Night Theater!... TV at 2 a.m. on hot summer's night! The entire picture is a spoof, intended or not, on those corny, stupid si-fi of yesteryear... and what's wrong with that?  I fully intend to plunk down another $7 and re-view this very underrated little gem.     "},{"Title":"Promises much, fails to deliver","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear, this film had so much promise but alas it failed to deliver. It was somehow sterile. It failed to connect with me.There are some nice attempts to show the realities of space travel, rotating sections and so on, but it just wasn't done quite right. As for the accident, oh dear, too silly. Then there is the rendezvous with the re-supply module, stupid and unnecessary.We arrive at Mars and find the remaining astronaut, from the first mission, surviving in his glass house. Yeah, right, I believe you! What about water?I applaud the fact that someone has tried to make a movie that is based on plausible technology and is prepared to show space travel more accurately but why go to all this trouble just to get it wrong?By all means watch this movie as it is still much better than most TV but wait until it has moved to the cheaper sections of your video store. "},{"Title":"Heart-felt film about us humans.","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is not for those big explosion action/sci-fi fans. It is for people who want to watch a film that deals with human nature, character, and the place of life in a non-chaotic universe.I LOVED this film. It literally brought tears to my eyes. We conquer galaxies, find secrets about life, but in the end we are living beings connected to one another and to the universe that we live in.This film had brilliant directing, brilliant cinematography, and a great score by composer Ennio Morricone.It will always be included among my top favorites.  "},{"Title":"Made for TV written all over it.","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had such high hopes for this film when I first heard about it.  Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins etc...  However, after watching the first 30 minutes of this film I knew I was duped.  I wish film makers would learn the lesson that special effects by themselves don't make a movie!!  Sure, they add to the user experience but without a plot, what's the point?  This film should have been a made for TV movie of the week. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really liked this movie. This was really a cool movie. What I liked most about the movie was the special effects. They were outstanding. The acting was pretty good too. I was amazed by the special effects. The plot was good, weird, but good. I would recommend this movie to anyone who really likes science fiction movies, and likes space movies. "},{"Title":"a good,solid sci-fi movie","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  based on most reviews,I didn't think this was going to be very good...but I was pleasantly surprised..it's a good, solid piece of sci-fi movie-making...good cast, some new ideas to explore and a nice change of pace from Brian De Palma....buy your popcorn and enjoy the ride!!! "},{"Title":"It is hardly believable how much this movie SUCKS!!!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, maybe some of the special effects were good, nevertheless THIS MOVIE REALLY STINKS!I'll tell you why* The acting is poor. * The story(??) doesn't make any sense. Only their version of evolution is amusing. * Most of the scenes take soooooooo long, and the dialogue sucks. * When you see 'THE END' on the screen you'll go straight to the box-office to demand your money back!!They should have released this movie on video in Europe so we would have been spared from this disappointment. "},{"Title":"Like so many before me...","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wish I could tell you how much I wanted to like this movie, but even my rose colored glasses could help me do that. It was disappointing to say the least. Bad acting, a shocking script, it seemed to be ended in a hurry, (Oh, Jeez! Ten minutes left... let's see... they do this, he does that, they get back, he get's in a thing and zzziiippp! Thanks for coming.) This was worse than Armageddon, and that hurts to say. Redeeming features? Two nice demonstrations one of Newtonian physics getting Tim Robbins out of the way, and how a little space rock can do more that chip the paintwork. The other thing... the helmets looked like the ones in 2001, but thats as far as I will go on connecting the two films. "}{"Title":"DePalma ain't Kubrik","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Little needs to be said about this movie.  Classless B rate, soap opera television made on an A rate Hollywood budget.  Lousy story, lousy scripting, lousy editing, lousy direction.  Acting mediocre at best. Moments of good cinematography. Despite the budget there didn't seem to be any money to hire a college physics student for technical advice.  Actually, a high school student could have managed.  And what was Morricone doing?  There was only a moment of his music worth noting.  All in all an embarrassment for everyone involved. Very sad. PS This movie should win an award for most misleading trailer of 2000 "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, just to get the major disappointment out, I was expecting a thriller/action type movie, not a CHICK FLICK! Don't get me wrong I like chick flicks *runaway bride being a very good new one* but OH MY GOD how this one sucked. I was expecting to be blown away with effects and good plots and acting. Come on, Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise!?! I would like to know what the hell happened. Most horrible acting I've seen in a while! The only enjoyable part was the beginning (with the big dirt tunnel) It went completely downhill after. I wouldn't read the next part if u haven't seen it-but I was sooooo remotely disappointed when Robbins died!! And how BAD was that acting. oh. no! boo hoo! my husband is dead! Completely cheesy! I LOVE Gary Sinise and I do not know what possessed him to go forward with this movie. He's been in two of the greatest movies-Forest Gump and Apollo 13 and did such great jobs in BOTH! He was the only reason I stayed and finished Mission To Mars. It's not the worst film I have ever seen, and if u know what to expect, u may enjoy it...but I did not. I wanted my money back afterwards. If I hadn't have had 2 hours of Gary Sinise I would have gone and demanded it back. Even though his acting is horrible, he's still good lookin to me! And that's such a sad excuse to watch a movie. Wait for this to hit the 2.50$ for 5 nights at video stores!!! "},{"Title":"Catch it at the matinee.","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you're really hot for computer animated FX then you'll probably love this movie. Most of the special effects are excellent but there is one spot where the viewer gets a serious let down when a cartoonish looking character intrudes looking like a Disney reject. The plot is fuzzy but entertaining. The director seemed to be going for a 2001 Space Odyssey feel but misses the mark by a mile. Needs to be seen on a big screen but don't pay full price.  "},{"Title":"A catastrophe of a good script idea","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You have sailed fighters through the holes in the screenplay and acting. It's surprising to see Ennio on it's production crew. There are just too many incredibly stupid occurrences and the acting is horrible. What were they thinking? I could understand the commercial value of it, but for a good night of movies, this comes at the bottom of my list. I would choose Talented Mr. Ripley over this (nothing against the people who enjoyed it). Ripley was, in my opinion, a tourist video for Venice. I would give a thumbs up to the cinematography of Mission to Mars and Ripley though. I enjoyed the shots in the films. Anyways, back to M to M. Watch something else. I heard Scream 3 is better or how about some classics like Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Sorry for my bashing, but M to M was one of the worst post modernist films I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful Film","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It truly takes work to put together a cast this good, and throw this much money at a good idea and make such a bad film. Awful dialogue does much of the work. I haven't seen a film this boring and dumb this year. "},{"Title":"Its not as it is supouse to be","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Commercials represented the movie as one of the best ,(it is their job) but it brought big disappointment to people.  I personally think that the movie was not as good as they represented it, but also it was not bad. Story was similar to Arthur C. Clark's 2001. About 97% of the movie took place either in the space or Mars.  The ending of the movie did not fulfil the story very well, I guess that is why it brought disappointment. Movie had good special effects.  Actors played well, but the story was not good enough to make it popular.     "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, but a disappointment","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I really wanted to love this movie.  But there are too many problems.  Its worth seeing if you like science fiction regardless of the issues.  But it could have been much better.  The story line is fine except for the initial catastrophe.  When you are depending on a thin space suit for survival, and rocks the size of houses start flying around, do you 1) run for cover or 2) stand around like a gomer with your mouth open?  Aside from this - the movie suffers from poor acting and over acting in many places.  Next - and the most annoying thing for me - the soundtrack absolutely sucks.  Inspirational muzak at all the wrong times etc.  The more enjoyable scenes contained no muzak.  Lastly - the first many in-space shots are done with tasteful music and no sounds from on screen objects (just as done in 2001).  Unfortunately de Palma et al drift away from this and give us thruster sound effects (among other noises) from objects in space later on.  Sorry - things don't make noise in space when no atmosphere is present.  No one has followed Kubrick's lead on this and the movies are worse for it in my opinion.  7/10. "},{"Title":"Reinvention of the B movie?","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  On the way in to see this movie, I chanced to notice thedigital signs indicating the current features in threesuccessive theaters at the multiplex I attended. They read >Mission to Mars >Final Destination >Here on Earth I begin by pointing out this accidental alignment of titlesbecause the amusing irony of it was about the most entertaining part of this movie going experience. Mission to Mars main weakness is that it tries to seem more emotionally compelling than it is. The empty characterizations, the poorly acted melodrama, the forced dialog and the stilteddramatic situations made this abundantly clear by... oh, how long into the film? ... oh yes, they were still showing opening credits by the time I made this realization. Not an auspicious beginning. The painful part is, some aspects of this film were actually rather intriguing. The discoveries the initial team to Mars and their subsequent rescuers make had such potential. For example, the elaborate high-tech IQ test the teams must pass to gain access to their discovery. In the end, though, ittries to turn into a plot twist that seems vaguely  reminiscent of 2001, but only vaguely. The musical score was sappy, no doubt attempting to underscore the emotional heart tugging that wasn't happening. The special effects were average at best, with the latter sections ofcomputer graphic art being entirely too surreal to fit a live action movie. Some examples to watch for if you don't believe me the alien being in the hologram, and the tacky lookingsuper gigantic over scaled solar system that seemed set upto teach astronomy to grade schoolers. The movie has tinypuns like when lone survivor Luke keeps repeatedly  describing what killed his crew as a force (use the force, Luke - have it get you a better agent), but I can't believe they were intentional. And Jerry O'Connell just can't stoplooking like Quinn Mallory long enough to make us believe his role as anyone else. Sorry, son, you've been typecast.But the best symbol in the movie was the Flash Gordon style rocket pendant typically worn by Woody Blake who for reasonsnot adequately explored takes it off and hands it to Terri so that she will conveniently have it to give to Jim at an appropriately dramatic moment. I'm sure it was meant to be a symbol of space exploration, but it just made me think of grade B sci-fi movies from the golden years. In the end, that is the best description for Mission to Mars -- a modern day grade B sci-fi film.  "},{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My husband and I attended this film looking for a mindless action flick along the lines of Armeggedon.  We got 2001 A space Odyssey meets Contact.  All of the action in the entire film was found in the previews, and the other 1hr 55min was slow, character driven, and very touchy-feely. "},{"Title":"Words alone cannot describe","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  how awful this movie was. The ads sucker you in ... making you think that this will be a great special effects / sci-fi flick...but alas, the 'effects' are condensed into two 1-2 minute segments and honestly they're not terribly impressive. I could go on and on about the poor acting, lines, etc...but I'm starting to feel the same sick feeling I had sitting through this pathetic excuse for a movie just writing about it. this is not a 'video flick' and if it hits 'free-tv'...skip it and find something more worthwhile to do with your time...laundry, cleaning out the kitty litter, etc... "}{"Title":"Silly Film","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film had great possibilities but chose instead to focus on the emotions of the characters. I found myself bored to tears because of the trivial and meaningless dialog. I expected either more action or philosophical approaches to the origins of life. I hope this is not the future of Science Fiction films. I suspect it may be if you look at the direction of the new Star Trek series and the last few episodes of the Next Generation. "},{"Title":"A soap opera version of 2001 made for TV","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A soap opera version of 2001 made for TV.  A soap opera because there was a lot of melodrama and emphasis on emotions and relationships.  Contains some good effects reminiscent of the sand worms of Dune.  At several points the scene faded to black just as it would for a commercial for TV.  A retelling of 2001 in terms the layman could understand because of the discovery of the origin of man.  This message will incite the bible toting origin of man people for sure.  Still it was passable entertainment. "},{"Title":"Must see for Sci-fi fans but ...","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This IS a must see for Sci-fi fans but the soap opera aspects are a turn off.  The views of the space craft from space, the terrain on mars and the scenes showing the information they receive of the history of mars are the best.Tim Robbins finally plays a role with some animation!  I didn't know he could act until now.  Still not an outstanding performance.  There really were no outstanding performances, but very acceptable.Now, the soap opera; Tim Robbins and his wife are part of the rescue team sent to Mars, never a good idea, their love for each other gets in the way of the mission.  Two of the characters have such a teary scene it affects their ability to meet a critical deadline. "},{"Title":"Sort of like a cosmic soap opera","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is about Don Cheadle and his crew in mars studying to see if theirs life on mars. hen something bad happens. It kills everybody except for Cheadle. So then a rescue mission is prepared. The rescuers Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise seem to confident. Although pretty much everything bad happens there way there, they still manage to make it to mars. They find Cheadle and some how find DNA that looks human.Although this movie was set in the future, some of this is hard to believe. When I saw this I was pretty disapointed. I thought it was overlong and some of it was hard to believe. Although the movie had some of the best special effects of all time.* 1/2 (out of ****) "},{"Title":"2001 meets Lost in Space!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With all the news coverage over the past few years surrounding the probing and prodding by earthlings on our red neighbor, Mars, it seems only fitting that someone should make a movie about it.  Mission to Mars is a painful result of recent speculation and theory.  A group of astronauts are suddenly killed by a strange phenomenon and it's up to a a rescue mission headed by Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise, with side kick Jerry O'Connell, and babe Connie Nielson, to save whatever is left. Lots of dollars were spent on special effects for this film and it certainly shows.  Sadly, the budget must not have had room for writers as the script ranges from mundane to downright stupid.  An attempt at making our characters three dimensional falls flat, as the issues they deal with (the death of a spouse) just don't seem to muster a tear from the audience.  Where films like Apollo 13 and The Right Stuff manage to delve into the private lives of the crew, Mission To Mars takes a wrong turn.  In the end, we are left with the worst performance of Tim Robbins career, playing someone that resembles Ward Cleaver rather than an astronaut about the land on Mars.  Mission to Mars tries to go the route that films like Contact did go, only the writing is not strong enough to support the wacky theories that become this film.  I should have known better than to waste ten dollars on a summer blockbuster that is so bad they had to release it in March! "},{"Title":"Good Ol' Science Fiction Fun","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The special effects were excellent and Gary Sinise was great (as usual).But . . . DUH!  Thank goodness we don't actually have astronauts as stupid as the first team sent to Mars . . .Hey, cool!  What's that big thing coming right at us?  Let's just stand here instead of RUNNING AWAY! "},{"Title":"Identity Crisis","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  MTM was a buddy film, no, it was a tense drama in space, no, it was a science fiction examination of the beginnings of life. Actually, it was a bit of a muddle. The performances were all well done and believable, but the story itself fell apart. After watching the trailer it was sad to see all the nifty special effects used only at the end of the film. "},{"Title":"I'm embarrassed to admit I saw this movie.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a terrible movie. Who was the technical advisor? Charro? The special effects were mediocre. The cinematography was laughable. (Incredibly, this movie will look even WORSE on television.) And the ending is so dumb, you'll think they accidentally threw out the good ending and inadvertently printed the joke ending. The makeup was truly amusing. Aside from Gary Sinise's overdone eye makeup, in several scenes, he's wearing too much lipstick. (Is it sexist to expect an actor to wear less lipstick than actress in the same scene?) The plot is terrible. There's no sense of drama in going to Mars. It's as if NASA consisted of about 15 people who do everything on a whim. Movies like The Right Stuff, Contact, Apollo 13, heck even Men In Black have much better character development, plot, eye appeal, realism and direction. As for the cast, the male leads are all likeable guys. The women tend to be cardboard cutouts (not necessarily the actresses' fault). The cast is only guilty by association. But the director and the writer should be suspended for several years. "},{"Title":"We have been on this mission before","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I loved the special effects in this movie.  Expert director De Palma gives us shots we have never seen in sci-fi before.  But... the script is so reminiscent of every sci-fi film of the last twenty years, it was hard to enjoy this one.  I spotted elements from ET to 2010 to Event Horizon, but the cast gamely performed like it was new to them.  Good try, I beam this a 7. "},{"Title":"Fair rating","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All of the performances in the film were wonderful, without exception. Sinise, Cheadle, Robbins, Mueller-Stahl gave a realistic portrayal of how far we have to go in our exploration of space.  Unfortunately, the film starts out slow and pretty much stays there.  The few moments of tense, edge-of-your-seat anticipation are ultimately a let down.  The end does not justify the journey for the sake of the film.  Sorry, maybe next time guys. "}{"Title":"A movie worth seeing, though less compelling than Contact","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had not seen many of the trailers for this film.  From what I had seen, I expected a cross between 2001 - A Space Odyssey and Contact.The movie begins with a going away party for the astronauts chosen to be the first men on Mars.  During this scene, we learn that the astronaut played by Gary Sinise has been replaced by another (due to emotional problems with Sinise's character).  I immediately thought of Apollo 13, and the way Sinise's misfortune would have positive results in that film.In this film, it is no different.  The first manned mission to Mars lands successfully, but then the crew is decimated by a strange force.Gary Sinise is sent, with a team of three others (including Tim Robbins and Connie Neilson), to mount a rescue mission, searching for possible survivors and the reason for the initial mishap.  Some time is spent showing the training and preparation for the rescue mission.  During this period of the movie, and the subsequent flight to Mars, most of the special effects were adequate (though some of the in-capsule weightless scenes were poorly conceived).As for the story line, I was impressed with the manner in which the rescue mission participants overcame some technical obstacles to make it to Mars. And the scenes leading to their eventual landing on Mars were handled well.Once these rescuers actually reach the planet's surface, that's where I feel the movie starts to fall apart a bit.  There are too many technical issues that seem to have been solved with too few clues (too much of a leap of faith for my tastes).  Whereas Contact made use of tremendous computational resources to establish the existence of intelligent life, this movie almost matter of factly suggests it with a single video clip, and an unbelievably complex signal analysis (with barely the tools to suggest it would be possible to do such an analysis).  Still, when it is determined that intelligent life does exist, and the rescue team discovers the key for communicating with the Martians, this movie goes further out on a limb in trying to explain the evolution of life on Earth than was hinted at in Contact.While I personally found this movie quite fascinating and poignant in this regard, others with a creationists viewpoint may be somewhat offended by the theories expressed here.Overall, I would consider this a worthwhile science fiction picture, though less compelling than Contact, and less original than many of its predecessors.  "},{"Title":"An OK movie. It has its moments.","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I read all the bad reviews before going to see this movie and wasn't expecting much. After seeing it, I have to ask why people hate this movie so much. I thought it was an average movie. There was one scene in the movie that I thought was worth the price of admission. It's when they're dancing in zero-gravity to Van Halen's Dance the Night Away. It's such a wonderful moment that's captured on the screen. "},{"Title":"refreshing movie well done, 2001 calibre","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It was a refreshing relief to see a movie that actually was for mankind instead of all those alien monsters trying to earse us as a spicies. Mission to Mars has a great story line, really good actors and was belivable to the audience. I feel that the producers should now go one step beyond were they left it off. It seems to me that a sequal is being thought of and if not what a shame to leave an excellent film just hanging in the air after its exciting finish. "},{"Title":"This Blows","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I usually don't waste time attacking movies, but this one is bad enough on several levels that I fell compelled.Yeah it has some visually nice shots. But there is no substance to the characters. I couldn't have cared less if all the characters died. It was cheesy and overly dramatic in all the wrong places. The music was just off for the mood.Worse, the middle 1/2 of the movie had little or nothing to do with the opening 1/4 and ending 1/4. It was just filler.It also had no highly emotional tug to the creation of mankind, evolution, God, etc. etc. the way that Contact did.Overall a piece of crap. And that is sad because there are many people in this that I like Gary sinese, Tim Robbins, and Kim Delaney to name a few. Too bad for them. "},{"Title":"Comments (Might Have a Spoiler.)Human The Best Life on earth Possible?","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This proud movie from united states was really bad for it's lack of science advisor.  Human should not be considered the best being on earth, they destroy each others, they kill for pleasure and destroy the earth.  I don t think that the way this movie portrays the human being as the best that evolution have come up with.  Evolution is not a process in a straight line, it contains branch and human being is just one of the multiple end of it. Chaos have the created the universe and human being is just one end. PLEASE be advise if you are in science and want a GOOD movie of science fiction better see Blade Runner.     "},{"Title":"Excellent Middle, Terrible Ending","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately I saw this movie on opening night, so I had no one to warn me about the horrendous ending. You might actually be better off leaving the movie about 10 minutes early. That being said, the middle was actually quite enjoyable.In fact, if you exit the theater about 10 minutes before the end of the show, you will probably be quite satisfied. Just don't stay long enough to see the golden alien with a small tear rolling down it's cheek. After that scene, it actually gets worse. "},{"Title":"Too NASA Friendly, not viewer friendly","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  About the first manned mission to Mars, (hence the title), this movie has a lot going for it adventures in space, disasters in space, romance in space, liquid floating around in space. But it somehow falls flat, mainly in it's intent to be 'real'. Sure, it's all very scientific (yawn), but a married couple living blissfully together in space for 2 years? Trapped together alone? Right! While they appear to have the science of space travel right, it only makes the emotional and plot unrealities more blatant. Not only that, but it has a truly horrible soundtrack, one of the most wretched I can remember hearing. Given that, the male cast members put in solid performances, to be expected form Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins. And Jerry O'Connell, well, hey, he's always great to watch. And the movie does have it's good points, it's compelling enough to make you watch, but at times, just too lame for words. If your idea of fun is to watch space stations rotate to give the astronauts gravity, fine, this movie is for you. If you want a plausible plot to go with that, seek elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Mission to Disappointment","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had huge expectations for this movie. Brian de Palma is a great director and there are some excellent actors in this movie. However, I was terribly disappointed by predictability of who was going to die. It's a bit of a spoiler, but let me just say- married couples. You can pretty much guess after that. Also what was up with the last fifteen minutes? While the theory of the movie does have some possibilities, there are numerous plot holes and directing mistakes. Plus, the whole hand holding ceremony was really hokey.  If you want to see this, catch the matinee or wait until it comes out on video. What a disappointment to see great effects to have it just end.  "},{"Title":"","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the extended preview for this movie, I thought Wow! De Palma! Sinise! Robbins! This movie is gonna be great! So despite all the bad, bad, bad things I heard about this movie, I went ahead and saw it in the theater, if nothing more to see (what I expected to be) awesome special effects and cinematography that paid homage to Kubrick's classic, 2001.HOWEVER, please believe me when I tell you this movie failed to deliver in every imaginable way! The effects were bad, the plot was thrown together, many of the camera shots truly made me dizzy in an unpleasant way, and Gary Sinise had on way too much eye make-up. Not to mention that the movie attempts to pull on the ol' heartstrings within the first 5 minutes of film; and without any character or plot development it really just doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone -- but I liked it.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Take a bit of Contact, 2001 A Space Odyssey and just a dash of Matrix -- put them all in a blender and this will be the result.A lot of this film actually deals with interpersonal relationships -- but the Sci-Fi element is definitely there.Don Cheadle is the real standout in the film.  His portrayal of a man marooned on Mars all by himself for a year is outstanding.Of course Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins turn in their usual great performances; and Elise Neal as the wife of Woody Blake (Robbins) is truly outstanding as the woman willing to sacrifice her own life to save the life of her husband.The Mars-scapes were great -- you did feel like you were on an alien world.Once McConnell, Graham and Fisher are inside the monument I was a bit disappointed in the appearance of the Martian.  Way too cartoonish to be believable.  But the way the Martian's story is told in a purely graphic manner was incredible.  Truly a joy to behold and a delight to the eyes.It is obvious that this is not a movie for everyone...  Several people got up and walked out -- unfortunately before the best scenes in the film.I checked other review sites and people either HATED it or couldn't use enough superlatives to describe it.  If you do choose to see this film -- PLEASE wait for the end.  It makes the whole movie worthwhile.  Oh, and a good soundtrack too -- see it in THX Digital if you have the chance. "}{"Title":"What?","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the preview for Mission to Mars, I thought Wow, I PG movie that looks good! I decided to go check it out and see if it lived up to its previews. I'm sorry to say that it didn't. Mission to Mars is about the first mission to mars where there is a strange disaster and then the rescue mission going to save it. There were many reasons I didn't like this movie. First of all, they skipped around way too much. It went from 2020 to 6 months later to 6 months later in 10 minute time frames. It was very confusing. Second, there was NO action except what was shown on the previews. It was very slow with a lot of stupid mishaps and stupid dialogue. Third, it was predictable. Just like every other sci-fi movie these days (excluding Matrix). I knew what was going to happen at th end of the movie in the first five minutes. I won't reveal it to see if you can. What we need is a unique space movie. This wasn't unique. Fourth, it seemed like it ran out of money. After a while, the special effects were just...dull.Overall, I hope Red Planet is better. "},{"Title":"hybrid of 2001, Close Encounters, and Black Hole?","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think I saw elements of 2001, Close Encounters, Apollo 13, Black Hole, etc...ie, a lot of borrowed ideas mixed together...  Pretty good in some respects, but usually comes off as not well thought out.  The ease at which the Martian DNA 'combination' is figured out is ridiculous.  The commander's suicide to save the others, a bit too cliche...  Jumping out of one ship and landing on another...questionable.  The parallel between the marooned astronaut and Ben Gun (Treasure Island) not clearly developed.  Etc.  Etc. One would think spending that much money on special effects would merit a stronger story.   "},{"Title":"Silly, fun sci-fi","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, I have yet to read a good review of this movie but I went to see it for the special effects and I ended up actually liking it better than I thought I would.  First of all, the scenes of exposition between characters are deadly dull. When you see people sitting and talking, it's a good time to go to the bathroom or get popcorn.  However, the visual effects by ILM and Dream Quest Images are first class and make up for the plot which is a hodge-podge of elements from QUATERMASS AND THE PIT, THE ABYSS, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND and mostly, 2001.  The characters played by the actors are so lifeless it's like watching dime-store mannekins emote but who cares?  It's a silly, fun sci-fi movie.  Check your brain at the door and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Where's the science?","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The science was execrable -- we're looking at a miniscule part of one chromosome, and they're saying it looks human?  Except for the last couple of chromosomes?  Looking at that much DNA, you couldn't distinguish a radish from a human!!  Where did all the energy come from to send one character flying off into space, when there wasn't enough to take all three of them to the resupply module?  But there was enough to make them crash into it at ten miles an hour or so?  Also, a person wouldn't suddenly turn into a popsicle. There's no atmosphere to take away heat, so you'd very slowly lose heat -- unless you're in sunlight.  They kept saying it's 100 million miles to Mars, but I doubt you could make the trip in ten times that, on an efficient orbit.  Oh well -- it was fun, though. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Looking at how many people gave this a 1 is ridiculous.  This movie is not garbage.  It has a good concept, it just doesn't pull it off well.The movie was marginally entertaining.  The acting was great (you can't go wrong with Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins).  But, the entire plot is difficult to accept.  Not the ending per-say, but the ridiculous notion of sending a rescue mission after the first crew.After all's said about it though, it is a decent movie to watch.  Just not for $7.50Recommendation- wait for video "},{"Title":"Getting better with CGI movies","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie didn't strike me as the greatest thing ever, it did get above my 5.0 mark reaching around 6.5 at the maximum.  The spaceship was an ultimate ripoff of 2001 A Space Odyssey and some of the camera panning sequences were a bit tedious.  The movie tried desperately to develop character and plot far too quickly for a two hour movie, but did this better than other movies.  The graphics were some of the best in that they ENHANCED the plot and not just tried to replace it.  Definitely worth seeing twice and I'll probably buy it on VHS. "},{"Title":"Oh man","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Thus spoke one of the characters as he heard one of his oldest, dearest friends had died, after a considerably long dumb look, and thus I broke up laughing. Now, I know I wasn't supposed to, but I couldn't help it. This is the way most of the film ran. It was very ineffective. It had lofty goals that would only work on a gamble, unfortunately, it was double or nothing and they lost everything. There was one scene, or even just monologue, that I do think captured what the whole movie was aiming for, unfortunately it was delivered in a video by a character who was already dead, and none of the other characters or the script or the score or anything else carried on her legacy. One of the problems with this movie was the total lack of emotion it evoked in many situations. Scenes that were supposed to keep one in suspense were annoying, scenes that were supposed to be sad made one laugh or, at times, be disgusted with the stupidity and inanity they were delivered with. The end was a bit interesting, and it had the potential to be very cool, but at that point you just didn't care. Specific problems1. The acting- Great actors=horrible acting? Someone made the comment to me that the great cast couldn't save it. It didn't seem to me that they even tried. In fact, I really *hope* they didn't try because if that is what constituted effort, then perhaps they've all acquired brain damage since their last performances. Maybe they were just horribly miscast.2. The score- This is perhaps what killed everything else. The music itself wasn't of an extremely poor quality, but it was put in all the wrong places. Example- they've just found the key to this huge, secret-of-the-movie puzzle, cue ominous music? No, I'm sorry, if you want us to be excited, don't try to scare us. 3. The script- It wasn't good but I don't think it was as bad as the other two items on the list. It got a few chuckles, and as I said before, the one little scene was good, but overall the dialogue was very poor.I kept hoping there would discover a giant, stuffed, pink bunny named Senor Bob, and then I could laugh at a brilliant satire, but it wasn't to be. Oy.  "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars FAILED","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It drives me crazy when the previews look phenomenal and the actual movie is such a failure.  I paid $7 for Mission and $1 at the cheap theater to see Any Given Sunday the next night.  At least it balanced out.  Any Given Sunday was well worth it.  Mission to Mars has a few things going for it, but unfortunately they are allusions to OTHER MOVIES (Star Wars and 2001 A Space Odyssey).  There isn't anything memorable in Mission though. It's a good thing they titled it Mission to Mars, because that does actually describe most of it.  The mission takes up most of the storyline, and then it takes them 20 minutes to wrap it up on Mars and figure everything out.  Poor balance of script.  It was a nice idea, but getting to Mars is the real problem, instead of what is found there that could potentially be extremely interesting, yet only gets a little bit of attention.  And I can't believe that pathetic alien.  Absolutely pathetic. Can you say bad visual effects?  At least I got a good laugh.  And I can't forget some of those great lines Thanks for saving my life, good bye. It was something pathetic like that.  And what was going on with Gary Sinise in the water at the end?  Sorry folks, The Abyss made that make sense. Mission didn't.   "},{"Title":"This is a submission...","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Oh dear.  My daughter's reaction to the question how did you like that as we left the theatre was it was alright...  That is the equivalent of the kiss of death from this particular eight year old.It was slow, predictable and one of the worst scripts I have ever heard.  Even Tim Robbins had enough half way through the movie, and committed suicide.  It was so bad I nearly burst out laughing at that scene!The only saving grace was that we went to the afternoon matinee so the total loss was limited to $9. "},{"Title":"Well, the ending was cool","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I must say I was disappointed.  The beginning is very boring and fairly predictable.  But the ending was definitely very impressive, and the whole concept of it is amazing, though the whole idea of communicating to the aliens using musical tones seems direct from Close Encounters.  I think everyone leaves the theater thinking it was a good movie, only because the last half hour or so was really good, but the rest was fairly boring. "}{"Title":"As a sci-fi buf, I found the movie enjoyable. . .","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Granted, Mission to Mars does not bring with it startlingly new plot ideas or special effects.  The acting isn't bad, especially when you consider the screenplay the boys and girls had to work with, but I doubt any Oscars are headed their way.  So what makes this movie worth seeing?As a stand by itself science fiction flick, Mission to Mars is worth a few bucks to see.  Try to forget about the similarities to (and outright rip-offs from) past films.  If you can do this, you will probably enjoy the flick.  Besides, the popcorn is always good!  "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you like science fiction that has SOME basis in reality, and you actually have the brain power to understand what you're seeing (unlike some of the people here who have written reviews), then you will like this.  It's fun, makes you think, and imagine - just what a movie should do.  Of course if you didn't make it through high school, or you are stumped by the first few questions on Who Wants to be a Millionaire, then you should prob'ly go see that Julia Roberts movie that was built around her breasts. "},{"Title":"I liked it...so sue me!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Reading reviews for this film and talking to people who have seen it, its odd but the opinions seem cut through the middle. People eighter detest it or like it.I am in the group that liked this film.I like that this is more cerebral space drama than a slam bang action fest such as Armageddon ( wich I still think is one of the most retarded films ever made.) While the FX and the action in the film is quite good...the movie does feel a bit cheesy in the end...to many things happen and solved to quickly....I think they cut a lot of footage of this film.Maybe the film might have a more cohesive feel in a directors cut.But still a great and entertaining ride..check it out! "},{"Title":"For the most part, very good, but....","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've read several reviews in magazines comparing MtM to 2001.  In its time 2001 was a technical masterpiece.  We've come to expect fantastic special effects, MtM delivers.The 0g effects were very well done and believable.  The orbit scenes could have been taken by live satellite.The only down side was the ending.  I HATED IT!  I gave MtM a 7 for its Fx and story, but it could have gotten a 9 with a better ending. "},{"Title":"mission to mars was one of the best movies i've ever seen!!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  mission to mars was one of the best movies i've ever seen!!it was well written...and acted.there was enough action to keep buffs of that genre satisfied and plenty of plot.there was an awesome cast.i went to see it with my friends last sunday to see it...every one of us satisfied.  "},{"Title":"I don't care what anyone else says, I liked it... overall","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This one clearly has the take-themselves-too-seriously crowd all upset, but my wife and I had our major demand met.  What is our major demand?  Speaking for myself, I simply demand that I be entertained.  And I was.The plot moved right along; as always, I liked da Palma's sweeping, sustained shots; the actors mostly filled out their roles just fine.  Several sequences took me by surprise, and I was often tensed, gripped by the particular sequence.Yes, the music was... well, it was Ennio Morricone.  You don't expect John Williams or Danny Elfman.  A couple of plot-turns were hard to explain (put on your helmet, Einstein!), and the ending was (A) a bit slower than the preceding had been, and (B) too predictable.  I could throw a few in too.But I am a director's dream audience, possibly, in this one way I don't go to be displeased.  I go to be entertained.  I'll suspend a certain amount of judgment (it isn't National Geographic, after all; well, come to think of it, I don't really believe National Geographic - but you know what I mean).  Just don't insult me.Mostly this movie didn't.  It seemed intelligent, involved, often gripping and suspenseful.  If your mindset is more or less as I describe mine, you'll have fun.  If you're still bothered by Darth Vader and gang speaking English, it won't be for you. "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In this era of slam-bam shoot 'em ups and action movies with no story to tell, it's nice to see ascience fiction movie worthy of the name. More in the spirit of classic voyage to the stars sci-fi of the kind written by Robery Heinlein, Mission to Mars is not without its flaws but overall it holds interest and tells the story. C'mon critics! Let's stop being to cynical and take some time to smell the dilithium crystals... "},{"Title":"Interesting premise but failed miserably","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing the previews I expected somewhat of a surreal space adventure reminiscent of 2001 A Space Odyssey.  Instead, this movie was sappy, corny, and boring save for the opening scenes on Mars and the weird finale. Furthermore, the science involved in the plot was absolutely full of holes and made no attempt at seeming correct.  From an awful depiction of DNA and genetics to  referring to a single strand of DNA as a chromosome to a dreadfully hocus-pocus version of the Mars theory of the Origin of Life, any person that has had a basic high-school understanding of science would be annoyed as hell.Whatever you do, don't see this movie.  I have no idea why Tim Robbins and Gary Sinese accepted roles in this horrible film.  This could have been good, but no dice.   "},{"Title":"Nothing great","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I have to say that I was disappointed overall.  A lot of actors who I liked were in this film, including Jerry O'Connell (I am a big Sliders fan), but this could not help the film.  Showing the actual Mars Landing, showing less of the trip out on the rescue mission, and having had the alien say something may have helped.  I think that this movie tried to do shoot'em up style with the dust twister, drama with the rest of the script, and adventure throughout and so failed.  Had the writers picked just one of these angles, even the trite shoot-em-up, the movie would have been more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Bad Mix of Apollo 13 and Contact","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first saw the coming attractions for this movie, I couldnt wait to see it. After waiting a few months i finally had the chance to see it. To my surprise, the movie was terrible. Mission to Mars was a movie with all hype and thats where it stopped. The movie started off slow, and whenever you think you are getting to something exciting, it just didn't happen.  They used all this music and suspense and I just sat there waiting for them to get on the stupid planet. Too many things happened in the movie to make it unrealistic and slow. (I went to check my watch to see if it was almost over and only 40 minutes went by). I felt the acting was average and the character's were predictible and typical. And to top it off, the ended was really bad. Not even from a special effects point of view, it was boring. When the movie ended, i didn't sit there and ponder about it. I groaned and started talking about how much better apollo 13 was. I would not recommend this movie. For 8 bucks i'd save up my money for the Star Wars Episode 1. "}{"Title":"You guys are being way too nice!","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The only redeaming quality I could see about the movie was that the sets looked really good.  I have been watching a history of NASA from the Mercury program to the Shuttle.  One scene showed one of the shuttle crew releasing a handful of Peanut M&M's.  He tried real hard to keep them close together, yet due to the air in the cabin, they were buffeted around ever so slightly. Yet somehow, Jerry O'Connell was able to make a perfect double helix with M&M's.Another sore spot was the failed rescue attempt near REMO.  I think we counted 3 ways they could have saved him.  They made it sound like if you turn off the manuvering jets, you would stop.  Sheesh!Someone mentioned that the cinematography was great.  Well, if you don't mind getting dizzy due to all the spinning camera effects.  Apollo 13 did it right, get NASA's VometComet plan and film the actors in Real zero gravity.  Don't try to fake it by spinning the camera round.Another thing that needed huge improvement was the music.  It's sounded like a grade school band was playing most of it.  Really sad.Notice I haven't mentioned anything about the plot and story.  That's simply because there wasn't one.  Well, ok, I guess there was one, but really, we all could have written it, but would be embarrssed to publish it. )Yet for some reason, it's a top box office hit so far.  What's up with that!?!  Are we so desperate for good SF that we will go looking for it anywhere?! "},{"Title":"A Sci-Fi Movie That Makes You Care About The Characters","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It lets you get to know each character and makes you care about what happens to them, good or bad, throughout the movie. It is a sci-fi movie that makes me think of 2001 A Space Odyssey a lot but it is not so sterile and unemotional. These people are alive and living and loving each other as friends, spouses and just as fellow human beings. The special effects are great but to me, the people made the film and the actors and actresses in this film should be proud of their work. Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Connie Nielsen, Jerry O'Connell and all the rest of the cast make you laugh, cry and just enjoy getting to know them and you wish at the end of nearly two hours that they didn't have to leave. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although this film was not what I expected, and in many ways resembled 2001, I thought for the most part it was a good film.Boring at times, and not the action packed type of film, I expected, the movie's goal and message I thought was well achieved. "},{"Title":"it was a pretty good movie.....and then...","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't normally agree with professional movie critics.  I think they're too hard on movies.  After all, aren't we going to have a good time?  Well, this time they were right.This movie started out quite innocently enough.  But it was clear from the opening scene that the dialogue was leaving something to be desired.  I thought to myself, ok, its not a dialogue driven movie.  I expected the special affects to make up for it.  They almost did.  The special affects were spectacular.  For the caliber of actors cast (Tim Robbins, Gary Sinese) I was quite surprised at the shallow contrived background and the delivery. I guess even Tim Robbins can't save a script this silly.  One bright note - Jerry O'Connel - he was believable.I read where one critic mentioned the over-the-top score and couldn't believe it would be that bad.  IT WAS THAT BAD.  In fact, it was the worst thing about the movie.  It just didn't fit at all. The movie would have been better served without a score at all.  In fact, there was one scene where the music cut out altogether and it was very effective.  Also, it was a relief.Once the mission to mars itself got underway it was intense and well done. Some have remarked that it took the astronauts too long to move about in crisis situations.  Perhaps they exaggerated the slow movements to give the effect of trying to maneuver in zero g's.  I think it was effective in heightening the tension of certain situations.  I enjoyed myself. It was a fun movie, and then the last 20 or so minutes happened.*spoiler for revelation of movie content*Aliens.  Couldn't the writers have thought up something NEW for depiction of alien life?  All through the movie you can see concepts borrowed from other great science fiction movies such as 2001, The Abyss, and Close Encounters.  I guess borrowing the X-Files' idea of the physical appearance of an alien being is consistent.  The proposition that Mars lifeforms colonized Earth I've heard before.  It was possible to breath new life into these concepts, but the makers of M2M didn't even try.  I spent the last 20 minutes rolling my eyes and muttering to my self, give me a break!Final Analysis?  If you want to see this movie, the theater experience is the only thing that will make it worthwhile.  There is a particularly clever sound technique about mid movie bringing the sound from front to right to back to left to front in sync with the camera shots referencing the sound source.  But I recommend the matinee showing so you won't have to pay full price for this movie that offered a lot of promise and fell pretty much flat. "},{"Title":"the abyss meets apollo13","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i was delighted by this film,although i expected a little more action.the special effects are first rate. however if you've seen the abyss and apollo13 then you've already seen this film.it is a perfect marriage between the abyss and apollo13,but it is a marriage that works. in fact it is the best film i've seen this year so far.i recommend it,but be forewarned that it moves at a very slow pace...but not too slow "},{"Title":"IMHO /Mission to Mars (2000)/ (NO SPOILERS, unless you haven't seen Star Wars, Episode IV, A New Hope, yet, but plan to someday--ha, ha, ha)","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the movie.  (How's that for specific? <G>)Seriously, thoughIt was one of those films that works on all the emotions.  There were places where I was laughing my butt off, and places where I felt like yelling NO! the way Luke Skywalker did when Ben Kenobi died in /A New Hope/.  It even had me gripping the edge of my seat and tensing my shoulders a few times, and the only other movies that have done that have been /Titanic/ (of course), /The Fugitive/, both of Harrison's John Clancy movies, and /Presumed Innocent/.  (Yeah, I like Harrison Ford a lot--so what?  He's sexy.  <G>)  I feel the kinds of movies that work the gamut of your emotions like that are the best kind, because they satisfy all your expectations for a movie all in one sitting.Another good thing about this movie was it made you think--HARD.  There is definitely a part of it that's going to cause BIG controversy, but that's the best kind of movie, right???  <G>Also, the ending held a mystery similar to /Titanic/'s ending for me.  I can't say anymore about it, or it'll spoil it for you.Oh, and for you S.E. gurus  The special effects were great, except the computer-graphic-generated people at the point of the film where such animation was required looked a little too Disney/cartoony for my tastes.I still don't understand why so many people on the database rated it as Awful.  I'll have to ask my boyfriend, who saw it with me, whether he considered it to be Awful.  I gave it an 8.That's all I've got for you.  Hope it helps you decide whether or not you're interested in the film, if you hadn't already. "},{"Title":"Visuals - Ten; Content - Zero","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If big screen success is all about the pictures, this movie deserves every one of the 20+ million box office dollars it raked in on opening weekend. The visuals provide an interplanetary experience like no other movie before it.If words are what matters, Mission to Mars, should never have made it to the screen.  The script is overly melodramatic, preachy and poorly delivered.DePalma's ability to entertain through visual imagery has never been better; his ability to pick a good script (or perhaps his ability to shield a good script from unskilled studio suits who have nothing better to do than destroy it) has never been worse.My advice?  See the movie -- but take a Walkman. "},{"Title":"Extra cheese, please","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If there is a novelization of this movie (which I hope there's not), the first scene on Mars would go something like this As the solar-powered robot trudged out of the shadows of the canyon onto the mud-caked lake bed of the waterless planet... There are some sci-fi movies that try very hard to get their science right and some that don't even bother. This one looks like it tried, but not very well. As for the plot, well, it seems they ran out of ideas before they ran out of money, unfortunately. Add in an overly loud sountrack dripping with honey and this movie ends up being the Disneyland ride It's a Small World, except in space. I was really hoping for something other than a rip-off of 2001. "},{"Title":"See 2001 instead.","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you were to take the best elements of 2001 A Space Odyssey, The Right Stuff, and Close Encounters of the Third Kind you might be able to make a good science-fiction adventure film.  On the other hand, you might make Mission to Mars.Sometimes it can be fun to watch a film and see how many references you can catch to earlier films, and watching this movie I first laughed at the blatant theft of scenes from 2001 and dialogue from The Right Stuff. But as the film dragged on my laughter turned into groans.  One would hope that with some good actors, a good director, and modern special effects that a film could be made that is worth watching.  Instead, we are treated to a film in which all of the characters speak in cliches, and the crises that the characters deal with are stupid and contrived.  And though it is just under two hours long, I thought I had spent at least an hour longer than that in the theater as precious screen time was eaten up by the forced  human elements of the story.Save your money.  If you want to see a good, intelligent science-fiction film, rent 2001 instead.  "},{"Title":"Good idea, better than average presentation, story lacks","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars caught me by surprise.  Although Brian dePalma is the director, I was expecting this film to be either another Armaggedon (hyper-directing, editing, and full of silly, contrived disasters) or another Contact (bloated, overlong, pretentious, and unfulfilling).  Instead, Mission to Mars surprised me.  It took time and is beautifully photographed--there are no jump-cuts, double-takes, or rapid-fire edits.  There is not a pumping rock soundtrack.  Mission to Mars looks good until the end when the cgi plays a little too unrealistic.  dePalma also takes his time and lets the film breath.  Mission to Mars is not a very long movie, but several scenes that could have been handled very rapidly are wisely slowed down as dePalma lets the vastness of space provide the tension rather than the editing pace.  The cast is also commendable and does a fine job.  There is genuine time devoted to the lives of these characters and how they deal with what is happening.But....the film balances on the line of mediocrity.  It only grazes the surface of the ideas this film presents.  Space travel is only treated in one amazing sequence involving a micro-meteroid, but the issues of time, isolation, and psychology are not explored.  When they get to Mars, the suggestion and discovery of aliens, human history, and cosmic unity is only brushed upon.  These characters are in the midst of what should be the biggest realization of all time, yet there is no sense of that in how they act.  They are more interested in getting away than they are in what is potentially the greatest adventure of all time.  And the film ends too early.  It is the easy approach to leave some mystery as to what awaits a certain character, but it is also unfulfilling when the film goes to so much trouble to explain the entire situation.  It would have taken some sincere thought, creativity, and originality to extend this film, so they just ended it instead.   "}{"Title":"Mission to Corn","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I first viewed the coming attractions for Mission to Mars I got a little excited. Finally, it seemed, Hollywood had made an intelligent science fiction film, I was sorely mistaken. Mission to Mars is stunning visually and, at certain times, quite entertaining. Sadly, it falls flat at the end.De Palma's direction was a real detriment to the film. How many more times do we need to see a ten minute tracking shot in a movie? It's been done far better by more original directors such as Orson Welles and Hitchcock, however, De Palma's showboating wasn't the only problem with this film. The shameless heart string tugging of the script really put me off.The closing few minutes of the film had to be one of the worst and funniest cinematic experiences I've ever had. There is one scene involving a tear that sent me into laughter and then annoyance. I expected to see a giant ear of corn appear behind Gary Sinese. Hokey to the extreme.Mission to Mars is just another waste of money and time. More cookie-cutter cliche driven slop from the coked-up suits in Hollywood.Avoid, avoid, avoid.   "},{"Title":"1/2 a movie...","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is good enough in the first half to keep my attention, and even impress me. The special effects were effective, and the movie was believable, as was it's intention. Sure, the plot was coated with cheesy, wishy washy, sentiment not usually found in sci-fi films, but that was OK too. This was an obvious homage to great sci-fi flicks of the past such as 2001 A Space Odyssey, with a bit of The Abyss thrown in for good measure. I cared enough about the plot and characters to even get caught up in things myself. Unfortunately for the viewer, as good and realistic as much of this film was, the ending was weak, predictable, and disappointing. What an obvious  cop out. I won't give anything away, but it's nothing that hasn't been done before. And who animated this stuff? Pokemon in outer space is what it felt like. Too bad. DePalma had achieved something completely different, and that was what I liked about it at first. All the way down to the soundtrack, it just wasn't your normal sci-fi, and I liked it. Too bad the ending was such a bummer. It's worth seeing, just enjoy it while you can. It gets worse when it should be blowing you away. "},{"Title":"Mawkish Martian Mishmash","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Since 1972, when the last of the Apollo missions returned from the Moon, the fate of NASA has been, well, a little shaky. Without the provocation of a cold war to stimulate public interest or the attraction of exploitable resources to curry Congressional favor, NASA has barely survived on periodic spikes of fascination via unmanned Mars landings, comet fly-bys and far-sighted peeks into the heart of the universe by that miraculous workhorse, the Hubble Telescope. With much of the cosmos so easily scrutinized from the comfort of a climate-controlled laboratory, the prospects for manned exploration have taken a backseat to the simple push of a button (not to mention evermore realistic-looking science-fiction films and television programs). Now, more than ever, NASA is eager to engage in all positive exercises in healthy self-promotion. Mission To Mars is, alas, not one of them.In what is more or less a remake of 1955's clunky Conquest Of Space, we are forced to bear witness to TWO crews of astonishingly uninteresting astronauts during their respective missions to decipher the mystery of the infamous face on Mars. As another user noted, a more apt title would have been Rescue Mission To Mars, since nothing is shown of mankind's ostensibly historic first landing there. Instead, we are privy to a completely superfluous introduction to both teams of astronauts at a backyard barbecue (lifted right out of Apollo 13). Cut To now we're on Mars. Who, wha, huh...? After an ill-fated though impressive-looking sojourn by Team One to examine the face close-up, the first-string actors back on Earth are then dispatched to Mars to attempt a rescue and then spend nearly half the movie's would-be modest 113 minute running time just tooling around the spaceship or trying to figure out how to land.The real mystery here, aside from NASA's extensive participation, is how a major studio like Disney, an accomplished director like Brian DePalma and a cadre of fine A-list actors would have anything to do with such an under-developed, plagiaristic, illogical and cliché-ridden TV-quality script as this. I kept waiting for Sparks the radioman and Cookie the cook to show up! Despite NASA's input (and some of the science IS accurate), scientific impossibilities abound. To name but a few there should be no sound in space; there should be virtually no sound on Mars; the floating M&Ms would not stay still in one place, let alone remain proximate to the others, no matter how hard one tried; characters should not be able to easily hear each other if one or the other is wearing a helmet; the leaking fuel wouldn't have drifted rear-ward because it's going the same speed as the spacecraft; if the ship is spinning out of control after the explosion, how is it the astronauts aren't all spinning wildly into space as they abandon ship; I'm still working on how on Mars Graham is able to maintain a livable temperature, adequate pressure and a breathable atmosphere inside what is simply a large tent; many, many more inconsistencies.In fairness, some clarification should be made for the many extreme comments made by others here, no doubt borne out of their intense disappointment after months of anticipation. Mission To Mars is not too slow or too long--it is simply uninteresting. Many have criticized the actors to varying degrees for below-par performances--on the contrary, they do as fine a job as possible with some of the worst dialogue they've likely ever encountered. (We are beset with lines such as--delivered with 100% sincerity--It's like looking for a needle in a haystack; I actually emitted an audible Oooooo after that one.) The score by Ennio Morricone is not bad--it's simply...all wrong for THIS movie. In fact, Mission to Mars would have fared better with little or no music. Many have complained that the (definitely underwhelming) alien is anything but convincing--I suspect that it might be due to the fact that it is not actually a living being but, like the elaborate presentation of ancient Martian history to the astronauts, it is simply a projection and not meant to realistically mimic 100% the actual appearance of a Martian (hence it's eventual evaporation). After all, how could an alien or its progeny have survived for millions of years inside the face? Additionally, the much-maligned tear that it sheds may simply represent a non-verbal but recognizable iconographic signal to the astronauts that the devastation of the Martian surface long ago caused great emotional turmoil as no doubt many millions of Martians perished (yes, I'm throwing the filmmakers a bone, but what the hey, it's possible.)In any event, no audience can be truly faulted for its disdain of Mission To Mars. Though watchable to some extent (and it IS a very handsome production), it is a MAJOR disappointment, plain and simple. As mentioned by so many, there is little here that hasn't been seen a hundred times before. I imagine this film will play much better to younger audiences who haven't been exposed to its many routine excesses (excess routines?) If released twenty years ago, no doubt throngs of people would sing its praises. But with countless examples of much finer science-fiction films released in the interim, the filmmakers should have known better than to dole this pablum out to an audience eminently more sophisticated than they realize. With any luck, the clamor of outrage sparked by this movie's release will reach the ears of studio execs everywhere and (shedding a tear here) we won't fall victim to such underestimation in the future. "},{"Title":"i liked it...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The people on IMDB have generally slagged this movie, but I though it was damn good. First of all, the cinematography was unbelievable, the pictures on mars, from space and in the alien spacecraft were awesome. The movie had a strong message and left you thinking about it long after you left the theatre. As for the the computer animation/special effects, some people think that they over did it, or they didn't look realistic enough, but I think it was just the right touch. Mars looked perfect, and the alien was purposely made to look computer animated, as to show that we have no idea what these lifeforms are like, and there is no way to realistically portray them. I'll admit the exposition was weak as was the character development, I didn't feel much pain for the wife when Tim Robbins 'bit the bullet.' But I hate looking at an art from a technical standpoint. Bottom line, the movie left you with feeling when you walked out, and a lot of movies fail to do that. I gave it an 8. I say its worth seeing.     "},{"Title":"Bizarre...but not completely worthless.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   Brian De Palma has gotten really mainstream lately. I've always found his films to be dark and strange but it was his style. When he did MissionImpossible in 1996 I remember thinking...This is a Brian De Palma movie? Speaking of thinking, he must have not done a lot of that to come up with the last 20 minutes of this film. But surprisingly, I found everything up to that point really working for me. Mission to Mars is an unusual film indeed but it is far from, as some have said, the worst movie so far this year. It's so routine to say movies like this have great special effects. So what? But I found the character drama to be satisfying. The opening sequence involving a Mars mission send-off party was really nice and introduced the characters well, whom I liked a lot. Sci-fi could use a big shot in the arm these days I'll admit but the genre isn't totally far gone and completely lost. With films such as these, the climactic delivery is vital. If you fail at that, you lose credibility. Still, I consider this film better than The Phantom Menace. Now THAT was a bad movie!! "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just returned from this movie and wanted to check what others thought. I just read Mike's comment and was shocked.  I think everyone in the theater walked out and realized that was 2 hours of their lives they would never see again. What a tremendous waste of time and money.  The effects in isolated cases were not bad, but every cool effect was shown in the trailer.The end (as Mike says I will not spoil) was ridiculously stupid. My friends and I laughed during the movie and I'm not sure it was a comedy.  The acting and action was slow and boring.  If the movie had been cut into a half hour TV piece it would've been just acceptable.  Even the soundtrack was horrible and sounded like it came out of a Full House episode.Mike, go see real movies - even sci movies like the Star Wars Trilogy, The Abyss, 2001 A Space Odyssey and Bladerunner to see what movies are supposed to be like. "},{"Title":"Decent start, some good parts in the middle, goofy ending","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The ending totally ruined this movie.  I was laughing too hard to take any of it seriously.  Robbins was touching as Woody, but for the most part there was no character development.  The best part of the whole movie was the comedic relief of Jerry O'Connell as Phil.  He had me rolling.  When it comes down to it, the ending was just too hokie to even resemble something feasible. "},{"Title":"Must See!!!!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It sounds kind of silly, but if you see only one film, this is the one to watch.  Solid characters, solid (soon to be classic) story, solid everything.  Its one of those few films that once it starts you won't want to wait for the next scene.  Go see it twice (I did).  It's well worth the second trip to mars. "},{"Title":"Good Film, Better Than I Expected","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This wasn't a bad film at all. I had a free ticket to any film in the cineplex, so I figured I might as well see Mission to Mars, given how it was savaged by critics.It was not bad at all. I enjoyed it. Had I paid for it, I would have felt it was worth the money. An entertaining summer movie.The special effects are quite good. So good, you take for granted how easily they recreate the gravity-free and articial gravity scenes. The end toward which the film gravitates was completely plausible. My best guess is that we didn't evolve here anyway. In Europe, evolution has been dropped from many school systems, since big holes have appeared in the theory. I like the view of this movie.The acting is pretty good. The characters are NASA types, so you can't expect Annette Bening and Kevin Spacey scenes or attitudes. These are scientists and flyboy types, and the characters get a lot out of the script. You care enough for the characters that, when Trouble comes to some of them, you feel a sense of loss.The script was better than the lame cliches I expected, given the barbs the critics heaved. There were only a couple of times I winced, but they went by fast.This is a bit of a visionary movie. It's obvious it borrows from other movies, but so did those other movies. It has enough unique elements to create its own environment. At the end, when you see the opportunity Gary Senise has, you find yourself weighing the decision yourself.I'd say the critics went too far against the movie, much in the way that maybe the same critics went nuts for American Beauty. I gave Beauty a big score on my review. Mission to Mars is worth a look. I gave Beauty an 8, and Mission a 6. I haven't seen many space movies at all that I'd give an 8 too, anyway. Mission created the feel of what it's like to go there, and that's no small achievement. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as everyone is saying....","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, Mission to Mars owes a lot to other sci-fi movies. Yes, it's not as action packed as every one wanted. And yes, There are a few inaccuracies. This all said and done, Mission to Mars was in my opinion, slightly above average (I gave it a 7.) I did not notice the score drowning out any part of the film. I liked the special effects, I liked the actors, the script was okay, not great. Over all, I (egad!) liked the movie. "}{"Title":"What a smarmy disappointment!!!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am still waiting for something to happen!  What a boring, sickly sweet, Disney sci-fi! One critic said in my local paper that if, you've seen the ads, you've seen all the good  parts...  HOW TRUE!!   This movie just went on and on and on......and you think that you'll get a good pay-off?  A  big wham-bam ending?  Nope.  Just some smarmy, kissy kissy, kiddie cartoon ending! It was a bit much when they all stood around holding hands, but when you saw the tear,  well, I almost had to get a insulin shot!  The ending was so poorly done, I REALLY thought  that it was a Disney animation!  Almost all of the plot was filler and time waster, and didn't  really connect to the story line very well.  I was VERY disappointed in both Gary Sinise and  Tim Robbins.  They both looked and acted like they could have phoned in their parts.  Very  boring and stereotypical roles and I guess they both had a hard time getting interested in  the whole thing, because it comes off in the acting! "},{"Title":"Cerebral film stumps knuckleheads, satisfies the imaginative","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's sad to see so many people slamming this film for having poor writing and little tension, but it's not surprising. The director created a reality on screen that left me awestruck and yearning for more. The film dialogue was appropriately understated in comparison to such fireworks spewing sludge films such as Armageddon and Wing Commander. The scenes in space left me with knots in my stomach, but the guy sitting next to me wearing the Beer is good baseball cap couldn't wait to leave the theater. His long sighs of boredom and ceaseless fidgeting almost ruined the movie for me. I wanted to test his IQ right there. The score was exceptionally post-modern and fit the mood of the film like a glove. There were many characters sharing screen time and I found myself caring about every one of them. I hope we continue to get to see high quality films like Mission to Mars, and in the mean time I pity the fact that our North American culture appears to be suffering from a slow, steady brain asphyxiation. A previous commenter that said This isn't a playstation game was right on the mark. Only stupid people are breading.   "},{"Title":"overall- not bad at all","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading the other reviews, I was disappointed that everyone hated the movie it seems. There were some things I did not like, but few movies are significantly better. What I didn't like The musical score- poorly done, sometimes inappropriate; The ending- interesting idea, but the execution was too cheesy- I could have done without the 10-ft tall martian ghost. What I did like The story was captivating. Some reviewers say it was boring but I found it enthralling. It was very interesting. Some reviewers also say it is basically a remake of 2001. In some ways I agree, but I think this movie still stands well on its own. Its not a total rip off- but some of the ideas were borrowed. A good way to say it is that this film is influenced by 2001. The special effects were great, and I really like the actors and acting. With the exception of parts of the ending, it was believable which made it more enjoyable. I did not think this movie was perfect, but it was well worth the $4.50 I paid to see it. My girlfriend absolutely loved it. "},{"Title":"not bad, not bad.....","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Personally, i thought this is a well made movie.  All I really have to say though is don't be fooled into thinking there are a lot of action packed moments, because the previews fool you.  Yet with the great actors, neat idea, and awesome effects, this movie was enjoyable to watch and a good sci-fi flick. "},{"Title":"MISSING PERSONS REPORT BRIAN DE PALMA","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If anybody finds Brian De Palma, please report his whereabouts to the proper authorities. That is the inescapable conclusion after viewing his latest studio offering, Mission to Mars. Because, if De Palma isn't missing then the question becomes who the hell directed The Untouchables? In that film, he showed he could adapt his usual thriller methods to a stock studio genre piece to give filmgoers a summer movie with pizazz. Continuing the slide he started with first Mission Impossible and then Snake Eyes, De Palma seems to be deteriorating each year since his champion Pauline Kael retired. Given the storyline of astronauts in peril on human's first foray to another planet, De Palma would have seemed the perfect choice to helm this throw back to 50's era space travel films that were more science fact than fiction.It is in the sequences that show off the marvelous production design of Ed Verreaux that Mission is at its most realized. Using a mix of existing technology and stuff just around the techno corner, the sets will leave most audience members with a sense of why haven't we gone to Mars yet? Or, at least have a cooler looking international space station. There's a sequence involving an EVA - extra-vehicular activity for those who don't speak techno-weenie - that has gotten much pre-release press as a brilliant De Palma-signature set-piece (but is nowhere near the level of his Untouchables/Battleship Potemkin baby carriage sequence). What does make this part work is how well the design, acting and direction mesh together to give us a moment that holds the audience's attention without ever jarring it with false moments.This one is followed by another that is almost its equal. Had the film benefited from a few more of these thriller plot constructions that De Palma can really sink his teeth into, Mission might have turned out a good or even great film. In this aspect, it seems to be following the already failed path of another film, The Abyss. While many will point to the specifics of the design (there are only so many ways a spacecraft can look based on current technology and the physics of artificial gravity) and the events of the last reel as tip-offs that 2001 A Space Odyssey is the inspiration, I found myself reminded of Cameron's inner-space epic. That film too had a great near-future technology setting that should have been sufficient to drive a thriller plot and was saddled with (for those who are too dumb to get it from the trailers, what follows is a SPOILER) an unconvincing aliens-are-real surprise in the last act. If the crowned prince of whiz-bang special effects driven action films Cameron couldn't pull it off, what made the roster of writers here and De Palma think they could? At least Abyss had characters you came to care about.Which is Mission to Mars' weakest asset. There's a moment in Abyss that is one of the most poignant ever put on film and is a harbinger of what Cameron would be capable of in Titanic. Ed Harris and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio are trapped in a crippled, flooding sub and only have one dive suit. She decides to drown herself and after dragging her body back to the main base, Harris can then resuscitate her. But, it doesn't work. I found myself literally blinking back tears as he slapped her and screamed, Fight, you bitch, FIGHT! There's an echo of this in Mission but since you see it coming a mile off, there's none of the same emotional impact. There's a weepy bit about Gary Sinise's dead wife, but it plays like the standard movie boiler-plate that it's supposed to be.In fact, the movie seems like boiler-plate from the opening moment. In what is becoming a laughable trademark, just as he did in Snake Eyes De Palma opens the film with a continuous shot around a backyard barbecue that's meant to both announce This IS a Brian De Palma and These are people you should care about. Yet, both play flat. The most lively cast member, Jerry O'Connell, isn't even there (for those who must, regardless of this warning, see Mission now in theaters, all of O'Connell's best lines are now in the tv spots). There was one shot, of four spacepersons in tandem as they jet to another craft with the Red Planet magnificently spread out below, that succeeds so well it shows how far off the rest of this film is from being good. Wait for video. "},{"Title":"Plagiarism, thy name is DePalma.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is not the first time Brian DePalma has decided to remake a film by a great film maker, and not the first time he's failed.At least when he made Blow Out, he said up front it was a remake of Antonioni's Blow-Up. Mission to Mars is a remake of Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odessey, whether he wants to admit it or not. There are elements of some other films as well, Contact, Armageddon, etc.; in fact, there really isn't an orginal idea (or even shot) in the whole movie.Watching it I was reminded of a line from Woody Allen's Stardust Memories. When asked if he was paying homage to a particular picture in his new movie, the director says, Homage? No, we stole that outright.One of the best things about Mission to Mars was that it reminds us of just how great 2001 was. Thirty-two years laterand its special effects still hold up against this  "},{"Title":"Poor Character Development, Lacked Emotion","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars (MTM) was a high-budget sci-fi film that attempted to portray a futuristic story explaining some of lifes unexplained theories and reaching the seemingly unforeseeable goal of humans landing on Mars.I had TWO major problems with this movie - The first and biggest gripe that Ii had with the film was that it lacked character depth and development.  Simply stated, the movie was not successful in making the audience relate to the characters.  Characters were one-dimensional and almost robotic.  I didn't feel the dialog was remotely believable based upon the circumstances the characters were confronted with and the relationships between the characters just didn't appear genuine.Second gripe is that important scenes such as the actual landing on Mars and the first steps on Mars were omitted.  I feel that scenes were either deleted when this movie was edited or blatantly left out.  In either case, the creators missed out on opportunities to grasp the audiences attention and invoke some sort of emotion.  These flaws left the audience uninspired and unappreciative of the ingenious ideas and sensational cinematography that the movie did offer. "},{"Title":"DePalma tried really hard...maybe too hard.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars had fantastic potential. On paper, it probably read very well. Unfortunately, the 2001-ish ending did not translate well to film at all. Everyone's saying the goofy ending ruined this movie. (there is truth to that) But let's just be clear that the first 90 minutes weren't that great either. I thought this was gonna be a hard-scifi movie, but instead we get Dr. Pepper and M&M's are crucial plot devices!? And the opening scene was taken right out of Apollo 13, but not nearly as effective. The only thing in this movie I honestly enjoyed with the insertion of 'Dance the night away' by Van Halen. Normally, you'd think space + Van Halen = good. I was thoroughly disappointed with this movie. I just hope that RED PLANET with Val Kilmer & Carrie-Anne Moss is much better.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing & Corny","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that this movie was very poorly done as did all my roommates and everyone else with whom I have discussed the movie. Although the visuals and the background info was very well done, the rest movie really needed a lot of work.In particular, the writing and the score of the film were lacking. The writing was so run of the mill, one knew what the characters were going to say before they said it. The score was overly dramatic/patriotic and never seemed to fit what was going on in the movie at the time. One person I discussed the movie with explained it well The score sounded like the theme music to an awards show.One last gripe; what was the deal with the video montage at the end? Totally corny. "},{"Title":"Pretty good hard sci-fi (spoilers)","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the movie because of its interesting premise that we come from an ancient Martian race (they seeded Earth with human DNA after a Martian apocalypse).The movie is NOT a 2001 clone.  Those who maintain this did not understand 2001.  In 2001, mankind is not started by aliens but guided.  At very best, his evolution is speeded up.  In Mission to Mars, we come directly from the Martians, but are not guided or directed in our subsequent evolution in any way.Most of the hard science in the movie is good.  I did wonder about what would really happen if you removed your helmet in space.  I also wondered if a falling object would indeed burn up in the mostly carbon dioxide Martian atmosphere.Most of the imagery in the movie is wonderful (if your a sci-fi buff like I am) and the plot is much more interesting than most of what passes as sci-fi in films today.All in all, I thought the movie was pretty good. "}{"Title":"Mildly interesting up until the end","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a so so movie until the last five minutes.The effects were ok, nothing spectacular.  The Martian landscape was pretty cool though....I did not enjoy the total deviation from real science (atmosphere etc.) that occurred throughout the movie.The weightless shots were about the best part of the entire movie, luckily there were several of these.  People were knocked off at interesting points, it was not entirely predictable.The end sucked.   I had the impression that they had an ok idea for a movie and then realized near the end of filming that they totally forgot about an ending.  The flash-back scene went on entirely toooo long.   The sparkle liquid was a pretty cheesey effect.   The ending just did not tie anything together, it was a total let down. "},{"Title":"A fascinating idea sappily played out with gorgeous cinematography.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Not awful but not great.  The excellent, talented cast (particularly Sinise and Robbins) deserved better writing; sometimes the script is annoyingly shallow.  The logic of the denouement has holes in it but you kind of like it anyway (but that sappy music in the ending scenes should be scrapped). An adventurous feast for the eyes that made me think of Contact and Close Encounters; despite its flaws I went to see it a second time. "},{"Title":"One small step for movies, one giant waste of movie time","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I was astounded when, fifteen minutes into the movie, the scene jumps from the crew preparing for a Mars mission to them actually on Mars, exploring. They skipped right over the most dramatic part -- the landing and first steps on Mars! If the moment when Neil Armstrong first set foot on the lunar surface was a defining moment of the 20th century, surely man's first steps on Mars will be the defining moment of the 21st century. And this movie skips right over it!Was it a good movie? Well, by Hollywood standards, yes. Something like INDEPENDENCE DAY or MARS ATTACKS. But it wasn't a great movie. There was nothing new at all in this movie. While it combined elements of 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY (discovery of an alien relic on a nearby moon or planet), APOLLO 13 (disaster and recovery in space), CLOSE ENCOUNTERS (benevolent aliens), and THE ABYSS (husband and wife teams), and even THE MUMMY (stunning special effects), it wasn't nearly as good a movie as any of these. Gary Sinise should be in a better movie. "},{"Title":"2001 Lite","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Being a fan of science fiction movies, I had been hyped up to see this movie for months. The previews that I had seen for it looked promising.At the opening of the film, for a moment I wondered if I was in the right theater. It starts with some Cajun party music that I wasn't expecting for a science fiction movie. On the eve of the first manned mission to Mars, the crew members are kickin' back and having a good time. Right off the bat, this is an unlikely scenario, because astronauts are normally quarantined for a period of time before a mission. Plus, staying up late and drinking on the night before setting off on a major (or any) space flight is just plain stupid.Fast-forward 13 months. The first Mars mission has landed successfully and has been on the surface for seven months already. Huh? How about throwing in a scene of this historic landing? Isn't some dramatization of the first person to step foot on Mars (who happens to be African American) worth a minute of film? Plus, I would expect a celebration on Earth for this event. Well, at least I would have liked to have seen this.On the Mars surface, while exploring a strange mountain, a storm develops suddenly and a weird funnel cloud forms out of this mountain and soon envelops the astronauts. I say soon envelops rather than immediately envelops because the astronauts just stand there, for way too long, watching this strange bending and twisting tornado come toward them. The realistic reaction would be to RETREAT and get the hell out of there at once, but, defying all logic, they just stand there and gape at it. This results in the deaths (one rather gruesome) of all but one of the astronauts. Maybe their deaths were a reward for their idiocy.When a garbled message from the surviving astronaut, is received at the space station orbiting Earth and a rescue mission is hastily formed by what seems like just a handful of people rather than a gung-ho team experience like in Apollo 13. Again, a feeling of small scale production.In the final scenes where the astronauts view an elaborate presentation of the last days of Mars' civilization as well as the origins of life on Earth and are hand in hand standing in a circle, I expected either Sister Sledge's We are Family or the Coca Cola classic I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing to start piping up on the soundtrack. Also, some scenes and figures looked too computer-generated, Disney-like, and not very realistic looking.The ending was, well, I would describe it as 2001 Lite and it also borrowed images from Close Encounters of the Third Kind. It was sort of sappy, in my opinion. It ended upbeat, but taking it a step further, one can only imagine what the impact of the discoveries on Mars would have on Earth, particularly on society's religious beliefs. That's another movie right there.Was I disappointed after waiting on this movie to open? I don't know yet... but I'm leaning toward yes. The acting? Throughout the first half of the movie, we constantly are subjected to witnessing how much Woody and his wife are in love... so much so that it is tiring to watch. Also, Gary Sinise needs to work on his smile... it comes across as a sneer. At times, Sinise looks uncomfortable and in his role. The plot? A rather simple one with hardly any surprises. The sets and hardware were realistic and done well. Again, it seemed like this whole movie just involved a small group of people, a limited cast and settings perhaps to keep the focus on the point of the film. Was it worth seeing? Overall, yes, but unless you are a big science fiction fan, I would recommend seeing it on video since (yes, I'll say it once again) it does have the feeling of a small scale production and although it looked great, but not outstanding, it's not really spectacular on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Amnesia, anyone?  Let's not exaggerate","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Is this REALLY the worst film some of you have seen?  I think not, even limiting the field to sci-fi of the last ten years.  Remember Alien3? Godzilla?  Armageddon?  Phantom Menace?  Lost in Space?  Pitch Black? There's some pretty tough competition out there.True, it's not a great film.  True, the characters and dialog are pretty weak, but has anyone seen 2001 lately?  A truly great film, but face it, Dave Bowman is no Hamlet.  As an obvious homage to 2001, M2M captures Kubrick's detached, depersonalized style fairly well.  Why else would DePalma cast Jerry O'Connell, with his striking resemblance to Charlie McCarthy, Edgar Bergen's dummy?M2M clearly mimics 2001's pacing, as well.  In the earlier film. we jump from prehominoid earth to lunar excavation sites to earth-orbitting space stations to Jupiter to Bowman's retirement home to infinity to infancy. Whew!  M2M's a tight little tale by comparison.The most refreshing aspect of M2M, however, is its reliance on sets and models.  Compare to Phantom Menace and Godzilla, which look like cheesy video games throughout.  DePalma uses computer graphics judiciously (excluding the final, rather silly scenes), but the realism of the Martian base could only be created with a craftsperson's attention to dirt, metal, and paint.  This technology worked wonders for cinema's three best sci-fi films (2001, Star Wars, and Bladerunner), and it continues to pack a punch.So let's be honest.  M2M is not a great film, but the bar is so much lower for sci-fi movies that it is a perfectly acceptable film. "},{"Title":"Starts off well, but drifts off into silliness","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, Ok, the PG rating should have been a clue; but the movie starts off pretty well; except for the cliched 'grieving astronaut' crap. The space walk scenes were pretty neat as well as the shots on Mars. Somewhere after about an hour, the film drifts off into complete silliness. The origin of life on Earth has been explained in the hokiest of manners worthy of a premiere on the Disney channel. Is this the same De Palma who made 'Scarface' and 'The Untouchables'?! My advice  rent it and save some money. "},{"Title":"Don't Believe the Previews","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (*sigh*)  Disappointment isn't even the word.  Mission to Mars is one of the MANY movies lately that you walk away with the sneaking suspicion that at some point just around the 60-minute mark, the screenplay runs out and the writers all look up from the table and say, ...just give it to the special effects guys for the next hour and a half, they've got a whole lot they still wanna do.Think of Lost In Space and you know what I mean...Don't get me wrong, this formula can work if you have a damn good editor and someone on staff that earned their Reality Check badge (after all, Jerry Bruckheimer makes his zillions this way), but someone as asleep at the switch on M2M.The movie clipped along quite nicely until the climax where the characters...  er, opened the door (for those of you who have already seen it, you know what I mean).  Then it was like Walt Disney started directing.I went to the movie expecting to see something dealing with the origins of life on earth in relation to pissed off E.T.s, dipped in a little Armageddon/Alien/2010.  What I got was a bunch of creative minds that decided to do a movie around an interesting, but simple premise that didn't have the juice to go the distance of a feature film.C'mon!  Kumbayah around the planet!?  PLEASE.BTW  What ever happened to creature creators?  Why does EVERYTHING have to be ENTIRELY made of computer graphics??All I can say is DON'T BELIEVE THE PREVIEWS. "},{"Title":"Old Ideas With New Effects - More People Than Action","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the previews for this movie, I really wasn't sure whether I would like it of not. Obviously it was based on the star seed idea that has been floating in New Age and other communities around for years - and well, anyone who is old enough to remember them quickly realizes that it looks like the movies - _2001 A Space Odyssey_ & _2010_. I was afraid the ideas might come across as too cheesy, but it has such a strong and talented cast that seeing how they treated these ideas appealed to me, and in the end, it was the cast and the effects that made the movie.I walked out of the theatre thinking, It's been done before, but I am glad I saw it. The special effects are gorgeous - but almost too perfect.  Life & death action just does NOT seem to pack the same punch when it is done in the slow motion world of zero gravity. I also was a bit disappointed in the ending --- I knew that it was supposed to be uplifting and filled with potential, but something about the way that it was presented feel short. However, the same slower speed that created these problems also allows us time to truly feel and reflect on the emotions of loss & love, which are both deeply felt here.If you are looking for action and a movie that will hold glued to your seat and sweep you away, look elsewhere. But if you want characters with depth and ideas that will still leave you thinking hours after the movie, check this one out. The special effects are well worth seeing on their own and this is definitely a movie with something for everyone - even women who are not at all into Science Fiction will *love* the zero gravity dance scene and be touched by the relationships.BTW--- is it just me, or was the evolution sequence almost exactly a fully developed version of the first section of one that was originally cut from the movie, _Heavy Metal_? "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, not a video game","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For those of you who were expecting a bang bang shoot'em up let's splatter an alien movie, sorry to disappoint. This movie is more on the level of 2001 and Apollo 13. No fast action and edge of your seat but rather an even paced if this really happened, this is how it would look. De Palma did what he does best, creating a reality on screen. I have a feeling that the reviewers that have slammed it have spent a little too much time in front of Play Stations and not enough time in the real world. "},{"Title":"New Age?  Nah.  But better than the comments here.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  (Might contain some remarks some would view as spoilers.)Hey, guys, lighten up!OK, OK, so it ain't 2001.  What is?  So it makes you think of 2001. That's bad?I think many of the comments I've read so far were written by very young people, teens and twentysomethings.  De Palma was making an effort to try to create something unusual for sci-fi films  real characters with some depth; the cocktail party/barbecue at the beginning is an excellent scene in laying the groundwork for that, and many commentators apparently just don't understand such occasions.  Unfortunately, his success in making his characters real is limited, and that does limit the reach of the film overall.  But to rate this movie as a 1 is just beyond the pale.I, too, shudder at some of the scientific errata and elisions; I, too, want to reach out and shake some of the characters when they're just plain dumb (but how unusual is *that* in the movies?) in order to advance the plot. Likewise, the semi-New Age thematics aren't my favorite thing (worked much better in a better movie for which Jodie Foster should have won an Oscar, Contact) and the closing revelations are too short in terms of their supposed importance (but that's probably a consequence of De Palma's attempt to create real people in the movie).So, it's flawed.But once you get that off your chest, look at the rest of it.  The characters may not have the depth of the central ones in Close Encounters, one of very few sci-fi films to have been about real people, but they are more than cardboard cutouts, and by the film's end, I cared about what happened to them.  There's an absolutely marvelous scene in the middle part of the movie having to do with weightless dancing, when Connie Nielsen's character's interaction with her husband makes the whole group come alive as real folks.  Beautifully choreographed and emotionally telling, it is in many ways the centerpiece of the film, and more compelling than most if not all of the genuinely spectacular Fx.Incidentally, professional reviewers have generally been ignoring Nielsen and her character; big mistake, and, I think, indicative of a prejudgment of this movie as just another big-budget special effects flick.  If that's what you think it's supposed to be (and I admit that the studio promoted it that way; De Palma should probably sue), well, yes, it's got the problems already mentioned, and more.At any rate, the special effects are truly excellent, the revelation at the end is supported by at least some responsible scientific hypothesizing, and De Palma created some fairly real people to populate his universe, people whose eventual fate matters to viewers who understand what De Palma was doing.The special effects are sufficiently good that nobody without a really big-screen home theater should wait for the video/DVD.  Go see this if you like sci-fi, and approach it with an open mind. "}{"Title":"doing fine until the last ten minutes","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i won't say anything really that bad about this film, because it honestly wasn't promising anything to me that it couldn't be. i was bored on a friday night so i decided to see this one. i relaxed and enjoyed the eye candy. it truly was an enjoyable big screen experience. some might say it was too slow but then again lots of people think 2001 is too slow, and it's the best film ever made. so the movie was fine. something about it never felt really quite right, and it's because many of the plot points seemed to be easily found in other films. 2001, contact, alien, close encounters, etc. but still, i didn't really worry too much about that. so, everything was going just fine and dandy up until the last ten minutes. then it seemed that the actual film makers decided to quit and let Mrs. Johnson's 7th grade creative writing class take over! i was really surprised. i mean, the theater actually did laugh, and i dont think they were supposed to. when it ended, i felt a little used, my friend. it just flat out ENDED, too. i mean, the climax came did its thing, and then it wanted the audience OUT. a nice treat for the eyes. go with a friend and do the Mystery Science Theater treatment to it. it was a fun movie!  "},{"Title":"Not even worth the price of a video rental","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Initially I was very excited to see this picture. I expected a Matrix level movie (profound story, great special effects) and got a made for T.V. quality film. It had a very contrived ,boring, anti-climactic story line, uninspired dialogue (which made the actors look and sound silly) and below average special effects (considering what movie makers are capable of today). I WANT MY MONEY MY BACK !!!!!!!      "},{"Title":"A servicable film - not the disaster the critics describe.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to Mission to Mars expecting little.  I like Don Cheadle's work, and Tim Robbins usually puts in a good effort.  Beyond that I was still reeling from Pitch Black and figured that at least Mission couldn't possibly be worse.I was pleasantly suprised by the movie!  It is fairly derivative, there are a lot of long-winded conversations and inconsistent science, and the secondary characters are just drones, but the film comes together fairly well.It's in the category of science fiction that includes movies like Contact and (of course) 2001, and it does an OK job of capturing the wonder of exploration and discovery.  I would describe it as being the worst of the best.  It's a pale shadow of 2001, for instance, but it beats Starship Troopers any day.Well worth seeing for the effects, in any case. "},{"Title":"5/10","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Kinda stupid. I'm a physicist and I found the physics in the movie very bad in some places esp since the movie often seem to be trying to wow the audience with its knowledge of physics. The plot has large holes if you consider it enough but it's not worth the effort. Some good special effects made the movie watchable with a bunch of friends but not much more. Go see 2001, The Arrival, or Contact. They are far better movies.I give the movie 5/10.EDIT Now that time has passed, I barely remember this movie.eightnineten "},{"Title":"Hmmmm...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just the 2 of us (my hubby and I) saw it this time.  Halfway through the movie, I asked my husband what he thought.  He said I really like it!  I agreed - then.  That was, until we got to the last quarter of the movie.  It's sad, because halfway through, I thought this movie would have the potential to deeply affect me the way movies like Star Wars (the 1st one), Contact and Star Trek I had.  The kind of movie where you walk out contemplating your existence and why you are here, etc., etc.  Those types of movies are almost a spiritual experience to me.  The movie Contact affected me emotionally for days.But this movie?  Nope.  Not even!  I felt the ending disintegrated into total hokiness.  The idea of the movie is plausible.  I understood the reasons behind the whole message thing.  They didn't pull it off well at all!  It's a bummer to walk out of a movie that could be great, only to find yourself leaving with no emotions at all.  We were both disappointed.  It was ok movie, and worth watching -- sure.  Both of us agreed we could go to movies for sheer entertainment value.  But this was more the thinker-type movie, or at least it seemed to start out that way.  Maybe I just went brain dead?I usually fight for movies that are slaughtered by other viewers and can find some redeeming quality about them, but this one... I agree.  Rent it. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining Sci-Fi","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars   Shows what Sci-Fi can be when it isn't trying to act like it's brother, Action/Adventure.   Wonderfully directed, great performances from the cast, and a solid, believable story that makes me wish that I was there.   In particular, Gary Sinise and Don Cheadle give vibrant life to their characters.   If you see 'Mission to Mars', just go and have a good time watching the movie.   Have fun and enjoy the ride!      "},{"Title":"zero gravity","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Absolutely horrible.  I mean, bad beyond belief.  Slow-paced, uninvolving with no sense of tension, an unoriginal and pretentious premise concerning our possible alien origin (I need no one to remind me of that, thank you), a totally corny and inappropriate sound track, and a weeping alien that looks like a balloon dog.  Sheesh.  My former admiration for the talent involved evaporated from the first ignition.  I should have stayed home and learned Excel, or something equally interesting, than endured this unfulfilling journey to nowhere.  More of a misfire than a mission ..... you'd best be missin' it. "},{"Title":"Interesting and intriguing.  Not a let down at all.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So my friend and I go to see a movie.  Nothing that looks worth while is playing so, despite hearing nothing but bad reviews of it, we decide to go see Mission To Mars. As the movie starts you are introduced to the characters and such, which, in my opinion, could have been done better.  The whole movie was not what the previews described it as.  The movie was not about a Mission to Mars, it was about a rescue Mission to Mars.  But that whole point in mute when one sits back and realises how well the movie was put together.  I do not want to spoil it for anybody who has not seen it, but I would say if you are into any type of sci-fi this would be worth your while. "},{"Title":"oh please...makes u wonder what else u could've spent $5 on...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Actually, i paid $10 Canadian to watch this and yes i'd much rather get that back for a pack of smokes and a beer.  Good story, and nice special effects and I did like the fact that this was one of the few science fiction movies that didn't involve us beating the hell outta, or nuking, the big, bad, mean, alien menace that Hollywood has familiarized us with.  So much more could have been accomplished with such a talented cast, and in my opinion, this will remain one of those could have been good films.  What didn't i like about this movie?  Probably the ending.  Who created that alien???? Geez....it may have fit in a Disney movie.  And what's with the let's all hold hands and stand in a circle @$@%$^*&??  They should have just started singing and dancing, at this point the film was screwed anyways.  This film makes you realize why in Contact they never bothered showing the viewer the alien which we so wanted to see.  It would probably have ruined the film as it did with this one.  Break out the phasers, turbolasers, flamethrowers and nukes, because as mainstream and common those are in most alien movies, those are a hell of a lot more fun to watch than this waste of film. Sure this movie makes you think, but too bad you leave thinking about how bad the ending ruins the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Good cast, good F/X, LOUSY writing","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had promise but doesn't quite deliver. It was overly ambitious for this screenwriting team. The movie is too reminiscent of other SciFi flicks, borrowing bits from 2001, Close Encounters, The Abyss, and even Marooned--and borrowed far too much from 2001. 2001 did it better. And while the dialogue was leaden all the way through, it really got irritating near the end, when the actors had to explain what was already all too clear to the audience. Technical and logical glitches abound. The effects are good; the scenery on Mars is outstanding. The cast is good, though Tim Robbins' role is possibly the worst of his career. Don Cheadle nearly steals the show, though Jerry O'Connell gets the best line of the whole movie. While it's hardly a *bad* movie, it's not very good, either. "}{"Title":"Mixed Emotions","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw the trailer for this movie, it struck me to be quite similar to 2001 A Space Odyssey.  When I finally saw Mission to Mars, I found I was right, to some extent.  The two movies were alike both in element and theme but not in quality.  I should have known.  M2M had many weaknesses.  One of the most profound ones was the score.  The pipe organ like music was just... bad.  Another thing is the constant issue of physics.  When will these people learn that sound can't travel in vacuum?  This and other small details wouldn't have bothered me as much in a Star Wars/Star Trek like movie that is entirely fictional, but in a movie that strives for accuracy, these things just get on my nerves.  Mission to Mars does get points from me, however, for the cool effects, including the spacewalk scene and the scenes inside the rotating habitat part of the spaceship.  If you go to see this movie, expect to see a movie better than the usual Hollywood Sci-Fi fare, but nothing really special.   "},{"Title":"The Best DePalma Effort Since Phantom of the Paradise","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For once, Brian DePalma's typical look-at-me camera work doesn't stick out like a sore thumb-in-the-eye of the movie goer. Aside from a pair of uninterrupted opening shots, the rest of the two plus hour film is very enjoyable as DePalma's touches integrate seamlessly into Mission To Mars. I was extremely apprehensive in approaching this film&#133; I haven't been able to abide DePalma's work since Phantom of the Paradise (1974). (Okay, so The Untouchables wasn't bad, but there was stuff in it which really annoyed and distracted.)There were still lotsa DePalma touches, including many quotes and references, from George Pal (Destination Moon) to Kubrick (2001 A Space Odyssey) to Spielberg (Close Encounters...) with a tip o'the lens cap to Columbia's cheapo 1951 chapterplay, Captain Video. (Okay, now I'm lapsing into -his- pathology....)But perhaps the best effort was the choices DePalma made in omitting elements of the narrative which would have A made the film over 3½ hours and, B driven the cost up exponentially. It also allowed the viewer to leave the theater reasonably exhilarated rather than drained and bludgeoned. "},{"Title":"Promise of brilliance marred by frustrating ending.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Why is it that Brian DePalma always comes close to greatness and then fails?  Even his very best movies, (Dressed To Kill, The Untouchables, Carrie) are flawed and yet they are sprinkled with such genuine moments of wit and suspense that their shortcomings become doubly frustrating.  A director notable for his visual storytelling ability and his constant ripping off of other talented filmmakers.  His reputation continues with MISSION TO MARS, a film that works on the senses for it's first 95 minutes in spite of a hokey script and cardboard characters.  It is visually thrilling, there is an inspired suspense sequence centred around a rescue drifting through space.  The atmosphere is vivid and involving, and the movie seems to be building towards something very powerful......And then the ending, appallingly vague with an overly contrived sentimental climax.  Why does MISSION TO MARS end the way it does!?  With a promising but derivative build up, the ending seems like a bad salvage job that makes the rest of the movie fall on its face.  It is almost as if an ending wasn't even written for the film, and it was left for the editors to piece together on the cutting room floor!  Like every DePalma film MISSION TO MARS is shockingly empty, after teasing us with something more. "},{"Title":"The mission barely got off the ground","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Except for the last 30 min. of this film, Mission To Mars was a failure.Mission To Mars is a up and down film that saw the bad outweigh the good. For example, the beginning was great but it seemed to drag on too long.Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen and Jerry O'Connell try to lead this mission off the ground to rescue their colleagues; however, the movie fails overall and lost my attention. When the movie finally got good I was lost and I didn't care anymore.The worst thing about this film was not the performances or the plot but it was the way the director handled a sequence later in the film because the film built up to it and spent only a scene on it.The other thing I hated was while I liked the ending I realized it didn't make much sense and shouldn't really have been put in this film. It seemed completely out of place.I give Mission To Mars 6.5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"What could have been!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The special effects speak of an adequate budget. And some of those effects suggest that someone somewhere understood what a movie about a mission to Mars could be. Nevertheless, the plot, dialogue and poor science deminstrated that few others involved in this movie had the requisite understanding or skill "},{"Title":"A blood-splattering, tear-jerking dismal failure of a movie","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A movie with a so-so premise and a somewhat promising cast starts out bad and gets worse.  And worse.  And worse.  The casualties of this movie included two widowers and a widow, several destroyed spaceships, and a shimmering gold alien with a single tear running down it's cheek.  It's enough to make you want to open your astronaut helmet and let the endless void of space come rushing in.... "},{"Title":"Better than what critics tell you but decide for yourself","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has intrigued me since I caught its trailer a month ago.  When watching, look for some of the nice subtle details of it's semi-original future projection.  I could for one see that OEL (Organic ElectroLuminescent) displays  were employed to give it a realistic look, not to mention the use of NASA based space suits.  The scenes on Mars & outside the spacecraft were spectacularly done, even the storms showed attention to details.  The great cast of actors did their best on fairly predictable lines but the director's panning and space station effects were marvelous. I think the alien itself was the only really bad/disappointing piece of the film... it didn't seem like what you might expect and just didn't appear right.  Other than that this movie was a pleasure and a nice evening; I recommend that you watch it closely and decide for yourself without prejudice.   "},{"Title":"Surprisingly not bad...","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to see Mission to Mars despite the horrendous reviews for the sole reason to see the special effects... I had very low expectations for the film itself... I was pleasantly surprised... The movie is good and it has a good plot... There are a few cheesy sub-plots involving Gary Sinise's dead wife, who was also supposed to go to Mars, blah, blah, blah... But otherwise I liked the film... The martian sucked... He looked like every alien in every film since E.T. and I thought they could have done a better job with that, but I really liked Sinise and Don Cheadle in this movie.... "},{"Title":"In spite of Reviews SEE THIS ONE!!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie while being filled with cliche' is a worth while movie that will restore your hope for a bright and happy future.  It may not be the most technically sound movie but it is enjoyable and worth the money.  The acting is above average and believable, not to mention you feel like you've met the cast somewhere before.  Of all the Science Fiction films currently released, this one is definitely a 10, if not a 10 of all films currently released. "},{"Title":"A Mission to This Island 2001 of the Third Kind","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the interest of full disclosure, I should say that my expectations for this film were kind of low, since the reviews I'd read in the papers were all lousy. But time was hanging heavy on my hands on a Sunday evening, so...This was a movie with lofty ambitions.  It wanted to be 2001 a Space Odyssey, with a bit of Close encounters of the Third Kind and This Island Earth thrown in.  And there was a lot to like about it the special effects were fantastic, the characters were likeable,... did I mention the special effects?I'll ignore the shoddy science in the film (which I don't want to discuss for fear of giving away too much of the plot), and go right to my real problem it was pretty heavy-handed.  The background music, for example, was _waaay_ in the foreground.  It was almost saying to the audience OK, now such and such is happening, so you should be feeling this.  I think the audience should be able to get what they can get out of a movie without having everything telegraphed to them.That aside, this was really an OK movie.  Rating on my (patent pending) Manos Scale 5 out of 5.  Rating on a more conventional scale 3 out of 5. "}{"Title":"This mission is a failure!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie with so much hope of seeing a great science fiction that I would just scream if I was let down  and I did just that. Mission to Mars had many things going for it, a good cast, great special effects, a brilliant idea, realistic near future technology, and a good director, so what could go wrong?  LOTS! To start, the script writers probably only spent 15 minutes hacking this thing up and then went on their coffee break.  First, the opening scene is a rip off of Apollo 13, second, the dialogue is crap, third, there is way to much mushy I love you crap! (Example - the whole dancing stuff) fourth, the characters are paper thin, fifth, not enough swearing in moments of life or death (This reminded me of the old Batman series cursing) and last but not least, the design of the alien is pathetic!!!!!!!! And I mean really bad!!!!!!!!!! Overall good idea, but with a go nowhere script. 5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A high school drama team could have saved this film!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I say that because the lines are delivered with so little emotion that the actors sounded like they were reading them off a TelePromTer.  A high school drama team would at least produce tears when a loved one dies horribly and would have shouted with joy when the marooned man is found still alive.  Instead, the reactions are almost clinical disinterest.I have a problem with what happened when they got to Mars.  No one rebuilt the radio.  This was most strange, as that is the first thing that one normally does after a disaster--one calls home to let them know that everything's ok or whatever.  Instead, they goofed around with the artifact.I thought that the alien was the wrong kind of alien.  The first major lifeforms on Earth were dinosaurs and birds.  This kind of life continued until an asteroid trashed the environment about 60 million years ago, allowing mammals to arise and become the dominate life forms on Earth.  Why was the alien a mammaloid?  It should have been reptilian!I enjoyed the scenery, it was the best view of Mars ever to hit the screens, I think.  Other reviewers have advised to wait until the movie hits the DVD or VHS format, but I recommend that you see it on the big screen at least one time to get the entire view.  It is spectacular! "},{"Title":"A disappointment.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission To Mars boasts a very impressive visual style.  Brian DePalma takes his camera and  turns it all around in space and gives you the feeling that you're actually floating around in a  Mars bound spaceship.  Mars hasn't looked this good since Total Recall and the sandstorms that  occur on Mars are quite spectacular.  There are two scenes that really work.  The first deals  with the first Mars expedition and the ensuing calamity that causes a second mission to the  angry red planet.  The second good scene is one in which the rescue team has to abandon their  ship and try to make it to an orbiting supply vessel.  Those scenes, however, are bookended by  scenes that go on too long.  These scenes are filled with dialogue that goes nowhere.  The point  is made in the first few lines, but the writers deemed it necessary to have the actors spout it  out at every given second.  With a cast like Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, and Don Cheadle, you'd  think you'd have it covered.  To their credit, they give it all they've got, and they do manage to  have some fine moments.  Too bad they were hampered with lines that didn't move the story  forward.  Brian DePalma's mastery of the visual medium makes for some interesting visuals and  he of course borrows things from 2001, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and Star Wars.   Mission To Mars has some interesting ideas, but ultimately, the climax left me feeling cheated.   I wanted more.  Mars is an alien planet that holds many mysteries.  From that thought you can  cook up any number of scenarios that are frought with danger.   Overall, two really good scenes,  some good visual effects and a great production design are hampered by many bad scenes  supplied by a weak script that gives good actors some really bad lines.      "},{"Title":"Swell visuals; unspeakable dialogue","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of newspaper reviewers didn't like this film because it didn't have enough action. I thought it *did*. I found it suspenseful, not completely predictable, with engaging landscapes and special effects.   What sucked fatally was the unbelievably horrid dialogue. It wasn't just bad for a movie, it was bad for bad TV. Who writes this stuff? The exposition in the beginning was heinous, stilted and laughable. When a character dies, you just KNOW someone is going to say before the end of the movie, You have to take it, <character name> would have wanted it that way AND THEY DO SAY IT. It's supposed to be a tear-jerker of a moment, but about a third of the adults in the audience laughed.   What's surprising is, given that, that the plot was good enough to sustain the movie.    I enjoyed it... when I wasn't gritting my teeth at the dialogue. "},{"Title":"Great Beginning, Terrible Ending","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was totally immersed in this movie until about the 70 minute mark where all my interest turned to annoyance. The first two of the film were great. Wonderful moving shots that really made me feel like I wasn't being confined by gravity, and beautiful cinematography that puts the reader on the big red planet. BUT I have to say that the final 20-30 minutes of the movie may have completely ruined it for me. It was a lousy attempt to touch the audience. It was nothing but funky effects and an unoriginal resolution, and that just isn't enough. When the movie was over, I heard several boos and uchhh! The effects were nice to look at but what a waste of money. "},{"Title":"Glad to see I'm not alone...","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had pretty much made up my mind about this film, and I read the first couple of comments on it here at IMDb and they echoed exactly what I was thinking.  This movie was pretty bad.  I almost hate to say that, because I was expecting this one to be good.  But it just didn't get there.  Watch your step as you read on, I may drop a spoiler or two...It has an excellent story idea, but it gets killed by too many attempts to get the viewer emotionally involved.  The sub-plot that deals with McConnel's (Sinise) deceased wife was unnecessary and it quickly became annoying.  The music used was very poorly done.  It was almost always out of place, and it ruined many scenes.  Things that should come off as powerful come off as corny and over-dramatized.  Sometimes less is more.  One thing that was a clear disappointment was that the beginning of the film builds up the fact that they are about to embark on a mission to Mars, and then cut, poof, they were there.  Where's the lift-off?  Where's the setting sail for adventure scene?  If it had been there, the music would have been inappropriate and it would have stunk.  And when they finally get to the payoff scene and our heroes hold hands with a holographic alien, I was so disappointed.  They stole the ending from Contact.  But they forgot to make the Alien look like McConnel's dead wife.Should you go see this at the theater?  YES!  It looks great, but the direction kills the story. "},{"Title":"Fact or Fiction?","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The fact is, the technology in this movie was given a thumbs up from NASA themselves, since they worked closely with the actors and producers to flaunt some of their possible technology in the future.  The plot becomes fuzzy at times with a constant mix of each characters' intimate details, but the characters grow on you.  Once they get to mars, then the fiction begins. Again, if you ignore the fact that Hollywood is attempting to push the evolution theory down your throat (which in Europe is no longer taught due to large flaws found) it is still entertaining.  None the less, the ideas are a mix of new creativity with some old ideas about aliens.  The ending appears to leave you wanting more, but perhaps that is an opening to Mission to ______, (you fill in the blank).  However, all in all, with the awesome future based technology, and the creativity with which the Mars scenes are constructed I still gave the movie an 8, it is worth seeing and you may even want to see it again, especially if you have a thing for Gary Sinise )  "},{"Title":"What's the bug deal?","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Aside from the fact that this film is incredibly cheesy and stupid and almost brainless, I did in fact find it to be quite entertaining. Of course, I was half-asleep at the time and having a rather boring day, so to me probably just about anything would have been entertaining. Or maybe it was just the Coke and popcorn that made me happy. Or the movie theater environment. Who knows... "},{"Title":"it was good!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  if you don't try to take the movie too seriously, you will probably enjoy it! the special effects are okay but i did miss seeing a launch or a landing on mars.  "},{"Title":"Life on Mars?","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit I entered this movie as a huge Jerry O'Connell fan and that's how I left.  I thought the movie was quite interesting, with an interesing concept.  I thought most of the acting was done well from what the actors had to work with.  I thought there were a few holes in it, especially toward the end, but of course the end held some of the best effects, the most curveballs and the best lines in the whole movie.   I'd see this movie again in a minute, if just for Jerry O'Connell and Gary Sinise.  I'm very into space movies as well, which might also add to my views.  But I liked it a lot.   "}{"Title":"Entirely too overdramatic","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There are only two types of science fiction movies these days -- those that are all special effects but no plot line and those that attempt to be serious, but come across as over-dramatic and down-right cheesy.  M2M is definitely a case of the latter. (Very minor spoiler to follow).This movie tried entirely too hard to make each scene moving and emotional, but failed in each case.  At one point in the movie, as the characters stared meaningfully at each other before moving on, the guy next to me in the theater said hurry up and go in already!.  M2M is full of moments like this where you just want the next scene to hurry up and arrive because the current one has been stretched out for much too long.The sad thing is that the parts of the movie that are supposed to be tense and dramatic fail to be (spoilers ahead).  When the ship's hull is punctured, the crew should be running around in a frantic attempt to save their lives.  Instead, they move around in slow motion while calm elevator music plays in the background.  Another example is a death scene that lasts about 10 minutes longer than it should have -- and still doesn't make you feel any emotion.  I was happy when he finally died because I was sick of the scene.After all that, the movie has a weak conclusion following the discovery of the shocking secret (that you already know if you've seen the previews). All in all, M2M is this year's Deep Impact. "},{"Title":"One of the most awful movies of the last 10 years!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Folks,  I had my hopes up for a great film.    It didn't happen. This movie stinks.   I thought it had a lot going for it.   Brian DePalma directing.    Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins in the starring roles.    How could this movie go wrong?   First,  in its incredibly weak story. Second,  in ripping off every other sci-fi space flick you've ever seen. Third, and perhaps most tragic...  the soundtrack or score is just plain AWFUL.   I couldn't give any spoilers if I wanted to.  It is so predictable that I couldn't begin to give away any plot points (not that it has any) that you won't figure out in the first 10 minutes.    Do us all a favor and avoid this movie, so that they won't make crap like this again.  Grab yourself a Dr. Pepper, some M&M's, and take a chance on a video rental. At least then you would be able to hit the STOP button on your VCR or DVD if it is wasting your time.     This movie wasted 2 and a half hours of my life and I want them back! "},{"Title":"With this budget, they couldn't hire someone with a clue?","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The really sad thing about a movie like Mission to Mars is that the amount of money which has probably been spent producing and marketing it would make a noticeable dent in the cost of sending an unmanned probe to the planet. And with that kind of money, couldn't they have hired some planetary scientists and NASA engineers as technical consultants?Yes, everyone else has already commented about how this movie is a bundle of cliches and a hack-up from about 5 other movies, including 2001, Close Encounters, and, less obviously, Allen Steele's novel Labyrinth of Night.Forget all that, it's the blundering stupidity behind some of the details that occasionally caused me to alternately gasp or giggle during the movie. Sure, they throw in some cute little Sojourner-like rovers to indicate that they're aware that NASA actually sent a probe to Mars a few years and took a lot of pictures, but apparently they couldn't be bothered to look up some of the results obtained from that probe, the Viking missions and even earlier.They never noticed the distinct lack of clouds in the Viking and Pathfinder photos? They never looked at a map and noticed that Cydonia is a *long* way away from the serious canyons?I suppose Total Recall was worse in its disregard for Mars science, but at least in that case you could wave your hands and say that movie was all a dream. "},{"Title":"Not very explosive, but a good storyline.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was good for the budget it had to work with and I liked the performances given in the movie.  There weren't as many flashy things like we have seen in Armageddon or Independence day, but the story-line with the face on Mars was great because it is actually based on some truth.  I really loved Gary Sinise's performance, but he always puts forth a great one so that isn't such an important comment.  Overall I gave it a 7, it at least deserved that much. "},{"Title":"Poorly constructed ending","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hate science fiction movies (2001 included) where you have to read the book to understand the ending!  I haven't read the book treatment yet, but why can't the filmwriters tell the story?  Where is the Gary Sinese character going?  Why did the Martians send their seed to Earth, if they had spaceships and could just travel there themselves?  Was this like Krypton blowing up, where they didn't have time to build big enough ships for everyone?  Or did they have a prime directive where they couldn't interfere directly in Earth's development (but sending DNA isn't interference)?  It had exciting parts leading up to that, but I was disappointed in the conclusion. "},{"Title":"If the music had only been better...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie could SO EASILY been better than it was... I don't know what the hell they were thinking when they set the score for this movie, but the music seemed to fit this movie about as well as elevator music would have fit The Matrix... The only time the music came close to fitting, it sounded like a direct rip-off of Saving Private Ryan music, and that ruined it for me.  The CGI towards the end was pretty cheesey, and the whole ending felt rushed.  Bring on Red Planet!!! "},{"Title":"Review - possible spoilers","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Take every science fiction or NASA cliché and pack them all into a movie about Gary Sinise staring longingly at films of his dead wife and you'll have Mission to Mars.From the opening scene, I knew something was dreadfully wrong. We start at the going away party from The Right Stuff where astronauts poke fun at each other's piloting skills just to prove how cool they are. The NASA wives are there grousing around their barbecue. Cut to the scene in Apollo 13 where daddy explains to his boy how far away Mars is and how long it takes to get there. We're introduced to the characters (just like it says in Script Writing for Dummies) - the token black guy (Don Cheadle), the grizzled captain (Tim Robbins), the grounded ace just dying to get back in the saddle (Gary Sinise), etc, etc... You've seen them all before. And the intro wraps up with Robbins giving a heartfelt Godspeed. He actually says it. Then Cheadle goes to Mars (which looks exactly like a Hollywood set - perfect lighting and all) where the crew watches calmly while a tornado looks around and sucks them in. Hallelujah the first act is over.The second consists of a series of completely contrived and highly improbable difficulties that serve no purpose whatsoever. On the rescue trip, we encounter the floating blood from Star Trek as well as that strange dramatic device known as 'jargon.' Incomprehensible technical problems are put before the audience and we're told it's highly risky and may not work! Then we're told it did and we should be happy and feel closer to the characters as a result. We also get treated to a 20 minute musical montage every time a character has a bad thought. Sinise's wife is dead and he, traveling with a married couple to further deepen his depression, insists on watching every home movie of her that he owns. Where did they get the payload capacity for all this ridiculous sentimentalism? After this we're witness to one of those scenes that's so laughable it's almost worth the price of admission - four astronauts free floating through space on what is obviously a set piece while they all line up perfectly like conga dancers for one of those 50's space movie stills.Finally, they arrive and spend hours dragging a pack through the sand instead of finding their missing crew. Once he is found they investigate the source of the tornado thing from earlier and rip off 2001 in an effort at more preachy sentimentalism. The alien actually sheds a single tear! Then they finally add even more insult to the injury they've put us through when Sinise has some hoaky religious experience while his life flashes before his eyes. The final rip off is from Close Encounters, but I'll spare you.God only knows how this film got made. And with big names too. Suffice it to say that I saw this one so you don't have to. "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the year 2020, astronaut Phil Ohlmyer (Jerry O'Connell) watches as Cmdr. Woody Blake (Tim Robbins) and specialist Dr. Terri Fisher (Connie Nielsen) dance in zero gravity to Van Halen's Dance The Night Away in Mission To Mars. By ROBERT HANKINS City Editor Brian De Palma's early films used Hitchockian touches. Now he goes for Stanley Kubrick. Mission to Mars, playing in town this week, tells us that life on Earth originated from Mars. It is like 2001 without having to think too much. We get Kubrick's space uniforms, ship designs, bright white light and even the 2001 three-shot jump cut when Frank Poole is killed by temperamental computer HAL. Too bad the flight jackets the astronauts wear to parties don't look any better than those from the low-budget 70s series, Space 1999, starring Martin Landau. The film has many original touches, however, like when a rocket blasts off to Cajun music by Buckwheat Zydeco. Another interesting moment is when Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise), thinking he will never get to Mars, puts his footprint in a child's fake Martian terrain. There are some great special effects, suspenseful moments and a tearful goodbye in space to the swelling music of Ennio Morricone, who never writes a bad score. In addition, there is fine camerawork by Gordon Hayman and photographic direction by Stephen H. Burum. Product placement is big in the first minutes of the film, set 20 years in the future when everybody drinks beer or cola in space-age boxes. Somebody watched The Right Stuff a bunch of times, too. Sinise, as a Chuck Yeager-type, tells us I'm a pretty good stick, and Tim Robbins, as cigar-chomping Woody Blake who sports a Perry White haircut, says, O.K. Let's light this candle. A lot of the dialogue is cliche, like when one character says, I don't see how an earthquake six months ago could cause this kind of destruction, to which Sinise cynically surmises, That was no quake. Sinise is also able to figure out in about 30 seconds every baffling clue coming from a mysterious face on Mars. And of course, there's got to be a German scientist, here portrayed by an apparently uncredited Armin Mueller-Stahl, for once playing a good guy. "},{"Title":"I Liked it!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I disagree with you all!  I read this page before I saw it and I expected it to be terrible.  I took my four year old and he also loved it.  No sex & very little swearing.  A clean movie.  It kept me interested the whole time. It was a suspense filled action /sci-fi movie.  I will even rent it to see again when it comes out.  On a rate from one to ten, I give it an 8! Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars A Go or A No-Go?","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow! That's all I could say (at first.) A team of astronauts goes to Mars, discovers the answers to who are we and run into trouble, to be rescued by a team led by the original prime commander of the Mars mission. The soundtrack is great, the special effects are just first-rate, and the storyline believable. And then came the ending. It left me saying What?! Without giving it away, suffice to say it was too reminiscent of the ending of 2001. A good beginning, climatic middle, but a disappointing ending.One minor nit at a crucial point, a one in a million meteor storm tears into the ship, including the *exposed* fuel lines! Why build a ship a la Bonestell's 1950 lunar lander? You don't need to save weight, it's not going back to Earth!So is it a go or a no-go? Go for the soundtrack, go for the special effects, go for a nice night out. But don't go for the storyline, as while it's believable, you'll feel as empty as a decompressed airlock. "}{"Title":"Choppy Start. Great Middle. Sad, Sad, Sad Ending","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie begins with a barbecue in which the audience is meant to become- by means of some magic -emotionally attached to the main characters. Not only does this fail, but it sets up an atmosphere which is all together different from the rest of the film. The movie then proceeds to cut from random scene to random scene, semi-successfully transferring the general idea of what's going on. Then the magic happens! *Poof*, the film smoothes out and really picks up. There are some wonderful scenes, each one displaying spectacular computer effects, that draw the viewer in. Everything is going perfectly. (I sat there thinking, Wow.. this film's really changed for the better. I can't understand what all those critics were talking about!) --And then I nearly choked. There stood a perfectly smooth, glowing alien, smiling and crying-- CRYING!? All right. Imagine Contact meeting The Abyss in 2001 A Space Odyssey. Then imagine everything going horribly, horribly wrong. The end of this movie decreases it's value beyond even the least expensive admission fee. Don't bother seeing this one, folks. And if you do, be sure to leave as soon as the rescue mission lands on Mars. At least then you'll have a more positive view of DePalma's interplanetary flop. "},{"Title":"It's a good day today...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard a lot of things about this one, 90% of them negative, so my curiosity was on it's top when I finally went to see the movie yesterday.As everyone finds the opportunity to talk about masterpieces and older versions of the same subject that we are not going to forget even one thousand years from now, let me be an expert too and give you my definition of a masterpiece. Or I guess two definitions... Once upon a time in America and The ninth configuration.I didn't expect M2M to be such a masterpiece. But I did expect of course it to be a very good movie. And I think this was a good one. It had some lovely messages, some beautifully hidden emotional scenes as well as moments that were pushing the movie as a whole from its serious part to even a ludicrous one. But this is not a reason to throw this movie into the trash. It was a nice try from a director of great skills and a nice point of view. And I don't care about if he is imitating artistic behavior of others directors work assuming he does it in a beautiful way. By the way is any of us really himself 24 hours a day?Finally I am coming to the soundtrack, another hot point of the film. I think Morricone for the first time in his career let himself fall into the trap that most other composers do. He used much inappropriate music in order to have a film running with music for most of its part. But even though, the themes he composed for the well fitted parts of the movie are really beautiful and place him among the three or four composers worldwide that know how to write music of high level.  "},{"Title":"E.T. Meets 2001 meets Angry Red Planet meets Close.............","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Encounters meets Apollo 13 meets The Mummy.....Did I leave any out.  Oh, the organ music in the space ship sounds like Carrie returning from the prom.BAD movie, there is not need to repeat what others have said!  Good germ of an idea though.Hey, I'll still give it 2 stars---the pretty scenery and pretty men were enough to hold my interest. How about Stud Muffins on Mars? "},{"Title":"It went way off the deap end","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The movie started interesting, but they started to loose me when the second mission started to fail.  From this point on, it was more a statement on philosophy, and a good science fiction movie.By the time it was over I was ready to leave.  Actually I was ready to leave about a half hour before it was over. "},{"Title":"perfect example","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the perfect example of how all of the seemingly right pieces of a movie puzzle can be together i.e. cast, director, story and the movie can be a complete disaster. It all hangs in the balance of that precious, rare, commodity these days; dialogue.  And this movie has dialogue that would be rejected by the WB network!  This site has a category called goofs, well this movie is a goof.  There is not enough room here to write down all the things wrong with this movie but you will all just have to trust me. Unless you like crappy movies, don't waste your time.  If you want to see (and I use this term loosely) something similar, try the original and still the best; Kubricks 2001a space odyssey and give your hard earned money to the real movies. "},{"Title":"Opens with a bang, ends with a fizzle","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission To Mars provides a very compelling twist on the whole why are we here issue, only to fall pitifully short at the end.  What starts out with so much promise only leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth, preventing you from remembering how good the first hour of the movie was.  The special effects are decent, and there is a decent amount of intrigue, but if you expect a lot, you will leave as upset as my friends and I did. "},{"Title":"Can they start over and try again.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Let me say that I love Sci-fi. So I go into a movie looking to be drawn in as though it were real, or at least believable.The idea for this movie was standard for any good sci-fi film. Going to Mars and looking around, oops! we found something.The problem with this one was getting to it.All movies start out by introducing you to the characters, and we have come to expect this to be a slow and sometimes drawn out process.Then the pace picks up, right? WRONG! Some of the scene's that should have you sitting on the edge of your seat have you yawning and wondering if this is as good as it is going to get. Then you get a scene that starts to get your attention and the acting is so dry that you totally lose any hope that the movie is going to get any better.I agree that the special effects were pretty good, for anyone who has not seen a movie in about 5 years. Although a couple were very convincing.So, all said and done, it was worth the price of admission $0.00(I won the tickets from a local radio station). "},{"Title":"An Almost-Perfect, Mature SF Film","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars fits right in with 2001, Star Trek The Motion Picture, and The Abyss. After all, they are all basically the same movie!That's not to imply that Brian DePalma, et al., are plagarists. Rather, the theme that Kubrick set up, space travel as a mode of transcendence for the human species, is explored again in this movie. And very well.Space flight is portrayed as the dangerous, and adventurous, endeavour that astronauts and cosmonauts have known for forty years. The presence of astronaut Storey (Space is my calling) Musgrave on screen indicates the blessing of those who have been there. Not to mention the co-operation of NASA through the entire pre- and production process.For those who know astronautics, there are a few minor technical flaws to the film, more continuity problems than anything spacesuits (just like the 2001 variety), having air hoses extend from the PLSS to the helmits, suddenly not there when four astronauts enter the alien sanctuary, those same pesky PLSS's stapped to the astronauts backs while they are in the control cockpit, as well as a ship as sophisticated as the MARS II not having a warning light indicating that a fuel manifold had been punctured by a micrometeorite minutes before the candle was lit. When the production designer and director strive so hard for authenticity, these little bloopers can detract from the film....but not much.The depictions of Mars, and the hardware that is used to get people there is wonderful to watch. The sets (exteriors courtesy of British Columbia) are certainly light years ahead of Classic Trek (think The Apple). Sojourner should have been given a consultant's credit.DePalma attempts to create interesting characters for the film, but what emerges is the likability of the actors portraying them. Astronauts in real life are such successful, type A types, that when combined with their training, their perfection becomes boring. Perhaps that was the intention give the audience a sense of what astronauts are really like. I guess it worked.Note to Gary Sinese you are getting yourself typecast as a space film performer. Why do you think you were offered this film? Remember Apollo 13? Some casting director thinks you have the Right Stuff. Please don't do a remake of Enemy Mine!At times, this film suffers from editing that is too fast- paced. I understand the mechanics of spaceflight- many of the audience will not. Therefore, without sufficient grounding in the subject, many of the audience will find some of the plot transitions difficult to understand.Or maybe it will kindle their interst in real spaceflight, so that NASA can fly more than 25 year old spaceships to orbiting tin cans in the sky.Well worth seeing several times.   "},{"Title":"Not a violent or obscene movie, but not a great sci-fi movie","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  By radio, I quickly learned Mission to Mars wasn't going to be an all-timer sci-fi movie. My expectations were low, which upstaged my becoming disgusted. Acting was barely competent, TV soap opera level. Actually, Gary Sinise was excellent, and he should be given a gold star for continuing to act during a lost cause.But I applaud this movie because of its lack of violence. The obscenity level was low, too. It's clean, and love was not hidden. Thus, it's a good serious movie to take kids to.To those of us who saw 2001, Bladerunner and The Right Stuff, Mission to Mars is soap-opera in space. It's mediocre for adults, but thought-provoking, like a Mr. Rogers TV show, to kids. Yet, it wasn't an awful movie. It completely lacked greatness, but stayed a step above awfulness. It's a tame Disney-grade movie that Walt Disney, himself, would have felt was too boring to produce unless Donald and Goofey were inserted into the cast to drum up interest and add realism.It's tragic that so much money was wasted on a mediocre script. This movie follows corporate movie-making trends of today. It's what happens when bored, talent-free corporate employees, with one greedy eye on Nielsen ratings and the other on the clock, joke and laugh while dipping potato chips and drinking their fourth beers while patching together a mediocre movie script just in time to go home Friday afternoon. Missing is the influence of a genius or two, like Stanley Kubrick, who had something to say.But it's not a worthless movie. It reminds me of sci-fi movies produced in the 1950's with upgraded fake special effects. It's as fake as any Buck Rogers movie made in the 1950's. It's important to note that the so-called great special effects are generally boring and less realistic than a toy commercial. As for drama, I didn't cry when the wife failed by just a foot to throw a rope to her husband stranded in Mars orbit. However, I would have laughed hard if the producer and director of this film had been left in Mars orbit, ultimately being scalded during a fiery entry into the Mars atmosphere and ending up slamming head-first, shoulder-deep, in a remote Martian desert.Nevertheless, give Mission to Mars credit. It's a step in the right direction, which is ultimately to Mars. NBC, CBS, and ABC will make better documentaries of a real mission to Mars. This movie is a modern-day, Mr. Rogers level, sci-fi kids' entertainment that whets our appetite for inevitable real missions. After all, many of our astronauts were mesmerized and influenced by gun powder sparks hissing out from the back of a 1950's Buck Rogers rocketship, with visible threads jiggling the plastic model before a hand-held camera. The professional cameramen of Mission To Mars, to their credit, used tripods. Take your kids to this movie, particularly if they ooh and ahh, clap, and ask questions while watching Barney. "},{"Title":"What the...?","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A couple a' years ago my friend turned me on to this director by the name of Brian DePalma. He's from the same time-frame as my favorite director, Scorsese he says. I'm into what he says and decide to give DePalma a chance. I see Carlito's Way and I am totally surprised. I see The Untouchables, shocked and happy. I see Casualties of War and I am quite intrigued. Last summer I caught Snake Eyes, and thought, wow,  this man can direct. (I don't need to mention the rest, but their all brilliant in their own way)Then my friend and I are sitting, waiting for Any Given Sunday to start. And we see this trailer for a new movie. We heard about the movie before, but now, now, now we are SHOCKED. It looks fregin' amazing. we're goin to see that! he says. I conquer.BOOM-It's March 10th.Mission To Mars hits theatres.We're pumped. We pay, we sit, we watch, we leave. This film changes my life forever. You see, as someone who watches films religiously, I take offense when a film insults me like this.M2M is so stupid and so laughable that it makes me sad to have known that I spent 2 1/2 hours of my life in a theatre. In spent half time thinking Jesus, Brian, you made Mission Impossible! There are certain things that I would like to divulge, but alas I don't want to spoil it for those idiots who don't care about bad reviews and plunk down 10 bucks anyway.Tim Robbins doesn't suck, neither does Gary Senise, neither do Connie Nielson or Don Cheadle. Infact, the whole cast is pretty good. The actors are fine, they do a fine job. It's the script that sucks. The script is awful and full of plotholes. The actors should all be very proud of themselves. The special effects are cool. The sets are neat. But all this stuff isn't important unless the story is something I want to watch. So the casting director did a good job. So did the costume designer, but who really cares if the movie is awful. Look at Being John Malkovich. The costumes and cinematography weren't mind-blowing, but the plot was. The story made the whole movie brilliant and thought-provoking. It wasn't just the hairdressers. Back to M2M. This film is boring and nothing you haven't seen. If you really must see it, rent it. It's not worth movie prices.   "}{"Title":"I'll rate it a 5. Just plain average.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If it wasn't for the special effects, this movie would have gotten lower that a 5 rating. Because of the special effects and Mars scenery, I will give this movie a straight down the middle 5 rating. I found the characters to be dull and boring. I didn't care about any of them. I found the plot to be dull and boring to. In fact there were a couple of plot strings that really got on my nerves because they were the same old space action routines that most sci-fi movies have (the micro-meteorite repairs, and trying to save the lost astronaut). Once again, the Mars scenery was nice. Other than that this was a dull movie. I'll rate it a straight down the middle 5 because of the Mars scenery. "},{"Title":"Was the Mission a success?","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You could ask this question about the movie.  Big budget, Excellent effects, Excellent Cast and good overall story.  I think I understand why they went to a PG for a wider audience. However some scenes and dialogue were a bit candy coated.The initial contact at the mountain and the Rescue approach scenes were VERY good.  Some say many scenes were clones of other Sci-Fi movies but for the effect, characters and results they had to build from something.  Even with Brian DePalma directing they were very restrained for what could have been shown.  The ending was a good idea but due to so much coming out in preview trailers, we felt we already knew too much to appreciate it. Again great affects.  Lots of room for sequel but I hope it has more teeth and depth to all of the characters.Worth seeing in the theater for size and sound but it would work well on a Home big screen too. "},{"Title":"Great sci-fi","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To put it bluntly, this film rips off 2001, Apollo 13, The Abyss, Contact, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, to name a few?  So why did I like this movie so much?  Probably because it was entertaining yet informative at the same time, a rare breed of movie.  The cast was excellent, and they do fine with sometimes generic situations & lines.  Jerry O'Connell in particular did a good job in a somewhat comic relief role.  The special effects were very good, especially in some of the weightless scenes with the crew members.  Overall, a good sci-fi movie that keeps your attention throughout.  FYI Even though this film is rated PG, it may be too sophisticated for younger children.8/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible Sell-Out Commercial Junk","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a warning, if you like Sci-Fi movies of any kind, do yourself a favor and don't see this movie. I am a Film/TV major and this is the junk that they warn you about the first week of class. It makes me sad when I see a movie with such potential turned into a total joke. I will never forgive Brian De Palma for mocking the sci-fi genre with this calculated sentimental and totally cheesy movie. It's no wonder that this movie is funded by a Disney company, Touchstone Pictures. Everything is so toned down in this movie, all the way down to the cartoonish alien that is seen later in the movie...... NO this is unforgivable....Why doesn't Hollywood learn that it's viewers aren't as stupid as they assume we are. Sure the special FX are great, and De Palma does some interesting things with certain camera angles, but that's about it. I was almost forgiving of some of the major flaws in the movie, only because I'm a sucker for sci-fi movies, but when the Cheesy CGI cartoon alien appears, I couldn't hold it back anymore, the rage set my mind on fire. I felt compelled to go online and boycott this movie. Someone at the top of the executive chain of Touchstone needs to be punished, severely, for allowing this movie to turn out like this.....To sum it all up I give it the three dreaded C's Cheesy Commercial CrapP.S. If u see it, go in expecting great special fx...and well, that's about it....... "},{"Title":"clear your mind","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I try not to listen to hype when I go see a movie.  This is a great film if there is nothing on the mind when it is viewed.  I saw it with a clear mind and loved it.  I have already talked to a couple of people that said, What that's it? because they expected this film to be something that it is not.  I loved the film. Brian DePalma is a genius.  If there is no other reason, go see this movie based on direction alone.  It was shear I candy and the special effects were awesome. The acting was superb in this movie.  Sinese was not Sinese, Robbins was not Robbins.  Not a single actor was acting within their norm. Story line is the real key to this film....everything was great, but the story was the best.  It is a little bit slow to get the audience involved, but it's all worth it for the rising and the falling and everything in between.  Great movie.  Go see it, but disregard anything you have heard or read about it.  Expect nothing and you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Solid sci-fi with Hitchcockian cinematic feel","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a long-time aficionado of hard science fiction, both in print and on film, I am mystified at the intensity of negative reviews that have accreted around MISSION TO MARS. Consider the typical criticisms that hard-core fans level at screen sci-fi1. It's all special effects, and the plot is not 'character driven.' Well, this film is all about characters and their very human emotions wonder, love, loss, frustration, gratitude. If this movie had been any more character-driven, it would have been a Bergman flick.2. The writers obviously don't understand science or simply cheat on the scientific angle to squeeze the budget or get around plotting difficulties. Again, it seems to me that the producers spared no expense to give good, rock-hard science here. The shots in the Mars-bound spaceship were incredible. One-upping both Stanley Kubrick on centrifuge shots, and APOLLO 13 on free-fall shots, de Palma incorporated both reference frames seamlessly. It's a brilliant piece of cinematography, directing, and editing.3. There's nothing new here. This was all covered by Heinlein/Asimov/Clarke/Dick by the end of the 1950's. Well, I've got news for you _all_ literary plots and themes have been covered at some point in the past. Even Shakespeare borrowed shamelessly from earlier works. Actually, there's plenty that's new in MISSION TO MARS. The Hitchcock method of continuous panning so beloved by Brian de Palma is used to great effect here--the first sci-fi film to be so shot. For comparision, take a peek at de Palma's previous effort, SNAKE EYES, to see the same technique.Although I consider MISSION TO MARS to be a top-notch science fiction film, beautiful to look at and listen to, I certainly can't give it a perfect '10.' While the physical science is good, the biology is substandard. The ending is relatively weak, but I can't judge the whole book by its last chapter. I give it a solid '8', and I recommend it for theatrical viewing. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars follows the same path as The Haunting","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  So there I was, sitting in the theater at 1000 last night waiting for the movie to start.  I have been waiting for this movie for about 3 months now...it looked so snazzy from the trailers that I HAD to go see it.  I'm really into sci-fi, so I would enjoy it no matter how.....ahem....long and drawn out it was.  So, without further adieu, here's my review (hey that rhymed).***POSSIBLE SPOILERS -- READ AT OWN RISK***The beginning party scene was pretty long, Checked my watch, &  it could've been cut down about 5 minutes. Then, after we get acquainted with all the characters, it jumps a year ahead, when the crew of Mars 1 is on the surface.  The special effects for the vortex scene were incredible, and the sound effects rocked my brain.  It started getting hopes up when the middle of the movie was EXTREMELY long. Checked my watch. It takes about 35 minutes.  Then, when they have to abandon ship, the acting was laughable when Tim Robbins' character gets stuck in a bad situation, and Connie Nielsen's character gets all emotional.  Checked my watch.  Then the movie jumps back to being good -- Don Cheadle, who saved this movie along with Jerry O'Connell, is safe on Mars following the disaster, and he has researched sounds coming from the infamous FACE ON MARS. He discovers the key to human life is on this planet...the face on Mars is really a gateway to the real human life. Mind you, I just covered about an hour's worth of footage there, so it was kind of long.  The climax is full of wonder and intrigue, which I'm proud of because it wasn't a blow-em-up action movie.  Hell, it wasn't even an action movie because of the lack of action scenes.  It will leave you wondering, but it will also wear down your Indiglo watch extensively.So, why do I compare it to last year's The Haunting?  Well, we were all expecting this movie to rock the house (the trailers, the buzz, the stars), but it got bashed by critics...get it now?Before I close the review, I'm chuckling at the fact that I heard a pretty good comment from an audience member  This movie was probably originally written as a TV special.  And it could've been, too.  2.5/5 "},{"Title":"Good story most of the way, then ending goes awry","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a very good movie if not for two things (1) an ending right of a Lassie episode (It was Lassie who did it, she saved me!) and (2) some truely unbelievable plotholes. First the good news, acting is pretty good.  Story keeps a good pace with some nice tension (30% of atmostphere... etc).  There are some good special effects of spaceships, weightlessness, bodies coming apart.  Mission to Mars is worth seeing if you don't mind the bit of silliness at the end.  Now for the plot holes, let's count them (1) Damaged spaceship heading for atmospheric entry, but exiting in spacesuits somehow saves you. (2) A billion miles of space, but orbiting module happens to be in spacesuit-floating distance when exiting said spaceship (3) Same billion miles of space, but alien spacevessel passes within a few feet of orbiting earth vessel.  (3) Alien technology that works after millions of years, can scoop someone off of a planet, but that same technology emulates alien lifeforms like a Playstation video game.  (4)  Aliens go to another galaxy instead of another star system  (5)  Why was that galaxy so big?  If it's that visible from Mars, it would be that visible form Earth, too. (6)(7)(8), etc.  One more thing...  What was it with those truely goofy evolution effects -- the audience just laughed. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma??","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The opening frames of this film is a portend of how slow the film is and restless the viewer! The opening drop (music) is off putting and the first fifteen minutes are as boring as could possibly be with absolutely meaningless prattle from party go-ers and relatives of the astronauts. I thought I was at the wrong screen. This couldn't be Mr. De Palma setting up the character exposition...but after I walked back out and checked the screen, I walked back in and began tapping my foot for something to happen that would grab my attention. It must have been 45 minutes before I perked up, somewhat, when the film turned to face it's title and some true and interesting action occurred. The visual treats were very,very good and well done and convincing, but again, Mr. De Palma reverts to character exposition of the married astronauts on board (bored) (again boring as heck) (I don't think the next line is a spoiler but for those who can't stand a clue don't read it) and the widowed astronaut that was left on earth because he couldn't overcome the death of his wife in time to qualify. There are some wonderful Space Odessy 2001 reverent scenes and some neat visual action on Mars, but overall this is an unconvincing space film and It's obvious Mr. De Palma did not have a script worth working with. THIS IS A BORING FILM... "},{"Title":"Not too awful","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After reading several negative reviews I didn't have very high hopes for this movie, but was somewhat pleasantly surprised.  It's no work of high art.  There are some lame-o scientific errors that even I, a proud liberal arts major, was able to catch.  But it's a good-enough piece of cinema escapism.  Just don't expect 2001.   "}{"Title":"Good God, end the pain now.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I watched the movie at a free screening at Northwestern.  Most of the audience was howling with laughter halfway through the movie (which, sadly, isn't a comedy).  After a brief flirt with the interesting, this movie goes south in a big way.  Ouch.  There is a dramatic scene in the middle which drags on so long that it sucks the life out of even the most optimistic supporter.  After that, it's hard not to beat down a movie that just seems to want to kick its own ass.  How could the stars of The Shawshank Redemption, Forrest Gump, and Sliders(chuckle) tag their names to this piece of crap.  Don't make the mistake Robbins and Sinise made.  Avoid this plague like what it is. "},{"Title":"DePalma in Space.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have just got back from the theater seeing Mission to Mars. It is a very well constructed film. The film is very unique. A real Science Fiction masterpiece. The first great Science Fiction film of the 21st Century. "},{"Title":"The Horror. The Horror. Not ever Kurtz could imagine schlock as bad.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I must warn everyone to stay away from Mission To Mars. What a silly movie. It was trying to be the next 2001 or Close Encounters of the Third Kind and it failed. Brian DePalma may have some neat special effects but he ain't no Kubrick or Spielberg. It was godawful. Dumb ending and even stupider lines. How could those fine actors do some schlock like this? How? I am so devastated over it I deserve to be arrested for wasting two hours last night watching it...As Colonel Kurtz said in the way finer Apocalypse Now The Horror. The Horror. The whole message aspect of this movie was very pointless and trivial. If I wanted an explanation for evolution I would have paid attention in biology and at least I would not get an alien seeding theory. Boring all the way to the bank. I hope Red Planet can improve on this one. "},{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is probably the best sci-fi movie I've seen since Contact. It had exactly what I love in a movie a sense of adventure.  An exciting and uplifting journey to Mars, where the things that happen are only possible on the big screen (or as much as we know...)  It combined the suspense and scientific realism of Apollo 13, the fantasy of The Abyss, and the vision of 2001.  However, I don't believe it ripped off those movies..well, not completely at least.  I would say it 'emulated' them, sort of like taking a good idea and expanding on it.   "},{"Title":"Patchwork of great and mediocre parts-- But worth watching","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is worth watching-- but it is also a patchwork of great stuff as well as mediocre stuff. The great parts-- specifically, a new view of what space life might be like in the near future, with males and females, silly equipment and tedium, for example, are cool enough to watch. They make the overly simple or sentimental parts of the movie at least bearable.Plot-wise, this is just an update of Arthur C. Clarke's 2001 A Space Odyssey. In a way it's also a bit like a jim-dandy super-duper exhibit at Epcott Center, or a world's fair. Not thrilling from a dramatic sense, but exciting enough if the stilted manner sometimes evident in the script is overlooked. I gave this a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Armageddon meets 2010? not!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How could such an exciting premise be devoid of so much excitement ?  Everything that should have been climactic, the rocket launch, the landing on Mars ... it's not there.Nice acting and camaraderie, the great effect, one beautiful shot of the solar system, but the huge buildup leads to such a Contact letdown.Have a great ride! "},{"Title":"Incredible images and good story","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well I was amazed at how much detail was put into making the effects realistic.  I'm not talking about whether they looked fake or not, but instead that SCIENCE was used.  No crazy gimmicks were throw in.  The space-walk sequences were very good along with the actual surface of MARS. This movie, like 2001, is a visual orgasm. "},{"Title":"Excellent Effects","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   Mission to Mars is an average movie. The character development isn't all it could be and the plot has holes but other than that this is a thrilling while it lasts. Speaking of that the 110 minutes it runs feels like atleast 180 minutes. Gary Sinise is excellent and so is Tim Robbins. But even if the plot and characters lack, the special effects are worth the price of admission alone. But it's a fun Mission while it lasts.     7 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Another Sci-Fi that continues a year of bad movies.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I heard that Mission to Mars was rated PG, I was happy.  Finally, a movie I could take anyone to that would be fun.  The previews surely looked promising.  The story stunk.  Just like Star Wars Ep. 1.  A whole lot of special effects with the worst scifi ending since Contact.  Mission to Mars has so much fill time leading up to the actual MISSION that you really start to feel tired.  Then the goofy evolution scene just made me laugh.  So martians are benevolent being that drown you and make you feel happy.  The theater I went and saw it at all walked away upset and wanting their five dollars back. Two words Rent it.  "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars is a mixed journey","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would like to open up this review by saying that Mission to Mars is not a horrible movie.  It is however very flawed.  In the opening sequence when we are introduced to the characters their is a wonderful panning shot that follows each of the characters.  Trademark De Palma!  I think that the script for this movie must have been rushed becauase the movie suffered from very bad dialogue.  Some of the sequences were spectacular.  A certain life form they meet in this film looks very unrealistic.  This movie can get overly sappy with strong character development that does not seem to sell their characters to the audience very well.  The characters seem thrust upon the audience.  I also would like to comment on the score.  This is the worst score and sound effects editing that I have ever heard, the organ music was vapid.  If you go into this movie with high expectations then you will be let down.  But if you go into this movie wanting to see some entertaining popcorn movie sci fi yarn then this movie won't disappoint.Mixed feelings. "}{"Title":"Good premise, lame script...","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had some great potential, but failed miserably to get off the ground. The previews made this film look interesting, but with a lot of movies I have seen recently, they seemed to have put all the good stuff in the preview to get people to go. I will give credit where credit is due and say that the special effects in this film were phenominal. Even the actors did the best job that they could do with the material they had on hand. However, the plot was so full of holes that it made little sense in the end. I am a BIG fan of sci-fi movies, and I would have to compare this film more to movies like 2001 than Star Wars, which might be why I was not so entertained by it. Still, 2001 was groundbreaking for when it was made, and Mission To Mars is far from that. If they would have marketed this film as a more cerebral sci-fi film instead of a special-effects ladened adventure, I think I would have gone in expecting less and feeling better about it. My advice for this film is wait to see a matinee or until it comes out on DVD or video. Hopefully the DVD version of this film will have deleted scenes or commentary at least to explain elements of the film that left me wondering just what the script writers were thinking when they wrote it. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars not a total letdown","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start out by saying that if you are looking for a suspenseful, surprising, smart movie, rent 2001. If you want a nice, entertaining, glossy special effects film see Mission to Mars. The Dialogue was littered with cliché's that made me cringe. The twists and turns were predictable, following a textbook set of rules that mimics every other modern 'suspense' movie.However, the movie was entertaining. The special effects were wonderful, and there were several fun moments. I equate this movie to Independence Day; definitely not Oscar worthy in any since, but fun to see. Really, on a Friday night after a tough week of work no one wants to sit through two hours of hardcore drama (that's for Sunday afternoons) -- people what something light and entertaining. And that is what Mission to Mars delivers. My final score 6 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Slow pace,","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very slow movie with an absolute snail pace.... I cannot believe this is a Brian De Palma film who directed Mission Impossible. The major culprits are the screenplay writers who did not know how to fill up screen time. Do not waste your money on this movie. Wait to watch it on Network T.V.  "},{"Title":"Ain't on the page, ain't on the stage","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was God awful. I was really looking forward to some decent sci fi in the mainstream cinema (why I would do that is science fiction in itself) and I see the same story that's been told 1 million times in second rate sci fi books.I'll give it this the trailer looked good. The movie looks like it's got the springboard to tell a thought provoking story. And then... it takes an hour and a half to take you up to what the trailer already told you- with no new information (but with a lot of bad music) before a tacked on stolen ending.  "},{"Title":"DePalma's back with a mission","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Where I did find this a lot better than his last picture Snake Eyes, it still had a few flaws. Off the bat, DePalama is one of out best directors. He's very masterful in capturing the spectrum and awe of the red planet, and he's got a talent for building suspense. But the problem with this movie was not on his end, but the writers'.Since Tim Robbin's name came last in the credits, I knew he was gonna die, but DePalma's direction fooled me. It looked like his character would make it, and in a split second my stomach dropped when I realized he was really out of a life-line. That was one of the best and most tragic scenes I've watched in a while, but like I said, the problem didn't come in at that end. When something bad happened, the characters cried about it too much. And in that scene, if Connie Nielsen's whining been cut down by about 20 seconds, and her breathing heard from a distance, that scene would've had a greater effect on me.As for the rest of the movie, it wasn't bad. Since it's 2020, we notice the local space station doesn't break down every hour, cars are more power-efficient, and US space shuttles look like they got the schematics from Kubrick's 2001. This movie was visually stunning, full of kick-ass effects, and some pretty interesting characters for the most part. And the ending, though I would've liked more, was well done. At least we saw the aliens (unlike Contact, which this reminded me of) and it kinda makes you think hey, what if life really 'did' start on Mars?But until we find out, there's always Mission 2 Mars. "},{"Title":"Armageddon meets 2010? not!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How could such an exciting premise be devoid of so much excitement ?  Everything that should have been climactic, the rocket launch, the landing on Mars ... it's not there.Nice acting and camaraderie, the great effect, one beautiful shot of the solar system, but the huge buildup leads to such a Contact letdown.Have a great ride! "},{"Title":"They used to think the moon was made of cheese...","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was eager to see this movie, having seen previews which highlighted the effects and the action sequences.  After racing out to see it on opening night, I realise I was misled.  Every line was delivered with a spoonful of saccharine.  By the end of the movie I was practically gagging.  I loved the concept of the movie, but the execution was poor at best, and that's considering the spectacular effects. Many scenes could have been half as long and had as much, if not greater effect.  I also noticed poor effects at times, which seemed incongruous with the rest of the effects.  In particular, the scene in which Gary Sinise's character was viewing home videos of his wife features a shot of the two of them in zero gravity.  Their heads might as well have been pasted onto cartoons of their bodies floating in midair.  Also in this scene, there is a close-up of Sinise in which his eyeliner and lipstick were very noticeable. He looked like Tim Curry in The Rocky Horror Picture Show. What disappointed me most about this movie is that I expected to enjoy it.  The concept was great, the cast excellent, and the effects well done.  The plodding pace and poor dialogue ruined what could easily have been an enjoyable movie experience. "},{"Title":"Quite good, action and suspense was top notch - music was awful","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie, it held my interest throughout. Good action and a plausible plot line. The music was not at all in tune with the movie. The music was very seventies and quite tedious. Very real acting by Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise. "},{"Title":"Not a good movie, but not a bad movie","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was as middle of the road as they come. No stellar performances, but no bad performances. It seemed like it didn't really go deep enough. A key spacecraft orbiting the red planet is identified as REMO but it is never revealed why this spacecraft is there or what purpose it was designed to serve. The actors' faces in the spacesuits look like disembodied heads, especially in the spacewalking scenes. I also got a little tired of the spectacle of Tim Robbins' character and his wife smooching and acting lovey-dovey for half the movie. Bottom line---If you go see this, don't expect too much. This one is only worth the matinee price...or wait until it hits the $1.50 theatres (which will probably be about a month from now) "},{"Title":"Tastes great; Less filling.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a bit picky about my films The ending MUST validate the rest of the movie.  This film was not bad until the last half hour.  There was great tension and drama, and the story seemed to be leading up to something great. But then the movie ends and you realise that the tagline for the movie had told you all you needed to know about the ending.  I was hoping for an interesting take on this popular pop-culture theory, but all I got was a childish rehashing of the pondering of the origins of life.  Try not to think too hard after the films over, because you won't understand it either.In the end Somewhat interesting film, just don't expect any great revelations or even a simple twist in the end. "}{"Title":"Unremarkable, flat, movie.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When you see a movie, you live through it, but when it's over, all you have left is the Impression. That is  what will remain of it for the time to come, and that's what you tell the people about when you want give a brief description. Some movies shock you, some make you feel happy and joyful, some scare you... this movie, Mission to Mars, can be described as leaving a hollow impression, a nothing. Maybe it depends on one's background, but for me, the movie was extremely flat. Everything was... sterile. The plot, the acting, the mixture of stunning visual effects, everything felt like a rip-off which was stripped of all substance. The movie doesn't carry a message, it doesn't entertain, and it doesn't incite to think. What else should there be? Suggestion no need to rush for this one. Odyssey 2001, Solaris and Apollo 13 have already happened. 5/10 for the lack of excitement a sci-fi movie should have.  "},{"Title":"A flat rendition of a poorly acted psuedo-sequel to 2001","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went in to Mission to Mars hoping to see a tale of exploration, adventure, and the reality of space flight.  What I found was a 2+ hour plodding tale of people I didn't care about.  The score was not suited in any way to a sci-fi epic, and it completely missed all marks for supporting what weak emotional content was actually in the film.  The movie was cut at a pace that would make a snail impatient.  The actors were directed to provide their characters the depth of the paper their roles were written on (I know that these actors can do much better).  At no point in the movie were the expected urgency, terror, awe, wonder, or overall emotion of these situations ever communicated to the viewer.I didn't connect with any of the characters in the film - whether they succeeded or not didn't concern me in the slightest.  Unlike Apollo 13, Alien, or even Independence Day, where there were strong characters with human qualities and emotions, and whose fate each minute I did care about. Each minute I was wondering when it would all be over. There was no real climax and absolutely no denoument - which only made me feel more glad for the movie to be over.  "},{"Title":"Save your money","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I liked CONTACT.  I liked ARMAGEDDON.  I didn't like Mission to Mars.  It was pretty dry and boring.  Acting was okay, the story was weak, however. The climactic scenes just weren't very exciting.  Perhaps it had something to do with the score, which wasn't very good either.If your still interested, rent it on video. "},{"Title":"Overall good movie","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Mission to Mars tonite and I thought it was a pretty great movie, they did a really good job with effects and it had a great, believable cast. I'd say the only low parts of the movie is the end because it kind of just ends without completely finishing and in some parts they rush through a scene a bit to fast, but over all its very worth it to see it. "},{"Title":"deliriously cheesy","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What can I say?  Mission to Mars is a film with so much potential that gets thrown away.  Some truly great scenes are overshadowed by a horribly tacky ending and generally tacking dialogue.  I can see why the genius De Palma took the film, for in Mars he gets to do all the crazy things he always wanted to do.  His films are great, but you can always tell he's most interested in the cinematography.  In 0 gravity, he gets to do whatever he wants.  The special effects start out wonderful and steadily deteriorate until the cheesy, tacky, and inferior ending.  If anything, the poor film Mission to Mars gives a deeper and more fond respect of 2001. "},{"Title":"Apollo 13 meets 2001 in a pleasantly diverting sci-fi adventure.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"   This would be an ideal rental except that some of the sights are best seen on the big screen. Otherwise This a fine film that really never soars. It is ambitious and the production values are first class. The cast is first rate and in fine form although nobody will remember their work 6 months from now. If you are looking for any sign of Brian DePalma here forget it. There is nothing that bears his unique style in this movie. He does a competent job. The movie has a langorous pace that surprisingly serves it well. You feel like you are part of the crew. The finale is quite nice. Overall, this is just a better than average film aimed directly at space lovers. I'm glad I paid just an afternoon matinee price for it. "},{"Title":"Apollo 13 falls into The Abyss","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars There are many questions which have enthralled humankind over the millennia What is Truth?  Does God exist? What happens to that little light when you close the refrigerator door?  But since the dawn of the space age one question has taken center stage Are we alone in the universe?   Humanity takes the next big step in space exploration when the crew of Mars One touches down on the Red Planet in 2020.  What begins as triumph, quickly turns to tragedy when an unknown force attacks the crew and the Mission Commander only has time to transmit one short, cryptic message, before communications are permanently severed.   Not knowing what has happened, NASA quickly dispatches another ship, but the nagging question on everyone's mind is whether it will be a rescue mission or a recovery.  No one could have guessed what awaits them. The technical aspects of Mission - from the training to the space vehicles to the actual science of space travel - are very realistic, mainly because NASA acted as a technical consultant for the film.  Even before the script was written, the producer spent weeks meeting with the people in charge of the future manned space program to ensure accuracy.  Too bad they didn't give the plot this kind of attention.Unlike Apollo 13, which had likable characters that the audience bonded with (possibly due to the fact that they were based on real people) the cast here is bland at best.  There are no standout characters, the dialogue is cliched, trite and unrealistic and their interactions seem forced.  Consequently, as they are gruesomely disposed of on a whim the only thing of interest is the manner of their death - will they get the centrifuge treatment or be squished by errant boulders.   The worst is yet to come.Although the underlying premise of the film is interesting, the execution is horrible.  Not only does the rescue crew appear to be cursed - I stopped asking myself What could possibly go wrong next? - but you are expected to make colossal leaps of logic, and not only suspend belief, but forget about it altogether. By the time the Abyss-style climax rolled around (it didn't work the first time) I was fighting to stifle my laughter.  And I'm not even going to talk about the aliens&#133;This mission crashed and burned in more ways than one.  "},{"Title":"This is a bad movie","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  At no time could I figure where this film was going. It tried to be cute- it wasn't; it tried to be serious- it wasn't. The plot and the script were silly . I did not know if I should cry or laugh. I did neither. To get someting out of the movie, I suggest having a couple of drinks before you go- then, sit back and enjoy the pretty colors. "},{"Title":"My God, it's full of cliches! (with apologies to the writers of 2010)","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A good cast, some impressive special effects, and an experienced astronaut providing technical advice.  What could have gone wrong?Let's start with the script.  It combines every possible sci-fi cliche (look for these movies as they appear in M2M 2001 and 2010 in a big way, Dune, The Abyss, Apollo 13, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, to name only a few) in a melodramatic, hokey script.  Granted, there's a really good cast hiding in this movie somewhere, but with the script they're given, they didn't stand a chance.If, by some chance, you can overcome the dialogue and the contrived, overdone attempts at drama and suspense, you're still faced with the background music.  Constantly.  It never stops.  It would be one thing if it were a traditional John Williams score, but this sounds like it was composed when someone threw their cat on the keyboard and let it run free. Remember the score to the original Terminator?  Mozart compared to this.The upside the special effects were not too bad.  The technology (ships, Mars hab) portrayed was impressive.  I saw the movie with a sneak preview audience of a lot of NASA and aerospace people, and everyone agreed.  The shots of the Mars landscape and some of the storms (you see them in the previews) are pretty cool, but nothing we haven't seen before. On the other hand, I won't go into the CGI aliens--that would be too much of a spoiler--but let's just say that Marvin the Martian would have done just as well. Oh, and I didn't realize that Mars would look so much like Utah...But all in all, eye candy is only eye candy.  Mission to Mars tried to be many things on many levels--action/adventure, quasi-romance, hard sci-fi--and failed at all of them. Save your $8 and go rent 2001 instead. Gary Sinese, what were you thinking? "},{"Title":"Mission to get my 2 hours back","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Contain ***SPOILERS*** if after all the negative comments you still want to see this movie proceed at your own risk*****As Will smith said in MEN in Black Damn!!!This has to be the worst movie I have ever seen.First of all the premise of the face of mars being constructed by Aliens, thanks for ripping that off the tabloids. I did have some great expectations of this movie, De Palma, Robbins, Sinise, how could you go wrong, think again!!!Boring action sequences, bad acting, horrible effects, (The alien, what the hell was that!!!)I found myself laughing at scenes that probably weren't intended to be funny (crying alien, point of no return, blue gel causing the show to blow apart without the ship's systems warning about the leak, Tim Robbins taking his helmet off in space, tornados on mars (what is this Kansas? click your space boots together, there's no place like home), the astronauts standing and video recording while a huge tornado get bigger and BIGGER!!, did I mention the acting??)Rent Close encounters if your looking for this type of science fiction "}{"Title":"Life on Mars?","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"      I was really looking forward for MISSION TO MARS.  Besides the big summer films that I'm also anticipating for (MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 2; THE PERFECT STORM; GONE IN 60 SECONDS; X-MEN) MARS was also on my gotta see list of films for the year 2000.  Now after seeing this film I can say that I have now one film knocked off of my list, and what did I think of it?    First, let me tell the plot.  In the year 2020, man is sending it's first man crew to the planet Mars.  The mastermind and brains behind the project is Jim McConnell (Gary Sinese)who was to be the captain of the first mission to the red planet. Sadly, his wife Maggie (Kim Delaney) was also behind the plans, died while in trainning, causing Jim to have a breakdown.  Now a new crew with Luc Goddard (Don Cheadle) as the captain are going instead.  While the crew is on Mars, they discover something rather unusual, then all hell breaks loose, and Earth looses contact with the crew on Mars.  The final message is a distress call from Goddard.  So McConnell goes on a rescue mission with Phil Ohlmyer (Jerry O' Connell), Woody Blake (Tim Robbins) and Woody's wife, Teri (Connie Nielsen).  When they arrive on Mars, they have yet to discover the secret to what happened to the previous crew.      I learned from MISSION TO MARS that there are two kinds of Science Fiction films.  There are the science action with such films as ARMAGEDDON, STARSHIP TROOPERS, & the STAR WARS TRILOGY.  Then there are science fact, like 2001, CONTACT and CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND.  MARS is like the later of the two, there's not much action and more science fact.  However, it is still a good movie, but not as great as I was hoping for it to be.      Brian De Palma is slowly rising up in his directing ability again, after the disappointing SNAKE EYES.  This film doesn't rank with De Palma's other classics like CARLITO'S WAY, UNTOUCHABLES, and SCARFACE, but it does comes close.  Yet, De Palma still does a great job with his Hitchcock style of suspense in some of the scenes.  The cinematography by his usual camera man, Stephen H. Burum, is very well done.  There are some excellent landscape shots of the Mars horizon.      The acting in the film is good, Sinese is good as the hero, Cheadle and Robbins are both good for what they have. O' Connell is the humourous comic relief, and Connie Nielsen proves that she can be a good actress in a leading role.  The special effects by ILM are also very well done.  Some scenes are very spectacular, as it gives a modern touch to CLOSE ENCOUTNERS.  And the music by the always excellent Ennio Morricone is as always beautiful.      If you're expecting a action packed, slam bang thriller out of MISSION TO MARS, then don't, go see REINDEER GAMES.  But if you're expecting a great sci-fi film along the lines of CLOSE ENCOUNTERS and APOLLO 13, then MISSION TO MARS does succeed with that.  This is a very well done film, and I would recommend it to people who like to mix fantasy with reality. ****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Ending ruined the film for me...","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although not original the movie would be better without the Disney-esque ending.  Change the ending and most of the movie is not bad, not great either... Wait till it hits cable! "},{"Title":"Worst since Armageddon","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you cut out the sentimental drivel, you would be left with a movie twenty minutes long. The soundtrack was melodramatic and intrusive, the science was bad, and the plot was comprised of a series of contrived emergencies. The only highlights two or three jokes worth a chuckle and some ok CGI. Contact, Apollo 13, and 2001? Yes, but not as well done and elementary at best. Space Disaster Movie #451 "},{"Title":"Awful rip-off movie","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, this was a very very bad movie.  The best thing about the movie is the special effects, which were indeed impressive.  However, as JP2 and Godzilla showed us, special effects are not all that a movie needs.  It needs acting, plot, dialogue, and originality.  This movie had some wasted acting talent, a bad plot, dialogue at its worst, and almost no originality.Story (SPOILERS) If I did not give any spoilers, the plot would be people go to Mars and find a metal object under a mountain.  They are promptly killed.  However, as they showed us the main purpose of the movie, which does not even appear for 3/4 of the movie, and unlike Contact it did not have a reason to do so, I will tell you the rest.  They enter a face and are shown the rest of the universe.  It shows that aliens created every animal on Earth by giving it a spaceship of DNA.  Whoopee.  The story was typical of the sci-fi genre, and reminded me of Alien meets Contact meets The Abyss.  Acting  Without dialogue of intelligence to give, there is no acting.  In fact the acting was so bad that we all laughed at many serious parts.  It was unintentionally funny.  And, Tim Robbins bailed out of this stinkfest early.  He probably was trying to unassociate himself with it.Originality  Only in the showing of the universe.  It had the Abyss evolution parts, including of breathing under water.  Remember the mouse in Abyss?  It ripped off Contact, 2001, Alien, Aliens, The Abyss, and many others which currently slip my mind.  I challenge anyone to come up with the total rip-offs in the movie.  Brian DePalma is now the king of rip-offs showing he can rip-off more than Hitchcock.Dialogue Complete explanation of radio disturbance The disturbance wasn't caused by a quake.  'Nuff Said.Overall Really bad.  I mean really bad.  We laughed at serious parts, and I was laughing through out.  The music was looped, the acting horrid, and the scenerios.  Point of No Return.  We all cracked up.  And nobody laughed during the cute or funny parts.  It was completely mixed up.  It was the most unintentionally funny movie since The Bone Collector.  But see it for the amazing special effects if you plan on seeing it at all.  3/10 "},{"Title":"Sigh, why was this made?","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I won some tickets for an advance screening of Mission to Mars. Hoping for something new and fresh in the sci-fi gendre. And i was very disappointed. First of all it has quite possibly the worst music used in a movie of all time. Second, the story is weak, it tries to explain too much, while it would have been much better as a simple space movie, it did not need to explain the mystery of life on earth. The explanation they give is done through a poorly done computer effects show. Thirdly, the actors. It has a fine cast just not the right one. Tim Robbins, who i really like, is terrible in his role. Gary Sinise, who i also really like, is also very miscast. Now some of the effects are pretty good, but you just don't get the feeling that it is in space. Noise, didn't 2001 A Space Odyssey show up that noise no noise works very well in space. When they're outside of their ship, it just looks like their standing on a soundstage with a blue screen in the back. Getting back to 2001, the film clearly rips it off, though not quite as much as i expected from the previews. The spaceship first of all, looks pretty much like Odyssey 1, also i found the spacesuit helmets have a quite a strong similarity to those worn by Dave Bowman. The entire subject matter is also close that of 2001, man's place in the universe and how did we get here. 2001 does a great job of handling this, while this simply cooks up some stupid explanation. So all in all a very weak movie, instead save your money for 2001's rerelease on December 31st.   "},{"Title":"Oh, how I have grown up","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I attended the press screening for M2M last night in Atlanta, and for a screening sponsored by the local top 40 station, there were few children in sight for this kid flick.  In fact, if some of the (already very mild) violence had been toned down, this could have been released under the Walt Disney banner.Brian de Palma, once again, borrows from other filmmakers to create his outer space epic.  Well, what he borrowed from Stanley Kubrick isn't anything new, but it did look pretty.  The zero gravity sequences were rather convincing and the actors appeared to have fun.  There was even two very good performances out of Don Cheadle and Gary Sinise as two of our stalwart astronauts.  However, the movie is very, very hokey.  That's not to say I didn't enjoy it.  I had fun watching it, and I got to identify with the characters.  But this is a movie I would have loved when I was 10.  It didn't bring me back to my childhood.  But I do appreciate the effort for trying to bring me back to when I remember movies being larger than life. "},{"Title":"Unintentionally (or intentionally?) funny","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars released this year, was as expected another sci-fi movie that is, well, bad.  This year so many sci-fi movies have been poured out and each one bad.  So I had a feeling this one wouldn't pass as well.  It starts out rather strangely and nonchalant.  It was set in the future and I believe what little we see of a going away party accurately portrays what life might be like in 20 years.  But the way the film is shot --its moves are reminiscent of movies from the seventies, cutting shots, slow motion. It was all too sappy, corny and in the end it made the dramatic parts funny.  It was definitely cue the music, slow motion, zoom in, let's hold hands kind of movie.  Yet the acting of Tim Robbins still maintains Tim Robbins as a fine actor, and Jerry O'Connell manages to be his humble self as the young and scared crew member.  The message overall tries hard, but if you are looking for a good movie it's not here.  It's still funny though. "},{"Title":"We came all that way for THIS?","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Great cast, stylish look, brilliant special effects... thin story.  It's a beautiful movie to look at.  Some nice touches of what life is like in 2020.  But there are too many contrived moments in between the genuine ones.  Too often the audience is played down to, as if we won't get the nuances unless we're beaten over the head with them.  (We know what Gary Sinise's character is being handed at the end; we don't need swelling music and a 10-second closeup shot.  We got it the first time.)  The movie feels longer than it is.  There is so much build-up, so much invested in getting to Mars, that once we're there, it all ends way too quickly with not enough payoff.  Still, realistic special effects, props, and wardrobe help make it a fun ride.  Just don't expect it to be more than that. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars? Forget it!","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The action was so terribly slow and the acting so unconvincing, that I ended up thinking how good it was not to pay the admission price for this movie. Every time we were supposed to feel for the characters I was just bored to death. One of the main characters has big circles under his eyes as if he was drinking all the time - but that's probably a part of astronauts training.Visual effects were good though, but they are not a good excuse to go to this movie. Save your time and money. My rating 4/10 only because of SFX. "},{"Title":"I walked out of the theatre laughing, and I don't think I was supposed to.","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a terrible movie. The only thing that held my attention were the details given to the problems of actually sending man to Mars. But like any predictable movie, the climax called for the characters to get off the planet almost as soon as they get there. At the 90 minute mark of the 120 minute movie, it turned into an unintentional comedy. (Without giving away the plot), when the secret of life on earth was revealed, I almost fell out of my chair laughing when one character gave an off-handed yet serious Of course!. I don't think the writers would appreciate my reaction to their overly dramatic climax to the movie.I left the theatre aching for some good well written drama, because I just wasted 2 hours watching something else. "}{"Title":"still waiting for the mission...","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The primary focus of the movie was to try to get the audience to feel deeply for the characters.  I don't believe that I have been to a movie which tried so hard. The sound and over acted script was corny.  There were some implausible ideas attempted. So as not to give away the movie suffice it to say that the whole generation of life idea on earth was hard to swallow. Advanced life starting life on another planet as an primitive life system? That is not a well thought out sf script. As others have stated on comments before, sf should have a somewhat intellectual quality to it. This did not.This film is a good example of hollywood trying to force the audience to feel something when nothing is going on. If the trailers of cool visual effects will herd the masses in to see this flick, then the dull pacing and poorly thought out script will have them demanding their popcorn money back. Mission to Mars is a good example of how weak Sci-Fi has become. The first hour drags on as it tries to give backstory to a group of astronauts and their Oh-so-close relationships (yawn). When the first truly exciting action sequence occurs, ( a gigantic sand tornado that sucks in anything not nailed down in it's gaping maw) you've pretty much witnessed the ONLY good part. It's a predictable piece of reworked 50's fascination with the red planet. The score tries in earnest to make you feel sorry for the actors, but it only makes you wish they would all die so the nonsense this film pushes would stop.  Emotional attachment to characters should not be forced but be subtle. ie the Abyss. All characters in MTM were interchangeable, nothing distinguished one from the other, thus you do not care for any of them. "},{"Title":"Good grief, what were they thinking?","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I really think Brian De Palma is a marvelous and talented director, but he missed the mark on this one. I'm not sure where exactly this went awry, because he had a good, solid cast to work with, but that dialogue - good grief! To call it a snooze-fest would be generous. Another thing - I wouldn't claim in the slightest to know anything intimately about security protocols and procedures aboard a spacecraft, but I would hazard a guess that nothing that happens in this film could ever possibly occur aboard a real spacecraft. Not to mention the severely impaired mental state of Gary Sinise's character. I'm no psychotherapist, but I can't imagine that a real Jim McConnell would be allowed to set foot on a space-faring vessel, even as a maintenance guy, let alone as a decision maker.That aside, the movie starts well enough, but descends rapidly into the unbelievable, then proceeds to become entirely ridiculous and conspiratorial. I want to say that I am more than ready to generously suspend my disbelief if the story treats my intelligence with respect, which I'm sorry to report - it did not.I'm not sure if I have written a spoiler into this review, and I have no intention of revealing plot lines - there's already plenty of other reviews that do that on here and also address the bizarre left turn that the plot takes, but I'm hedging my bets.Don Cheadle provides the standout performance in this movie - he seemed to really own his character and that's pretty much the nicest thing I can say about this movie.End point - wasn't worth the running time, so avoid this derivative disappointment unless you've already watched Red Planet (which is far better than this) and you just *need* to see another Mars movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"This turns out to be a STRONG sci-fi flick after all (I didn't like it 12 years ago)!","Date":"6 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie at the theater. All I remember is being disappointed and walking away thinking it wasn't worth a flip.Fast forward 12 years. I've aged. Times have changed. I happened to see this movie on my guide and figured I would tell the old DVR to record it, just in case I wanted to give it a try on a sleepless weekend night.Sure enough, I have now rewatched the movie, and I was amazed at how little I remembered. And I was more amazed at how well crafted the story and visuals are. Is it a perfect movie? No. But it is a very intelligent movie that keeps you guessing, and it does go into territory that is thought provoking.So even for those of you who may have seen this, you might be surprised at the satisfaction that a 2nd viewing yields. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"10 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After reading some of the reviews and seeing the fairly low rating of 5.3, I felt this is unfair. I agree on some level that in some cases through this movie it does fall short. However, throughout the film the acting is brilliant and some of the scenes truly shine. The movie does make you feel and care for the characters, however far fetched the story some times gets. I'll try not to spoil it for anyone who hasn't seen the film, but the scene that really made the movie for me was when the second team land on Mars and one character goes in the room with the plants. Thought it was really well done! Mainly the thing that annoyed me most was how cheesy some scenes were. In the nicest way, sort of expected it due to the writers and the American actors. Not saying it ruins the movie, I am ashamed to admit it but in some cases it did give me goosebumps. I just thought it was a bit over the top. I would highly suggest people to see this movie. "},{"Title":"A space plagiarism (DVD)","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When i saw that this movie from De Palma starred Kim, i was happy because it was a great opportunity for that little screen star. Unfortunately, i had to wait until the last minute of the movie to see her act in a speechless part.Before this point, i watch a disappointing movie.The beginning is good because De Palma plays with his camera in great shoots. I think the movie offers the best sequence of space travels.But as soon as the story reach the red planet, the fun leaves. The story is stupid, the team appears really to walk on a set filtered in red, the Martian looks like a toon. But those are little things compared that the whole movie is a plagiarism of 2001 same call of God and esoteric meeting, same scientific realism, same questions about the humankind origins.Well, such talents assembled to produce so little is a bit perplexing! "},{"Title":"Ratings don't correspond to a great movie experience.","Date":"13 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this movie on Netflix and just loved it. How many times have we watched the same old Alien stuff, this time around the twist is pretty neat. Of course if you dig deeper and scratch the logic of the summation it kinda wont make sense and a lot will be left to your logical deduction,but the initial acceptance and satisfaction of the climax makes it a good film to watch. I liked the fact that Mars is shown to be the progenitor of Earth lending credence to those who believe Martian space rock had something to do to catalyze life on Earth. Of course one logical dichotomy was why the Martians didn't just move to Earth when their planet became uninhabitable instead of elsewhere in the galaxy? "},{"Title":"Better than a 5!","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First of all, I want to start by saying that comparing this movie to Red Planet is about the same as comparing Niagra Falls to a backyard water fountain on the basis that they both deal with water. Yes, they were both released in the same year and yes they both deal with Mars, but that's about where the similarities end. Red Planet was a journey into pure unadulterated science fiction with improbably advanced technology and a fantastical non-stop action story line. Mission to Mars could not be more different.Although the second half of the film strays into science fiction, the first half of the film is decidedly science fact. It portrays with believable accuracy what a human mission to mars might be like and the problems that we might encounter along the way.Most of the movie is what I would call intellectual suspense because of the fact that it is grounded in science, for the most part. We see how the crew members work together on a mission (made more engrossing by their existing personal relationships).I for one enjoyed ending. Some may find it too improbable or stereotypically sci-fi for their tastes, but I think it wraps up the movie nicely by explaining the unusual events on the planet as well as closing some loose ends with a few characters.The scenes of Mars are generally spot on from the photos I've seen from Nasa, I get the sense that the filmmakers really did their homework on this one. Also, the special effects don't seem particularly synthetic or dated even for a movie that is nine years old. A special standout scene is a definite nod to 2001 A Space Odessey, perhaps done even better? For me, these are big reasons why this movie stands out more that what it's IMDb score indicates. Additionally, while none of the actors give an Oscar winning performance, you know that these are mostly veteran actors and not one manages to drag down the others. They all turn in a believable performance in the end.Sure it may have it's problems, but I definitely wouldn't say it's a waste of your time. If you are at all interested, or just a person really into movies, I would recommend that you pick it up and give it a try. "},{"Title":"Might Have Been a Classic","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First of I had very high hopes - with the story, the very excellent cast, and even the director (who has had big hits and big misses) First the good The filming was amazingly very well done - both from a very stunning visual sense and a scientific perspective (for the most part) Many of the scenarios are smashing good.(IE.good action) A few ideas are presented to their situations that they are under going and amazingly in the vast improbably of space they just might make a go of it. Yeah gang, go go go.Next the bad The story was very very lightly presented - are they on a holiday with the kids, attitude? on the mission to Mars - no serious pre or post historic space travel atmosphere here at all - or is it just a day at the Mars Park when a few things go wrong - Even then it seems that these expert scientist have forgotten what they can do; most of the time it seems like they have actually sent a few folks that they found wandering around any city.The KILLER of this film is not the direction, the lack of a deeper story, nor the amazing coincidences that really make up the most of the film.It is fact the horridly inappropriate musical score that accompanies all the action and events that transpire though out the film - Fails Exceptionally - The score is totally incompatible with what is happening - If this film was done in the thirties - we could laugh at it - but this is the killer for me. I can actually watch this film much better with the sound off and the subtitles on. Sad to say.The musical score is as or more important to what is going on visually with what your eyes see; as it is supposed to be in the back ground,hidden as it where in SC-FI flicks and all others films. And of course loudly pushing the action parts. Here the score totally distracts from what is visually being presented.Ennio Morricone played this like it was Snow White. Really !!! I kid you not.Vangelis or Giorgio Moroder would have gotten the music behind the story, as the musical score is supposed to do. (Only to name a few composers) ...Sorry, I would have really have like to have enjoyed this Film (the subject, the actors,etc), instead it hurts, even after a number of viewings - first on VHS and then DVD - I got fooled into hoping that there might have been an improvement from one format to the other - no story. Quite Sadly - Visually 10 Musically -10THe Lukker "},{"Title":"The Movie Looks Like (Gary Sinise)'s Hairpiece !","Date":"22 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What is it with all of Hollywood space movies lately ? During the last 10 years I can name you a dozen of bad sci-fi space movies (that could be the only dozen that were produced of that kind !!). Just remember The Astronaut's Wife (1999), Titan A.E. (2000), Planet of the Apes (2001), and for sure George Lucas's new Star Wars trilogy (1999, 2002, 2005).. For me I refuse to remember them in the first place ! Add to that ones were financially BIG flops for the studios that made them like  Starship Troopers (1997), Event Horizon (1997), Lost in Space (1998), Final Fantasy The Spirits Within (2001), or The Adventures of Pluto Nash (2002). (Mission to Mars) isn't a far experience itself, maybe less bad and more lucky ! If you're one of Brian De Palma's fans, then this is the movie to hate him for (and 2 years later he'll make Femme Fatale, now this is the movie to really HATE him for !). Nothing is special if you're looking for De Palma's unique moments. Totally unlike his other movies there isn't one memorably magical sequence. Forget about exceptional style since De Palma himself already forgot about it here ! The man did it for the money; just compare all of his movies to this one to understand that easily. But it's fair time though. Not badly made, meaningless, or alleged. It is good space adventure with good acting and good meanings as well. Love is forever could be a stupid line in some movie, but here the story handled it smartly. There is a romantic sense all over it; maybe as its best (or rather its only very good thing !). True that this can't make it a great movie or one of my favorites but at least it makes it stand somewhat for a second watching.Think of it as one of Disney live movies, and you'd see how it's innocent, visually nice but averagely entertaining. The only new thing about it was (Gary Sinise)'s ridiculous hairpiece. I can't hold it, but this movie as a whole was almost as this very hairpiece  ridiculous ! "},{"Title":"Scuttle Mission to Mars!","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Scarface director Brian De Palma's first foray into science fiction blandly goes where better epics, such as 2001 A Space Odyssey, Close Encounters of a Third Kind, The Abyss, and Apollo 13, have gone. Despite its impressive computer generated special effects, a stellar cast, and De Palma's legendary cinematic reputation, Mission to Mars amounts to a bore more than a blast. This lavishly produced but lugubrious $90 million space opera with its NASA accurate aura of authenticity is far too dull and derivative to eclipse the classics. Only hardcore De Palma disciples and die-hard sci-fi enthusiasts may find something to salvage the mediocre Mission to Mars. Scenarists Jim and John Thomas of Predator and Graham Yost of Broken Arrow provide De Palma with a lackluster script that is both loquacious and lethargic. The dialogue consists of pedestrian character exposition, endlessly repeated commands, and a lot of scientific mumbo-jumbo, with liberal use of the adjective impossible.' Everything is so literal that you wonder if De Palma and company weren't trying to capture random, everyday speaking patterns without letting their characters talk about anything remotely interesting, like Kubrick did in 2001. Not only does Mission to Mars lack dramatic propulsion, but also De Palma apparently wanted to depart from the standard-issue War of the Worlds & Independence Day formula. Although aliens attack our heroes at first, Mission doesn't concern itself with efforts to destroy another civilization of extraterrestrials. In fact, the extraterrestrials here may be farmers who seeded the Earth.After years of idolizing Alfred Hitchcock with movies like Obsession, Body Double, and Dressed to Kill, De Palma has turned his admiring lens to Stanley Kubrick. Like 2001, Mission to Mars remains too enigmatic to be entertaining, but it does boast fantastic cinematography and first-rate camera work. Moreover, De Palma has gone to excessive lengths to make everything look NASA accurate, right down to the product placement names on the ship's components and the ships with their gravity Ferris wheels. Mission belongs to the squeaky clean genre of sci-fi films; it struggles to be more factual in its approach to its fiction. Aside from the brief encounters with other life forms, Mission could almost serve as a NASA publicity film. Unfortunately, despite all of their factuality, the filmmakers blow it when they venture into the sphere of pseudo-spirituality with anonymous New Age extraterrestrials.This weightless saga depicts two missions to the angry red planet. The first manned Mars expedition discovers a mysterious mountain. They try to contact the aliens in it, but a hostile funnel cloud resembling one of the Dune sand worms swirls up out of it and kills three of them when it thinks the Earthlings are trying to attack it. Miraculously, mission captain Luke Graham (Don Cheadle of Rush Hour 2) survives, holing up in his greenhouse back at the mission landing site.At the World Space Station, Commander Woody Blade (Tim Robbins of Mystic River) launches a desperate rescue mission with Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise of C.S.I. N.Y.), Terri Fisher (Connie Nielson of Gladiator), and Phil Ohlymer (Jerry O'Connell of Sliders). One of the few dramatic assets of Mission is that anything that can go wrong does go wrong. Halfway to Mars, a micro-meteor shower disables their ship. Later, when they fire up their engines again, the ship explodes. The explosion occurs when icicles of frozen fuel floating in space from a leaky tank are ignited by the blast. Abandoning ship, they space walk to another craft, but one of them doesn't make it. (We'll keep that a secret.) Sadly, the space walk generates only a modicum of suspense, because De Palma drags it out. Although sci-fi freaks will enjoy the vacuum of space that De Palma depicts, mainstream moviegoers will either chafe at the absence of sound or think their Dolby Sound System has just crapped out.When they find Luke alive on Mars, Jim cannot believe his outlandish story. Leaving Phil behind to repair Luke's landing vehicle, our heroes head off to the mountain, but instead their incredulous eyes find a giant Mardi Gras mask the size of a football stadium. As in The Abyss, they are allowed to enter the mask where they can remove their space suits. A life form that looks like a New Age Barbie doll greets them, holds their hands, and they bond. As it turns out, these aliens seeded the Earth, but nothing specific is ever mentioned about either why or who prompted them to fertilize the Earth. Since his wife has died, Jim decides to stay with the alien woman instead of returning to the World Space Station.Scuttle Mission to Mars. "}{"Title":"Interesting Hypothesis.....","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The concept behind this film is astounding and no matter what science can prove within its limited scope of technology, the potential is downright staggering. That's just one indication of a great film, the ability to transport your imagination to the realm of infinite possibility. To relegate the powers of reasoning and logic to the bounds of a reality born of possibility and in the process presenting a viable hypothesis in its wake. I've seen this film a couple of times already but I had forgotten just how captivating it is. The cast is substantial and carries the film, although that Don Cheadle is really scary, you'll see what I mean with a surprising twist of plot. If you can put your powers of logic in neutral and simply allow the magic of your imagination to prevail, much the same as when you were a child, this movie will be a truly enjoyable, uplifting experience, for out of certain tragedy comes a restored sense of hope. I guess it's just part of the magic that only Hollywood can weave, or then again, maybe from of all of these dreams, a reality only born of creativity and imagination lies beneath, some proclivity toward a foresight or intuition. I guess we'll never really know for sure, or then again perhaps we shall. In any event Brian De Palma has done a spectacular job with this story and concept. A very enjoyable experience and apparently quite underrated as well. "},{"Title":"Good Movie for Sci-Fi Fans","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mission To Mars is definitely for Science Fiction fans, but also for those who enjoy a good story. I am not what you could call a hardcore Sci-Fi fan, but movies are designed to suspend beliefs and enjoy a couple of hours away from reality. So that being said, I enjoyed this movie. The cast should be recognizable to most, and they don't disappoint. The visuals are well done for this type of movie. While not exactly what I expect from a Brian De Palma film, he doesn't completely bomb on this genre. The movie isn't overwhelmingly suggestive, but it will make you think about some things, but that is not necessary to enjoy this film. Definitely worth a watch if nothing else presents itself. "},{"Title":"It's official. There's no life on Mars.","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" My Take Boring sci-fi adventure with good special effects but uninteresting characters and yawn-inducing so-called adventure. This is a great deal of discovery in MISSION TO MARS, but first, you must (try) to overcome a great boredom. The film does, however, have one really good scene, which features the main essence of the entire venture, to show us life on Mars, but first you must get past a lot of special-effects demonstrations and a lot of padding. MISSION TO MARS would have been a better film if it shows us the magic it promises, rather than spend most of the time preparing us for it.The film opens with a small celebration. The first man-manned mission to Mars is about to be launched by NASA, led by Luke Graham (Don Cheadle). Cheadle's friends Jim Connell (Gary Sinise) and Woody Blake (Tim Robbins), who we know will be the heroes of the film later on, give him some friendly insights before he takes on interplanetary voyage. This, then, gives us more time to either moan or fall a sleep. There's no problem with these kind of things in movies, as long as it doesn't chew up the scenery.Afterwards, we follow Graham's beleaguered voyage to Mars, where they are threatened by its harsh landscape. This results in some good effects work, too bad it only runs for a few minutes. then, it goes back to the extremely boring parts, describing a rescue attempt, led by Sinise and Robbins, by NASA to the Red Planet. This, at least, could have resulted to, at least, a little bit of excitement. But they just miss this chance, in favor of one long trek instead.The film is directed by Brian DePalma. I'm talking about THE Brian DePalma. You know? The director of THE UNTOUCHABLES, SCARFACE and MISSION IMPOSSIBLE. hard to believe, but you must, for it's the truth. We all know DePalma can do better, we all agree on that. In his other films, he benefits from the acting, story, large-scaled visuals and inspired moments. Here, he only benefits from the effects, which were hardly recognized due to their little amount of screen time.The final moments of the film, the only thing very well-visioned about the entire feature, are pretty good. A sense of discovery is painted all over it. But, like the other good sequence, it only runs for a few minutes, then, credits roll. It's over, done, the viewer steps out of the theater or from their couch, wasted and bares the feeling of being tricked. A voyage in space has always interested us viewers. Ever since space operas like 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY and STAR WARS hit the screen, we've been longing to go back to the stars, but fail to get there. Not since the STAR WARS sequels, we never had another adventure in space after wards, or at least a good one. RED PLANET, released just about the same time as MISSION TO MARS, wasn't exactly rocket science. MISSION TO MARS manages to be more cerebral than RED PLANET, but this time, it lacks the action or suspense. It tries to be more like 2001, but that film had awe all over it, MISSION TO MARS just bores you with the visuals.Thankfully, I managed to be awake all through the film. Sci-fi fans who fancy this kind of things, and intents to be loyal to MISSION TO MARS, may want to give it a try. But anyone who likes to enjoy a good summer movie or a film that leaves the earth's atmosphere may not probably live thru the film, not without having their eye blink or even fall asleep. Ask for those who might think they'll find lief on Mars in this film, here's my response It's official. There's no life on Mars.Rating * out of 5. "},{"Title":"Flawed but far better than you'd expect!","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Brian de Palma's Mission to Mars was a critically panned upon its release in 2000. It was also a financial flop when one considers the approximately 40% of the gross kept by the distributor. I saw the movie on the Sci-Fi channel recently, and I was surprised to find myself completely engrossed in the storyline. This was surprising, considering the movie's low rating on the IMDb and the numerous negative viewer comments.Mission to Mars begins with a team of astronauts on Mars finding a strange object on the planet surface. After examining the object, two of the three astronauts are killed by a mysterious force, prompting a rescue mission. The rescue team consists of four members Woodrow Blake (Tim Robbins), Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise), Terri Fisher (Connie Nelson), and Phil Ohlmyer (Jerry O'Connell). Of course, everything goes wrong on the way to Mars, including a hole in the ship and the destruction of the ship's engines. Upon reaching Mars, the surviving rescue crew members team with the surviving astronaut, played by Don Cheadle, to solve the mystery of the force that killed the two other astronauts.Many, many people have criticized the movie for having undeveloped characters and a plot stolen from 2001 A Space Odyssey (mainly Mission to Mars's ending sequence.) I really didn't find any of the characters to be particularly uninteresting. All of the actors were convincing in their roles. Their characters were admittedly somewhat one-dimensional, but no more so than in most big Hollywood productions. To dislike this movie just because it uses many of the same story elements as 2001 A Space Odyssey is rather picky and illogical. Really, just because it borrows some of 2001's plot line doesn't make it a worthless rip-off. The point of view of Mission to Mars's critics seems to be that no movie can ever under any circumstance whatsoever use the same plot line as 2001 A Space Odyssey. Mission to Mars did re-use the same story element that worked so well in 2001, but it re-used it very, very well.The special effects in the movie are superb, typical for de Palma. There is a great sequence involving a life-or-death decision on the rescue crew's descent to Mars which is helped out heavily by the flawless visuals of outer space in the background.Still, Mission to Mars is far from perfect. Its pace is relatively slow and the movie has no real antagonist. The dialog is consistently unimpressive and the film often seems desperate to create conflict. Their is a sequence towards the end involving Cheadle and Nelson racing back to the Mars outpost that seems totally contrived and unnecessary. A (very well-done) sequence in which a small hole in the shuttle in suffocating Sinise seems to be in the movie for no purpose other than to create a tense conflict.Honestly, I really would have only given Mission to Mars a 5 out of 10 if it weren't for Ennio Morricone's incredible, beautiful score. The ending sequence - which I won't give away - would have been almost laughable without it. Morricone's score makes the scene work and helps to create a true sense of wonder.I am one of the very few people who enjoyed Mission to Mars more than its rival Red Planet. I can easily understand someone liking the fast-paced, action-packed Red Planet more than Mission to Mars, but I found the plot line of Red Planet to be a little bit too unbelievable and Val Kilmer's acting to be horrible. Red Planet had some great moments but lacked the sense of awe created by Brian de Palma's special effects, the whole cast's acting, and Ennio Morricone's incredible soundtrack. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sense of wonder triumphs debatable flaws","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm not sure why this movie has produced so much dislike. Most of the supposed flaws - the stiff, mannered 1950s style acting, the highly dramatic music score, the plot clichés - should be regarded as deliberate references to the cinematic history of Science Fiction, which is exactly what one would expect from de Palma. My conclusion would be that this movie went over the audience's heads, esp the ones who were expecting another dumb Armageddon-type blockbuster. Bad for them, I thought M2M was an excellent SF movie with a lot of the key ingredient that genre fans often refer to as Sense of wonder.On the plus side then, was an interesting plot idea, presented in a backward fashion and revealed towards the very end; some stunning visual effects and camera work that are trademark de Palma, several intense and dramatic scenes also typical of Mr dPs self-confident direction, and the aforementioned sense of wonder (not unlike Contact) which is something that cannot be nailed down but needs to be experienced.On the minus side, the exposition was very weak, especially by de Palma standards (recall the dazzling openings of Bonfires... or Snake Eyes). Also the stereotyped acting of Sinise and Robbins in particular, though humorous and appropriate from a genre history viewpoint, can't help but diminish the dramatic impact of the movie, especially as de Palma simultaneously asks us to care for these characters.But in total, this movie's merits by far outweighs it flaws, and it's unfortunate for Brian de Palma that he again seems to suffer from the audience's misconceptions and ideas about SF movies, rather than being judged as the talented, serious filmmaker that he is. I loved this movie, and gave it an 8. "},{"Title":"Porridge","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The one thing I never thought Brian de Palma could be was boring. Over the top, yes. Silly, certainly. Unable to tell anything resembling a coherent story, sure. Femme Fatale and Scarface are movies that suffer from all these vices, but the one thing they ain't is boring.So why is Mission to Mars so dreadfully, crushingly dull? The plot isn't the problem - just for once with De Palma, it actually makes some sense. The first manned mission to Mars goes wrong, most of the people on it get killed, Tim Robbins and friends go off to find out what happened. The science is a bit wonky, but you do get the feeling that someone thought most of this through, and there are no major plot holes.Unfortunately, that's the one good thing I can find to say about this movie. The acting is competent at best, but then what can anyone do with a script that contains no memorable lines whatsoever? The characters are dull, with nothing much to differentiate them. Yeah, all right, Robbins drives - gasp - a car, and Jerry O'Connell makes a few jokes, but that's your lot for characterisation. Apart from that, they could all be bland square-jawed heroes out of some Dick Tracy strip. Even the women.Bland is the word for this, all right. There's no passion, no sense of urgency. Even when the oxygen is running out after their ship has been hit by a meteorite, the crew remain utterly calm, and never even raise their voices. Don Cheadle sees his colleagues being attacked by a giant sand-worm-type-thingy, and all he does is look on curiously, as though he's in the middle of a fairly interesting experiment. How about shouting at them to get out of there, Don? Did you ever think of that? The result is a movie that's pretty much like porridge - something slopped together without any real thought or enthusiasm, the whole thing is just uninspired and uninspiring. It cost 90 million dollars to make this dreary glop. At least someone could have pretended that they gave a damn. "},{"Title":"Good ideas, pretty good movie","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mission to Mars was one of the two Mars-themed movie that came out in the year 2000(the other one being the more action-loaded Red Planet). This movie tries to be a more serious, more grown-up non-Hollywood movie, in the style of 2001. Admittedly, a lot of ideas from 2001 were reused in this movie, a bit more obvious and easily-understandable(it can't be harder!). Those ideas are good enough to work in this movie too, and they do.The acting is overall good, with likable and likely characters. Gary Sinise gets a large role and he handles it great. The camera-work is great. The shots of Mars in all its dusty glory are spectacular and eerie. Other special effects(not saying which since it would ruin the plot) are great too, and not the usual flashy spectacle. The ending is both good and bad. It depends on how you see it. If you were thinking more about the themes of the movie than the superficial plot points, then the ending is great. Otherwise it feels a bit hollow.Space scenes lack nothing, but they haven't really for the last two decades. There are some cool EVAs and a nice 2001 style wheel space station.In closing, Mission to Mars doesn't lack any really important parts, but isn't really revolutionary either, as 2001 was when it came. Yes, it's inevitable to compare the two, but that doesn't have to be bad. Only two mainstream movies has been made about this theme so far. 2001 is the better, but MTM is certainly worthwhile too.P.S. A 4.8 IMDb rating is very unfair. "},{"Title":"I wouldn't consider myself dumb but I like this trip","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I still can't really understand the hate for Mission to Mars. Even compared to Brian De Palma's other pictures this is more coherent and logic. And the goofs aren't worse than in most other movies with so much Sci-Fi. When I saw this in theater in 2000 the hall was so cold I felt like I really was on Mars/in space with the characters. The atmosphere is cooool, the cinematography and effects are gripping, the story is believable enough. At least I bought it. It even had moments where I thought Wow, they even thought about this...clever.The ending, which is probably the No.1 reason for the disrespect, is very unusual and you wouldn't expect it in this picture. But it works, I think, mainly because it's the best part of the movie. And it gave me a satisfied feeling after the movie was over. I always hear the script is poor. Have you ever seen an other De Palma movie? I don't wanna pick on him but you should check out the movies he has written himself. They aren't exactly clever or logic. There ARE some bad points. It's overly sentimental, very clichéd in some parts, maybe not very involving on the emotional level (something a Sci-Fi buff doesn't care for, anyway), it's NOT thrilling (maybe that's what audiences wanted), it's not even close to being perfect. It sure is a horrible movie if you think about all the things it is not and what it should have been (in your opinion) but if you take it as what it is, it's good. I saw it three times now and I still wasn't bored by it. I was entertained, pleased and satisfied. On my record this is at least a 7/10 but I think it even deserves an 8/10.The day I saw this on the big screen I will always remember as the day I drifted in space. It has a sterile beauty. "},{"Title":"?","Date":"6 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Now i know why you guys (science nerds) have no GF. Just watch a movie and don't pick it apart, Have you ever enjoy'd things for what they are and not what they could have been? As for this flick, i admit that it's not the best Sci fi on the planet, i am particular the some of the flicks that were mentioned here (ie - 2001, star wars, etc) but jeeze, you guys are just going as deep as possible on the mistakes and all. I didn't notice anything until i read some of this. All i'm sayin' is....aren't you just going to ruin the movie if you go into it looking for mistakes?Thanx 4 your time,JD "},{"Title":"Bad film, great scientific idea","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is not a great film,but it has one scene which goes a LONG way toward redeeming it.The scene comes near the end, when a character is offered transportation to what we presume is the home world where both Martian and Terran life originated.Doubtless, this destination is outside our solar system, so we're not looking at any kind of regular shuttle bus.The solution portrayed involves our hero being totally immersed in a clear liquid, which he ends up breathing without harm. Suspension in this liquid then serves to protect him against immense acceleration stress as he and his neutral density encapsulation environment are shot off the planet.Now, what makes this scene particularly interesting is that there IS such a breathable liquid. It was developed by a Dr. Tom Shaffer of Temple Universdity, with the intention of saving severely premature infants.What Shaffer didn't know at the time, but later worked out (with the cooperation of Dr. Henry Kolm, formerly of MIT) is that his liquid would provide total long-term protection for up to 1,000 Gs. Modern pilots can currently survive only about 10 Gs. "}{"Title":"I'll keep it Short, not like the Movie","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is easily a week long, could be more, how did they get the whole thing on a single DVD? I'm kidding of Course, it is actually just a little under 2 hours loooooong! The trouble here is the movie is too slow and is full of unmemorable events. Really try hard to resist any temptation you have to watch it, it's not worthy.Watch Red Planet if you need to see a Mars film, and you'll probably regret watching that as well, but at least it has some good bits, well one...ish!4/10 for the cast, they do well under such poor conditions and the effects are OK. "},{"Title":"death scene","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First off it was a MOVIE people get over it. Second, although you only use fuel starting and stopping in space it takes a lot either way. (Anyone remember Newton's Law of Motion?) They were entering a planets gravity field so it would have taken more fuel, lots more, to ascend higher in orbit. Since MMU are calibrated for one user the fuel consumption would have been much greater on the return trip. The cable would have been fighting the gravity well as well. (?) As far as the decompression goes, well did you really think they were going to show him explode from internal body pressure? Come on people it wasn't rated for that kind of gore. "},{"Title":"morass of moronity","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, let's see if we've got this straight;  a long departed Martian civilization had the technological wherewithall to create and disperse sand storms at will, genetically manipulate the evolution of life on Earth, and build and operate a fleet of interstellar spaceships, but wasn't bright enough to deflect or destroy an incoming asteroid that was going to make Mars uninhabitable.  What?  What??  You can't be serious.  Actually, these are only a few of the legion of plotholes, undeveloped characters, oversights, and just plain bad science that, if taken as an aggregate, would fill the Great Red Spot on Jupiter.  Earth is right next door, but the Martians have to travel light years to their new home?  Guess it was against their religion to just pack up the U-Haul and motor on down to Earth.  We won't even start on the Saran Wrap greenhouse that the survivor of the first Mars expedition is living in, or the shipboard computer that sounds like it was programmed by the phone company.  We must confess that Gary Sinese is not one of our favorite actors, and the fact that his role is practically a rerun of his character in Apollo 13 didn't help one little bit, either. If you like lots and lots of CGI eye-candy, this is the film for you; if, on the other hand, you like characterizations that are more than 2 dimensional, a good script, and good direction, then steer clear of this big-budget turkey.  Take our word for it as cheap and as dated as it is, Rocketship X-M is a much better bet. "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma's trip to Mars","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In the year 2020, humanity's first expedition to Mars takes place. But on the planet's surface, a catastrophe occurs and only one of the astronauts survives. Then a rescue mission starts on Earth. When orbiting Mars, they run into all kinds of trouble before they finally manage to land on Mars. The surviving Astronauts are about to uncover an incredible secret.Of the three recent big-budget science-fiction movies about Mars (the others being Red Planet by Antony Hoffman and Ghosts of Mars by John Carpenter), I've expected the least from this one. And was wrong. My first thought was It really doesn't open like a good sci-fi movie should. But the longer I've been watching the more I liked the film. After the ending, I was really satisfied at how it turned out. A touching ending for an underrated science-fiction movie that also has great music in these final scenes. The manages to make you care for its characters, a point way too many SF movies fail to achieve. Of the three mentioned films, this one may be the best! "},{"Title":"A 1950s sci-fi flick made in the year 2000","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  MISSION TO MARS belongs more to the 1950s than movies made today. There's something dopey and goofy about it and the ending is straight out of the WAR OF THE WORLDS school of filmmaking. WAR OF THE WORLDS was a great film, for the 1950s, that is. It's the same thing with MISSION TO MARS. It's ah shucks approach is remarkably outdated and except for a few spectacular moments, the story and execution reminded me a lot of the hugely popular Hollywood sci-fi movies of the 1950s than anything else. I've never seen such a modern looking film feel so outdated and dopey.The best scenes in the MTM are the ones with the storm on Mars and the dangerous spacewalk scene. The latter, though too long and filled with a couple of improbabilities, was excellent and griping. But the storm scene was surely the most spectacular scene in the entire film. It was really well executed, except for one detail the astronauts stood there, watching the unnatural phenomena and they weren't scared by it when it started. They just stood there, watching it as if it was a normal thing to see on Mars. Their reaction didn't jibe with what was going on. Aside from that obvious mistake, the scene was a jaw-dropper.MISSION TO MARS is certainly an odd Brian De Palma movie. Something tells me De Palma fondly remembered the sci-fi movies he saw as a kid in the 1950s and he basically created one for the year 2000! MTM is not bad if you look at it with a retro mindset. But it's really bad if you look at it with a current, contemporary mindset. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mediocre","Date":"16 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst space exploration movie ever made. So why is that especially bad? Because this movie had big stars, a big budget, and a big director.The plot, if you can call it that, directly rips off Apollo 13, The Abyss and a dozen other space/alien films. In fact, Gary Sinese's character is so identical to himself in Apollo 13 that you would be forgiven for thinking this was some sort of ill-contrived sequel.The technical and scientific plot holes in this movie are gaping wide and numerous. The ending is just ridiculous. All life in the universe originated on Mars? Right.This film was a waste of talent, money, and an insult to every viewer's intelligence. It's hard to fathom how it even got made.If you want to see a good space film, see Apollo 13. If you're interested in Mars, see Total Recall. But avoid this lemon unless you want to have a good laugh at a terrible film. "},{"Title":"Some say we should send men to Mars; after this movie, NOT!!!","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although this was not the worst movie in 2000, it definitely is one that I should have seen as a re-run on network television several years from now.  While the Van Halen-accompanied space dance was awesome, the movie completely bombed immediately after the micro-meteor ripped through the spacecraft.I had no idea what that scene was all about until a friend clarify it for me. I'm not a mind-reader.  "},{"Title":"VERY WEAK!","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie, in fact I went to the cinema to see this as I am very interested in Mars itself and as a general Sci-fi fan I cued to see this film.  Considering the Director (De Palma) has done a few brilliant films like Scarface and Casualties of War, I was surprised that he released this.The biggest thing about this film that I noticed the most, was the fact that you could actually see the makeup on all the actor's especially Gary Sinise! You can see the eye liner and mascara!  Not to mention the weak acting, terrible ending to the film which promised so much because the plot outline made me want to see the film in the first place. "},{"Title":"Had Promise, but movie tanked.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had a lot of promise, but it stank. the lines are amaturish, the soundtrack is for another movie, the plot-decent, but could have been so much better. If they had had a better soundtrack and better lines this would be one of the best movies I've ever seen. The only good thing about the movie is the special effects, which tottaly rocked! I personally thought that the end could have been better. (spoilers) Does Jim reach the aliens? will he ever come home? Will he be eaten? I don't know, and truthfully i don't care. I give this movie 5 out of 10 because i loved Gary Sinse in Apollo 13. And the plot had promise. Don't waste your money on this movie-check it out of your library.  "},{"Title":"Had Promise, but movie tanked.","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had a lot of promise, but it stank. the lines are amaturish, the sound track is for another movie, the plot-decent, but could have been so much better. If they had had a better sound track and better lines this would be one of the best movies I've ever seen. The only good thing about the movie is the special effects, which totally rocked!I personally thought that the end could have been better. (possible spoilers) Does Jim reach the aliens? Will he ever come home? Will he be eaten? I don't know, and truthfully i don't care. I give this movie 5 out of 10 because i loved Gary Sinse in Apollo 13. And the plot had promise. Don't waste your money on this movie-check it out of your library.  "}{"Title":"A real dud","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Boy was I disappointed with this movie.  It does not live up to the high expectations that it set for itself - by using several good actors, good special effects, intriguing storyline during most of the movie, and a good climatic buildup at the end.  But it has a very cheesy ending portrayed in a dull and uninteresting way.The main character's decision at the very end of the movie is terribly predictable.  While most of the movie is tolerable - even the cliché-ridden dialogue, the predictable and contrived scenes, etc. - I could not help but wonder what this movie could have been.  This is definitely one movie that could have been much better than it was, and it only contributes to the disappointment by being so promising at the beginning. "},{"Title":"beyond words","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is the WORST movie ever made.I went to see it with my bud and we laughed through the whole thing. There was a fat lady next to us and she was trying to understand it and told us to keep quite and watch the movie, we laughed all the more.rips off 2001, simple minded plot for a 2 year old.This movie is the absolute worst, is a low point of human creativity ( it even seems wrong to use that word). I don't even feel like writing anymore about how bad this movie is...it sucks so much. I'l close by sayingBAD,BAD, BAD, BAD, BAD, awful movie ever made. ( now that's emotion) "},{"Title":"Good Movie, bad ending","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I dont see what it is that everyone hates about this movie, it has great special effects, good acting, and a good plot. The only thing I see that keeps this movie from being great is the ending. If you changed the last 5 minutes for this movie, I dont care what they replaced it with, it would have been better. But the ending only drops it on my scale from 3 1/2 stars to 2 1/2 stars, or a 7 on the IMDB scale. "},{"Title":"Unfortunantly never lived up to my expectations","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie at the opening of the drive in cinema. And I must say, that it let me down quite a bit. There are some great actors in the movie, they perform pretty good and you get a great (although a bit long) introduction to the characters. But then the movie is a bore, up until the revelation of the Martians population ,and thereby starting life, on Earth. That interested me a bit, but then the movie just stops... c( "},{"Title":"DISAPPOINTING, BUT NOT A STINKER","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma's Mission to Mars feels as if this is going to be a terrific movie. We have a solid cast (including Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise), great special effects, a good premise (life on Mars?)and DePalma himself, a great craftsman and director.Sadly, Mission to Mars is a disappointment. It has a lousy beginning and a predictable finale. The characterizations are weak. But it is not a stinker like most reviews make it out to be. It has a strong midsection and good acting and DePalma makes the most of the weak material (written by a credited 4 writers; God knows how many others were involved with this)and in DePalma's defense, he took over this project from another director.What we are left with is a lot of icing, but not enough cake to sustain 123 minutes. But because DePalma is such a strong stylist, we can stomach the icing most of the way. The effects are superb. They easily top the ones we have seen in other good guys vs aliens films such as Independence Day. Pros like Robbins, Sinise and Don Cheadle deserve credit for muttering goofy dialogue without giggling. But the ending is so predictable. It's so hard to take it especially after seeing a fairly smart thriller beforehand. Godard always said that the best way to criticize a movie is to make another movie. Luckily, that movie was released 7 months after this one Antony Hoffman's Red Planet starring Val Kilmer. It is a much more satisfying picture than Mission and boasts one of the most intelligent treatments of an old story.*** out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"I Love This Movie","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed watching this movie the first time I saw it on pay-per-view and have  watched it almost every month since.I am a tru sci-fi fan,in the sense I do appreciate good movies of this genre.I don't particularly care for the horror type sci-fi films at all.I don't know who this Mercury fella is that found the movie to be bad,but I can just bet you his tastes in movies are so finicky one would do best to ignore anything he has to say about a film he has seen.Can you imagine him honking about the music score in this film?I felt the score was quite adequate and in my opinion quite beautiful.This Mercury guy also has no ear for music,I am convinced.Also Mr De Palma's direction of this film gave it a twist and flavor that is both dramatic and entertaining.I'm sure had another director been used,that director could not have acheived anything near this.I really do love this movie.  "},{"Title":"My god what a waste of time and money","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Money doesn't buy happiness and it certainly doesn't buy quality film-making either.  This flick is strictly made-for-TV.  It has three problems - editing, musical score, and dialogue.  In terms of editing, it seems like more of a space flight documentary than an adventure science fiction film. There are just two many dead spots.  Second, the musical score stinks to high heaven.  It's horrible.  It is just simply horrible.  The film-maker just plumb forgot just how important music (in most cases) is to a film.  Third, the dialogue just does not fit the cast and it is too predictable, lame, and badly executed -- the brave space adventurers patting themselves on the back at the barbecue, Don Cheadle announcing his Martian find with all the enthusiasm of a game show host, the saccharin love affair between Tim Robbins and what's her name.  Couldn't they have made Gary Sinese a drunk or a drug addict or a troublemaker instead of some guy feeling sorry for himself about the death of his wife.  There are MILLIONS of guys out there who feel sorry for themselves for some reason.  How about something different and a little more spicy?  The characters are one-dimensional who appear to be reading the dialogue from cue cards.  Ban this film!!!!  I give it a 3 because I liked the spacecraft model. "},{"Title":"What a Mess","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you're going to rip off 2001, the Abyss, and everything else under the sun, at least get it right. The sci-fi parts of this flick were OK, and even a bit interesting at times, but the rest was excruciating. I found myself yelling at the screen (I was at home) telling the actors to shut up. Who wrote this dialog?? The worst part was when Woody was drifting off into space - Terri's part was one of the worst written (and acted) I've seen in a long time.I suspect this movie ran out of money before the editing was finished. Also, the sound track was completely out of place. Save your time and money, unless you want to get some friends together and have a Mystery Science Theater episode with this mess. "},{"Title":"An annoying waste of time","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was just bad, plain and simple. Way too much time is spent on trying to get to Mars which just shows that there really wasn't much story to start off with. When they finally get there, there is some sci-fi interest generated, at least in the what's going on sense. But the story unfolds badly trying to rush the viewer to the climax. It ends in a feel good, hokey manner after which I said, that's it? and was glad I didn't spend money to rent this movie. That made it a waste of my time.I took an experimental class in college about a trip to Mars. It's extremely interesting, especially when you start thinking about things such as how there will be a communications timelag, the time of orbit, the effects of zero-gravity, Mars 40% gravity, and how (if we choose) to create gravity. Why this movie chooses to infuse other aspects (can't say what without giving things away) is beyond me. Someone with a modicum of intelligence should make a movie about this and leave Mission to Mars where it should be -- as a decent plot for a one hour sci-fi TV show (would have made a good Outer Limits episode).5/10, and that because some parts of it did capture my interest. "},{"Title":"Beautifully crafted cinema of exploration, love, sacrifice and discovery.","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film will not satisfy the hormone sotted, immature male minds in today's audiences, whose paramount desire is sex and violence depicted mostly by the tedium of chases and more recently, flying bodies pummeling and kicking each other.           For the rest of us above the age of consent, director Brian De Palma has created a precious return to the earlier and more enduring cinematic values of humanity.   The story is a quantum leap above earlier forms of the genre.  A fine, professional cast delivers superb performances in the rendering of the story.  It is supported and enhanced beautifully by an excellent music score, and realized in seamless compositing between traditional art, computer graphics and photography.   The story begins at the level of normal interchange between the explorers who are well represented.  As we move along with the crew into the exploration of the most interesting planetary neighbor in our solar system, we encounter love, sacrifice, and valor.  The result is the achievement of an uplifting and inspiring cinema experience.               This film depicts an erudite theory that is growing in popularity among many of the scientists of its time.  It culminates in the glory of incomparable possibilities.    "}{"Title":"Really Enjoyable","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Mission to Mars for the first time, and I can't say that I understand the POV that it was a horrible film at all. To me the movie was well-acted and directed, had an interesting concept and premise, and had an engrossing story line.I didn't find the movie boring, as I don't mind slow-moving films, but I can certainly understand why someone might feel that way. What I don't understand is how someone can say that it's one of the worst movie they've seen. IMHO, comments like that should be reserved for really horrible direct-to-video films - I won't name any particular title, you all know of what type of movies I'm talking about.I'm not trying to pick a fight here and I realize that we all have different tastes, I just wanted to say that maybe some people have judged the movie a little too harshly and that IMHO Mission to Mars deserves better treatment. "},{"Title":"Science fiction?","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Everyone seemed to have such high hopes for this movie. It had great actors, a well known director and a nice trailer. I really like science fiction, and Tim Robbins is an old favorite (I strongly recommend Jacob's Ladder). Still - this is bad science fiction and that's a fact. Whether you like the manuscript or not is a question of personal taste, so I will not even comment on that. The thing is that this movie totally ignores all the known laws of physics. And I'm not talking about subtle mistakes beyond the understanding of anyone not being Einstein, we're talking pretty basic physics here. I find this strange for a SCIENCE fiction movie. "},{"Title":"The worst I've ever seen!","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is probable the worst movie I've ever seen. I wanted to go and watch it thinking that it would be a great movie. But when I saw it in the aeroplane I was so disappointed. To think that it was supposed to be dramatic in the part that the guy floats in to space makes me very confused. This film should be avoided big time and is not even worth a star. 1 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"A big waste of my short term memory","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hope I can manage to keep this movie in my short term memory and forget the painful experience of watching it. On the other side, I must say we had a good laugh. You just have to see the alien with a tear running down its cheek.Wow! This is one of the worst movies of this decade. "},{"Title":"WHERE ARE SPOCK AND THE WHALES WHEN YOU REALLY NEED THEM?","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Is there a conspiracy involved with M2M?  That would seem to be the only plausible explanation.  This film is so almost indescribable bad that on some level intent must have been a factor.  Deaf, dumb and blind could not get this lost.  Brian De Palma has been one of my favorite directors since CARRIE. A bit dated now but still a good early career film He has also made some great films. WISEGUYS,  THE UNTOUCHABLES, for example  It would be nice to believe that he could rise from the ashes of this abomination but the mere fact that he would allow his name to be so besmirched is not hopeful.  It would be piling on, and mean spirited, to use waste very many more words to describe this 'foul order of a film'.  The polite thing would be to pretend not to notice and move quickly toward an open window. "},{"Title":"Cliche to oblivion","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To think they used the same space suits as 2001.  This is the most cliched load of tosh I've seen.  Hey, let's go to Mars.  The US conquers Mars - hmmm - don't think so.  At one point I expected Gary Sinise to break into song.  Leaden sentimentality from the opening titles to the end.  You know when everything is going to happen and boy does it happen. Yawn. "},{"Title":"Unimaginably terrible","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I refuse to write a detailed review for this film.  It's already sucked 12 bucks and 2 hours of my life out of me and I'm not about to let it waste any more of my time.  Suffice to say thisFive thousand monkeys typing for five thousand years couldn't hope to produce a script as corny and cliched as this.  It's boring, it's embarassing and it marks the first time in my life that I actually threw stuff at the screen.   "},{"Title":"What on earth is this?","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, it is not really even movie. It is a commercial by NASA that obviously wants Americans to fund their search of little green men in Mars since the Pathfinder did not find any. How can you spend hundred million dollars and get a garbage like this, maybe with a little help from our extra terrestrial friends? I too had a tear in my eye when I saw this movie.Little green-from-seeing-this-movie man "},{"Title":"Let there be brain","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the most stupid and boring pictures I have seen in Years. Since (Sorry Mr. DePalma) Mission Impossible. You have to hear the stupid lines they made a bunch of really good (not in this movie) actors, say. You have to see (SPOILER!) the Alien shed a tear, oh sorry the hologram of an Alien. (SPOILER END) But there are countless more equal stupid scenes. Many more. Including the ugliest and cheapest looking glued beard in Movie-history. But one last Question from an disbelieving European What in this Trash costs 100 million dollars? Stay away. Every cent on this is wasted.  "},{"Title":"It is hard to make a film which is worse than this!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is hard to make a film which is worse than this, The plot was a complete disaster, the actors played like children on a theatre day in the kindergarten.The writers must have thought the only people who look this film are brainless, otherwise i can't figure out why they try to tell us such a mess.SAVE YOUR MONEY and SAVE YOUR BRAIN "}{"Title":"a z- will be too much","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Stupid. Stupid. Stupid.By the time we reach Mars, there will be at least hundreds probes on the orbit already. So whatever happens, we will know. We will know about the sandstorm, the alien face, possible survivor. Almost everything. The little Martian rover is there. Even if all astronauts are dead, we can still control it remotely.This is just stupid to let them know nothing about the Martian disaster. PLain stupid.And as to the engine explosion due to a ruptured pipeline, that's also stupid. Before you ignite it, you have to check it. Today's engineers can place many sensors all over the spaceship to know if a part was hit by something. This is ancient technology. Even if they don't install sensors, they can still inspect the engine visually. This is a MUST. Everyone who ever flew a glider knows to check his/her aircraft before taking off. There is no reason for a spaceman to forget about this procedure. Time is not a problem. When you reach a planet, you have to enter the orbit. You'll then check your spacecraft until you're happy about it. And then you'll descend. There's no hurry.So it is just impossible that a space mission ruined for this kind of mistake. No way. So much for the realism.And they don't even know how to build a spaceship with air-tight chambers. Stupid.Even if the spaceship's engine explodes, they can always fire up the lifeboat. I don't see why they don't carry it.I watch this movie, because I thought that it was close to Apollo 13. No, I was wrong. The science in this movie is shameful. We should toss the screenwriters into a tornado.To speak about the tornado. It's just stupid. If I built a movie house on Mars, I would not build a security system like this one. It's stupid to kill your intruders just because they failed your quiz. I have to be very cold-blooded to do so. It is pointless.The DNA password is also stupid. Why ask a question like that? Why?The Martians are Disneysque. I mean they built a weird-looking house in a remote area that served as a special venue. Isn't it a Disneyland?The Martian CGs are bad. Even worse than the eraly '90s standards. The martian looks just fake. And the teardrop is also stupid. I hate this movie.  "},{"Title":"Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz...","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     DePalma has always been a hit-and-miss kind of director. However, Mission to Mars takes the cake as his biggest miss yet.     This is the most boring, uneventful, and dragged out piece of unoriginal garbage I have ever watched. The two hours it takes to watch seems like three. The dialogue is predictable and horrible (most of the time, it's just the actors saying the same thing again and again!). There is very little action and when it briefly occurs, it's uneventful and unexciting.    These problems are not the worst of it, though. Anyone who has seen a science fiction film in the past 30 years will no doubt see elements lifted (badly) from other sources. The list includes (but is not limited to) 2001 A Space Odyssey, 2010 The Year We Make Contact, The Abyss, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, THX 1138, and even (choke!) Star Trek the Motion Picture! Even composer Ennio Morricone uses a variation of his score from John Carpenter's The Thing in one scene!    Don't waste your time, money, or patience on this one. The theater may be able to refund your cash, but they can't give you back two hours of your life. "},{"Title":"This trash is all over the place","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ask someone who's just seen this movie what it's about. He or she will answer Well, it's about this crew that goes to Mars and..errmm...there's this other crew which...ermm....and the first crew is still there but they've kinda turned into monkey men and...ermmm...well some of it...and erm one guy has got mascara on.In short, you leave the theater thinking just what movie Mission To Mars is trying to copy. Is it 2001? Is it Apollo 13? Is it Contact? Well, it's none of them, because they're all a helluva lot better.There is almost no focus on anyone in this film. The hero, as it turns out to be, is completely passive the first half of the film, and in fact, when his name was mentioned after about 35 minutes, I thought Wait, who's he talking about?. Bad sign.The plot is either so predictable that the actors might as well tattoo what's going to happen next on their foreheads - or so ludicrous that you actually has anticipated it but you thought 'Nah, not even in this movie'. The acting is wooden everywhere, and the characters seem to be completely uninterested in what's going on around them.It's sappy to the extreme. I wouldn't have been surprised to have seen Shirley Temple in a space-suit float by in some of the scenes. There's a suicide in the film, which is probably supposed to look terribly heroic and self-sacrificing, but is in fact incredibly mean-spirited and awful. You'll know what I mean if you've seen the movie. I mean, will she ever sleep at night again?The ending is just stupid. No, I take that back. I've seen stupid endings before, and they were better. The ending was just....aw heck, I can't find a suitably stupid word, so I'll go with stupid anyway.Thankfully, when I saw this, me and my friend were the ONLY TWO people in the cinema (what does that tell you, boys and girls?), so we could heckle all we wanted without fear of retribution. That made it a little fun to watch.I gave it a 2. The saving grace for it not getting a 1 was the opening scene, with the floating camera deftly moving without cuts between four or five scenes. Kudos to that. To the rest - pprrrrrttt! "},{"Title":"If you ever thought STAR TREK V was bad...","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I quite honestly don't know where to start with this godawful, embarrassíng mess that is M2M. I had the opportunity of reading the press kit, about 50 pages of earnest and interesting-sounding talk about NASA participation, hyper-realism, extended shooting preparations etc., so I expected something like an updated APOLLO 13. What I saw on the screen was a literally laughter-inducing, shameless ripoff of the following (WARNING POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!)1. The backbone of M2M's original script (Have they been sued already? I hope so) is STAR TREKTNG's episode The Chase, where it's revealed that life on Earth was actually planted by an alien culture. The creature appears at the end and tells the story to the crew. See the same story and sequence in M2M (only difference M2M could afford a visual presentation of it). My friend actually whispered the great line from the TREK episode with the Klingon captain commenting What? That's all? If she weren't already dead, I would kill her!2. CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND During the climax, the alien smiles gently at Gary Sinise and he smiles back. A pivotal scene of universal understanding. Hello... Hello! Anybody home? THIS EXACT SCENE you have in CE3K, where it's Francois Truffaut instead of Sinise! Needless to say, the music here is exactly emulating John Williams. No further comment.3. The ludicrous scenes in space outside the ship give (together with the music, copying 100% John Barry Bond music here) the uncanny feeling of watching MOONRAKER 2. I really expected to see Richard Kiel floating by and grinning...4. I've seen better CGI effects in any TV ad. And an alien actually letting out a big tear for its dead planet? That was more than too much.5. Ennio Morricone's music was so inappropriate and wrong I shook my head at such incompetence more than once during the screening. It ruined virtually all the action scenes (and the rest as well). The incredibly kitschy choir for the climax was just the icing on the cake.6. So they're on an alien planet, a mountain is beginning to erupt right before them, a giant storm is forming in front of their noses, and what are they doing, instead of going Uhm,.. I think we better get out of here...??? They keep on filming it with a camera (Do you have that?)! The sand is already being sucked away from their feet... - are they running? Are they at least getting SCARED a little bit? No! I could go like that until reaching orbit...What in all the world is this movie supposed to be? I honestly tried to see it as a parody or something but I can't help the feeling they really were serious about it. The audience began to laugh more than once, including me and my friend, at such a waste of time and money.This is the worst atrocity of a movie I've seen in years. Anybody who has good words for M2M please switch over to the Teletubbies. "},{"Title":"Even in Space, no one can hear you laughing your socks off.","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Atrocious sci-fi farrago from used-to-be-master Brian De Palma. The subject is treated in a so serious manner you can't help but laughing the whole time (and the whole theater did, especially when the hideously comic alien is crying). What on earth (on Mars?) happened to Brian De Palma?The dialogues are SO lame and pathetic from the beginning (the BBQ sequence is frightening of banality with testosterone-filled characters yet with a woman touch to be politically correct).  Gary Sinise (should I say Gary Sinister?)is trying his look how I can be so dramatic gaze, you just wish he could escape from this spaceship and get an actor lesson at Lee Starsberg's before returning for the sequel -let's hope they won't do it-! Even Tim Robbins is so damn serious you can't believe what he's doing. What a waste!A little bit of 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY, a piece of SILENT RUNNING... nice try, guys, but you need to learn how to be original without copying what some people did 30 ago and way much better.Some F/X are breathtaking (the first sand storm on Mars) but most of the time it looks so cheap (the computerized animation of Evolution and that ridiculous ALIEN!!!)I want my money back! The movie is so hilarious I couldn't help myself thinking what Charles Band or Brian Yuzna could have done with this screenplay with one per cent of the budget of MISSION TO MARS. Go to the video store and rent THE DAY TIME ENDED or THE PROGENY. It's much more fun and it lasts only 85 minutes both. These 113 minutes were among the longest I've ever spend in a theater.A tragic but well deserved 1 out of 10.  I really love your works, Brian, but you totally missed it here.  "},{"Title":"Joins my list of worst ever films","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I love movies for things like dialogue, good visuals, pacing, and music. None of the above were present, so move over Saturn 5 and Tarzan, the Ape Man (the one with Bo Derek).  Shamelessly borrowing from, gee, maybe 5 other movies, DePalma has turned out an unoriginal product.  It's a pity, too, because it really was an interesting story idea.It was a waste of time, and embarrassingly silly.  We sat there and mouthed the script before the actors said their lines.  It was as if DePalma entered this movie in a contest for how many trite, cliche-ed, and predictable phrases he could include in one movie.  Where is Lana Turner when you need her?Ditto for the score by Ennio Morricone, who is a great cinematic composer with an impressive body of work.  Just not this one.Save your dough, but on the other hand, this film could achieve a cult following for being THIS bad, or being inadvertently funny.  Who knows! Maybe it was supposed to be a comedy. "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favour and avoid this film.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From it's opening credits it is obvious that this film is doomed. Before the opening credits are finished (and it's a long opening sequence) we have been treated to a host of red-blooded Hollywood cliches. From then on it's all downhill.What surprised me was that a talented director like Brian De Palma could churn out such rubbish. The film is highly derivitive, a hybrid of 2001 and several other si-fi film, but without any creativity or brilliance.There is not one original idea here. Nothing to grab the imagination, no sense of wonder, it isn't even exciting (I  couldn't have cared less whether these two dimensional characters lived or died). The final twenty minutes are particularly embarrassing and laughable. (The alien shedding a tear was pure Disney ketch). This isn't even one of those films that are so bad they're good. Ed Wood showed more creativity.There's little else to say except do yourself a favour and avoid this film at all costs. "},{"Title":"Awful...","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Save your money and time. The film is really bad. The silliest quotes you've ever heard, the most naive dialogues and certainly the worst end you've ever seen. Mission to Mars is a tribute to film's insignificance.In a wordAWFUL... "},{"Title":"Absolute tripe","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This really is one of the most terrible films I have ever seen. Sure it's got the impressive effects but...that's it.The story of the first trip to Mars goes terribly wrong, The Mummy style, leaving the film to set up a steal from Apollo 13. After that, if you're still awake (or even care), you must face the worst end to a film I have ever witnessed.Alas I feel the actors involved will want to forget ever taking part in this film and I hope any future Red Planet films will take a better approach.Bad.  "},{"Title":"What is this?","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When Brian DePalma directed this film, he must have thought that every moviegoer has an IQ less than nil.  Throughout the movie, my senses were bombarded with so many bad cliches, I shook my head in despair as I tried to hang on to my sanity.  If you're looking for every movie cliches in history packed densely into one movie, this is it.  The movie felt as if it was composed of many past movies, cut and pasted without much care.  Although it has good special effects to amuse those with short attention span, so what?  I never suffered as much as this when trying to endure bad movies for the sake of my $8.00 ticket stub.The worst part is when the origins of life on earth are explained.  It was blatant, hokey, naive, one-dimensional point of view.  Furthermore, every movie fans know that Mission to Mars is a hopeless attempt to re-capture the wander and glory of Kubrick's 2001, from the rotating spaceship to getting out into space to fix the damages on the ship.  Ennio Morricone's talents were wasted on this junk of a movie too.Bad dialogues, bad cliches, bad entertainment.  Spend your life doing something else.  Avoid this movie. "}{"Title":"I laughed through the entire 2nd half of it.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Mission to Mars... my thinking was that no film could be as bad as I've heard and plus I hadn't heard specifically what was so bad about the film.  So I figured maybe this film went over the heads of the preview audiences. However, Nothing could prepare me for how bad this film really was...I laughed through the entire 2nd half of it.  I feel sorry for Brian De Palma, for being the director of another meaningless movie.  I wish he would do something meaningful and not go for the cheap and pointless.  This movie left a stain on the Science Fiction genre.  I won't even compare and contrast this movie to a 2001; the film is simply not worthy.  De Palma desperately needs to make a good film again and not some hackneyed piece of garbage.  His usual jerky camera work was there but there was way too much silly digital crap edited in which I felt undermined an already weak film film.  By turning his film into a digital cartoon, De Palma compromised the work of some of the hardest working actors in the business.  He only succeeded in making the actors look silly.  Despite a few good sequences, Mission to Mars was hardly a movie; it was more like a video game or a phony Disney cartoon.  I half expected Jiminie Cricket and Michael Jackson to burst into a tune and to see Bing Crosby soft shoeing with an Alien.  That was the silliest looking Alien since Jar Jar Binks&#133;what a terrible, terrible year for Science Fiction.  How unimaginative and compromised it has become. This movie was crap; it was bad all the way across the board and it certainly had potential given all the names involved.  Even though the end was intended to be thought provoking -- I laughed myself silly (And I assure you that others joined in).  I kept closing my eyes and hoping that Cleopatra would appear on the screen.  Really, I was just wishing Richard Burton and Liz Taylor would just show up as the Aliens.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time & energy going to see this film, or your hard-earned cash.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Boring, slow, too long, poor acting, no plot, holes in the storyline, continuity errors, but the effects were well done. Don't waste your time & energy going to see this film, or your hard-earned cash. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever made","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have never gone into a theater and come out more disappointed.  I was expecting an entertaining film with great action and full blown suspense. The only thing I left with was grief for paying admission to a nap. This movie was so unoriginal and cheesy that I almost felt bad for Brian De Palma for making another bad movie, such as the last film (Snake Eyes) wasn't all too hot either.  I didn't like this boring film simply because it was worthless and annoying.  I think that waiting for video isn't even right, wait for the broadcast premiere on abc or something.  Trust me, you'll thank me later. "},{"Title":"What the ????","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When Brian de Palma hits the mark, he gets a bullseye every time. This is not one of those times.Not that it's fair to pin all the blame for this travesty of a film on him, oh no. Script writers Jim and John Thomas are as much, if not more to blame.We'll not forget Enrico Morricone's incredibly bad score either. It totally fails to hit the pace of the film and ruins what scenes that could have been good.Most of the dialog was total cheese.Let's break all the rules of what makes a film good, and so we end up with Mission to Mars.I can't believe I paid £5 UKP to watch this. "},{"Title":"Bad","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Inept research on story - flat, one dimensional characters - a musical score that attempts to drag you by the ears from emotion to emotion - wonderful actors evidently looking for something to fill in some free time - formulatic plot. There is not one intelligent human that could watch this movie and suspend disbelief long enough - this is not fantasy, it's inaccurate and insulting.I'd rather watch Starship Troopers again. "},{"Title":"Mission to Disaster","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     What were they thinking when they made this movie? A talented director such as De Palma has directed bad movies that could have been good (Snake Eyes). But this movie makes Snake Eyes look like an Academy Award winner. He recycles all filming elements from that movie into this one. It doesn't work though. The film consists of some great actors such as Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle, and Tim Robbins. Yet they are given nothing to do and given cheap lines. The music makes the dramatic moments comical and through the whole movie all I thought of was, Get me out of here. If I had payed for it, I would have.     In case you don't know what the film is about, the plot consists of the first mission to Mars meets with failure and death, they send another group to investigate and perhaps rescue the survivors. What they find is the evolution of humans came from a source on mars.    But what you will find is boredom and annoyance. Advice if you have yet to see it. Don't. 1 out of 10 stars.  "},{"Title":"A truly abhorent piece of work","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a painfully, awful movie from a once masterful director who seems to have completely lost the plot. A beggar's rip off of 2001 AD this is an insult to the late Kubrick as even the parts that it borrows reek of poor acting, woeful direction and a general lack of cinematic atmosphere.When Star Wars is a lot more simple and a hundred times more effect you learn that it isn't special effects but characters and dialogue that make a movie. Gary Sinise's eyeliner make-up, Tim Robbins wooden Woody and DePalma's general lack of ambition or enthusiasim makes this the worst kind of film possible - a poorly acted, plot-ridden, tension lacking, dull, empty, void experience.Watch this at your peril "},{"Title":"Just like Indiana Jones and The Mummy, in space....","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" ....only s**t!I'd read the reviews, I thought I knew what to expect, but nothing prepared me for how appalling this film was.I went to see it in the same frame of mind as I went to see H2O, and Urban Legend.  And they were awful too, but at least they were entertaining.This wasn't even laughable.   It was very bad, and very dull.  Can I give less than 1 star?Tim - what were you thinking?  "},{"Title":"Funniest damn movie I ever did see!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You know when you sit in the theatre trying to get into the mood of a film... and then some joker starts snickering behind you at one of the sad moments?  You hate it don't you?  Well be warned... M2M will turn you into one of those people who you hate so much!  You will feel inconceivable concern for the little robot buggy as the cardboard cutout humans send the poor thing on a dangerous mission. You'll be amazed at the lack of understanding of basic physics amongst the worlds top astronauts. Your jaw will be agape at how De Palma ran out of budget for special effects half way through the movie! See the screen go WAVY as Gary Sinise remembers back to an earlier point in the film... just in case we forgot. Hear the wild-western cowboy music as the CGI sandstorm wipes the screen.  Awe at the blatant sponsor promoting of several household name products. Feel the cheese drip, watch the audience cringe, and enjoy every damn minute of it! 5 out of 5 for being the funniest damn comedy ever!  "},{"Title":"Totally ridiculous. Hilariously bad.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Was it the horrid acting? The silly dialogue? The wierd start and stop pacing? The inept direction? The unbelievably dumb story? Whatever the hell it was it makes for a ridiculously bad film. The early top candidate for worst film of the year.Also did anyone else find it hilarious that Gary Sinise was doing a macho sci-fi film with eyeliner and tweazed eyebrows? It was like Kurt Russell in Tombstone all over again. He thinks he's in a testosterone picture but he's really just a big queen. I love a good queen in real life but in a sci-fi astronaut picture? And Don Cheadle. Good lord. Only Brian DePalma (or possibly George Lucas) could get a performance this bad out of an actor that good! "}{"Title":"Overall, the movie was a disappointment","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had the potential of being good in that they had an original idea and a group of proven good actors.  However, the script was predictable and unbelievable.  Some issues were introduced, but then never resolved.  It was interesting visually. The special effects were the one saving grace. Several people walked out on the movie in the showing I attended. "},{"Title":"Boring plot with less-than-dazzling effects","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I thought that Mission to Mars had an extremely slow-moving plot and little excitement.  In the movie theater I attended, halfway through the movie a third of the audience had already left.  The theory presented as to the origin of humans seemed totally unrealistic and very far-fetched. Definitely not one that kids of any age would enjoy. "},{"Title":"More eye candy for sci-fi fans and brain food too!","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Being a sci-fi fan from way back,and having heard about Richard Hoagland's book Monuments of Mars, A City On The Edge Of Forever, I was anxious to see the movie, and I was not disappointed.  I can see it will step on a lot of toes..but those having followed the mars probe and the present problems with the missions..will not be surprised..I enjoyed it thoroughly and plan to see it several times again.  Go with an open mind and don't listen to the critics! "},{"Title":"Poor, poor, Gary.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I feel so sorry for Gary Sinise.  This story had great potential, but I think they blew their budget for special effects or something.  They seemed to have little money for an actual dialog between characters and the actors needed to make up lines on the spot.I give it a 1 only for computer animation, but that is it.  No other elements were good in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Mission is a true delight for the real sci-fi fans.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  In my book Mission To Mars is stands in the top three of greatest sci-fi movies. 1- 2001, 2- 2010, 3- Mission To Mars, and 4- Metropolis followed by many others.  Either way, Mission is the kind of movie that brings back the wonder to cinema with a story that leaves anyone in a kind of mystified awe.  The Matrix almost polled this off.  But Mission has the class to be classic.     "},{"Title":"Worthless eye candy","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie makes the sci-fi movies of the 50's look like scientific marvels. There is soooo much wrong with this movie from the scientific perspective it's laughable. Like when the space craft engines explode there would be so rapid a change in velocity it would likely rip the rest of the spacecraft apart. Or when they freefloat to the remote resupply ship, they would have their arms ripped off when they grasped the handholds. The suit jets would not be able to slow them sufficiently. There are many other examples, but why bother. Absolute junk science, very poor acting, and an incoherent story all combine to make this a waste of time. "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi for Dummies","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here's the thing. Most people that enjoy sci-fi movies are at least remotely intelligent. Enough to realize that genes are made of DNA, not the other way around. And nobody could tell the species from of an organism from 30 nucleotides. And so many other things regarding the DNA scene. Sometimes when this genre leans more to the fiction end of the spectrum, grandiose action covers up the imperfections. However, MTM has little action, little science and little fiction (plot).It's a very simple plot, with odd pacing. Some people go to Mars, most die, one lives, then some other people (stupid people) go to rescue one person.Of course NASA would want to return to Mars if there was a failed mission. But it probably wouldn't be worthwhile sending a rescue mission (with a half year delay) with the possibility of rescuing one person. And another person dies during the mission anyway; so really there was no net gain. Except for a story about entering an alien face monument, etc etc, which nobody will believe.Also, a crew to Mars would probably be comprised of more than 4 people. The rescue crew keeps talking about simulations. Too bad there's no safety protocol. You think they might have a way to detect the location of a leak. And why does it take them 10 minutes to figure out the location of the second leak by using the same method? And there would be many many many sensors to detect a leak in fuel tanks.These are just some of the horribly frustrating plot holes. Notice how I haven't referred to any one character. It's because I don't remember their names. There is little characterization beyond some cliché junk.My last rant is the score. YUCK. What's with the organs? I guess it's an homage to 2001 or something but instead of adding to the experience it's just annoying and distracting. I would have preferred an uninspired score to this.The only positive is the effects are respectable for the era. But really there's nothing too special or new about them.Instead of watching a movie that unsuccessfully references other sci-fi films, why not watch the originals? Why are mars films always so bad? Let's leave Mars alone and try a different planet next time. "},{"Title":"Fanciful Spacer","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I sat for about ten minutes this morning trying to remember what happened in Brian DePalma's Mission to Mars. I saw it five years ago and I have a vague but good memory of it. As I recall it has something to do with a rescue mission and the big face thingy image that we've all seen on the cover of the tabloids in the grocery checkout aisle.It's got an element of second and a half-rate 2001 in it, but it's entertaining and suspenseful, a nice way to blow a couple hours watching a visually impressive and mildly intellectually challenging sci-fi story.Yet, it's Tim Robbins' face that sticks with me. In true Michael Crichton style, his spacecraft is threatened by a cascading set of mechanical disasters that puts him in the position of having to sacrifice his own life to spare his crew. There is a vision of him falling toward Mars, with his environment suit open and his face cooked and bloated by exposure to space.Yikes, that image was startling. His crew mates survive, but Robbins is deader than a doornail (without looking dead the way we expect it).It's one of the more emotional moments in a generally satisfying film that has enough intriguing intergalactic fluff to appeal to the kid in me, the one who, when he was fifteen (in 1973), would have chosen staying home to watch Planet of the Apes on CBS on a Friday night over going out with friends. "},{"Title":"Still bad.","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched this a couple of days after it came out in Sweden (My review from that time seems to have disappeared), and I thought it really sucked. I decided to tune in on an airing of the movie on one of the more public channels here in Sweden... It still sucks. The science is iffy (the parts of a DNA strand are NOT called chromosomes, chromosomes are made up of DNA), and the relationships play on just about every cliché out there.*** Spoiler *** Tim Robbins' Death is really badly done. Why the hell didn't they just form a chain of grapples, and bring him in?The less said about the ending the better, but this has to be said A friend of mine described it as vulgo-Disney, and that's the best comment I have heard about it. It is soooo bad!*** MAJOR SPOILER ***Don't get me wrong; I like the basic premise about the ending (being evolved from aliens... pretty cool thought), but it's performed soooo heavy-handedly, with an alien crying to give a visual cue You are supposed to be awed here! (Basically a big neon cue-card with a huge arrow pointed at it.)*** Spoiler ends ***Credit where it's due though Strong performances almost all around. Armin Mueller Stahl seems to phone his in, but the rest (Robbins and Sinise stand out) are overall very good. "},{"Title":"One Of My All-Time Favorite Sci-Fi Movies","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie,it made me wonder,it made me cry,it made me scared.This movie pulled me in so many directions on the emotional level.I don't care what others have to say that is bad about this movie.The actors were great together.The special effects awesome. If you love sci-fi you should enjoy this movie.I have seen other movies like sphere which had an even better cast than mission to mars,but none of the magic that this movie had.This movie kept me interested from the start till the end.I remember watching sphere hoping for a great movie based on the all-star cast. I think i fell the sleep it was so slow with no energy. I think this movie is close to the Abyss which was a great movie too. "}{"Title":"Mission failure","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission To Mars should have stayed grounded despite brief moments of enjoyment.Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen and Jerry O'Connell try to lead this mission off the ground and rescue their colleagues; however, the movie fails.The worst things about this film were the performances and the plot. It is unfortunate to see a film that has great actors perform to a script that is as bad as their performances. The other thing I hated was the ending didn't make much sense and shouldn't really have been put in this film. Also, the way the director handled the sequences later in the film because built up to a climax that deserves no comment as it makes no sense. It seemed completely out of place.Mission To Mars deserves to be watched by people if there is nothing better to do with their time.  "},{"Title":"We are afraid - very afraid and, of course, in space no one can hear you scream for mercy","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am a science fiction fan - and there have been very few movies or books in this genre that I am intensely disappointed with MTM to the extent that I have to speak up on the subject. Mission to Mars, or in Gary Sinise's character's case, Mission to Mrs., made me ache desperately trying to find one redeeming factor in the cluttered arena of bad cliched dialogue, bad (over) acting, incredibly cheesy special effects ineffectively disguised by odd camera angles, no real plot line and absolutely no character development making it impossible to care about anyone or anything. If this is what inter-planetary seeding projects by super-intelligent alien life forms can produce after all this evolutionary time and, at such great expen$$$e, I'm afraid those aliens will be back to smite us all very soon and write us off as a failed project. "},{"Title":"An OK film if you don't look too closely","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a weird film. It's a standard space adventure on the surface, with the obligatory alien contact bit, but with some truly cheesy dialogue and questionable physics thrown in for good measure. If you don't look too deeply its an OK film.There are some annoying scenes where I found myself shouting at the screen in frustration. One was where the crew are on Mars and the alien presence manifests itself around a rock spire. The crew just stand around without communicating and gape at the manifestation, and each other, like hicks on their first trip to the big city. This goes on for a protracted time, long past the point where ANY normal person would have made a run for it. Just silly.Another scene involved the crews' inability to think past the length of a rescue line and their own maneauvring pack fuel supplies in order to rescue a person stranded in space. I won't go into the details, but even a half-wit could have figured out how to save the guy given the resources they had. But....not good drama if they saved the guy.What is with Gary Sinise these days anyhow? He looks more and more like Captain Black each movie he appears in. Is he bucking for a part in the Captain Scarlet movie that is inevitable at some point?Still nice to see Jerry Connell of Sliders fame getting a reasonable part. Shame we don't see more of him in films.On the whole not as bad as made out, but with more than a few foolish bits which take the edge off what could have been a very good film. "},{"Title":"I am not usually fond of superlatives, but this is THE WORST movie I have ever seen.  Period.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The dialogue is so cliche' and delivered so flatly that the induced groaning is downright painful.  You'll do more than cringe - you'll whimper in a corner begging for this movie to stop.  If only it were a farce. "},{"Title":"Fails To Take Advantage Of Some Good Possibilities","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The storyline is promising. A team of explorers sent to Mars suffers some type of mysterious catastrophe, leading to the death of three of them, with one survivor who can no longer communicate with Earth. A rescue mission has to be put together to make the journey to the Red Planet. There certainly seems to be enough latitude here to develop a good edge-of-your-seat thriller. But it just doesn't make the grade.Gary Sinise plays astronaut Jim McConnell, who, while not in command of the rescue mission, is nevertheless the key player in it. Now, I like Gary Sinise, but he is best used in a supporting role. In my opinion is not a lead actor. He doesn't have the screen presence to carry a movie. None of the other actors do, either. Not a single one of them really rises to the occasion here and grabs the audience. The lack of any believable emotion really detracts from this movie.The special effects are terrible, and in most cases look cartoonish. The space walk scenes are not in the least realistic. I find myself confused from time to time about the state of gravity on the rescue ship and on the surface of Mars. I note that on Mars the astronauts walk as though they were on earth, and yet the American flag stays erect as it does on the moon, albeit rippling a little bit in the Martian wind. And for a mission that seems to have included Russians, and that starts from an international space station, everything seems VERY American in this movie.The story bogs down from time to time in lengthy and completely unimportant scenes. (The weightless dance; McConnell's home movies.) And I found myself wondering why, when the oxygen on the rescue ship began to be depleted, the computer voice started sounding breathless? Is this a breathing computer? Does NASA put these computers on board just to make sure the astronauts get the point that they're all about to suffocate? My goodness! What the future holds!There is one moment in this film when I thought it was all going to come together. (Little spoiler ahead.) As McConnell searches the Martian base of the previous mission, Luke Graham (played by Don Cheadle) - the lone survivor of the previous mission - suddenly appears behind him with a wild look in his eyes ready to attack. Have the lonely months on Mars driven him mad? Here's the suspense we've been waiting for! But the scene passes, and the movie degenerates into a rather silly quest for extraterrestrial life, finally leading to the discovery of the origins of life on earth. The end is a testimony to nothingness. I have nothing to live for on earth, so I might as well go with them. I've seen variations on this theme in Planet Of The Apes, Star Trek, etc., etc. The writers obviously didn't want to try anything too original!The movie had promise, but it turned out to be largely wasted potential. I rated it 5/10. It isn't terrible, but it's sure not a masterpiece. Half decent at best. "},{"Title":"sci-fi disaster (spoilers)","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the major sci-fi disasters of the past several years, `Mission to Mars' is not quite as bad as `Sphere' (what could be?), but it does manage to come awfully damn close.  This snail-paced tale of Man's first attempt to colonize our neighbor planet drones on for close to two insufferable hours, generating zero suspense while at the same time completely failing to engender any of the feelings of awe and wonderment that only Spielberg and Zemeckis seem capable of managing on a good day.Here is truly a film that is all buildup and no payoff.  Screenwriters Jim Thomas, John Thomas and Graham Yost, along with veteran director Brian De Palma, gather together a group of dull, hackneyed characters to serve as participants in the mission and then discover they have no idea what to do with them.  Tim Robbins and Connie Nielsen play a married couple so cloying and lovey-dovey that we eagerly await the death of one or the other (or hopefully both) to help put us out of our misery.  Gary Sinise also stars as the astronaut who initially activated the very idea for the mission but who backed out after the death of his beautiful young wife, who also happened to be his professional partner.  (If nothing else, this film demonstrates that NASA functions as one hell of an effective matchmaking service).  Need we be told that, at the crucial moment, disaster will strike the mission and the grieving, moping widower will be called in to save the day?  (Shades of `Apollo 13' here).The screenplay is so confused and badly thought out that, at one point, we are informed that a full year has transpired since an incident early on in the film when it seems to us like it has been only a few days at most.Where the movie really falls apart is in its ending.  De Palma was once a great action and horror film director, but his attempt to go the Spielberg route of sentimental emotional uplift is woefully misguided.  One can only imagine that the ending was meant to serve as an `homage' to `Close Encounters of the Third Kind,' so slavish is De Palma's imitation of it.  The audience ends up laughing at the ludicrousness of both the situation and the execution (and the method by which three of these astronauts actually get to the red planet is pretty damn silly too &#150; as well as being a rip off of the much better premiere episode of the original `Lost in Space').Indeed, `rip off' is pretty much the operative term for `Mission to Mars' in all its aspects (even the walk around the wheel from `2001' is included herein).  The amazing thing about this film is that it manages to rip off everything so BADLY.  I guarantee that when the words `The End' finally flash across the screen, your sense of relief will be surpassed only by your desire to laugh out loud.  `Mission to Mars' is one of those films whose epic badness secures it a place for all time in the hallowed halls of cinematic infamy.  "},{"Title":"Most fulfilling Sci-Fi ending in years.","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How many times have you watched a sci-fi movie, only to be left high and dry at the end?  Well, it won't happen with THIS movie, I guarantee you.  It doesn't get any simpler -- watch the movie and wait for the ending, just to see the effects and understand the point of it all.Rent it -- you just can't lose for the money.   "},{"Title":"Just one groan after another","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is a truly terrible movie.  The first scene is like a preview of what is to come - cliches, over dramatisation, and script you could fall over. The movie has many shots, and a general feel, reminiscent of 2001 A Space Odyssey - but it doesn't have the script or characters to back it up.As a general guide - the audience could be heard groaning within the first 15 minutes of the movie.  People could be heard predicting the next line of dialogue, and walking out of the cinema was met with a collective sense of relief. "},{"Title":"No Excuses.","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Many reviews of this movie have already captured the excruciating pain that watching this movie can cause a viewer.  Many voices have shouted their angst over the poor writing, slow pace, and virtual onslaught of apathy to which the film has subjected them.  Since many steps have previously brought a reader down that path, I will not go into great detail over why every minute of watching this movie is like having another inch of duct tape ripped from the skin.However, it still needs mentioning that the director and actors have but the saving grace of pleading no contest to the charge of adding immensely to the travesty.It is possible that Tim Robbins noted that no good science fiction movie should be without a robot and decided that he would make up for it by draining every semblance of a real emotion out of his performance.  Either that or he was dead.  However, if that was the case, it is just too bad that they couldn't finish filming before the rigor mortis set in.Gary Senise, on the other hand, created one emotion for his character. According to Mr. Senise, it seems by the constant sneer on his face, Astronaut Jim McConnell thinks that everything smells really, really bad. In illustration, try plugging your ears during the movie (not a bad idea either way) and imagining these lines instead  Darn.  I'm not going to space, that really stinks.  Or, Boy, this planet must be covered with some kind of red fertilizer.  It really stinks.  And, lastly, I wish they hadn't made me work with this dead guy.  He really stinks!Very little needs to be said about Kim Delaney's character.  She only came up to space for a little nookie.  And once her husband is gone, what reason does she have to stay?The point here, is that it would seem the white flag was hoisted long before the cameras began rolling.  Although the script was at least a diaper-full, one might expect such usually high-caliber actors to at least try.As for DePalma?  After each call of Cut!!, it would stand to reason that he might have the creative vision to ask if someone on set might mind acting for the next scene.  Otherwise, why not let the actors improv?  It might make a good comedy.At least I got a laugh out of it.  Oops!!  My wrist computer says I've reach THE POINT OF NO RETURN!!! "},{"Title":"What is wrong with your guys?","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars was a excellent movie!  There's many reviews by other people here that would have you think otherwise.  There's even a few that urge you not to even see the movie.  Don't ever tell someone not to see a movie!  Everyone has a different opinion.  I admit that Mission to Mars had it's flaws and wasn't a 10 movie, but it was a great movie!  But, I would never tell someone not to see it.  I read a lot of the reviews here and a few of them even said that the special effects weren't great.  All I have to say to that is What the *&%$#@ is wrong with you?  The special effects were spectacular!  I'll leave you with this, don't let someone else tell you what's good and what isn't.  I'm not telling you not to read the reviews, just keep in mind that you are reading some else's opinion.  If you want to see the movie, go see the movie and decide for yourself.  Thanks for reading,-Cortex "}{"Title":"Sci-fi classics are *not* collage fodder!","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mission to Mars is one of the most insidiously vapid genre title of all time. It doesn't even deserve the name science fiction. Brian De Palma directs another empty 'lackluster blockbuster' which he insists in featurettes is a completely original creation, but which steals from every other sci-fi film ever made... especially the great ones, like the Space Odyssey films and Dune-- those are just a couple of examples. Not to mention the much better Red Planet. Here, a giant vortex rips off Dune's giant sandworms, and the Stone Face of Mars is the monolith. Dave Bowman is played by Gary Sinise, who gets saddled with straight-from-the-dumpster lines such as They're us. We're them. And (***spoiler***) what's with the jarring, disconcerting decision to have Tim Robbins' character commit suicide before his wife can see him die or die herself? The entire thing is a horrid collage, an act of cinematic grave-robbing worse than any before or since. Mission to Mars deserves recognition as one of the worst motion pictures ever made... including Hillbillys in a Haunted House. "},{"Title":"Most Revolting Product Placement Ever?","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie's product placement was so heavy-handed, it's laughable and ridiculous. De Palma should be ashamed of himself.- The Valvoline sticker on the Mars rover... You know, to appeal to the isolated demographic of the 5 people on the planet.-Sinise's Izuzu. And you know its an Izuzu because the camera focuses on the logo for a full 5 seconds while conversations and plot are going on in the background.- The double helix of M&Ms. -The Meteors ripped a hole in the ship! How do we find the leak? Use This! A tossed packet of Dr. Pepper flies toward the camera. S-l-o-w-l-y.Just Awful. "},{"Title":"Interesting sci-fi story marred only by a hokey ending.","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Gee, I thought this was a pretty good movie.  According to the vote tabulations, only women under 18 and the IMDb staff agree with me. That's pretty good company.A team of astronauts goes to Mars and encounters an odd formation on the surface of the planet.  After blasting it with radio waves, a tornado of sorts comes out and crushes all of them except one, Don Cheadle.  A second team of astronauts is sent to rescue him and find out what happened.After finding Cheadle alone and still alive in the module/greenhouse at base camp, he tells them what happened.  They examine the recordings he's made of the event and discover that the formation was emitting a signal of sorts prior to the attack on the astronauts, asking them to fill in the blanks on a DNA helix, to prove if they were human or not.The astronauts emit the answer to the question and a door opens in the structure - a huge human-like face staring up from the planet's surface. They go inside and meet an alien who shows them how Mars was hit by a huge meteorite eons ago.  The other members of his race left for their home planet, but he stayed behind and seeded the Earth with DNA which started multiple cell life here.His mission accomplished - teaching the earthlings where they came from - the alien ship prepares to take off for home.  Gary Sinise decides to stay behind and go with the aliens, ala Close Encounters, while the rest of the crew takes off for Earth.The cast was good - no big stars other than Tim Robbins - so you didn't have the big egos cluttering up the screen like that other Mars movie of 2000, Red Planet.  You had character development and human interaction, not the swaggering macho stuff you usually see in these kinds of movies.The special effects were good for the most part, particularly inside the domelike structure with the simulations of the history of the planets and the depiction of the alien.Maybe I just like science fiction movies, but I thought this one was pretty decent. "},{"Title":"A solid flick in a difficult genre.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission... offers the audience a good cast, good special effects, good sets, some excellent production talent, and an interesting story. It builds from a hokey backyard barbecue opening to an outer space technodrama and waxes in the denouement to a ponderous fantasy. Overall the flick is solid entertainment. If Mission... has a problem, it's the daunting task of crossing the left-brain/right-brain barrier (most people are one or the other and not both) in a difficult genre. "},{"Title":"Why are the characters so irritating?","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I hate irritating characters, and this movie is stuffed with them. Gary Sinise, with his heavy eyeliner and Duran-Duran hairdo, looks and acts ridiculous. He's not an action hero, no matter how small of a t-shirt they make him wear. Who did his makeup, Tammi Faye Bakker? The end sequence, with all the close-ups of Sinise's face, looked like a Revlon commercial. Smudge-proof lipstick, for those times when you're trapped in an ancient vibrating Martian space craft. It's every girl's dream.You know you're in trouble when Sinise is wearing a tiny shirt, but then they go and make Tim Robbins wear a tiny shirt! WTF is going on here? Robbins used to have a pretty decent career, but he's horrible in this movie. I wish the blame could be placed squarely on De Palma's shoulders, but Robbins looks as though he wants to be a million miles away from this film, and he acts like it too. The interaction between the characters is so forced and awkward, that you don't believe it. All the people in this film act like they are on drugs or something, like they just stepped out a northern california commune after smokin' weed. When the little tornado thingy forms out of the surface dust, the astronauts just stand there open-mouthed. De Palma lets the characters stand there for ten minutes, when in real life you know they would be running like hell in the other direction. So lame.Then that horrible music. I hate it when they stuff in a bunch of stringed instruments just as something important is happening, so you'll feel that it's more important if it's accompanied by stringed instruments. Please, step away from the stringed instruments, don't try to manipulate how I feel.I wish there were a button so you could turn down just the music instead of the whole soundtrack.Okay, lamest part of the movie lamedy-lame-lame-lame. Jerry O'Connell makes a DNA strand out of m-m's, thereby giving a product placement to m-m's. But that's not the lame part. Get this, he actually says This is the DNA strand for my perfect woman. Watching Jerry O'Connell say this will make you hunt for your metal bat. For one thing, only a nerd would laugh at such a lame joke and for another, you're going to need a lot more m-m's buddy. Then, to top it all off, Gary Sinise looks at a pile of m-m's with his Tammy Faye Bakker raccoon eyes and suddenly figures out the answer to the giant face. WTF? Hello? There is no correlation between the two. De Palma must have gotten a free truckload of m-m's for having the cavity bombs be the answer to life, the universe, and everything. People, please. If you don't want to see Gary Sinise's scary Duran Duran facial close-ups, you'll be wise to put this DVD back on the shelf and get something else. You've been warned. "},{"Title":"Quite dull and unoriginal","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A fairly dull and unoriginal sci fi drama.Central plot was interesting NASA sends manned mission to Mars, it runs into trouble, help is sent. Doesn't feel that original - I kept thinking of 2001 A Space Odyssey, even though the plots aren't that similar on the surface. However, there was a still fair bit of potential for something entertaining and/or novel.Entertainment is light and novelty is minimal.It just feels like a paint-by-numbers space adventure. Nothing new, nothing really exciting.Add in some flat and/or unconvincing performances and it is a so-so movie. We know Jerry O'Connell can't act, and Gary Sinese tends to overact, but I would have expected better from Tim Robbins and Don Cheadle. Then again, being serious dramatic actors, they were miscast. Connie Nielsen is the most convincing of the lot. "},{"Title":"One of the worst Sci-Fi films in history","Date":"6 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I went to see Mission to Mars in the theater when it first came out. I was and am a huge science fiction fan, so I expected to enjoy the film, even if it wasn't an amazing classic. Unfortunately, the film was completely awful. The story was a mess, the dialog could have been written by a grade schooler, the direction was terrible, and the acting was cheesy -- despite having some decent named actors in it. The science (even before the silly ending big reveal) was wrong and terrible across the board.This is how terrible it was About half-way through the movie, a fire alarm went off in the theater. The audience calmly exited toward the entrance to the complex, and the theater manager told us that it was a false alarm. He gave everyone the choice of either going back to finish watching the movie or getting a certificate good for a future movie. More than half the people took the certificate rather than bear to continue watching the movie. (The comments from fellow audience members about the movie echoed my low opinion of the movie).However, I made a different decision. I decided to go back and watch the second half of the movie, because I thought that there had to be a reason why Mission to Mars was green-lit. If the first half of the movie was that terrible, then I figured that something in the second half must have convinced some producer or movie executive that this movie was worth making. There wasn't. It was awful beginning to end. "},{"Title":"All's well that ends well, if only a proper ending was presented...","Date":"12 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I remember watching this movie back when it was first out and I remember it fondly, so I decided to watch it again 14 years later.The story in Mission to Mars, quickly summaries is about a manned expedition to Mars that turns fatally wrong as forces beyond reason strike. Then a rescue mission is quickly launched, which also go awry...The movie is still nice and entertaining, but up to a certain point. The entire sequence with the first landing on Mars was excellent. It was nicely constructed, filmed and put together and there was a sense of thrill and excitement to it all. And when it went awry, you really were struck down as you root for the astronauts here. But moving on... As the second landing is on its way, the movie still manages to uphold its grasp on the audience, because it is equally exciting and thrilling. And so was it when they go to Mars. Right up to the point where they entered the giant stone head structure. From there on it just was like the air deflated from the balloon very quickly.The sequence with the pre-history of Mars was interesting and it was an interesting aspect and approach to take on the barren planet. But the alien creature? Seriously? That was when the movie slipped beyond any chance of salvation, and to make matters worse Jim decides to stay in the alien craft and travel home. Yeah, that was just really great! (Read the irony here!)Storywise, then Mission to Mars is great and it is well executed on the screen. The story easily picks up the audience in its grasp and doesn't let go before the very well. Well, for me, about 10 to 15 minutes or so before the end (as they went into the structure).They had some good talents in the movie as well, especially Tim Robbins put on a great performance here, and was perhaps the most memorable of all characters in the entire movie. But with a cast that also included Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle and Connie Nielsen it was just a good ensemble.As for the effects, well I will say that they pulled it off quite nicely, and it does give off the sense that the people were on Mars. Well, aside from the gravity issue going on. But hey, let's not dwell on details.I was thoroughly entertained by Mission to Mars, but I just wished for an alternate ending, because that ending was just preposterous. "},{"Title":"So bad it's funny","Date":"22 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's very hard to believe that Brian De Palma, who directed great movies like Scarface, Snake Eyes and Mission Impossible is associated with this flop. I am glad it lost 30 million. I can see why. It is also painful to watch talented actor Gary Sinise (Forrest Gump, Snake Eyes, Ransom) paired up with talentless jocks like Jerry O' Connoll, who is so awful he shouldn't be allowed to be an actor. Watching him is like watching a home video of a friend. Connie Nielsen's talent and beauty are also wasted in this movie. Tim Robbins is at best a B movie actor. He seems to have only one facial expression in all his movies stoned silly baby face, slightly depressed. The explosion in space scene. I wonder if in real life they would take the time to check the whole ship after being hit by micro meteorites before firing up the engine. The face on Mars does not look at all like the real photos. "},{"Title":"Someone needs to be held accountable","Date":"7 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Here's how bad this movie is I saw it FOR FREE, during a Starz preview weekend, and still feel ripped off. Whoever released this to the general public needs to be brought up on some charges....such as crimes against humanity. This movie sucks.I brazenly looked past the other bad reviews and watched it anyway. I deserved what I got. Everything about this movie stinks. I was embarrassed for the actors....they are fairly well known, but they shamed themselves by being associated with this vomit.This movie is a special kind of bad. Sometimes, movies can be so bad, that they are good, in a cult classic sort of way. This movie transcends that. When the movie mercifully ended, I sat slack jawed, pondering the life decisions that I had made, to understand what brought me to this point. I know what you are thinking you are thinking that this movie cannot be that bad. You are thinking that you want to see for yourself. Don't do it. Smoke meth instead...you will be better off. "}{"Title":"Lots of big promises, little of it delivered.","Date":"31 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" When the first manned mission to Mars meets with a catastrophic and mysterious disaster, a rescue mission is launched. Disaster strikes as the rescuers end up needing help. Once on Mars, the crew finds the sole survivor of the first mission who informs them that there is something strange on Mars.Brian De Palma directs this film. Surprising because there's absolutely no tension involved. All kinds of crazy things happen, but I don't really care.This stars Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen, and Jerry O'Connell. They're all good actors but none of the characters are compelling. "},{"Title":"So unprofessional","Date":"21 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I am very disappointed. How many mistakes can you make in a movie? This one sets records in that category. It seems like they have no idea how physics works. Looks like they put a lot of money into making this movie, but couldn't consult a physicist and an astrophysicist. At some points i started laughing at the stupidity, as if this was a comedy.Some examples M&M's DNA rotating in a circle Tears dripping in space No opposite reaction for shooting the rope gun Computer feeling the lack of atmosphere (glitches while speaking)I wouldn't suggest this movie to people who appreciate a well thought through movie with every detail as it should be. "},{"Title":"mars","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" not quite sure what to make of this picture, Gary Sinise , Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle,, star packed lineup,, but something was missing,, just can't put my finger on it.. a team of astronauts goes to Mars for a mission and the mission doesn't go as planned. one man survives, so there is a rescue mission underway,, once they get there they have to navigate all sorts of problems,, after a while they find their man thought to have been lost,, he's hiding out in a greenhouse,, where he get's enough oxygen to survive. i'm not sure where this movie really wanted to go like in what direction,, they attempt to get off the planet and our encountered by our mysterious aliens. who we really don't get to see near enough of. one scene I really liked was the tornado that ripped one of the astronauts to shreds,, that was neat to watch,, but overall I felt that the movie had trouble getting to where it was going,, just didn't fit all that well. I scored it a 5 because I didn't hate it, and the scenery was nice, "},{"Title":"Ambitious in Story and Look despite Implausibiltiies","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Brian De Palma's Mission to Mars is a movie I remember writing off when it opened as a rip-off of 2001 A Space Odyssey. Just got around to seeing it, and while it's no masterpiece, it does have some high production values and an ambitious story. Unfortunately direction and acting of the cast as whole came across often flat - especially Gary Sinese who didn't seem suited for the lead. Don Cheadle who usually is awesome is merely average, while most of the rest of the cast is unremarkable. The effects and photography were fairly competent most of the time and helped counter the poor acting. The music was clumsy and almost anachronistic - like listening to a soundtrack from 50 years earlier minus a very bad and out-of-place scene of Van Halen. It's difficult to rate, and maybe a bit of a disappointment with lost potential. It got the look right, (major spoiler) and the alien tie-in was actually fairly interesting though far-fetched. Give it around a 6.5/10 and mildly recommended. "},{"Title":"Ughhhh","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What a huge disappointment from a top quality director and cast. Despite the excellent special effects, this movie was booooooorrring. The music was uninspired and the story had incredibly awful pacing.If you've even wondered how someone wins an Oscar for best movie editing, you'll understand by the contrast of how someone can so poorly edit one. It felt like the actors were being fed their lines through an earpiece.Glad I didn't waste my 10 bucks on this and picked it up for free from the library. If you were disappointed by the lame ending of Total Recall, you'll be disappointed by this movie 10x over. "},{"Title":"Welcome to Mars","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is the best sci-fi film made after the Rover mission craze (its main ' competitor 'was Red Planet ) that is based upon the hard-core science facts , so that the whole design and look ( e.g .the Mars II space craft, the Mars rover vehicle , spacesuits, the International Space station etc ) feel very realistic .Also the choice of actors and their performance ( G. Sinise , D. Cheadle , T. Robbins , and always charming C. Nielsen ) is more than acceptable ,while the premise of a second Mars ship as a sort of a rescue mission and the mystery surrounding the famous ' face ' on Mars is interesting .In short, a sort of a space poem ( pay attention to a superb scene of T. Robbins and C. Nielsen dancing to the magnificent ' Dance the Night Away ' by Van Halen on the spinning deck ! ) that must have made another generation of future astronauts . "},{"Title":"Sci-Fi without the Tie Fighters","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's an oppressively hot day, and the thoroughly-enjoyable Mission to Mars was the escape I needed! I don't review films very often, but my thoughts are that the formula for good Science-Fiction stories seems to be to meld life's great dramas, imaginations, and science facts. Add the cinematographic benefits of excellent acting, directing, editing, effects and score and you have a winner! That's a lot to get right, and Mission to Mars checks all the boxes! Peering into a future that is merely a few decades -- not centuries -- into the future, the movie moves along in all the right places. The special effects were mostly hits, with a few toy-model-like misses recreating some of the exteriors earlier in the movie. If you see it, don't flip the plausibility bit, because it amounts to a minor distraction. The remainder of the movie is worth it! "},{"Title":"The Other Mars Mission.","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If you're unfamiliar with the two, this movie is often confused with 'Red Planet'. Both were released about the same time and have similar formats. There's trouble with spaceships, fatal encounters with hitherto undiscovered aliens, a group of mostly familiar players, and of course a red planet. This is the really slow one. It wants to be something it isn't - meaningful and arty. In fact it is pretentious and overblown. Encounters with amiable aliens are always fraught with problems. There's this inevitable trend towards anthropomorphic sentimentality. For me; it just doesn't wash. H.G. Wells hit the issue on the head, I think, in his 'War Of The Worlds'. He predicted that technological and scientific advance would overcome the sicknesses and morbidities that have tended to promote empathy and compassion amongst ourselves. Without suffering, there would be no understanding of suffering and gradually selfishness and callousness would take hold. Just look at the way we treat the other species on this planet for a clue as to how advanced aliens would treat us. The other scientific howler is - literally - monumental. When Sinise and his chums finally penetrate the stone head, an amiable but tearful alien projection demonstrates how Mars came to be barren and that almost everyone cleared off - just one ship stayed behind. Another of their ships went to Earth. And this alone was apparently responsible for the sudden rise of complex life during the Cambrian age - a little matter of 500 million years ago. So, a; this monument and the ship it contains are, by inference, half a billion years old, and b; the image of the alien we see is likewise half a billion years old. No matter what substance the face-monument was made from, it would have eroded to nothing in that time, just as are land-masses on earth. And by the same token, the spaceship and all its gizmos would have decayed, failed, run-down and gone. Furthermore, even supposing the ship still functioned after 500 million years, this race of beings would have evolved out of all recognition, even as life has on Earth. In the Cambrian age, our ancestors were worms. No-one could even begin to prognose what our descendants will be like AFTER that lapse of time, presupposing that we have any. Recorded history will be unlikely to survive just 10 thousand years. Languages change, cultures morph, everything evolves. Sinise would be flying into a future that would neither recognise him nor his ship, even supposing the future was there at all. He would be a fantastically old living-fossil, and very likely treated as such. Any hopes of a warm welcome and fond re-union with basically fellow beings would be quite absurd. Such gaffs in temporal and evolutionary understanding as these are quite unforgivable, and no amount of arty effects and emotive expression compensate for them.This is definitely NOT science fiction. It's just a prettily-packaged piece of space-hokum. Watch 'Red Planet' instead. The latter ain't a work of genius, but it is at least mostly believable - just. "},{"Title":"2001 gets a bad modernization","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just saw this movie last night and everything about it was just mediocre. The acting, the story, and special effects. Not to mention how terrible the soundtrack was. However, the worst part about this movie was how its plot surrounding the original inhabitants of MArs was completely stolen from 2001. 2001 was an amazing sci-fi film because it really made you think about everything u were seeing. Mission to Mars tries really hard to take this and modernize it but instead it just made me laugh.Everything from the aliens prestine white world to the intergalactic travel to the seeding of Earth was stolen from a masterpiece, which really is one of the greatest sins in film-making. "},{"Title":"Should Have Gone to Venus.","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Wow this is a bad movie. As a fan of B Movies, it's rare that I criticise a movie just for being bad but Mission to Mars is bad in the sort of way that reminds you of someone running their fingernails down a blackboard or a small child grinding their teeth. It's not the sort of bad that can later be turned into cult status or can be explained away as quirky. It's just annoyingly bad. This looks like it had a lot of money thrown at it. In fact, I know it had a lot of money thrown at it. It's therefore got no excuse to be the steaming pile that it is.So let's give it some marks out of 10.Storyline 1/10. And it only get's the 1 because there are still some slight traces of the other (far better) movies Mission to Mars steals from.Music 1/10. This was meant to be a sci-fi movie. Being overwhelmed by the sort of music that's normally played in chocolate ads on TV is not what I was looking for.Script. 0/10. In fact 0 is to high. Minus 5 is far more deserving, but heck, I've got to stick to my own rules.Acting. 2/10. Yeah, I know 2 seems high when compared to the rest of the scores above. But the actors did at least turn up. They did stand in front of the cameras until the movie was made. That's why they get the 2. For their actual performances, they get a big, fat zero. More wood than Noah's ark.Product Placement. 9/10. Only drops a point because they didn't have any of the big fast food joints like BK, McD or KFC advertised. Apart from that, most other major corporations managed to get their products featured pretty well.Special Effects. 2/10. Seen better. Seen worse. Can't say that for a sci-fi movie they were that good though. I expect sci-fi special effects to be outstanding simply because the genre demands it. These weren't.Wardrobe/Makeup. 10/10. Best use of eye-liner I've ever seen on a guy. I don't think that they actually meant to do it but as every other score (apart from product placement) is so low, I'll give them the benefit of the doubt.Unfortunately as IMDb only lets the reviewer judge out of 10 and you can't really give a movie kudos for selling fizzy drinks or candy or for making one of it's lead actors look like a wannabe transvestite, I'll just summarise and give this turkey a one. And that's only because I've never yet marked anything a zero. "}{"Title":"Underrated for the wrong reasons.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This is a seriously underrated movie that gives people another point of view to analyze about Mars. This expedition comes to the Red Planet in order to investigate some mysterious happenings on the surface of the planet such as a human face that appeared from out of nowhere and more things.Some people tend to think about this movie as a boring act. I disagree.Technically this is a perfect movie. The visuals are stunning, marvelous, and give an important reason for Hollywood to support big budget projects with clever plots.The story of course has dramatic tones and centers around the personal aspects of the astronauts but it also offers action, and different points of view towards life on Earth and life on Mars.Give this underrated gem a chance and you won't be disappointed. This is a very good movie with an interesting premise, good execution, and extraordinary dialogs. "},{"Title":"Not-so-intelligent aliens","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Overall,I liked the movie when I first saw it in 2002...watched it recently and discovered a few things that I couldn't agree on,but the one that got my attention was this onecan it be possible for a super advanced being(and I'm talking hundreds of millions of years advanced)not to be able to prevent such a major catastrophe,not to mention the possibility of them to have lived not only on Mars,but on early Earth too even before the asteroid impact? Oh,and living afterwards on Earth,that was a big NO-NO,they had to leave THE ENTIRE GALAXY,because Milky Way is a little short on planets...And I'm sure I'm not the first one who mentioned this,at least I hope. "},{"Title":"Probably one of the most exciting space movies","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What's an exciting trip to space without some pleas to Huston? As the problems continue to increase, the tension begins to soar. I think I had been sweating bullets already, only through less than half of the movie.This was probably the film that got me interested into the planets and our solar system in general. Sure, it's fiction, but adrenaline flowing throughout the film set an incredibly-exciting two hours. For the first time in a while, a film is exciting at every corner and not just the climax.I'd recommend this to anyone in love with space.It makes you wonder what might be out there looking down at us... "},{"Title":"A disappointing effort","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After finally getting around to watching the DVD, I was disappointed by this film. To give it its due, the visuals are beautiful, as other reviewers have noted. That might be an argument for watching this movie with the sound muted, as the dialogue is terrible. The early scenes on Earth are stilted and awkward -- the writers tried to cram too much exposition into the front end of the film. The dialogue improves as the movie progresses, but never becomes great. In fairness to the actors, they do the best they can with what they've been given. The other big problem with the film is the science, which is hit and miss. If you are going to do a hard science fiction movie in this day and age, you owe it to the audience to make a real effort to get the science right. In the end, the best thing I can say about this movie was that it gave me a new appreciation for Contact. "},{"Title":"Not enough mystery or suspense.","Date":"4 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mars, the red planet, and a neighbor to our planet Earth. From what we know is there's no evidence of life being there once. Or was there.In the future, NASA has announced the first mission to Mars. To place a greenhouse project and finding any evidence of life being there once.The photos shot from a remote control robot has found a ruin left by other beings.And it's up to the NASA team to investigate this mystery.There isn't a whole lot to talk about this movie except that it's about Mars. It's more like seeing a rip off of 2001 Space Odyssey.Only it doesn't have the suspense and mystery that 2001 had. Instead this is like watching an average Sci-Fi serial show you'd see on TV.If it had a better story & ending then it be a good film to watch.Otherwise this is the first Brian DePalma movie I've seen that's very weak.Rent it first before thinking about buying it. Cause the DePalma fans might not like this one. "},{"Title":"No good","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I watched two movies tonight - this one and Carnosaur. Why has it come to this? M2M is based on a dreadful, dreadful screenplay. The opening scene is well played, but the dialogue is hard to take, and no tension is created. The poor guy whose wife died - miserable, miserable, miserable. And rest are all so happy clappy, buddy wuddy, then mopey and sentimental - the video flashback of the dead wife was just awful.The first mission gets away, and I can take the togetherness and all that. The Giant Face strikes in a tornado of good special effects - but nobody tries to escape. So it's on to the rescue mission, but the only tension is with the ground commander, whose cautiousness is designed solely to allow the ship commander to dismiss his views as Eurobabble (and that's only on the strength of his accent). The ground commander should make a mistake that jeopardises the mission, and the heros should then struggle to overcome it.The husband and wife stuff had potential, but again no tension. These guys just came across as smug and comfortable, their only difficulty being the external one of the hardships of the mission. If you're going to steal from the Abyss, then bring some of the husband-wife tension with you.The spacewalk was good and tense, but by that stage I reckoned we weren't going to see much action on Mars, so everything had to be done in space to keep our attention.On Mars ... Ah, so what? And how many movies has that alien appeared in? The concept was pretty good, but it just got bogged down in weak characterisation, clunky exposition, and action that wasn't central to the intriguing mystery. The people who didn't know what to do when they got to Mars were the writers. But with all that guff about the origins of life, at least I know who to blame for Carnasaur. "},{"Title":"A miss","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" MISSION TO MARS is Brian DePalma's unsuccessful attempt to recreate Stanley Kubrick's 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY. A rescue team is on its way to Mars to find out what happened to a crew that touched down on the red planet. The rescue team barely succeeds in getting to Mars, and ultimately discovers an amazing secret buried deep within the red planet. By this point, even the least knowledgeable movie buff can see the plotting similarities to 2001. Essentially, what both movies posit is that man must come a long way in order to move on to the next stage of evolution. Kubrick illustrated this in 2001 by having crewman Keir Dullea live out his life in alien captivity and then undergo transformation into a star-child, sent back to Earth by the aliens to oversee man's future. Kubrick purposely left out a shot of the star-child blowing up some hostile missiles in mid-flight, but by then we get the idea. DePalma pulls much the same concept in MISSION, although it is a little less clear as to what happens to crewman Gary Sinese as he heads for his new life. The film must have cost a fortune, and parts of it feel quite real thanks to the incredible production design and special effects. But in the end, MISSION proves a tired retread of a much better movie, and becomes disappointing and even dull long before the oddball finale. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time, money and talent!","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie could have been great, but it just sucked! How Brian DePalma ever achieved such a stellar reputation is beyond me. Sure, he has directed a few good or even a couple great movies, but that is in spite of his directing, not because of it. His good ones survive because of the excellent screenplays and actors involved.This movie is so completely full of ignorant, expository dialouge that it is beyond what even a first year film student would try to pass off as a screenplay. In a room full of experts such as the astronauts in this movie, why are these characters constantly explaining every little detail of what they should already know to each other? To educate the audience to the info necessary for that scene to work, obviously. But good writing disguises exposition with insinuations and knowing little tidbits of information. Bad writing bludgeons the film-viewer with stupid on the nose dialouge that seems to go on forever. Real people just do not talk that way.Even worse, the motivations of the characters would make fundamental, unlikely, illogical and all-too-convenient changes, clearly engineered to move the plot along. A stiff and unrealistic unfolding of the storyline makes for a set of characters and story arcs that rings false every step of the way.The level of sophistication, scientific accuracy and detail alluded to by the visual look of the film is betrayed by a complete absence of even the most rudimentary safety or precautionary procedures. These morons could not have gotten a rocket to lift off the ground without killing them and everybody at mission control, let alone make a journey like this to Mars!Romantic self-sacrifice (Woody), imbecile level problem solving abilities (Woody's wife), emotional instability (Jerry O'Connel's character), a severe lack of decision-making ability (the mission 'boss')and all the other actions of the characters do not make for a stable group of scientists or astronauts. And worst of all? Why was Gary Sinise wearing so much freakin' eye makeup? Just terrible... "},{"Title":"Slightly better than lost in space (oh my!)","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It's a given that alien contact films borrow from there predecessors. Mission to Mars is basically a reworked version of the story first presented in 2001. There is the we found something start to the story. Then the bad luck on our way there trip through the solar system. Followed by the shocker revelation of alien intelligence / mysteries of the universe & life, etc.Designed to be somewhat more plausible, set 20 years into the future with computers, spacesuits and mars rovers that look remarkably similar to what NASA currently uses, and without the super-brain of an artificial intelligent computer, it seems we could actually have real Mission to Mars capabilities based on current technology. So if its not a tech-wow film, what drives the film from scene to scene? Unfortunetely, little more than a half-baked concept of the outer space family - husbands and wives dedicated to exploring unknown worlds. Yes folks, it's lame. Very lame. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking brilliance!","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Definitely one of the best Sci-Fi offerings in a very long time in my humble opinion. Believable Characters, Drama, Humour and good old fashioned pioneering spirit - it's all here! The special effects are also extremely realistic. Too many films these days rely on unnecessary over the top sfx but this director just does what's needed to make the make believe believable. Don't know where they filmed the planet surface sequences but as far as I was concerned it WAS mars! Mission to Mars (2000) Left me feeling that I wish I could've been a real life Jim. Also contained 2 of my current favourite actors, i.e. Tim Robbins & Gary Sinise. Highly recommended for all you Sci-Fi fans out there that may not yet have seen it. "}{"Title":"Nicely photographed...","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The problem with it is it's boring. Even the action sequences had me thinking about what to make for dinner tomorrow. Most of the ideas seemed half-baked and there were many moments that just didn't make sense. Such as when a crew member sees droplets of blood indicating where the air hole is but minutes later she does not seem to remember that useful trick and at the same time another crew member is not wearing his O2 helmet for no good reason and it is HE who has the idea for using liquid for find the air leak. Nevermind the logos everywhere. De Palma is much better off when he directs things he writes himself (for the most part). Even though instead of riffing off of Hitchcock, in this movie he riffs off of Kubrick. For a much better De Palma movie, see Blow Out. For a much better sci-fi movie, see Solaris. "},{"Title":"Some Couples Dance,Some Couples Go To Mars","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" It is perhaps unfair but we should not look with care upon a Motion Picture.A motion picture is not honest,it is most definitely the equal to a deck of cards with but a wind to dislodge its importance and care that a review might provide.This may not always be the case however these films tend to be so political as to not be a pleasure but a virtual confrontation with what is being sold in some court room or some battlefield or in some tabloid.It is as such nothing short of propaganda attempting to disguise this ulterior landscape with all kinds of special affects and mis-directed logic.The underpinning of this tinsel town mentality is that we are being led around by our noses and misguided in our desire as intellectual beings to know the world we live in.The motion picture is one big sleight of hand and its importance in this world is hurtful,even providing a lessening as to resolve as to our place in the world.The life we live is less so by the presence of the motion picture and its subsequent influence.The cause as to this position is that this is much more than some entertainment vehicle this is about a unscrupulous ulterior presence in its influence and the undercurrent of resolve afforded its related industries.The press is one of this worlds political machines with the motion picture providing the mix of a loaded gun though admittedly a prop to be sided with yellow bellies that stir up all kinds of problems.The problem is neither the press nor the entertainment industry rate this kind of importance and in fact are of a false importance.The resolve is how do we avoid being sucked in to a series of lies and mis-directed logic whereby we should be shamed for finding any value represented in such a consideration.The very paper of which we read daily should reside in the soil of its birth rather than as a means to such an end for we are but a cursed land to be so discredited by such is the ways of this worlds popular press.There is an undeniable landscape that this monstrous and ever unfolding injustice represents and that be that such is the influence as to be foreign in its power and unearthly in its influence.The press is as well not what it seems and we are but on the threshold of War.Would it surprise the viewer that any place man can go so can the press,even if that place is 33,000 ft.in the air,or perhaps even on some distant planet.This is a world that should not be allowed to be so showcased and even more so none should be provided with such an importance that would allow for death to be at our doorstep.This motion picture,mission to mars is very much a mixed up idealogical piece of propaganda that like the aforementioned house of cards provides only some popular hooey not dignified to discuss.It is only curious that in an effort to determine what was I in fact looking at when this piece of writing provided the only witness that I needed.This picture felt it was necessary to go to mars(so called)though I would contend that the real story is in the polluted environment and the airwaves whereby a foreign power resides and bares witness as to undue influence and a merciless crusade against humanity.I only rated this because I sought symmetry.Take it for what its worth I think there are more interesting ways to spend your time and for that matter your money. "},{"Title":"Something Horrible happens to Mars I's crew.  NASA's best pilot and the alternate crew are sent to rescue the survivor.  Will they discover the secret hiding on Mars?","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Warning - Spoilers! I saw this recently on a satellite channel. Can someone please refund my wasted time? Good cast, interesting premise, excellent production values, obviously substantial budget... why was this such a disappointment? Awful script, for one thing. All of the above points raise expectations, which are dashed when the story does not work. Lots of hokum and clichés in search of plot and character development.And too many ridiculous ideas and plot holes, e.g.- As long as space flight is dangerous, NASA is not going to allow husband-wife teams on the flight deck, any more than a commercial airline would -- this movie had two of them!- Dust storm effects - if the face wanted to zap intruders, I can think of many instantaneous ways to do so, most of which would leave a smear or black spot on the ground.- The Face can't decide if it wants to be discovered or not. If they only wanted Earthlings to find it, why not hide it and have it transmit signals of some kind only to earth.- With technology this advanced, why have a quiz that anyone similarly sophisticated might easily solve? Why cannot the Face simply analyze the DNA of prospective visitors to determine their humanity, instead of accidentally dismembering them.- The fuel leak / Dr. Pepper leak - stuff would vaporize before freezing as soon as it hit space, and would fly away in the direction of leak pressure, never get near the nozzle.- Oh, the ship was pointing the wrong way for the insertion burn - would have crashed anyway.- How does the propellant explode? Rocket fuels have two components that have to be mixed to burn. Methane, LOX, hydrogen, hydrazine, peroxide, none of these will burn by themselves, even when heated. Ignoring the point that so close to Mars, most micro meteoroids would be falling toward the planet, posing far less risk than in interplanetary space.- McConnell never puts on his helmet during the breach. Get real - no one in space would do anything before putting on his helmet in that situation.- Astronauts with thruster packs in a hyperbolic orbit (remember, the insertion burn never happened) are going to abandon ship and go to the resupply module already in parking orbit? IF they reached it, they would hit at some thousands of miles an hour, destroying themselves and the ReMo. And the out-of-control rocket, astronauts and all, would have gone flying past Mars, not collided with it.- Everyone takes off their helmets inside the face. Just one unfamiliar virus, and they are walking dead men. I do not think so...Why would a studio entrust Brian Di Palma with so much money? What a waste... With a writer and director, it might have been a great film.Skip this one, or you will have to write a comment to get that feeling out of your system. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable sci-fi (spoilers)","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I guess I'm in the minority, but I have trouble understanding the amount of hatred people have toward this movie. The entire time I watched, I was dying to find out the secret. And its revelation didn't disappoint me. As others pointed out, the alien didn't look too great, but that didn't really spoil the scene for me. One thing that bothered me was that such allegedly advanced, noble aliens seeking contact with their space-brethren would commit wholesale slaughter of anyone who answered the question incorrectly. I mean, couldn't they just keep the door locked? I felt that the crises in this movie were believable, and the characters' solutions to them were clever. Whether they were truly scientifically possible, I don't pretend to know; but for me, they worked on a cinematic level.Ironically, my favorite character in this movie is the one who has the least amount of screen time the deceased wife who only appears in the home movie remembrances. Her idealism about life in space struck a chord with me.True, this isn't Citizen Kane, but I think the movie delivers on suspense and pure entertainment value. I think some movie-goers expect every sci-fi movie to be chock full of laser battles, scary multi-tentacled aliens, and epic galactic struggles. I, for one, find it refreshing to see a sci-fi story that is somewhat plausible. "},{"Title":"Space Turbans","Date":"12 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm a sucker for sci fi. I'll watch virtually any movie about androids, space, killer tomatoes, interplanetary colonisation, whaddeva. If the special effects make your eyes go wide like dinner plates then the plot doesn't have to be Asimovian for the movie to be watchable.So I gave this movie a generous 5 because, even though it sucks in all other respects, a) the spec FX were really quite good, and b) Connie Nielsen looks hot in a G-Suit.Aside from the obvious, I was disappointed most by two things. One, Gary Sinise came off like a serial killer. This is not the best tone to set for a film that's meant to be about the endless mysteries of God's great universe. Two, Don Cheadle's afro doesn't grow nearly big enough considering the amount of time he's alone on Mars. On the up side, the alien looks like Iman in a bronze turban, which is a good look for her. "},{"Title":"Strange, uneven sci-fi adventure to the Red Planet...","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Two big-budget MARS films opened in 2000, thanks to the usual idea shortage between rival studios. (In some cases, this sort of conceptual movie-dual can lead to two successful, interesting projects, like ANTZ and BUGS LIFE or, to a lesser degree, ARMEGEDDON and DEEP IMPACT). But with the case of MISSION TO MARS and RED PLANET, there didn't seem to be a single great idea (or profit to be made) between either film. MISSION TO MARS is probably the better film (and if so, not by much) simply because it's a little bit weirder and a little less predictable than RED PLANET. The adventure begins promisingly, with a fine cast (TIM ROBBINS, GARY SINESE, DON CHEADLE)and a cool setting (a voyage between planets, set in the near future.) But with every new plot development comes an unanswered question, and the end result is a disappointing jumble and confusing time-travel nonsense. "},{"Title":"Not the worst film I've ever seen... but pretty darn close...","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've seen worse films. I truly have. Mission to Mars does not fall into the category of Plan 9 from Outer Space, however, nor is it a good solid run in the mill flick.Mission to Mars is more in line with the almost-an-A category. Like a lot of films being cranked out today the technical wizardry of newer photographic technology can often misdirect the eye, and hence mind, to the common movie buff. A film that has the appearance of looking good is sometimes mistaken for being good in terms of content. That's kind of what Mission to Mars is. A film with a nice gloss coat, but a few miscued story points, and a, admit it, a touch of schlock.It helps to know your audience, and the environment you're supposed to be portraying for said audience, if you're going to make a space film, or a film for the sci-fi geek in all of us. And if you're going to mimic, or pay homage, to some one else's artistic achievement, then it helps to know what techniques that person used before incorporating them into your project. If you lack these ingredients, then you're going to come up with something a little different than what you bargained for. But then again that's part of what art is all about.Mission to Mars is no different. It borrows heavily from other sci-fi offerings attempting to portray a space environment with as much accuracy as it can muster, but can't deliver. The problem is that it just doesn't come across very well. For all the effort and money that went into making the film the you'd think the film makers would've gotten more bang for their buck, but as it turns out it comes across as being somewhat hackneyed.Similarly the actors are forced. They do their best, and occasionally they're in sync with the scene, but the story they're supposed to be telling is just a little too far fetched, particularly for a film that's taking the 2001 approach. It's simply a film that's got an ounce more fantasy than one would expect in a sci-fi film. The result is an awe come-on effect near the end.So what we're left with is a movie whose technical execution and artistic rendering is pushed onto the audience, and with no apology for the in-your-face emoting, and, quite frankly, the characters implausible actions and motivations.Truth be told I thought this film was a disaster on a number levels, but I can understand why some people found it palatable. When a film is given all the right angles and technical personnel to see its accomplishment, but is the result of marketing decisions, and no vision, what you have is a nice looking piece of democratic art. But that's not good art. By definition it's not art. It's a soulless commodity that's been created to satiate the appetites of those desiring a little more from their films, but ultimately is nothing more than visual fat.I watched it once, but wish I hadn't. "},{"Title":"magical moving portrait of space exploration","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Can't figure out why so many people and critics hated this movie. It is a wonderous homage to 2001 with scenes that will take your breath away, they are so visually stunning. The dopes who think this is too slow need to get back to Bruckheimer pap; this movie has a continuous ominous tension that makes you watch every second; and the risk, wonder, and courage of space exploration are constantly on display. Some knockout scenes are the meteorite impact with droplets of bloods floating everywhere (who's shown that in any space epic?), the DNA sequence, the orbital transfer by spacewalks. Cheadle is great as a deranged lone survivor, Robbins and Sinese are good as steady calm spacemen who make life and death decisions in seconds (what astronauts do- they don't scream and emote). Do I think there are aliens on Mars- no. But maybe there are giant fish in the planet wide water ocean on Europa (see my article on Titan landing).Michael Hammerschlag Hammernews "},{"Title":"Not as lame as I remember","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Someone 'treated me' to this film in the theater. At the time I saw it I thought it was awful. This is probably because there were dollar bills involved! As a TV movie is is passable. The beginning is trite but once they get into their succession of disasters it is okay. I also like that at least the TV version didn't seem too gory. I don't remember if it was more so in the theatre but have the feeling that it had some elements to help it earn an R rating. The special effects are okay. Everything is mostly okay. Mostly it is fun to have a movie about Mars again. For a _really_ good time see Forbidden Planet. Now that is a great movie. This film qualifies for the 1940's equivalent of a 'B' movie. Although that is unfair to some 'B' movies which are really quite excellent you probably know what I mean. "},{"Title":"First half excellent; Second half Very disappointing!!!","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" PROBABLE SpoilageI saw M2M in the theatre a few years back and my opinion of it hasn't changed since. The cast is made up of favorites Gary Sinise, Jerry O'Connell, Connie Nielsen, Don Cheadle, an uncredited Armin Mueller-Stahl, and Tim Robbins. I guess I should realize that when a well known actor is last on the credits list, he's gonna die in the film. After Robbins made his exit, the film became very boring and tedious, and downright silly. The CGI Martian woman was beyond ridiculous. I thought Hollywood was capable of more realistic imaging than that!!! In these days of realistic dinosaurs and explosions courtesy of CGI, the Martian lady was a horrible cartoon!!! I don't even like to watch the film after Robbins is gone. I just watch it up to that point and then turn it off. As for the first half, I LOVED IT!!! The music was not annoying at all, it sounded like an old Disney movie's music would have, and it goes great in this movie!!! I enjoyed the scene where the micrometeors penetrated the ship. This IS a Disney movie, I remember, so I was surprised they endorsed Dr. Pepper instead of Coca Cola!!! LOLI thought Sinise looked kinda cute with eyeliner and spiky hair and muscle shirts, by the way!!! So did Robbins!!! And no matter what he does, O'Connell never annoys me.Film could have been a ton more fun. "}{"Title":"Nice!","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When a great cast is put together with a very nice plot, we can only have a very good movie.I loved the ending, particularly interesting, speculating about our origin in a way i had never seen been explored before. Just amazing, when the movie ended i was asking for more, but I was still happy, a movie to see lots of times, just to fully understand the final events.Apart from that its an average space like movie, trying to approach our minds from a very friendly reality, Mars exploration is always a good theme for a movie like this.7/10, cant tell you guys its awesome, but it surely surprised me. ;)  "},{"Title":"Not bad at all! A fine sci-fi flick.","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Commander Luc Goddard is selected to lead the first manned mission to Mars. Upon setting foot on the red planet, the team discovers an ancient, dome like structure which appears to be a beacon. The dome destroys the team and leaves Luc injured. The recently widowed Jim McConnell leads the rescue mission. When they arrive, they find Luc surprisingly alive, and he has spent the time alone learning the secrets of the mysterious construct. The question now becomes do they enter the dome and answer humanity's oldest question, perhaps risking their lives in doing so, or return to Earth with what they do know and return in force with equipment and supplies? Just caught this flick on the sci-fi channel the other day. Despite lots of negative reviews on IMDB, I liked it. A fine cast and a very realistic view of mars. The film makers obviously was in contact with NASA throughout the entire production. The score by  Ennio Morricone was fantastic. the special effects, for the most part, were excellent, the only exception being the forgivably tacky alien life form at the end. Those long, sweeping shots of the space ship were beautiful! Not a bad sci-fi film at all. 7/10.    "},{"Title":"more like mission to mishmash","Date":"18 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Very slow starter and throughout the film it was impossible not to make some obvious and inevitable comparisons with Apollo 13, Forbidden Planet and 2001 A Space Odyssey. I did wonder if they used the left over scenery and backdrops from Total Recall. This movie is really an excuse to rehash every sci-fi/alien picture you've ever seen and if you like playing 'guess where they got that idea' this is the film for you.The special effects were relentless and did not compensate for the inconsistencies in the plot.Gary Sinise has cornered the market in 'the guy left behind who saves the day' characters although his make up is a bit worrying at times.Having said that if you can suspend disbelief it is an enjoyable piece of hokum and should they show it on TV I just might watch it again.  "},{"Title":"Space Walking in Silliness","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There's a part in Mission to Mars when a rock smashes into a guys space helmet and kills him. This might have been interesting, except that the rock looks like it's make of styrofoam. Mission to Mars is a 2000 film directed by Brian de Palma and starring Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, and Don Cheadle. I hate Brian de Palma. He ruined the otherwise fantastic Scarface and made The Untouchables my least favorite movie on the IMDB Top 250 List (closely followed by Minority Report). I've decide that the reason is that Brian de Palma adds cheesy dialogue and drastic importance into scenes that should be played with a subtle and quiet touch. But this movie is all over the place, never able to decide what it wants to be. Sinise, Cheadle, and Robbins are all great actors, but even their acting cannot save the dialogue that they have to work with. People are killed off before we can understand who they are, and even when we do understand we don't really care. It tries to bring some meaning and beauty into it by adding some sentimental thing about family.. or.. something.. but that doesn't work either. This movie tries to walk beyond the force of gravity, it tries to space walk, but it's brought down by pure silliness. And then there's the ending. An ending that takes itself so seriously that it made me laugh. Just look at Don cheadle's eyes as he says Goodbye, Jim... (I won't say where Jim went, not because I don't want to spoil the secret, but because IMDB will blacklist me if I do). And when you look into Cheadle's eyes, de Palma was thinking 2001 and Solyaris here we come! and I was thinking No.Just no.My grade 4/10 (there's a cool scene involving gravity and M&Ms) "},{"Title":"Bad Science, Saran Wrap Greenhouse, and then...","Date":"18 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ...there's Gary Sinise's luridly overdone makeup. In some scenes--particularly the extended closeup of his reactions to watching the image of the party just after he was awarded command--he resembles an aging drag queen, sans wig and tiara, taking a breather between stage acts.There should have been a little dance sequence with the ancient Martian holograph (or whatever it is) at the film's end--to recall that weightless (and pointless) dance sequence earlier on in the action. What were the actors (so many of considerable ability and wisdom) thinking when they landed parts in this sub-Star Trek Deep Space Nine piece of dreck?  "},{"Title":"I have to Disagree","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie totally blew away Verhoeven's Total Recall and Brian DePlama's other two(2) Snake Eyes and Mission Impossible were also a success in my case I don't have any idea what the hell the other guy who commented on this. He don't know a good flick when he sees one. I think Deplama's beginning movie or the first I see from him Carrie based on the best seller by Stephen King Is also a good movie filled with awesome special effects. But the first comment made by someone on this movie was too dumb to understand. The story was written perfectly by a committee of writers. The plot outline perfect. It was I say somewhat better than Red Planet which also has some great effects also. But this movie is a good source of exciting and fundamental action in it that any family would enjoy. Definitely Rent this movie. It is real good, despite what the idiot said in the first place. To sum it up... excellent movie all round... characters excellent, plot excellent, special effects excellent. Gary Sinise plays his character well as Jim McConnelly. I was happy as Brian Depalma left the scene with Jim looking back on the memories he had with his wife just before she died or got ill. This movie definitely blows away Apollo 13, Red Planet, Mission To Mars(1997), Total Recall (Too much gore and blood in Total Recall.Final Grade A+  "},{"Title":"Mission failure","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission To Mars should have stayed grounded despite brief moments of enjoyment.Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen and Jerry O'Connell try to lead this mission off the ground and rescue their colleagues; however, the movie fails.The worst things about this film were the performances and the plot. It is unfortunate to see a film that has great actors perform to a script that is as bad as their performances.   The other thing I hated was the ending didn't make much sense and shouldn't really have been put in this film. Also, the way the director handled the sequences later in the film because built up to a climax that deserves no comment as it makes no sense. It seemed completely out of place.Mission To Mars deserves to be watched by people if there is nothing better to do with their time. "},{"Title":"Lost in Space","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to March does not amount to a fully realized work. It failed as a stark,  philosophical space mystery. I was hoping for that kind of movie -poetic, yet  bleak, slow but with an inexorably forceful pace. De Palma was way off the  mark. Nor did the movie make it as a human drama. The dialog was stilted and unconvincing, and the dynamics crudely displayed, without tension or> depth. The opening scene (at the barbecue) was a cheap setup, as if fished out of a screenwriter's manual. Yes, it accomplishes all the introductions in one fell  swoop but it was banal. And while the cinematography was often fascinating, some scenes seemed to have been written just to show it off. No content really, no atmosphere - just cool  stuff. Did the businessfolk behind the movie bludgeon it to death? Was there a real movie there before mercenary screenwriters suffocated it? I'm renting 2001  A Space Odyssey to resuscitate the memories of the real thing. "},{"Title":"A soap opera/train wreck","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The story is hackneyed, the sets are cheap-looking and hokey, and most of the cinematography is cribbed from much better movies.Every aspect of this story has been used before in other films (from the damaged hero of Gary Sinise to the hard-nosed boss). From the opening scene, I was confused about this film.It starts on what is obviously a bad studio set for a backyard. The thing looks like they took it from the Days of Our Lives set for the day. And from the beginning, I found myself attempting to figure out what that crap was under Gary Sinise's eyes.For some reason, the makeup artist kept smearing it under there. My guess was that it was supposed to look like he had bags under his eyes, but, instead, it appeared that he was attempting to put on eye shadow and got confused.Also confusing were several scientific issues, most annoying was the amount of oxygen generated by the plants in the far-from-air-tight TENT that Don Cheadle was living in on the Martian surface.By the time we got to the end, I didn't care about any of these characters and, frankly, hoped that the whole cast was swept up in some sort of Martian dust storm.  "},{"Title":"Crash and Burn","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian De Palma isn't without talent, but it does all seem to have been evaporating over  the years. The film doesn't look too bad, but the script, and much of the storyline, is  almost beyond belief.You'd think as the cheques were being signed in the production office that someone  who had looked at the actual writing. There's plenty of people who could have done  better at a fraction of the cost. They could have got fifty film school students to each to  do a script. One of them would have hit the mark. There's a good cast in this movie who  could have succeeded with better material.The Cydonian angle of the story was a bad mistake and they would have done better to  invent their own Martian mystery rather than repeat these worn out half-baked ideas.  The core audience for the film aren't going to go for this rubbish. It's a sci-fi movie that  doesn't like the imaginative power of sci-fi and, after the first half hour, the cracks really  do start to show and you think that everyone would rather just go home and put their  feet up.It's a shame. Films about space exploration, and particularly Mars, are always welcome.  So I thought anyway. "}{"Title":"Awfully wasted potential!","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My my... what an awful movie. It's really a big shame having to see how the makers of Mission To Mars have wasted a wonderful story and kicka** effects. It's also very disappointing how extremely badly developed and played the characters (except Tim Robbins' one) are. Another confusing bit is that alien creature. What the heck? Who made this sad thing? It looks like it was made for an early CG movie around 1990 (equally worse like the CG in Lawnmower Man) or by some amateur designers. Compared to the other effects (storms, starship, station, etc.) which are all absolutely dazzling this alien character was pure impertinence. Similar with the evolution scene. I don't know who animated the animals but it seems someone seriously tried to save money.All of the characters in this movie are awfully represented and expressed by their assigned actors. Half of the blame has to go to the director. The way they react to happenings is simply ridiculous. In many scenes they look like they don't have a clue what to do at all. In one moment they shout we gotta hurry up in the other moment they just stand there staring at something when they'd have to hurry up like crazy. I haven't seen any tears in this movie. Good friends die, a wife dies, a husband dies, and the characters just handle these situations as if it was just bets they've lost at the race track. The facies/expressions don't fit at all. By the way, why he heck are people like J.O'Connel or A.M.-Stahl in this movie? Those were the most annoying.Half of the movie passes and they crew is still trying to land on that stupid planet. I think the best scene was the initial storm. It was really breath-taking and very very well done. The best actors in this movie are definately Don Cheadle and Tim Robbins. But best is pretty relative here cause overall the performances weren't satisfying at all. I would've expected better from Gary Sinise as well. But I think his best role was Lt. Dan in Forest Gump. He will hardly beat that in future. Finally, the movie was cut off with a cheap The End as soon as the rest of the crew left the planet. What the...?Anyway, now after all that negativity here's the positive bits about the movie the story is fascinating. It's a rock-solid fantasy/sci-fi story that's absolutely great for all dreamers out there. It kinda reminded me of Contact which had a wonderful story as well. The CG effects and sound mix during the storm sequence is really breath-taking. The other filming related effects are also very very nice. Take the scene where they are walking around in that torus like station. Very well done! But it's really sad Mission To Mars is all they have gotten out of the story.My ratings story 8.5/10, acting 5/10, characters 2/10 (terrible!), CG effects storm sequences and similar 8.5/10 (very nice!), CG effects alien creature and evolution sequences 5/10 (oh my..), other non-CG effects 7.5/10 (unique ones there too), cinematography 7.5/10, directing 5/10 (terrible... just see how great actors like Robbins perform here... I blame the director on that).My overall rating 5.5/10 - NOT worth watching unless you want to have a peek at the great story (that inspires your fantasy) or at some of the great CG effects.  "},{"Title":"Scraping the bottom of the barrel","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A strong contender for Worst Film Ever Made. Tim Robbins must've realised that things were going down the pan when he let his character get decapitated midway through the story. Do not pay to see this film. Even if it's coming to you at no extra cost, there are lots of ways (sleep, channel surfing) to kill a couple of hours other than by watching this drivel.  "},{"Title":"For Gary Sinise Fans","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma's Mission to Mars works on many levels because Gary Sinise is able to convey so much intensity that you don't know if it will have a happy ending or not.   Had this film starred Harrison Ford it may have made $150 million at the box office but it would not have been as high quality of a film.   Ford would have made us believe that the film could only have a happy ending and that would not have given the audience a true thrill ride.  Sinise does that for us by working with DePalma's directing talents and making each scene the more intriging.  Connie Neilsen, Don Cheadle, Jerry O'Connell, and Tim Robbins all support Sinise in this one in solid performances.   I therefore recommend this movie to all movie fans. "},{"Title":"Diatribe of Codswallop","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Lowell Cannon and Jim Thomas - Herein I name and shame the writers responsible for what must be one of the most awful pieces of Science fiction film writing I have ever had the misfortune to witness.Don't get me wrong, I love Sci-Fi but this was bad in all the wrong ways!A superb cast trying to do Apollo 13 with 2001 and failing miserably.  Yes the special effects in space where good, the gigantic alien sand Hoover or whatever it was supposed to be at the beginning on Mars was however simply laughable.Conveniently forgetting basic principles of physics (there is a thin atmosphere on Mars guys and your tent has got a lot of holes in it!!) this diatribe of codswallop wasted a perfectly good cast on a badly written story with an ending that simply defied belief.An excellent (as ever) Ennio Morricone soundtrack was also wasted on this film whilst Gary Sinise looked like he was stoned out of his mind for most of the proceedings - he must have been to agree to do this rubbish!Oh yes, the planets where orbiting the sun the wrong way around as well!In a word - avoid!!  "},{"Title":"Typical Let's Go To Mars Movie With An Interesting Twist","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this movie because I have always been fascinated with sending people to Mars for exploration.Don't go to see the movie with high expectations, but go to see it to get a different aspect on going to explore the planet.I was glad to finally see a trip-to-Mats movie make the Face On Mars (Cydonia) the main subject of the movie. "},{"Title":"Scientifically incorrect and too rushed","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was one of the worst Sci-fi films I have ever seen. It would be great if Mike Nelson et al did an MST3K parody of it but sadly I doubt we'll see that. This movie had absolutely NO MERIT. I watched it at 130 AM on a local pay TV channel in Dolby Prologic on my widescreen TV and it was a ghastly experience, a big disappointment despite a promise of something interesting.Scientifically speaking this movie is BS. I mean they show a helix of 20 nucleotides (DNA) and say it's human. They actually call nucleotide base pairs - chromosomes. This is totally idiotic. I'm sorry but to send such a group of brainless morons up into space as astronauts and not have them know what a chromosome looks like is ludicrous - unless of course the producers didn't know. This is the problem with directors/screenwriters who've never been to high school or never studied biology in HS. I mean I knew what a chromosome was from high school biology and I live in a 3rd World Country!!!Secondly a garden on Mars under some tent with half a dozen little houseplants is not going to generate enough oxygen for one man, even if he was as IQ-penic as the rest of this unwholesome crew.Regarding the plot - why the whole thing in space with the micro-meteorite? Why did the lead not put on a spare helmet? Why was he such a total dimwit? I feel too much movie time was wasted on the prelude to the rescue crew arriving on Mars as well.In summary - this movie is one of the worst films I have ever seen. It compares to the B grade movies they show on MST3K but there we have 3 amusing characters with their wisecracks to amuse us. Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Excessive Hyperbole on this Movie","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film will not the best or worst Sci-Fi film ever made seems to attract as much hyperbole as any movie in the Genre. Was it a breakthrough film! No! Was it the most god awful contrived thing ever put on film! No! Did it have problems? Yes. I am no judge of acting talent or screen writing. So i amnot going to address those issues. Some comments on this Movie complained about the plot , the alien and the ending. Apparently for all their expertize, they never read the story on which this movie is based. I have and the movie is faithful to the story as written. The technical aspect of this movie are something, i can comment on. The Micrometeorite impact as the rescue mission arrives is hurried. One thing, when your are working in space is that, you don't get in a hurry. It just like working in the deep sea. you check everything before you haul off and fire everything up. The ending is just like the story. it's not great, but it is not bad. It is intended to be hopeful and uplifting. There are more technical points, I could pick on this film, but I think the previous comments are a bit over the top on this film. I would buy it. If you are looking for fairly realistic Sci-Fi, without looking for Academy Award or breakthrough film, then this movie is you. But it is not the worst film ever produced! There are more and worst made movies for that comment. "},{"Title":"Yaaawwwwnnnnn","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think the movie could have been pretty good, had it not been too long and drawn out.....I like the actors in the film, its just that it seemed like the director was trying to create another 2001, a space oddity....  just wasn't there... "},{"Title":"a turkey","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Just saw the movie on free tv.Some of the set ups are O.K. but the payoffs are as poor as they come.The alien creature is so much CGI that it hurts. I didn't buy it for a second. Give me Spielberg's 1977 Close Encounters' stepping out of the light creatures anytime.The musical score is surprisingly old fashioned. The whole orchestration sounded like it was made for a 1960s family drama. I know what I am talking about. I am doing this (music) for a living.Gary Sinise's ride at the end plays like an average video game.What ever happened to the three basic formulas of good cinema 1) a good script  2) a good cast of actors   3) good photography  ?Skip this one  "},{"Title":"Worth watching, but...I couldn't tell you why","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bad science (orbital mechanics), hoaky science (Point of No Return?), *very* slow moving at times, some silly plot elements and some big plot holes. What's to like about this movie? I really don't know - but I did like it. Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that I wanted to be an astronaut when I was a kid, and the fact that I hope we do go to Mars, sooner rather than later. The outpoints were substantial, but for me the story was sufficiently interesting and compelling to make them distractions rather than a total turn-off. Would you like this movie? I don't know. If you've ever dreamt of being an astronaut or going to Mars, then probably. If not, then I don't know. My wife never dreamt of being an astronaut or going to Mars, and she liked it a lot, so there you go. How's that for an ambiguous review? "}{"Title":"Good Movie, great actors","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Maybe Mission to Mars is nothing for 2001 Oddysee fans, but it is still a major movie. Brian de Palma manages to build a quite interesting atmosphere. All in all, the movie is one of the best of its genre. It is interesting too, to see Gary Sinise as a main character, one of my favourite actors! "},{"Title":"Aliens created intelligent life on Earth, or did they?","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Among the Wave of Martian movies that hit us recently, there were great movies like `Red Planet' and `Mars Attacks'. I even enjoyed `Ghosts of Mars' - less original than the two I mentioned before, but kinda cool. `Mission To Mars', however, was a disappointment to me. The first half seemed to be inspired by `Space Cowboys' (astronauts are human beings with human weaknesses, but get going anyway), the second half by `2001 &#150; a space odyssey' (extraterrestrials play God and create intelligent life-forms). The alien added a touch of Spielberg's Close Encounters, obviously. There are so many fascinating books about adventures on Mars, doesn't anybody read Bradbury or Zelazny (`A Rose For Ecclesiastes')? `Mission To Mars' comes across like a remake of a movie we've (dis)missed in 1960, now with superior FX but still the same cheesy message. I can't believe that nobody is offering better scripts than this one to an actor like Tim Robbins? Does he really have to play a cliché role like `don't try to rescue me, the mission is more important than me' etc.? Voted 5/10, since the scenes about the discovery of the Martian face in the sand and the arrival of the rescue mission contained some suspense during the middle of the movie, admittedly, and kept me interested till the end.  "},{"Title":"Not just making faces","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Be warned - you might find a spoiler or two here so if it bothers you - read no further!I was thinking about writing something in favor of the movie that no one has written yet. Sadly I found that people didn't liked it as much as I did (though I can understand and respect why). It is true that the whole story was more on the sci-fi then about the drama and such, and I suffered some Suspension of disbelief concerning the stranded astronaut's sanity when he was found by the SR-team. Yet, I saw an interesting use of a science FACT, known as The face on mars, in this movie and to tell the truth, this science fact allures till this very day even NASA's and other mars experts, best guesses.I must add that I'm writing this exactly one week after STS 107's disaster. It made me want to go and find out something that would give me a nudge back to the track. I wanted to see something that would emphasize some of the NASA spirit, that has dwindled to a sad cry, in these past seven days. This movie, has helped me gain that right sense of belief, that we should keep on, stretch out our hands to hope and not let go. Faith is as important as knowledge, and good faith is essential to succeed, no matter what task lies in front of you. This movie is about such faith and thus it is a good movie. Even a great movie.Enjoy itN.  "},{"Title":"Derivative and insulting","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Derivative because it borrows heavily from 2001.  Insulting because every time something symbolic is shown, it's not only shown in a way such that even a moron could figure it out, it's also accompanied by one of the characters explaining it for you, just in case you're even dumber than a moron. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well it could have been half the length - it was drawn out with sentimental crap.  I was forever waiting for them to 'get on with it'.  Alas, it didn't really ever get off the ground.  It was all rather tedious really.  And if you're going to take anything seriously I mean why would the 'aliens' leave all that for just one human to return 'home' and then destroy the 'puzzle'. Ludicrous.  Glad I didn't waste my money seeing it at the theatre.  It was hardly worth the $2 paid for the video. "},{"Title":"Waste of time and money (both for the history of cinema and me)","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The most irritating violation of scientific credibility ever seen in a space movie. What to say about that lost astronaut living several months on Mars, lodged in a shanty-greenhouse covered with plastics swept by the wind?. In addition bad actors performance.The 13rd angry man "},{"Title":"Conspiracy theorists, take note!","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There is a theory that the government either tries to debunk UFO's or tries to educate us on what is really going happening, based on the current administration's leanings on the subject.  This, of course, assumes that the Hollywood community is in on the game and is even supported in their efforts.  Well, here is a movie that fits perfectly into the education scenario.  It describes the connection that the government supposedly realizes exists between the Earth and Mars.  What was very strange was that the entire ending was included in the trailer.  A way of educating people without them having to see the movie?  It certainly seems from the majority of reviews that most people were totally bored with this expensive education lesson.  The obviously expensive special effects and extremely talented cast members certainly lend a bit of credibility to the proceedings.  Brian De Palma, mister slasher, seems out of place directing a science fiction picture.  Another part of the theory states that our old friend Walt Disney was always a good tool for government propaganda dissemination.  Who produced and distributed this film?  Touchstone, a division of Walt Disney Pictures.  No matter what, the film is not a masterpiece and not as bad as everybody says it is.  It is not an Alien monster movie and not an esoteric 2001.  It plays like what it may be, an educational documentary. "},{"Title":"B.D. - Before Darwin","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  No further comment to the one liner above. I don't know why the critics are that hard. I saw that The Abyss gets a rating here above 7. I think this film deserves at least 7 too. I thought it was fascinating and a little deeper than the not too unusual monster coming up - shoot em' - like Science Fiction movies from over there. I will recommend it, enjoy it!  "},{"Title":"Don't bother.","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you think you want to see this movie, go watch 2001 instead.  All they did here was steal the imagery and plot, and add a few women.  If you still think you want to see this movie, shoot yourself in the head.  There were some good actors, and they tried... but this movie is just a waste of time.  If this is the best the writers, directors, and producers could think of, they should go work for 7-11.  That anyone got paid zillions for this movie disgusts me.  I'm even more disgusted that I got conned into paying $3 to rent it and wasted 2 hours watching it. "},{"Title":"I'm sorry, was I supposed to be watching this with the sound off?","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to like it. My girlfriend said it was a waste of time, but she hates sci-fi.  I'm a big fan, so I was all, Mars, hell yeah.Hell is right.  The special efects were special, but they must have sucked up all of that extra money that was supposed to go for finding the right words for actors to speak.  They could have saved some scratch on the actors, as well-- no sense in paying off Tim Robbins et al.; with dialogue like this, they could have used puppets, or, in a pinch, popsicle sticks with smiley faces drawn in ink. Obviously, the movie was all about the visuals; I guess we were supposed to watch it with the sound off.13-year old boys will probably think this is a great movie; but 14-year olds will certainly see the seams.   "}{"Title":"they should have stayed on Earth","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Where do I begin? This film was so bad for so many reasons, I honestly don't know where to start. Thank God I saw it on Encore so it didn't cost me anything. I am shocked that such a fantastic group of actors made a movie this bad. Didn't they read the script first? For Christ's sake, the actors in this movie were in Forrest Gump, Boogie Nights, Gladiator, The Shawshank Redemption, and Stand By Me -- some of the best movies ever made. You would think that they would at least read the script before agreeing to doing this movie. Maybe the studio just threw so much money at them, it didn't matter -- I don't know. The musical score was probably the worst ever. None of the music matched what was going on on the screen. And the ENDING! There aren't enough words to describe how bad it was -- by far the cheesiest ending I have *EVER* seen.This movie is a prime example of the fact that a big budget is no guarantee of even a DECENT movie. "},{"Title":"COME ON DE PALMA!! WHAT`S WRONG WITH YOU MAN?!!!!","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars was a movie that I waited for some time and then I bought it right a way it came to stores. Well it sure was one of the biggest let downs in last three years!! This movie simply wasnt good enough. It was so serious and even the special effects didnt make this worth looking again. Gary Sinise was farely good but other members of the crew was like half a sleep the whole time.  3/10 "},{"Title":"Houston? You guessed it. We have another damn problem.","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Houston must be getting sick and tired of all the problems from outer space. Here we have more trouble with this combo of Apollo 13, Red Planet, and Marooned, with a smattering of Contact, 2001 A Space Odyssey, 2001 A Space Oddity, plus a touch of The Abyss. I enjoyed it but probably not as much as Art Bell and some of his they are really out there Bellheads. Me, I figure Mars is just a big empty rock, hot as hell and useless as props on a space shuttle. Not bad but perhaps Hollywood has ridden this rocket around the solar system enough. "},{"Title":"Yet another awful Hollywood science fiction movie!","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hardly even know where to start with this one! It's interesting contrasting my reaction to this movie with 'Red Planet'. 'Red Planet' looked like utter trash from the word go, and guess what? It was. 'Red Planet', being directed by the usually excellent Brian De Palma, and having actors of the calibre of Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise and Don Cheadle in the cast, looked like it might be a solid, albeit old fashioned (John W. Campbell era) science fiction story. The problem with it was exactly the same as 'Red Planet' - an absolute stinker of a script! The characters are undeveloped, the dialogue clumsy, even downright awful at times, and it shamelessly recycles plot devices, and even whole scenes, from previous SF movies and stories. There's not one ounce of intelligence or originality on display here! 'Mission To Mars' is sadly yet another awful Hollywood science fiction movie where special effects take precedence over an imaginative and well crafted script. How long Hollywood will continue to make this fundamental error is difficult to say. With 'Rollerball' opening in Australia as I type, and 'Attack Of The Clones' just around the corner, maybe not so difficult! I hope one day they wise up. Until then science fiction movies from the major studios will continue to disappoint and depress. "},{"Title":"There are bad films, and then there is Mission to Mars","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Something truly terrible happened during making of this film. I am still trying to figure out where it all started - was it Brian De Palma's own study, filming location(s), editing room, or none of the above? I am afraid the answer is, all of these, and that itself, in addition to fact that this mess was actually released, is quite a reason to be concerned about. Nothing in this movie is salvageable. Hold it, sans special effects, which are visually (not only technically) beautiful. The script is laughable at its best (the funniest moments are obviously unintentional - check out the `there are only three graves' line), with a storyline and dialogue cut in a way that would not be believable if played by ANY actors. The characters' development was written for someone lacking basic human emotions; the best example is how quickly wife of one of the astronauts gets over his suicide. And this is consistent throughout the film, until its ad hoc end. There is no intelligent life on Mars, and there was none seen during the 2 hour viewing experience I endured, leaving the theatre full of wondering what breed of audience this production was destined for. Definitely it wasn't for any form of intelligent life.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood, we have a problem . . .","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you need some Mars cinema, see Red Planet with Val Kilmer. M2M barely moved. In short, it had great materials actors, special effects, interesting subject matter. Somehow, this great material was ill-used. Luckily I bought the DVD from Wal-Mart with Armageddon stuck to it as a double special. Armageddon is better . . . "},{"Title":"We have no sight of intelligent life, sir!","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ouch. Okay, let's throw in the drama scenes from armageddon and deep impact. Okay, let's use a little Apollo 13. Okay! I think we have I a winner! Let's jump on the outer-space bandwagon while it's still hot! Sorry, I think they missed it by a year or two. Not even Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise could save this dud. I won't go into a plot synapsis, considering there is already one posted but I can tell you what to expect. A director desperate for a summer blockbuster hit. A couple of great actors trying their best to deliver their really bad lines. Tim Robbins trying to play the kamikaze hero that we see in every damn space movie. It's really getting old. The movie was predictable, stale, but in it's own way, good for a laugh. I laughed myself silly during the last half because by then disappointment had turned it the 'why i am still watching this??' Maybe they wasted all of their money on okay special effects, and forgot to stick a decent screenplay into their budget plan. Whatever went awry, the effects could not save this movie. I almost feel embarrassed for the poor actors who allowed their faces to be placed on the box. "},{"Title":"Will they ever learn...","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have a problem with most so called science fiction films out of Hollywood. The Script writers don't know science fiction. And they belive a few good effects will save the ending of a script that's weak at best.I can't blame the actors. They do their best with what's available. And to be fair, the first part of the film, before the rescue ship gets to Mars,is okay.The ending though, is a simplistic mess. I solved tougher mysteries in my Kindergarten class.It's not a spoiler to reveal that part of the mystery involves the Face on Mars. You've probably seen it a million time. It's a pile of sand or rocks that looks like a human face. It was sighted on Mars sometime in the 1990's, and was touted by tabloids as absolute proof of intelligent life on Mars.Only problem is the face is almost completely gone. The wind storms on Mars eroded it away. But here it is in the film, all nice and shiny, and filled with alien energy.Okay, maybe that's nit picking. But imagine the screenwriters thinking to themselves Wow, what if alien leave a message for humanity on a nearby planet? Cool Eh?Well, Yah, when it was done in 2001 back in the 60's.I guarantee you will come away from this film feeling you've wasted a chunk of time. Unless you're in grade school. It's at that level. "},{"Title":"Completely devoid of artistic merit","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's beyond me what a director like de Palma is doing with this turkey, other than paying off the Christmas credit card bill. A good cast is likewise wasted on a formulaic, derivative, silly film.What's bad about it? It's an alien artifact on Mars film which contributes nothing new to the genre. It's dumb. IF a manned mission to Mars went wrong, there is no way a rescue mission would be launched 2 days later off the back of true grit and we can't leave our buddy to die. This film plagiarises clumsily from 2001 without giving anything back, and **SPOILER** throws in a cutesy benevolent alien progenitor without any build-up. Because there is no build, and the film doesn't develop it's own mythology, this just appears laughable when it happens.And what's with the flooding scene at the end? "},{"Title":"Enjoyable for fans of cult movies","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is not a really good movie, that's for sure.  But it has the same kind of appeal that many B movies or scifi cult movies have. It's derivative to be sure!  There are lapses in logic, yes.  But it is a very atmospheric film.  The special effects are very cheesy.  If you're a fan of Barbarella or those old Saturday Matinee sci fi movies from the late 50s/early 60s, chances are you'll enjoy this on that level.  If you want something intellectually stimuating, this is not the film for you.  See 2001 instead.  But if you want to have some mindless fun, give it a shot.  "}{"Title":"From mediocre to fizzle.","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars really doesn't merit much verbosity - most elements of the plot are pretty much cut from the cloth of other movies. Even this could be lived with, if it were done well - most TV and movie plot point have been used before, going back to greek plays. However, MtM takes you from an extended build-up sequence, through one interesting EVA scene, and into a lackluster climax building to a patheticly cookie-cutter 2001 ripoff finale. For better Mars movies, check out Red Planet or Escape from Mars. "},{"Title":"Turn off the audio and just watch the visual","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just had to rent this on DVD and now I'm kicking myself.I'm a sci-fi nut.  For sci-fi movies, I'm willing to fill in the holes in plot, explain away inconsistencies, ignore technical inaccuracies, and accept contrived or forced situations.  I had already turned off my brain to this film, rightly expecting that it will follow well-trodden paths.But I couldn't put up my defenses against good actors uttering lines that a 3rd grader can write.  Every time a character said something I cringed or laughed.The only good (not great) aspect of the movie is the visuals, but it is overwhelmed by the mediocrity of everything else.  "},{"Title":"DePalma does it again-- and it aint good!!","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Take a little of Appolo 13, a lot of 2001, a pinch of Close Encounters, toss in just a touch of the short story Kaleidoscope by Ray Bradbury and you have a mixture to curdle your brain, which is what this film can to do you.  Sinise, Cheadle and O'Connell give us solid, workman like performances, though Sinise does look a little bit embarrassed a couple of times.  The usually reliable Tim Robbins is just too stolid and John Wayneish in this role.  Armin Mueller-Stahl looks so totally unhappy that one has to wonder if he would have preferred to be in a dentist's chair to doing the film.  It is interesting to note that he is not credited in the cast list. By choice I'd bet.From a technical stand point the film is well made.  The screen play is a hodge-podge of other writer's ideas.  The direction is a hodge-podge of other directors work.  The end result is just plain awful.  I stayed with it because I really wanted to like it but my brain kept mutteringwill this never end.If you are a die hard, uncritical sci-fi movie fan, the sort who will sit through the remake of The Thing more than once, you may like this unintended disaster.  Otherwise, spend your money on The Day The Earth Stood Still and watch a real classic. "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  *MAJOR SPOILER WARNING* *READ AT RISK*Me and my cousin were in Universal Studios and after we got done we decided to end the day by watching a movie. We knew Mission to Mars sounded like a good movie, so we decided to watch it. It started out great, good characters, good plot, good story so far. Yes, he astronaut dying made no sense, but I let that slide. It all got up to the part when the guy was sorrounded by water and shot into another galaxy to make new life. WHAT JUST HAPPENED HERE?? we both said after the astronauts said goodbye to their buddy. I don't see why a stupid alien would wait around for centuries and shoot a guy surrounded by water in a spaceship to go create life. I know it's science fiction, but even Battlefield Earth made more sense than this. The other things that puzzle me is how they got a perfect oxogyn level in the stupid alien head? How come the woman pretty much forgot her frozen corpse of a husband in a day? A trip to Mars story could've been so promising. They had the talent and technology to make a great movie! Too bad we have directors like the one that made this movie in charge. "},{"Title":"Sci-fi for adults","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a great relief once again to see a sci-fi-movie clearly aiming at an audience over 18. No silly sub-Lucas fantasizing and dialogue, no laser beams and no exploding spaceships for a change. Great! This one actually has a story about everyday life and work in space. Maybe it isn't realistic (I'm not an astronaut), but at least it is plausible. The alien lifeform at the end is comfortably toned down and this part is preceded by some quite exciting and thought-provoking mindgames among the crew.And beautiful Connie Nielsen is in it, too. She was born in a small village at the other end of the Jutland peninsula here in Denmark and has made it well in Hollywood as many of you probably know. I must disappoint her foreign fans though.  There a NO lost Danish films or TV shows with her to be had. Her first part ever was in an Italian movie in 1992 and even I hadn't heard a word about her before The Devil's Advocate. Some people have complained that Mission to Mars is DULL. Well, maybe life in space really IS dull when you haven't got George Lucas around to stage it and liven it up.  The Soviet cosmonaut, who was left in space when the Soviet Union collapsed and had to spend 10 months up there till they could retrieve him, wasn't exactly a fun guy, you could learn from the TV programme that was made about him.  I had expected exciting storytelling, but found a lethally boring man instead.  "},{"Title":"Sci-fi for adults","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a great relief once again to see a sci-fi-movie clearly aiming at an audience over 18. No silly sub-Lucas fantasizing and dialogue, no laser beams and no exploding spaceships for a change. Great! This one actually has a story about everyday life and work in space. Maybe it isn't realistic (I'm not an astronaut), but at least it is plausible. The alien lifeform at the end is comfortably toned down and this part is preceded by some quite exciting and thought-provoking mindgames among the crew.And beautiful Connie Nielsen is in it, too. She was born in a small village at the other end of the Jutland peninsula here in Denmark and has made it well in Hollywood as many of you probably know. I must disappoint her foreign fans though.  There a NO lost Danish films or TV shows with her to be had. Her first part ever was in an Italian movie in 1992 and even I hadn't heard a word about her before The Devil's Advocate. Some people have complained that Mission to Mars is DULL. Well, maybe life in space really IS dull when you haven't got George Lucas around to stage it and liven it up.  The Soviet cosmonaut, who was left in space when the Soviet Union collapsed and had to spend 10 months up there till they could retrieve him, wasn't exactly a fun guy, you could learn from the TV programme that was made about him.  I had expected exciting storytelling, but found a lethally boring man instead.  "},{"Title":"A long night's journey to the middle of nowhere..","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Aside from the charming and somewhat comedic performance of Jerry O'Connell (best remembered for his role on the popular sci-fi show Sliders) as the astronaut Phil, this movie is perhaps the saddest waste of $4 for a matinee ticket I ever spent.  A truly awful movie, with a completely unbelievable plot, and heroes that are so loathesome you constantly pray for bad things to happen to them and cheer when they do.  The once charming Tim Robbins, who so impressed me in Shawshank Redemption, sinks to an all time career low in this dismal sci-fi flop, and the normally entertaining Gary Sinise fares little better.  While both have enough standing in Hollywood for this fecal matter to not be a career ender, it certainly won't add any luster to their resumes.  Here's a plot summary idiots go to Mars, idiots die, idiots chase after any survivors - in other words the whole thing is truly idiotic.  One suspects that this is exactly the kind of film Alex was subjected to in Clockwork Orange when he was forcefed drugs with his eyelids propped open.  I don't know whether it's more horrifying that I paid money to see it or that a movie this bad got made in the first place. "},{"Title":"one scene ruined the whole movie for me","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING!!!  SPOILERS BELOW!!!The scene in which Tim Robbins dies was TOTALLY UNBELIEVABLE.  His character was so quick to give up I can't believe a trained astronaut would do that, and I could see a number of ways that he could have gotten out of the fix he was in.  None of the characters explored all options, to help him, which would have been more believable for a top notch team of astronauts.  Just done for dramatic effect.  Rest of the movie was okay. "},{"Title":"The horror, the horror","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I started watching this movie pretty blankly, not having read the reviews yet, and couldn't help but wonder where they started to go wrong.. I rate this a 4 only because of the special effects, which are nice indeed, but to me it seems that the entire story-line was only used as a reason to show those effects.. I can overlook then scientific errors, after all it *is* science fiction, but the holes in the story are big enough to drive a truck through. Gary Sinises wife died, so they say... So what!! It's totally useless information to the viewer, for it has no affect on his behavior if he'd just been single, it's only put in the movie to get a tear maybe from some viewers eyes? What's with the killing??? pointless... why the water at the end of the movie? Equally pointless. The idea itself is nice, but they could've done so much better if they'd canceled one special effect and used the money to provide a decent story-line. I'd say only watch this if you're a die-hard DePalma fan, or a fan of any of the actors, though no one really excels in this one. For the others it's an annoying waste of time.  "},{"Title":"It Was a Long Mission","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You know how sometimes you pull so hard for something to happen, but it still fails.  Here is all this money going into a science fiction movie.  So many possibilities.  So few surprises.  Even the alien is your stereotypical tiresome ethereal creature stolen from artists whose work was already stolen from for Close Encounters of the Third Kind.  I loved the big special effect after the Mars arrival, although I wonder why everyone just stood there--perhaps you could back up just a bit--get out of harm's way.  I mean, didn't this look just a tad threatening.  Then there's all the domestic stuff.  Gary Sinise and his lost wife.  The  couple who couldn't keep their hands off each other despite the gravity of the situation. Or was it lack of gravity. Then there is all that greenhouse stuff.  Why did those aliens want to tell the story.  Where is Gary Sinise going, exactly?  Why did the thing kill all those people?  Were they just in the way.  The ending is so obtuse--it was sort of like Cocoon.  There is always some guy who's going along, but they won't let us know where he's going.  What's with the water?  Does it reformat him like in This Island Earth, a much superior movie.  What about those guys floating around in space, trying to lasso a space ship and get inside.  I don't know.  It's just a big hodgepodge mess, that doesn't get anything really resolved for the viewer.  Yes, I got it.  But who cares.  Why did the Martians care?  Please, please, please, start using all that money better.  Don't you have any imagination?   "}{"Title":"Disney Does Mars...And Crash Lands!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Go find the cheapest, cheesiest, tackiest black & white '50s science fiction movie, and I'll bet it's got a tighter script than this one. Yes, even Plan 9 From Outer Space. It seems odd that this batch of young writers never learned how to tell a space opera. No tension, no pacing, no real mystery, bad dialogue whose only job is to fill in a lot of useless details, and worst of all, Disney characters whose every emotion has a Greek chorus of bad Disney music. Hollywood, thy name is incompetence. "},{"Title":"Neither masterpiece nor disaster","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS BELOWMission to Mars is not a complete disaster.Mind you, the detractors are dead-on in their criticisms.  The badMuch of the dialog is ridiculous--cliched, overly simplistic, unrealistic, or some combination of the three--and the opening picnic scene is painfully flat and stilted.  The ending, while visually stunning, is thoroughly ruined with the spell-everything-out-to-every-last-detail-with-obnoxiously-remedial-dialog.  The visuals are sufficiently explanatory, and this entire sequence would have succeeded had its only soundtrack been music.  Give me no dialog from the time they arrived at the face to the time they returned to the ERV, and I'm happy.The way the Mars 2 crew gets to the surface is a little tough to swallow, particularly when due care was taken with nearly every other aspect of space travel to make it as realistic as possible.These are serious flaws, but they don't torpedo the movie because the good aspects are SO goodThe plot is very pleasing.The music in this film is masterfully deployed.  From the orchestral strains accompanying wide Mars and spacecraft shots, to the wonderfully eerie organ accompanying the first Mars 2 crisis, to Dance the Night Away (which would be a 41-year-old song and thus a golden oldie in the film!), all of the music is perfect.The visuals are spectacular.  The Martian landscape and the wide Mars shots benefit from excellent composition and a lot of midnight oil burned on the effects team.  Zero gravity shots are flawlessly believable.  All of the NASA fixtures--ships, handheld equipment, Martian ground transport (nice product placements from Kawasaki and Pennzoil), suits, and the like--are well thought out and beautiful to look at, though the wristband spacesuit computers seem a little too conveniently smart to me.It's a flawed film, but any science fiction fan will find redeeming aspects.  It's hardly a soul-nourishing experience like 2001 or Blade Runner, but neither is it a waste of two hours.C+ "},{"Title":"If they told me this was made in the 70's I would seriously believe.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The Best I mean if this movie was made right this division could be full, but as it wasn't what escapes is the cinematography SOME special effects, SOME sound and the space ship interiors were good remembering 2001 A Space Odyssey , Star Trek and Star WarsThe Worst Once more, this movie could have been great, but it wasn't, mediocre is the term, what bugged me the most was the shallow and slow Brian De Palma's directing (he didn't have the nerve for that, I don't even know why he was chosen for the job) and Ennio Morricone's music couldn't have been worse.It's the year 2020, the first manned mission to mars, commanded by Luke Graham lands safely on the red planet. But the Martian landscape hides a bizarre and terrible secret that catastrophically wipes out all the crew. Intrigued by a last message left codified by Graham, NASA launches a rescue mission to mars to investigate and bring back &#150;if any- survivors of the first mission. Facing almost unbearable dangers, the team finally lands on Mars only to face enormous discoveries.Despite the movie has been written by a committee of writers, the story is promising, the plot gives some depth to some characters and some good twists. The plot also is the key and the path that leads us to the discovery that&#133;&#133;&#133;. Brian De Palma was the wrong man for the job oh, oh! Ever thought of Michael Bay, Steven Spielberg or Jan De Bont (he was the one who could provide the thrill the movie needed). Acting was clearly treated as secondary, when all the attention went to the Special Effects, that  are kind of 70% - 30% the great parts were the NASA space station, computer graphics, twister storm, environment inside the face &#150;the alien is out- and some spaceship shots. Bad were some spaceship shots and the awfully conceived alien inside the face (argh!) Gary Sinise was out of his place, bad I mean; Tim Robbins was good and even the superb Connie Nielsen didn't seem like herself on Gladiator neither on Devil's Advocate. The score was no doubtly  the worst thing of all Ennio Morricone? Huh? Ever heard of the great Mark Mancina, Trevor Rabin, Hans Zimmer&#133;? In the sequence when there are holes in the ship and Tim Robbins goes outside, I just prayed for that music to finish, I even thought he was mocking with the movie with that music!But however dark is the cloud, there's always a silver lining, some SFX, the sound, some sets and the great environment reminding instant classics. The current rating on this site is truly fair to the movie as a whole. 5 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Epic story that doesn't go on the basis of it's convictions because it ends unfinished","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Synopsis A NASA scientist (Don Cheadle) and his crew go into Mars to conduct an experiment. But things go tragically wrong for the crew when an unlikely force of nature wipes out most of them. A widowed scientist (Sinise), a couple (Tim Robbins and Connie Nielsen) and a young soldier (Jerry O'Connell) head into space to rescue their friend (Cheadle) whom hasn't made any contact with them. Their discovery of what is on the red planet turns out to be an extraordinary event.The Review Think of this movie, where the stars, all seasoned actors who are excellent, wanted to just get a paycheck. Think of this movie where the memorable director, just wanted to get the movie over with. That's what you get with this stultifyingly boring film in which the trailer and the TV spots make the movie seem more exciting than it really is. The cast is generally put to waste because the film seems so suggestive like something incredible is going to happen, and then, simply nothing. It's mainly the characters wandering around an abandoned craft doing nothing except talking. The visual scope is impressive, but it just doesn't amount to much because there really isn't much of a strong story. Grade C- "},{"Title":"Absolutely Crap","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One word that sums this movie up - Crap. I can't believe I wasted my time watching this movie. The acting was undoubtedly bad. Though this movie tries to drive the audiences' emotions, surely many of us might have been totally unmoved. B'coz we are unable to relate to any of the characters. With a script and story so weak I'd rather watch a B-grade movie. My rating 1 of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"Are there two Brian DePalmas?","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It's extremely difficult for me to imagine that the director of Carrie and The Untouchables ever had his hands in this mess.  The DePalma I remember would have recognized the weaknesses in this screenplay and called for a rewrite.  What's truly sad is that the film starts out with some potential, and provides some rare real science fiction touches that we don't see much these days.Unfortunately, the first act is scarred by foreshadowing underlined with a highliter and punctuated with exclamation points.  God forbid we should miss a hint.  Later plot points, while interesting, make very little sense and fail to stand up to scrutiny.  Finally, the conclusion tries for a Close Encounters like emotional catharsis, appealing to the sense of discovery and adventure.  It comes off instead as smarmy and insincere sentimentality, and worse, just plain goofy.The actors, a dream cast including some of my very favorites such as Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle and Gary Sinise, act their little hearts out in an attempt to wring some humanity out of the story.  Sadly, there's just no making gold out of lead.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mission To Ugh!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is easily the worst movie I have ever seen that I sat through to the very end. Like a lot of the big money sci-fi movies these days, looks really, really, really good but is stoo-pid in the ol' brains and ideas department.I felt that it was a collision of different pilfered ideas. 2-parts 2001, 2-parts Apollo 13, 1-part Armageddon, and a dash of about 6 other 1970s era sci-fi flicks. What I am trying to say is there wasn't any original content.The soundtrack in parts is dreadful. I knew that this movie was going to be a stinker just from listing to the music in the opening barbeque scene. The minimalist (and excessively annoying) Hammond-esque organ ditty used during the space-station scenes on their way to Mars is painful to listen to and distracting at best. It reminded be of evil circus music, and why the composer would write something like this piece for a space exploration movie boggles me.Despite it going down as one of the worst movies I have ever witnessed in my entire 32 years (easily in my Bottom 3 List), I gave this movie 3 out of 10; 1 for the visuals, which are indeed well-done - as good as any other CGA-reliant flick now; 1 for for the funky count-down sequence the aliens used (reminds me of quant 1970s sci-fi modernist style); and 1 because I actually sat through the whole movie without turning it off.My final word is that it was so bad, I could not bear myself to remind the tape before returning it. I wanted to get this beast ejected outta my VCR and outta my house as soon as possible.  "},{"Title":"UGH!","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies I've ever seen.  the Trailer looked really neat, but what a piece of crap the Movie turned out to be!  The cast was high profile and the plot was cool, but the Writing managed to ruin the entire thing. I have NO idea what Gary Sinise or Don Cheadle were thinking, and Tim Robbins wasted his time acting in this.  Jerry O'Connoll has been on a downslide since Scream 2 anyway, but there was still no excuse for him or anyone else to show up in this bit of entertainment.   The ending made a bad movie worse.  The M&M gimmick was actually the most entertaining part of this movie...  My advice? Don't even bother with this movie.  "},{"Title":"Runs out of steam quick.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bad acting, silly dialogue and a dull, idiotic feeling are all over MISSION TO MARS. It is safe to say that no one should feel proud, maybe except for the pay check they received when walking away from the studio the day filming was done. MISSION TO MARS is a silly waste of time and effort. What starts as a dull movie slowly works itself up only for it to end in a great, big blahhhh.The year is 2020 and the first trip to Mars is ready for go. One huge catastrophe occurs and a rescue operation begins to save at least one survivor.The end of MISSION TO MARS is the most disappointing yet. Expanding on 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY was fine and dandy. The effects on the gravity was a great addition, but my goodness, 2001 is on a pedestal, MISSION TO MARS is still learning what this episode of SESAME STREET is brought to you by. That would be D, for dung, or more appropriately, dumb and dull dialogue. "},{"Title":"Hmmmmmmm","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise team up, in an appaulling film that has no real point, or story, and without doubt the most ludicrous ending to a film since that bit at the end of 'Masters of the Universe' where skeletor falls in the acid, then starts chatting about something or other...  Still, two fine actors make this film just about watchable. Still, at least it's not Red Planet, which made this film look good... "}{"Title":"Possibly the worst film of all time","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first tip-off that this film is going to be a problem is the huge number of people credited with writing it.The next tip-off is the old astronauts having a barbecue getting drunk the night before liftoff scene.And it's all downhill from there.It would have been cheaper and more enjoyable if the producers had just licenced scenes from 2001, The Abyss, Alien, The Right Stuff, Dark Star and few other classics, and stuck them together, because that's all this film is.Even Ennio Morricone's score is rubbish he seemed to be scoring something else altogether. Well, the guy is over 70 and still pumps out several a year, maybe it's hard to keep track. Or maybe he sent Brian DePalma the wrong tapes.What's odd is the film actually has some good ideas - for example, the suggestion that life of Earth originated on Mars; a theme that needs more exploration, both in the science-fact and science-fiction mediums. The special effects are also terrific; although from the DVD documentary it seems that the bulk of the picture was directed by the special effects teams.So while this film is not the worst film of all time in *absolute* terms; it is certainly the worst in *adjusted* terms when you consider the talent of the production team, the cast, the money, the special effects, for this film to be such a mess is unforgivable. "},{"Title":"Mission Status Failure","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Rating 5/10Sci-fi adventure. Contact did it dramatically. Armageddon did it action packed and fun. Recently, Galaxy Quest did it satirically. Mission to Mars does it absurdly.The story begins an entire twenty years in the future, where a lovable bunch of thirty something friends are enjoying a BBQ. Oh yes, this lovable bunch also happen to be a couple of teams of NASA astronauts preparing themselves for a trip to the red planet. As they dart off to gallivant in space, we are supposed to respect these astronauts, identify with these astronauts, care about these astronauts. Let's love these folks shall we?Cheadle and his team are off to explore Mars and determine whether or not it is a suitable environment to populate with earth existence. The consensus is a not so suitable environment, as a phenomenal power wipes out Cheadle's crew - a force that will lift you in a whirlwind and viciously spin you until your limbs detach from your body and go flying is various directions, as one crew member learned from experience. Now Cheadle is stranded, and the other valiant team of lovable astronauts, (Robbins, Sinise and Nielson) are dispatched to rescue him. On the way they face many trials and tribulations meteor belts, ship damage, loss of crew and many big explosions, this crew are risking their lives at each and every corner, all to save the now feral and psychotic Cheadle. Yet we must ask - do any of these people really matter?The happy Mars bound married couple, (Robbins and Nielson) look wholesome and horribly wooden. O'Connell beautiful, but let's face it, he is just the pretty boy comic relief. Sinise's grieving widower looks troubled and despondent, and that's about it. The only ray of light on this annoying barren planet is Cheadle. The strain of being the lone survivor on a seemingly isolated planet is evident on this man, and he pulls off his psychotic feral role exceptionally.But writers' Lowell Cannon and Jim Thomas's attempts for us to sympathise with all of these listless people are obvious and fruitless. Does anyone care when one brave astronaut sacrifices himself to the relentless cosmos for his crew? Does anyone really care that Sinise's wife (NYPD's Kim Delaney) is dead? And does anyone honestly care when the &#145;truth' about the destruction of mars is revealed? In reality, it is all laughable, which many audiences have done. The only fleeting signs of emotion spring from the brilliant Cheadle who, even in this special effects vehicle, can't hide his raw talent as Robbins and Sinise seem to do. "},{"Title":"Weak!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bad science, bad pacing.  A waste of a lot of talent and money.  Very disappointing.    Given the cost of this movie and the hype surrounding it (with the competition with Red Planet) I expected a lot less.  Dollar for dollar, De Palma's worst movie yet. "},{"Title":"Great potential, great disappointment.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is a film with a great cast, plot, and special affects. The issue is that the movie is watered down with drawn out situations and the cast was weakly directed. The sound track for this film is one of the worst I have ever heard. A sound track can lift a movie to greatness, but this one seems to go out of the way to be terrible. Too bad this film could have been very deep with a good story, but instead it was a great disappointment. "},{"Title":"I wish producers would remember that sci-fi fans are smart...","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't think the movie was quite as bad as people say, but it sure wasn't very good.  The movie seems like a pale ripoff of 2001, with ripoffs of Apollo 13 thrown in.In one scene, the movie insults the intelligence of the viewer.  Early in the movie, there is a scene that seems a bit out of place, and of course a savvy viewer will be thinking Aha!  Plot point.  They will come back top this later.  And they do, but, instead of simply referring to it, they actually flash back to this scene - they assume that the audience must not be smart enough to remember.I saw it in the cheap theatre.  If you watch it, don't get your hopes up. "},{"Title":"How on earth did all the talent involved in making this produce such an awful movie?","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     I was really excited at the prospect of seeing this as Brian De Palma is one of my favourite directors, despite being wilfully inconsistent, and the cast contained such acting luminaries as Robbins and Sinise.   When the end credits finally rolled I felt both relieved and disappointed.  It wasn't a very good movie, I told myself.   Critical re-examination in the days that followed proved me wrong.  Not only was it 'not very good', it was quite frankly appalling considering the level of talent previously displayed by the cast and crew.   I was left wondering if aliens had kidnapped De Palma and directed the film badly on purpose to test the stupidity of Hollywood execs and see if they would still release it for the public.  Regrettably they did.  Perhaps this film didn't afford De Palma as many opportunities to be flashy with the camera as has his past work, but seriously, dull aint the word.   Mars is portrayed as being so terminally boring that no-one would sign up for any further explorations were they to take the movie literally.   A team of individually talented writers combine to provide dialogue that is similarly uninspiring, regardless of what the cast try to do.  Unfortunately, they don't even try very hard anyway.  Gary Sinise's character is a charisma-free zone, Tim Robbins could have been replaced halfway through shooting with a plank of wood and nobody would have noticed, and Don Cheadle wears an expression of perpetual horror on his face throughout, as if to say What the hell am I doing in this? I was in Boogie Nights!(SPOILERS)  De Palma fails to render the wonder of space travel just by letting the camera linger for longer than is strictly necessary on shots of the stars, or the craft.  The central couple (played I think by Robbins and Nielsen) are so nauseating together you wish they both would die as soon as possible. As such, one of the few scenes in the script that MIGHT have had some dramatic potential if it were done right is largely greeted with a huge sigh of relief by the audience because it means no more Robbins.   The product placement is so obvious it's embarrassing, and during the 'candy DNA' sequence I could not help but think of the episode of the Simpsons where Homer floats around gobbling potato chips.   The special effects were really nothing special, and the ending, although I welcomed it with open arms, was inane.  As the credits rolled, I reflected on the fact that this was probably the first film I'd seen in theatres where absolutely nothing of interest happens throughout the entire running time.  One user on here commented that the movie feels a little rushed, and laments a lost 30 minutes.  What???  I doubt I could have taken another half an hour of such tedium.   Whither the director of such greats as Scarface and Carrie?  "},{"Title":"Once upon a dream........Action, Suspense, Great Special effects.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Space,.....if you have an active imagination, you'll enjoy this movie, I really enjoyed the way the events, left you on the edge of your seat, and stayed away from being unbelievable. A Good movie, in that it left you with the feeling of entertained, everyone is so quick to complain, if they didn't get a head-rush, for expecting every movie to be a blockbuster, ....spoiled, I say. This has all the pieces of a Good movie. Entertainment, escape to the edges of your imagination, compared to T.V., well, ..... I'd watch this again rather than a seat at the Who wants to win, an Island of backstabbers, Sitcom epedemic, ....ok, so it won't win an oscar, but I can name hundreds worse than this one. Truly entertaining, And thats why I go to the movies. "},{"Title":"Soooooo Disappointing!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm usually easy to please when it comes to special effects movies. I can even enjoy the 1998 Godzilla because of it's good looking lizard. But this movie left even me saying huh?  Here lies a problem with execution. The premise was good, the actors talented. But they were saddled with a ponderous screenplay that somehow managed to make exciting sequences boring and plodding. The action was disjointed, and the story didn't even begin to really get underway until there was only a half hour or so left on the clock. By that time, my interest, (and the interest of most people I've talked to on this show) had long since evaporated. In addition, the less said about the soundtrack, the better. I rented this movie because I missed it in the theater, and I usually rent films so I can check out what passed me by. It turns out that I didn't miss much. "},{"Title":"Utterly Without Socially Redeeming Value","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The concept was great. The acting was better than the dialogue they had to work with. But the Direction of Brian De Palma was more appropriate to a romantic comedy than to a science fiction epic. When the plot called for suspense, we were treated to a barrage of awful music closer to Foghat than Straus. When scenes should have been quiet, we were subjected to noisy music and chattering background noise. The film was pure trash. Why would it be necessary to show the dead man's face in space with a close up? If anyone was subjected to that kind of vacuum in space, their entire body would explode. We would not see a rotting mummified face free floating in space. This movie should have been treated with suspense and danger, but what came out was a typical hollywood piece of trash film. We might as well have been watching Adam Sandler and Jennifer Anniston Go to Space. "},{"Title":"Almost as painful as root-canal without anaesthetic.","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hate to sound like I'm jumping on the bandwagon here, but does ANYONE know why this movie was made?What a waste of some oustanding actors' (and actresses) talents.The few worthwhile parts of this movie totalled less time than the average commercial break on tv, and even those parts were confused and hackneyed.This movie does for Sci-Fi what butter does for quantum mechanics. "}{"Title":"If you want to go to sleep here's your movie.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I agree that this movie had some problems.  The last 5 minutes of the movie were cool due to the special effects, but it took forever to get there. This movie was totally made just to display special effects.  It's a waste of time to see unless you want to fall asleep.  If you like astronaut movies Apollo 13 is much better.   "},{"Title":"Mission to Boredom","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All I can say about this movie is that it is horrible.  Mission to Mars is the WORST movie I have ever seen, hands down.  The editing, plot, acting and writing are all absolutely sickening.  Do not see this movie if your life depends on it.  I regret wasting 113 minutes of my life watching this film.  Don't even bother.  Words cannot even explain how bad this movie is.  DO NOT SEE THIS FILM.Rating 0 stars "},{"Title":"Cover your ears and wallet","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The good news is that you shouldn't cover your eyes.  Special effects are excellent.  You really believe they are in space and on Mars.The bad news is that you cannot believe the phoney lines, unbuilt characters, lack of music, and lame excuses used for moving the plot along.There is one scene where there is debate on whether Tim Robbins should be rescued by his in story wife.  Personally, I felt pretty unemotional about her emotional trauma.  I was hoping to see him drift into the atmosphere because that would be cooler than seeing them together again and again and again.  Unfortunately, I feel the same about the movie.The end of the movie showed promise, but lacked a climax. ( "},{"Title":"waited, wish I hadn´t.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What was interesting about this movie was that I first heard about it at a lecture which I attended earlier this year. The only speaker at the lecture was a aerodynamic engineer (hope I spelled that right). The topic was the very possible mission and colonisation of mars. Now before this lecture I really couln´t imagine such an undertaken for at least another fifty, maybe even hundred years. Afterwards I was thinking why not tomorrow. Of course in retrospect the lecturer simplified some of the facts, not regarding physics but mainly the funding, like saying that the funding would only require something like fifteen cents from every single person in Europe or America alone for a week to fund this mission to mars. Now if you put that money toghether it makes a very large number. On the technical side however, he really convinced me. Of course it didn´t hurt that he was a really good speaker, witty, patient, and above all very intelligent. An example of his wit is like when he was talking about the original plan made by a group of scientists outside NASA, his employer at the time. Now this plan and it´s idea of a spacecraft for this mission was made by a selected comission of scientists in Reagan´s administration. I can only imagine he wanted to make a famous statement like the one JFK made early in the sixties regarding a trip to the moon. The lecturer explained this plan to us very well, the budget and the scematics to the spacevehicle. After explaining this he simply told us what him and his colleages said after being showed that plan, they called the vehicle the deathstar. Of course you would have to be at the lecture to experience it.Now on to the movie. The speaker mentioned this movie, he himself didn´t know it´s exact storyline of course but when I saw it I could see why he mentioned it. The setting of the colonisation buildings on mars was exactly as the plan him and his colleages deviced while at NASA. The spacecraft was very similar and the whole physics of it as well. That´s a nice touch to it, to do a space movie really knowing that everything being depicted can withstand the eye of physics. Then I exclude the whole disaster scene, possible perhaps but at most unbelievable. That´s where the movie lost it´s credibility. Not to mention the awful scene in the end.I haven´t seen Red Planet yet but understand that the vehicle that´s supposed to transport Val Kilmer´s character and the other´s to Mars is supposed to be built in space just outside earth´s hemisphere. Sounds much like the deathstar plan. I must say that mission to mars sounds abit more believable because such a gigantic undertaking like building a space faring vehicle in space is just inconseivable. The money and will to do something like that is just something that earthlinks don´t have. I´ll take the mission to mars over that one. "},{"Title":"2001 meets Close Encounters","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the worst Sci-fi flicks that I have ever seen.  It was obvious that it was an attempt to fuse 2001 A Space Odyssey with Close Encounters of the Third Kind.  This is extremely sad because these are 2 of the best sci-fi movies ever made.  The acting was as good as could be expected given the story line and careless writing.  First of all, the science was awful.  I don't even know where to start so I won't. There is just no excuse for this in this day and age of science.  Are the writers that ignorant of science or do they think that the public is that dumb? Given some of the recent trends in science and society (Kansas City ruling against evolution in the class room, stupid beliefs in various pseudo-sciences, etc.) maybe the writers think people really are that stupid.Also the story line was just too implausible, especially the scene with the holographic Martian and the demonstration of evolution of life on Earth. How did the Martians know that evolution on Earth would proceed accordingly? Did a Martian hang around for several hundred million years after seeding the Earth with DNA and film the entire process?  None of this makes sense. Once again, maybe the writers really think people are that dumb. "},{"Title":"embarrassing to watch.....","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was one of the few movies I can say I was honestly embarrassed to watch... What else can I say that hasn't been said? Well.... I'd have to say my favourite part was when Tim Robbins took his helmet off in space and snap-froze his head (to that same, wildly inappropriate music as just about every other scene in the movie). He got off easy... the others had to act out the rest of the flick. Just remembering back to those painful few hours in the cinema makes me cringe. "},{"Title":"Better than about half the sci-fi out there.   That's it.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I tend to appreciate sci-fi that is heavily based on hard-core science (surprise--its called fantasy without this) with complex human interactions in a creative environment (that's the point of the whole genre, imagination).  This movie has none of these.Why is it so hard for Hollywood to do good sci-fi?  I guess for the same reason that it's so hard to write it, plus another level.  (There is a LOT of garbage out there, in case you haven't noticed.)  We have some decent examples though of the sub-genres  Alien* for horror, X-Files for supernatural, and Galaxy Quest for humor, Blade Runner for angst (hail Philip K.), Star Wars for special effects, Terminator for time paradox, Starship Troopers as farce, and ET for kids.  Heck, we didn't even get Dune in a viewable form. Matrix is the only sci-fi flick I can think of that just stands on its creative imagination without feeling it also needs to make us laugh, cry, scream or ohh and ahh.Is this it?  We can't even do a visit to Mars?   I despair. "},{"Title":"Tripe","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  And I thought Armageddon was bad (note that IMDB recommends Armageddon to those that liked this film). Mission to Mars was a terrible film. Although the special effects were fairly well done (ignoring the fact that their scenes often made little sense) the music, script, and acting were awful. I guess the acting performances may be forgiven, considering the script. Did they read the script before signing up for the film, or was it *that* heavily rewritten?My favourite bit is the fact that there seem to be a number of comments in the IMDB database arguing that people disliked the film because they were forced to think; something people apparently don't like to do while they're watching films. Forced to think about what, exactly? This film made no sense! Is DNA really that simple? Little rotating helices just don't do it for me. You couldn't code for a single protein with the pretty pictures they were bandying around. Life is a little more complex than suggested by this film.The *incredible, climactic* ending was an idea that has been kicking around for donkey's years, and has appeared in one sci-fi comic/film/book/mad website after another.As a molecular biologist I may be biased, but shouldn't there be a little realism in movies? They managed it in Apollo 13. (Gary Sinise kicked out of two, very similar, missions? Now that's unlucky. Or just really, really, really poor casting.)Hollywood try harder. Much harder. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Bad","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You would think a film directed by Brian DePalma starring Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle and Connie Nielsen is an automatic combination for a winning film, it's not.  You watch the film thinking, it's gonna get better, it's gonna get better then by the time the film ends you say to your self, what the hell was that?  The ending is lame, the begining is lame, the special effects are lame, the story is lame the film is lame. "},{"Title":"poor and drawn out","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was not favorably impressed. The plot was interesting, but the acting was overdone and the ending was predictable and poorly designed - typical of a dePalma flick - nice effects, poor plot. I was not impressed! "}{"Title":"No wonder this movie suxed canal water through a straw!!","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Sheesh I couldn't figure out why this movie just plain vacuumed.  Was it the characters who where as thin as a tomato on a Mc Donald's hamburger?  Or was it the fact that Brian De Palma (Carrie/Mission Impossible) directed it?Mission Impossible had to be one of the most fague movies I have ever seen.  It absolutely made NO sense at all, and neither did this!Face it, Gary Sinise DOES know how to act!  Even in Space Epochs.  His performance in Apollo 13 was outstanding, (his character was considerably deeper then the contact lens depth this movie provided him).Brian De Palma should stick to making horrible, err I mean horror movies...Wayno "},{"Title":"Made this movie already (check back in 2001)","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Technically this movie is a bit better than 2001 A Space Odyssey. Considering the former was produced over 30 years ago, that shouldn't be surprising. The story left me cold, though. It was a pale imitation of its older sibling, and the `amazing ending' (which I won't give away, like it matters) was lame and far-fetched.Still, the story was coherent, the projection into the future (2021?) much more grounded than `2001's view 30 years out, and the pacing was tight and focused on the story rather than the technology and special effects. (Or maybe I just viewed 2001 in an assisted state).  "},{"Title":"What a piece of SPACE garbage","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie simply was lacking in the area of story. It would have been much better and more interesting if there hadn't been the horrible dialogue and I think for some reason that they at some point may have gone over budget for lack of a better ending. Needless to say it is just another one of those Hollywood cliche movies made strictly for $$$ and not for love of the biz. "},{"Title":"Good effects, weak story","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars was the first movie this year about the planet Mars and it's the weaker film. I just saw the second Mars movie, Red Planet, and that film was an improvement over this one. Mission to Mars isn't a real bad picture. It has good special effects, but that's all it has going for it. The story is so boring that I didn't care what happened to everybody in the film. This movie needed better screenwriters. You can't blame the actors (Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle, etc.) for how Mission to Mars turned out. They do everything they can. It's just unfortuneate that they're stuck in a movie with a lackluster script and mediocre direction (by the once exciting Brian De Palma). Disappointing.** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Good Cure for Insomnia","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You always know it's a bad sign if your mind starts wandering during a movie, and even worse when you find yourself critiquing the movie itself. Slow and tedious are the words that first spring to mind when considering Mission to Mars. What on earth were Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise doing in this snoozer? Not acting, that's painfully clear. So much of this movie is painfully drawn out because of extended sequences in which the characters slowwwwwwly spin and turn in their movements in the space station. All right already, we understand there's zero gravity, can we cut to the chase? It's as if so much time and effort was put into filming those weightless scenes that the editors were instructed to make sure every last one of them made it into the film. The result is excruciating and an irresistable urge to fast forward to the point of the scene, except that there never is one. Product placement was blatently obvious to the point of being annoying. Especially the candy DNA. I wonder how many theater-goers decided they had a craving for Skittles when they saw that and left for the concession stand, never to return.  "},{"Title":"Now Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise have their BOMB!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Now Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins can join that list of actors who have been compelled to make BOMBs.  They must have done it just for the money because they certainly won't want this one on their resumes.  These two are excellent actors that should be ashamed of themselves.  I sure know that I am ashamed that I spent $3.95 to rent 'Mission to Mars' and am equally ashamed that I actually watched it to the end (hoping that it would get better of course).  This movie has nothing to offer and must be avoided by all movie lovers (especially science fiction buffs).  No wonder science fiction has such a bad reputation.  "},{"Title":"CLICHE IN SPACE","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the poor reviews for this sorry flick I still decided to give it a go. And what a mistake that was!Visually this film is amazing eye candy. Space scenes are slow and graceful (but surprisingly empty!), and the whirl-wind tornado dust-devil did look cool.Plot-wise this film was as slow and as empty as the visuals. The characters were a complete jaw-cracking bore. During the many emergencies, seemingly uninterested cast displayed little to no emotion. Results are scenes which are meant to be packed with suspense, but leave the audience going Say What?? instead.The unbelievably irritating computer voice was possibly the worst aspect in this film. You'd have thought by 2020 they would've invented something better than Atmos....phere - FIFTY perrrr...CENT.  Present-day audible elevator floor indicators sound more pleasant!SPOILER ALERT...Once they land on Mars the cliches start rolling in. We have a poorly-created C.G.I-rendered alien. Husband and wife in space on the same mission. Humans created by aliens. An impossible clue is solved (noises that turn out to be human D.N.A!). The list goes on.CONCLUSION?  Roll on, Elevator Muzak!  "},{"Title":"A very poor film","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is actually fairly well-acted, filmed and edited. It lacks is credible writing. Both the base story and the screenplay are poorly written. As I said, it was fairly well acted. No Oscar performances here, but I thought the main cast SEEMED as close as a NASA crew would be. On the whole, however, I was sorry I spent even the cost of a rental on it.  "},{"Title":"Nice special effects, nice music, bad movie","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect when I rented this movie on DVD.  The plot sounded interesting...something goes horribly wrong with a manned mission on Mars, and a rescue/recovery mission is sent to investigate. But the resulting movie is almost embarrassing in it's blatant attempt to be Apollo 13 meets 2001 A Space Odyssey.The cast is a respectable one, and the actors appear to do what they can to lend some credibility to the movie.  But you have to think the heads of NASA are a little ashamed at the ineptitude and lack of discipline that this movie portrays their crews as having only 20 years from now (the film takes place in 2020).  According to the movie, married couples are now allowed to go on the same mission to outer space (and, without revealing too much, I can tell you that this movie shows exactly the reason why this ain't a very good idea). Plus, it's amazing that NASA wouldn't have more contingency plans in place than this (SO many things go wrong with the equipment/people/acts-of-God in this film that it's a wonder that the first mission to Mars even made it to the planet in the first place!). Astronauts clearly disobeying orders at every turn, no one seems to be in charge, instead of having a plan and following it, these astronauts are winging it everytime a situation comes up.  Good grief.  At least Apollo 13 showed that there was a definite plan, backup plan, and even when that backup plan failed, the astronauts followed orders as precisely as they could from people who were in charge, even given the trying circumstances.Mission to Mars also tries to be philosophical, too, but can't quite pull it off.  The story told near the end of the movie seems as though it was just a excuse to conveniently wrap up the movie within the allotted time without having to resort to an actual script writing. I think we're supposed to be left wondering just where humankind really comes from. Instead, I was left wondering where I just spent the last 2 hours of my life.The special effects are generally very good, with a special nod to the appearance of the spacecraft in space and the planetarium show near the end of the movie.  Ennio Morricone's music is great. I've really come to appreciate his range and imagination over the years (he did the famous theme to The Good, The Bad, and The ugly and The Mission).  The effects of weightlessness in space is a mixed bag. A couple of times it was quite believable but a few times it was obvious that the actors were just hanging around on strings.Overall, I'd have to give this movie a miss.  A great opportunity with a good cast that is marred by the most fundamental problem The Script.James  "},{"Title":"2001 meets Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Kim Delaney does a wonderful performance portraying Annette Bening portraying an astronaut.  The plot and scenery are stolen from 2001 and Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind.  Were royalties paid to Clarke and Spielberg for this movie?  Special effects help make the movie interesting, but most dramatic scenes of sand blowing were taken from 1999's The Mummy! I was just waiting for C-3PO and R2-D2 to come rambling in at any moment. "}{"Title":"2001 meets Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Kim Delaney does a wonderful performance portraying Annette Bening portraying an astronaut.  The plot and scenery are stolen from 2001 and Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind.  Were royalties paid to Clarke and Spielberg for this movie?  Special effects help make the movie interesting, but most dramatic scenes of sand blowing were taken from 1999's The Mummy! I was just waiting for C-3PO and R2-D2 to come rambling in at any moment. "},{"Title":"2001 meets Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Kim Delaney does a wonderful performance portraying Annette Bening portraying an astronaut.  The plot and scenery are stolen from 2001 and Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind.  Were royalties paid to Clarke and Spielberg for this movie?  Special effects help make the movie interesting, but most dramatic scenes of sand blowing were taken from 1999's The Mummy! I was just waiting for C-3PO and R2-D2 to come rambling in at any moment. "},{"Title":"Cliche after cliche","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am a fan of most movies that Tim Robbins endorses with his presence, which is why I saw this movie.  Wow, what a disappointment!  I've seen better episodes of Star Trek!  I struggle to understand why some of the very good actors in this movie agreed to take on these roles.  Is a movie now judged solely on it's special effects?  The plot seemed to be pieced together from stale old Hollywood cliches as a rickety support for the technical acrobatics.My comment after viewing this was simply Why?  Nothing new was said, no ground was broken, no new thought provoking ideas were proposed.  The actors did the best they could in a bad situation, but without the solid bones a good story provides, the movie was a flop.  "},{"Title":"Major Mission of Disappointment","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with most of the viewers that this movie is a colossal bomb. It has great actors but they can't do much with a script that can't decide what direction to take and when it does, moves so slow it would put a meth user to sleep. I can't help but wonder if the actors themselves felt cheated when they saw the finished product, a true stinker. "},{"Title":"A Poor but Honorable Attempt","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The pacing is horribly slow, the dialogue is dead, the characters are flat and lifeless, the special effects are mediocre at times and cheesy other times (such as the obviously-faked zero-gravity dancing scenes and the annoying buzzing sound of the computer-synthesized voice.)  The story is unoriginal, and in honesty, I can't think of much good to say about this film except that I liked the fact they didn't try to hide its weaknesses behind gratuitous foul language and violence.  If you are looking for a family film, you might consider this.  Younger kids probably aren't going to notice the flaws, and the special effects are visually appealing. "},{"Title":"Mish-mash to Mars","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film is highly derivative in that it borrows heavily from countless other films you can have fun trying to spot them, but you also feel a little cheated hey, I like *some* originality in my movie-watching. I started to wonder if this was a deliberate, so-called 'postmodern' strategy on Di Palma's part. For eg, I spotted bits from 2001, Contact, Apollo 13, Close Encounters, Dune, The Abyss, and on and on.Its special effects are impressive at times the weightlessness is especially well done, and the scenes outside in space are very exciting not because it's all whizz-bang, explosions, kerpow stuff, as many films would have shown, but because everything happens slowly, inexorably, gracefully, and the characters are often powerless to do very much other than observe and experience what is happening.It's very much a 'Brian Di Palma' film, his signature is all over it. Man, that tracking shot at the beginning. You know, the trouble with using a signature device is that after repeated viewings in different films the effect just wears off and you start to think, yeah, yeah, it's the tracking shot again... Please, Mr Di Palma, do something different next time?The film is also typical of Di Palma films in its clunky narrative set up, exposition and development. The dialogue at the beginning is especially bad the characters trade lines back and forth which are woodenly written and spoken with desperation (as if the actors knew the film wasn't going to be as great as they thought when they signed on). The film also cheats by skipping some of the Big Scenes that we might expect to be in the film - like actually landing on Mars the film omits that *twice*. And if you think it's not possible to show a space landing without a big budget etc, well, for one thing this film undoubtedly had a big budget, and for another, check out Pitch Black, which opens with one of the best crash landings on a planet that you will ever see. When I saw it in the cinema, the audience audibly let out its breath when the crash was over. And that film was made on a shoestring!Some of the performances are good Gary Sinise gets better as the film goes on (he actually starts to look a little, facially, like Jodie Foster in Contact!) and Tim Robbins is OK, a bit too schtick-y for my taste, though.Was it a waste of two hours? Not totally although you might well feel a bit cheated at the end. I'm sure this film lends itself more to a big screen than video format. Be warned if renting. "},{"Title":"It's not that bad...","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  We rented this movie as a family for movie night, and I must say it was nice to find one that was appropriate for everyone but not so childish as to be annoying.  It's getting harder and harder to find movies we can all watch. The 10 year old loved it, the 12 year old liked it a lot, and the old man and I enjoyed it more than apparently a lot of others here.  So perhaps not the best film for those with cultured taste but by no means a waste of a couple hours. "},{"Title":"Sorry for de Palma","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I've seen the movie yesterday and I still wish I hadn't.  I mean, I had such high expectations..  (A sci-fi by Brian de Palma)  Well, he had his usual tracking shot at the beginning which he used in Snake Eyes.  He's making that his signature now.  However, the pasting of the movie was SOO slow that I always had the urge to stand up and leave the theater after that tracking shot. I constantly felt that I was watching an unsuccessful remake of Kubrick's 2001 A Space Odyssey.  However, the plot of Mission to Mars is no way comparable to 2001.  I think, this time de Palma went over his head. Well, sorry to disappoint all those de Palma fans out there but I didn't like anything about this movie, although I like de Palma's syle.  However, a director shouldn't try to imitate another director, knowing he can't..Also, the special effects were like the basics of the movie.  I think his in-experience with effects forced de Palma's plot to be shadowed by the effects.  Well, this movie should never have been released.  "},{"Title":"Not Bad (a 2001 Primer)","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was entertained. Kept my attention. Not the greatest, far from the worst. 2001 for a GED class. "},{"Title":"Forgettable","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie last week.  After the first 2 minutes, I realized that I had already seen it during a business trip on a pay-per-view channel at a hotel.  I completely forgot that I had watched this piece of trash.  That has never happened to me before. "}{"Title":"The Abyss in space.","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you can't get this movie at the video store, rent The Abyss instead. It's the same movie, but instead of being at the bottom of the ocean, they're on Mars.  Some of the special effects are nice, but nothing to write home about.  If you see it because you're a Kim Delaney fan, save your money - she plays Gary Sinese's dead wife, and she's in the movie for about five minutes.  With her clothes on.   "},{"Title":"Pretty fascinating ending, some good parts, some really bad parts","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with Ebert pretty much on this one. I was hoping for a good film with a name that harkens to the 60s Disneyland ride with the same title. I saw it on video, which is a drag, because a film like this should probably be seen in the theatre, what with all the great special FX. But the bad reviews kept me away for a while. So, when the first scene came and I was like, WHAT? - I figured this was probably going to be pretty bad. That first scene is a real let down. I watched it again after seeing the whole film, and it still is awful, just really cheesy. Cheesy, pretty much explains a lot of this film. It's too bad, because there were some great parts. Fist of all, this movie is not AT ALL like 2001. Don't even listen to that nonsense. But there is some hard sci-fi (realistic based space science) mixed in with the cheese. And a couple of really powerful scenes. A lot of people hated the ending, but I liked it, even though it was kind of cheesy, too. It reminded me much more of Contact than 2001. Very sweet, sentimental. Main difference being that Contact wasn't hampered as much by awful casting. Sinise is all wrong for the lead. There's something going on, I guess, like maybe brunette people with faces similar to Sinise and Nielson would like their parts, but not me. Sinise looks like he should be singing R&R in a bar, not piloting an air craft. This is the main problem with films like this they are just star vehicles. If you're going for realism, then go for it. Use actors that look realistic. There are plenty of people who enjoy a well directed film about this subject and don't need some movie stars to be in it for them to pay the price of admission. When movies, that are realistic in this way, get pegged as cult films it doesn't do anyone any good, except the idiots who are running the casting companies with this traditional minded attitude. You know how, in the early 1980s, the Rock music business kicked everybody out and bunches of new people started working all the A&R departments etc. and the entire music business went through what we refer to as the New Wave. Well, guess what? Yeah, the casting companies need to do the same thing. Here's to hoping for a casting revolution.  "},{"Title":"A mishmash of a space opera. Lacked suspense.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  MTM lacked suspense and believable acting--often the actors and screen presentation seemed routine and lacked energy.  The premise, perhaps good--perhaps not, in the end collapsed because it treated matters inconsistently.  What I mean by that, not to spoil (!), is that good movie makers don't have their characters acting erratically, not without some reason given within the storyline. For instance  in the classic space opera Alien, the title character wasn't devouring people at the 67th minute, and then desiring to hold hands with everyone in solidarity & creaturehood at the 90th minute.  There were some strong spots in Mission to Mars, but not enough to make it worth while renting on video--and certainly paying theater prices to see.  All in all, a poor movie.   "},{"Title":"There are spoilers in this review (if that is possible)","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie a couple of days ago.  I love movies and I am a rabid movie fan, but I rewound the tape with a numb feeling.  I came here and I was glad to see words like empty and hallow in other reviews.  I love Gary and Tim.  They are great actors.  I also thought this movie gave the most realistic portrayal of the Mars landscape ever caught on film.  I also like the way that the technology portrayed in the move was not over done.  They tried to stay with the story, which unfortunately was not there.My biggest complaint against this movie (here is the spoiler) the scene where Tim Robbins died was terribly over done.  To have him die in such a terrible way right in front of his wife was uncalled for.  I know that the director was trying to get some emotion out of his audience, but I didn't like this.  The ending, what is left to be said.  Weak to say the least.   "},{"Title":"This movie is far less than the sum of its parts","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this film on DVD.There are some pretty neat-o special effects, a well-done Martian landscape, and lots o' computer-generated fly-bys of just about everything.  There's even a 2001-esque rotating spaceship interior scene.  Oh joy.  But the movie is a complete train-wreck otherwise.  A good movie needs to have all of its cylinders firing story, dialogue, acting, direction, special effects, costumes, photography, etc.  This one only has the visuals covered (even if they were derivitive of other films), but forced several fine actors and actresses to spew some pretty horrible lines.Good actors and good special effects cannot overcome nonexistent writing and poor directing.  I'm sorry, but it just doesn't add up to much more than a half-baked exercise in animatics.  And the score -- what overdone drivel!  None of it was appropriate for even a crummy soap opera.  Just terrible, cliched, distracting and inappropriate.And the overarching themes (We are not alone) were just handled clumsily and marred by the bad dialogue and direction.  How about the last line in the film, delivered with all the energy of a garden slug?  It just summed up this banal and disappointing experience for me.Two things are good, howeverIts not as bad as Supernova (what could be?) and at least my fiance and I had a good time poking fun at it while we watched it. "},{"Title":"I happen to like this movie!","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I think Mission to Mars is a great movie. First and foremost I like the philosophy, the idea that we're not who we think we are. We're not even from Earth. We're actually the little Green Men we're trying so hard to find. The effects were well done, I only noticed one bad blue screen scene. And thank goodness someone besides ILM have good effects people! The movie has beauty, emotion, sci-fi, philosophy... just about everything but action. I believe those that are disappointed with this one were hoping for some action. I just love the beauty of the movie. "},{"Title":"Bland, Bland, Bland","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is the Wonder Bread of Science Fiction.  To abuse the metaphor a little more, putting actors like Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise and Don Cheadle in this flick was like putting caviar on Wonder Bread.  It has enough eye-candy to keep things going, but you're left with a very empty feeling after the formulaic plot and ending.  Overall, it's worth watching if you're a sci-fi fan and you need some time to kill. "},{"Title":"Eh!","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My wife and I finally rented this movie. We give it a giant eh. A few 9's in the Yeah Right--that would happen scale of 1-10 (Example...sure when this HUGE storm comes up out of nowhere powerful enough to move a mountain...they just stand there, with a look on their faces like...That's neat-o!!).It was pretty slow and the plot (the origin of life on earth) was hokey.On the other hand, the special effects and acting were good.  "},{"Title":"Extremely disappointed","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow... where do I begin??  This movie was terrible (not entirely, but for the most part).Let me start by saying that the CGI team did an incredible job with the graphic effects for this movie.  It's just unfortunate that their efforts weren't accompanied by equally spectacular writing.This movie really takes the cake on inconsistencies and  overdramatics.And this was directed by Brian DePalma!!... (what happened??) and Disney (aka Touchstone) should be ashamed of themselves!All in all this movie had me begging to get those 2 hours of my life back. (Yeah, it was bad.)  Save your $2 and wait to see this one on TV. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment.","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Big stars, big budget, lame film.  At the end of the film, I found myself thinking, Is that it?  With all the potential for drama in the story, it passed by with little excitement, save for two segments.  In addition, I understand that the producers of Mission to Mars worked with NASA to ensure that the science and astronautics in this film would be as accurate as possible. Apparently, they didn't go far enough in their efforts.  "}{"Title":"Makes Rocketman seem like a masterpiece","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhere along the lines of making this movie,someone should have remembred that special effects dont make a movie.The script is confusing,boring and borrows a lot from other movie.All together it rates about a 3/10.The three comes from the special effects and great cast. "},{"Title":"Call a cop, I've been robbed.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wow........I can't think of a bigger letdown in a sci-fi flick since....well....Stargate.  It's funny that the video sleeve from our rental store recommends that movie if you like this one. Please, this movie steals every gimmick from 2001 to Close Encounters.  Can somebody come up with a different looking alien?! I hate to bash something starring Gary Sinese and Tim Robbins (2 of my favorites), but they must have been wearing bags over their heads at the premier.  Just plain awful...not entertaining in any way. What was so special about those effects?  The Matrix taught us to think in a different dimension when it comes to movie making, let's not go backwards huh? I was robbed! "},{"Title":"VERY PLASTIC!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"      (I don't think I'll be able to convey just how empty this movie left me feeling, nonetheless it was horrible and therefore deserves to be thrashed by another reviewer).     Plot our heroes are on a mission to mars, investigating the disappearance of some previous visitors.  Evidence of advanced technology is demonstrated by lots of bleeping lights on computer screen.  A really dull scene of the astronauts floating outside their ship making repairs (that part somehow reminded me of John Carpenter's Dark Star, which at least had some lame charm).          SPOILERS-  I must admit I liked the scene where Tim Robbins took off his helmet, as I did not at all expect that to happen.  But I barely felt any emotion for the rest of the film.        The astronauts crash down onto mars, and walk around the red desert as out-of-place nature flute music plays. They find a fellow astronaut who has been marooned there for almost a year.  He has been using his computer to study the pattern of sounds coming from under the ground, and somehow (don't ask)  he records these sounds on a graph and learns they form the DNA double helix.  Since simple music communication was already done in Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind, I guess the producers felt they had to come up with something REALLY tricky for this.  The DNA graph is not complete, so the astronauts respond with the proper tones to complete the DNA and this opens a magical doorway.        The astronauts step onto the set of THX 1138, where everything is bright white nothingness, but then another doorway is opened. They step into a flashy planetarium.    I must admit I felt some suspense as I was wondering how the heck the movie would end, but the wannabe-profound feel of the next scene was really lame.  The humans meet a martian, who says nothing but shows them a three dimensional history film indicating that martians left mars to start a new life on Earth.  Upon seeing this, one character says They're us.  We're them, and they're us.  This is supposed to sound VERY DEEP, but it doesn't succeed.  This is the payoff for having sat through the previous hour of garbage?  I can almost see how this movie was started.  A bunch of studio execs sitting around  Hey, there haven't been many space movies lately.  Let's make one!      Anyway, the crew head back to their spaceship while one of the guys sticks around with the martian.  He wants to stay on the martian spacecraft to go on to some other world.        The alien ship takes off, and the human spaceship also takes off.  Of course, as they shoot across the galaxy the humans look through the window and can see their buddy shooting off to some other world.  And then the words The End actually appear on the screen.     I've seen worse, and watching it with my friends was actually kinda fun. The bad dialogue provided some good chuckles. I give it a 3 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Rip off of many space films","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Watching this movie, we can easily tell were the writer got his ideas from. Let's see. We have Apollo 13, 2001 A Space Odyssey, etc.This is a very disappointing movie. Hopefully Red Planet will be better. "},{"Title":"Predictable but enjoyable nonetheless..","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it is true that we have seen this movie a thousand times before but, yet, it is certainly not a bad movie by any means. The special effects are good and believable at the same time. I enjoy any movie which speculates on the origin of humankind and this version is as plausible as any--actually more plausible than the version in the Bible. Of course, that's only my opinion and I certainly am not trying to offend anyone. As some have pointed out the plot is similar to 2001 A Space Odyssey without all the cryptic messages. Mission to Mars spells it all out for you which is not always such a bad thing. The plot could have been better thought out and and done with fewer sci-fi cliche's but as science fiction it is far, far superior to Independence Day which piled up much more positive reviews. In short, it certainly was a lot better than what I had expected based on the reviews I'd read. "},{"Title":"Mission to HELL","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT this movie is truly one of the worst films of the year. while i watched this movie on the plane, i was thinking, 'how could this great director make a film like this?' this movie was horrible. they might have thought that they could make the audiences weep when they saw the part when Tim Robbins dies, but i'm sure not many ppl did. not single humanism was there, and the alien looked like a character in a comic book. people on the plane just laughed out loud when the movie finished. I laughed, too. So did my father, who said this movie was 'crap'. 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Horrible. Good actors like Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle, and Kim Delaney star in this turkey of a spaceship's crew trapped on Mars, so another ship has to go save them.  The plot is a recycled cross between Alien and the Abyss, except it is neither scary nor tense nor funny.  The actors have to recite the stupidest dialogue imaginable, and even the special effects can't save this. $90 Million !  What a waste !  At least I didn't pay to see this - I saw it on a plane. "},{"Title":"let down from hell","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  i was very very disappointed with this movie.  after having seen the previews for months, i was anticipating a great sci-fi film.  it turned out to be one of the worst movies i have ever seen.  its predictable, its lacking in originality, and there is almost no developing of characters. to sum it up, if you can have gary sinise, tim robbins, and don cheadle in a movie, and its still a bomb, there is something seriously wrong. "},{"Title":"How could someone like DePalma mess up like this?","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Terribly disappointing. Great names like DePalma and Robbins don't seem to guarantee artistic success. This movie is just such a drag. I almost fell asleep a couple of times. The conclusion is ludicrously implausible. The special effect are tame, the story developes incredibly slowly and ends up nowhere. I loved Scarface,The Untouchables and Carlito's Way but it seems Brian should stick to crime-movies. Ouch. "},{"Title":"Starts out good, but turns in to crap in the end...","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts out in a good sci-fi manner. But, after about halfway through the movie it starts to go down, typical of American movies of this kind. It becomes too sentimental, too much americanisms, too fantastic(!), etc. C.f. Indepenceday with all that flagwaving. "}{"Title":"Laughable bad!!!!!!!!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     I always have had the theory you see bad movies in the theater to appreciate good ones but what a waste of time and money.. Did anyone in the studio think maybe this was bad. There are so many horrible things to mention. The opening sequence is so cheesy. Would anyone really allow a husband and wife team to fly together?? It had more laughs than any comedy I`ve seen this year. No other review mentions the terrible music score. Ennio Morricone has worked effectively on DePalma`s other films but his score for Mission sounds like a cross between a 60`s sci-fi movie and a slasher film. The editing is so jumpy there is no sense of continuity. The end looks like a cheap rip-off of Close Encounters and the Abyss. I was so bored I noticed the patches on the uniforms have the emblem Mars Rescue.  The rescue I believe originated on a space island. Did they really send down to earth and have special patches made for their uniforms????I think this easily DePalma`s worst film and yes it was worse than Bonfire of the Vanities.ER "},{"Title":"What a Mess on Mars!!!","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I got really disappointed, though I was told on beforehand that this film was boring. It was worse than I ever imagined. Brian de Palma really lost the grip of this. Some great actors did too. Top actors like Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins must have bad dream after this experience. I give the film a 2 out of 10 - just for the basic idea. The idea is great for a film, but the film sucks! Do yourself a favor - see another film, please! "},{"Title":"Unbelievably stupid","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I used to like Brian De Palma movies. This one really makes me wonder why he did it. He's the boss of thriller movies and he did this awful Disney movie with the good alien that looks just as bad Computer Graphics. And do you know which other movie was written by the same authors of M2M? Predator. This one can really be called falling down. "},{"Title":"The worst film of the year","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It is sad to verify that one of the most talented filmmakers of history is in such a difficult phase. Brian De Palma, the man behind successes like The Untouchable and The Fury, seems to have lost in some moment his inspiration. He doesn't make a decent film in three years in a row. For the people who believed that Snake Eyes was the lowest point in which his career could get should check out Mission To Mars. A team of astronauts is sent to Mars and something mysterious  happens to them. A rescue team formed by Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins and the talented Connie Nielsen is formed and they search for the first crew on Mars, they want to discover what really happened. Starting from an original idea, De Palma directs the film with a painful slowness, and even in the scenes that could deliver great emotion and suspense, he fails. Mission To Mars is not an action film. Nor an adventure, nor a terror, nor a drama. The film is just a production that costed million of dollars,counted with a fantastic cast, but that ended up rotating in circles and didn't tell a story. Don't care about this garbage. If you want to see something original and interesting,go get Alien. "},{"Title":"Not a good film","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Apart from a few scenes of innerplanetary travel the movie is a yawn fest. Dont be fooled by the trailer. Save your money and 2 hours of your life.I thought the Lostworld was bad, this is down their with the worst of try hard blockbusters... "},{"Title":"A wasted effort","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My greatest disappointment was that Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise, whose talents are both renown and respected, were wasted.The very reason I gave the movie a chance was they those two people appeared in the starring list - yet, their talents were sadly not exploited even barely.people I know generally comment on this film saying Oh I like the part where..blah...but it was pretty dull.Keep in mind though, that this is a first of a large stream of mars movies to come (trust me - there will be so many that you will tire of it).To add to the grief of many - they exploited the cydonia face thing.There was hardly any sentiment in this film - no feeling about the first people on mars (referring to their attempt to simulate the the drama in Apollo 13 - yet falling short by an astronomical unit).To judge this film more objectively - watch it on a TV screen instead of a movie. All planets look big on wide screen -) "},{"Title":"What a terrible film...","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Its hard to believe Hollywood would spend 90 million on a script like this, with its cornball dialogue and its utterly unconvincing space research. This films seems to take every cliche from every space exploration movie ever made, reheats them at medium temperature then serves them pretending that its some kind of new and exciting dish. An example You've got the suicidal loner who has just lost their partner, the black guy who goes crazy at the slightest provocation, the married couple who are so happy you just KNOW that one of them will kick the bucket before the end of the film, and the young hotshot who thinks too highly of himself. Those sort of people have cropped up in hmm. I don't know, like a thousand other movies. None of them seems to have any human interest at all, they are simply caricatures of the script, which is far too busy trying to fit in as many special effects as possible to put in any drama or God forbid, half-decent dialogue.  And don't give me that baloney about just seeing it for the special effects, if you want to see a visual extravaganza go see a firework display, the cinema is meant to test your brain. Why this eye-candy rubbish makes millions of dollars while far superior pictures released on a much smaller scale make nothing at the box-office is beyond me, I guess it just shows the power of hype over content nowadays. Oh and check out the alien during the final segment, probably the most pointless and wasteful use of CGI graphics you'll ever see. Blergh. "},{"Title":"very bad script, good visual fx","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a terrible script. I and my friends actually had some laughs over this one! (where NOT intended!!) there are too many cliche's in this movie. It's a pity. as there is enough acting talent in this one (sinise, robbins) and the director brian de palma has prooved himself well in the past (MissionImpossible). I was unimpressed by this one. Hardly worth the cinematicket, save for the sfx. Unlike in apollo 13 you don't really care for the characters, when something (might) happen(s) to them.Roland Robinson. "},{"Title":"Awful!!!","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, if I'm I'm wrong please feel free to criticise - but that film, was singularly the worst, most inept and frankly awful film I've had the misfortune to pay(albeit at a discounted price)to suffer. Firstly, I declare that I am not a big fan of sci-fi, I tolerated the Star War movies - just, therefore being forced to go to watch this film instead of an already proven success which I won't mention added to my anger. Nevertheless, I decided to give it a try. Reknowned actors such as Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins would, at least, add a bit of glamour to the film - wrong! They were wasted! That's all I'll say on that matter. I can compare the story line with that of a badly written Australian soap opera and the acting was, quite frankly, disgraceful. In my opinion, Gary Sinise's performance was the worst I've seen of an actor whom I had admired. It was as if he just wanted to get paid, although in his defence his acting abilities couldn't get too motivated by this film. However, Tim Robbins - why???? How??? Why did he agree to do this film, how could he lower himself to such a diabolical film. I gave Mission to Mars, a high 1 out of 10, unfortunately I was compelled to give it 1 and not zero although the end scene(and I mean the titles) may have merited it 0.5 just out of sheer relief. If you disagree, or even agree, feel free to tell me! "},{"Title":"Pants from start till finish","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Tim Robbins is an excellent actor and I have never seen him in a bad film.I said that before I saw this.This was utter rubbish, sentimentalistic garbage.  It's cynical of Hollywood to put space themes together with Gary Sinise (oooh, it's Apollo 13 again they want us all to think) and Robbins, and market it to us on that basis.Silly story, special effects not even anything special.Don't bother. "}{"Title":"A great disappointment","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film without having read reviews but having read a special on Mars in an issue of Scientific American.  That issue mentioned the film and pointed out some of the problems with the physics in it.  Unfortunately, its critique of the physics in the film was very incomplete.  A Mars adventure with accurate science could have been great fun.  Instead we have bad science meanly interspersed with very bad soap opera.  And the ending!  Why are screen writers so bad at constructing sci fi endings?  I hate to say it but this aspect of the film descends to the level of the later Star Trek films.  Truly a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Life on Mars might exist, but life in this film sure doesn't.","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is a film so dull, your skin will probably turn grey watching it. The characters were so boring, and so much time was spent with them, you could practically scream hurry up!. The execution of some of the scenes were so poor, especially the scene where M&M's were used as a sign for life on Mars. The music was so annoying, it borrows from 'The Thing' but adds this stupid organ music, and it's supposed to make the movie seem suspensful.There were a couple of suspensful scenes, including a scene with a sandstorm, which was teriffic, and intense. Pity about the rest of the film. I'd probably recommend this film to 10 year old kids who would like to be an astronaut when they grow up, because this film was quite realistic in detail. The rest of mankind Beware of the dog.PLOT 2 DIRECTION 3 SCRIPT 2 ACTING 4 SPECIAL EFFECTS/SOUND 9OVERALL 4/10 "},{"Title":"A great disappointment","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film without having read reviews but having read a special on Mars in an issue of Scientific American.  That issue mentioned the film and pointed out some of the problems with the physics in it.  Unfortunately, its critique of the physics in the film was very incomplete.  A Mars adventure with accurate science could have been great fun.  Instead we have bad science meanly interspersed with very bad soap opera.  And the ending!  Why are screen writers so bad at constructing sci fi endings?  I hate to say it but this aspect of the film descends to the level of the later Star Trek films.  Truly a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Great director, great composer, great effects, TERRIBLE SCRIPT!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What a disappointment.  The movie moves so slowly, just so predictably and with such tedious and laboured dialogue.  A complete shame.  I cannot understand how such a pitiful storyline could attract such a (pardon the pun) stellar cast and crew.What makes the film so very bad in particular is the boring build up, the overacting by some very very good actors and the general absurdity of the plot.  As a huge sci-fi fan, I would have expected something imaginative and interesting, but all we got were truly piss-poor climax points.  Words can't describe how awful the story was, and as far as some of the special effects, they were brilliant, but had been used in other films; for example the monster sandstorm taken from the wonderful The Mummy, the exploding spaceship was from the brilliant Armageddon and so on.  It is the only movie I have ever seen where the packed cinema actually let out a collective sarcastic laugh at the end credits - as if to say, what a monumental waste of time...If you liked any of Armageddon, 2001, The Right Stuff, Deep Impact, The X-Files, Close Encounters, The Mummy or if you are a fan of Tim Robbins or Armin Mueller-Stahl - DO NOT SEE THIS FILM. "},{"Title":"Absolutely and utterly terrible","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've never walked out of a film, but this film brought me as close as I've ever come.  This film is so cliche-ridden that there were pockets of laughter all throughout the theatre, many during scenes that the director probably intended to be the most serious!The acting is mediocre, the screenplay is awful, the plot is dull and uninteresting, the characters are shallow, and the score is irritating. The sets are about the only redeeming feature (even the trippy CGI effects towards the end serve to distract rather than enhance).Overall, the film is ghastly; please don't pay to see it.  Instead, view or re-view some of the films this one 'borrows' from (2001, The Abyss etc). You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Appalling","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although this film cannot be said to be boring, it is so cliche ridden and corny that it is laughable. I find this sort of thing difficult to accept from a director of De Palmas stature. The ending was so naff that the audience actually groaned at the scene prior to the final credits.Maybe it was deliberately made this way? Its a film that is probably okay if you like formula written sci-fi but not one for true Science Fiction connoisseurs. "},{"Title":"Good idea, bad direction","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The idea, and even the storyline were good, but the script needed a LOT of punching up.  It was hard to care enough for the characters because they didn't have much personality.  And DePalma was definitely not the right choice for director. "},{"Title":"This mission needs rescuing...","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  As a fan of the science-fiction genre, I had high hopes for Mission to Mars and thoroughly enjoyed the first hour-and-a-half of this wonderfully shot, special effects-laden film. The casting is good, the performances convincing, and the CG work is wonderful. In fact, I highly recommend M2M, but with this caveat walk out of the theatre at the beginning of the climactic final scene. (hint return to giant face.) Without giving anything away, M2M deteriorates into a giant cheese-fest and I was kicking myself something awful when I left the theatre. An entertaining film, but A. Clarke definitely has nothing to worry about from Mission to Mars. "},{"Title":"Just one thing to say...","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How BAD is this movie?  I can't believe Tim Robbins & Gary Sinise even agreed to do such a terrible film.  Brian De Palma directed?  He must be suffering from some really wacky food poisoning or other ailment...this is , BY FAR, his worst effort.Totally predictible...horrid script...too long...shall I go on?DO NOT WASTE YOUR TIME! "},{"Title":"An Alan Smithee Project; A Plea to Hollywood","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma should have left this one for Alan Smithee to direct. Mission to Mars is lacking so many necessary tools, that I'm surpised it was ever made.  I wonder how many rewrites, if any, were done before they decided to give this project a go.  Granted, the visual/cinematography aspects of this film were pleasant, but as an audience member, I want STORY. I want to see characters that mean something to me-emotionally.  I want to see characters that I care about, characters that make me feel for them. Great movies are made by great moments.  Some would say that maybe 5 or 6 moments, make a movie a hit.  Mission to Mars has one.Why are movies like this made?  Because people like you and I fork out the 8 dollar admission fee.  As a screenwriter myself, I urge audiences to avoid movies like this in an effort to make movies better.  And I make a plea to Hollywood to make movies that are character driven, not plot driven.  Alan Smithee...nice to see you're still in the biz. "}{"Title":"Too many inconsistencies in search of a sci-fi story ...","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Last night, I went to see Mission to Mars because it was the only movie still playing at the time.  With the origin of life supposedly being its undercurrent, I expected this movie to be similar to 2001 A Space Odyssey or Contact.  Instead, I was extremely disappointed.  If you are going to see this film, I would wait until it comes out on video.  It just simply is not worth the movie theater price--both the regular and dollar-theater prices.The movie casts great actors in their various roles Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Jerry O'Connell, and the like.  Aside from the chemistry between the Tim's character and his wife, the movie suffers from a general lack of character development.  The potential in these good actors is wasted on poor, trite character development and stale dialog.The plot leaves much to be desired.  It gave too little focus to the Mars portion of the film.  In addition, the plot in general strains credibility and chronically suffers from a lack of explanation.  A lot of things happen, but I was not told why these things were happening.  After about half of the movie, the plot became abhorrently predictable, and I did not feel for one minute that anyone's lives were in danger.  Then, the movie abruptly ended, and I walked out of the theater wondering, Is that it?!The philosophy of the film is also poorly developed.  This is probably because they waited until to late in the film to lay it out.  As a result, they just had to rush through it in order to finish the film in under two hours.  So, the philosophy is plagued with inconsistencies and general nonsense.  It definitely lacks the intellectual depth of Carl Sagan's Contact or Arthur C. Clarke's 2001 book series.Also, the movie presented several key inconsistencies about conditions on Mars.  It is obvious that the writers did not do their astronomical homework before this filmFirst, Mars' gravity is significantly less than Earth gravity.  So, the characters should have been more agile on Mars.  This is because they should weigh less.  Also, things should have been easier to carry since they weighed less also.  This is conspicuously absent from this film.Second, Mars' is about one-fourth the size of Earth.  Yet, the topography of Mars seemed the same as Earth.  Since Mars is smaller, the curvature of Mars is greater.  Therefore, you should not have been able to see as far to the horizon as the movie indicated.Third, Mars' atmospheric pressure is far less that the atmospheric pressure on Earth.  Yet, they were able to remove their helmets when inside of the greenhouse on Mars.  This makes absolutely no sense.In conclusion, this movie left me with a lot to be desired.  If you must see this film, then at least do yourself the justice of waiting until it comes out on video. "},{"Title":"Good story that tries to do much","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Although this movie had an interesting plot and great special effects, it tries to do too much, visually and psychologically.  It starts out with a bunch of astronauts having a party before their voyage to Mars.  The child of one of them is scared that his dad wouldn't survive to come back and finish reading Treasure Island to him, thus foreshadowing bad events in the future.  The plot gets more confusing from then on and too many characters are added in the background, so it's difficult to keep them straight. DePalma does a decent job and doesn't create a total flop, but it lacks something that some of his better films, such as The Untouchables did. "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  By the standard of schlock-grade science fiction M2M was not too bad. By the standard of a good movie I was severely disappointed. The scriptwriters seem to believe that this is a movie for idiots, and slant everything for that level. Obvious points are rehashed repeatedly. Saccharine moments are replayed in obvious attempts to jerk tears. Instead of a soundtrack highlighting the starkness of space and the Martian landscape, the legendary Ennio Morricone gave us something that belonged in a romantic melodrama.Technical glitches also drove me out of my mind. Without going into details (to avoid spoilers), several of the disasters relied upon distortions of the laws of physics. Also, watch for several moves in free fall which could only be the result of selective gravity or psychokinesis. Some viewers will be able to watch this and enjoy it. Some hardcore science fiction fans will, like me, find it hard to keep from yelling at the director during these scenes.I will give DePalma and company credit-- I think they did *try* to create a good science fiction vision. The actors did their jobs well, and there are some visually beautiful scenes. All in all, though, this movie left me very irritated. "},{"Title":"A confusing, convoluted mess","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Hi all...been away for awhile, but I'm back now with a review of Mission To Mars.  In a summer where you have two movies with similiar themes (the upcoming Red Planet being the other), you always have an intellectual one, and one thats more action packed. M2M is the former, however it attempts to be too brainy for its own good and ends up falling too deep into its own philosophical mess.Gary Sinise leads the cast, as Jim McConnell...a NASA astronaut who had trained for a number of years with his partner/wife to explore the landscape of Mars.  His wife passes away of a debiliating disease, throwing Jim's life and career into turmoil.  Mr. Sinise is one of my favorite actors, and I was quite saddened to see him looking like he hadn't gotten enough sleep and robotically reciting his lines.  In fact, if I had a complaint with this film (and I do), its that director DePalma appeared more intent on flashing visuals at the audience in an attempt to drag them away from how weak and confusing the story truly is.Others with robotic turns include Don Cheadle, Tim Robbins, Jerry O'Connell and others who's names quite honestly I didnt bother to look for.Visuals?  Well, they were breathtaking, and very well done.  This is the one area I can defend this movie in.  The outer space shots are beautiful and the surface of Mars faintly resembles something out of Dante's Inferno.  Beautifully done from that standpoint.Mission To Mars is far too weak storywise to hold up, the way the story unfolds to explain the origin of life not only on Mars, but in the universe as well is too philosophical for the script to bear.1 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Yawn","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you didn't understand 2001, especially the final segment, see this one, they'll hand it to you on a platter. The space ship looks like Discovery, there are face shots of the astronauts that look like Bowman with the lights reflecting in the glass. Tons of other (to put it kindly) tributes.Pedestrian science fiction. Nothing new here. "},{"Title":"Serious sci-fi fluff saved by dashing effects","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From the cinematic mind of Brian De Palma (Mission Impossible), who made a name for himself 20 years ago by paying homage to Alfred Hitchcock, comes this sci-fi thriller about a rescue mission to the Red Planet. If you're not into heavy science fiction, don't worry. There's a good reason this thing's rated PG, and it's not just for a lack of violence and naughty language. While 2001 A Space Odyssey was cerebral, Mission to Mars is a little like that movie's sequel, 2010 The Year We Make Contact, in that there's no overwhelming mysticism that can only be dealt with through the use of non-prescription drugs. Don't get me wrong, 2001 was a magnificent movie, but I've always suspected that being in tune with an alternate reality was the best way to view it.Mission to Mars is about the journey of the second such undertaking to Mars. Its mission find out what happened to the first mission. Sounds a little like 2010 there, too. Tim Robbins is the commander, and all his team has to go on is a last-minute transmission by the last mission's commander, Don Cheadle. Luckily, we in the audience see what's happened The first team, on one of those standard reconnaissance, rock-finding, fact-finding tours, finds a big rock that uses a tornado to shoot lots and lots of little rocks at them. And that's pretty much all we know till the Robbins crew shows up.I'm not going to delve any deeper into this plotline, because it's not as complex as all that. Because we know so very little about space and its floating inhabitants, much is left to the imagination of the screenwriter, who in turn uses that lack of knowledge into a mysterious aura. Somehow, everything has to MEAN something in a space movie.The acting is fine, but nothing to speak of. Hey, you're not looking at sci-fi for acting, are you? Robbins is earnest, but he's unfortunately miscast. Sinise is.. Well, he's Gary Sinise. He's convincing, he's believable, and he's ultimately the best character in the movie. The rest of the cast is able, but not terribly noteworthy, except for two possible exceptions. Don Cheadle (the commander from the first mission) is very good, showing even more promise than his earlier work in Volcano and Devil in a Blue Dress. And the eminent German actor Armin Mueller-Stahl is solid as their ground-control commander.All in all, well done, and worth a look in the theater. I wouldn't recommend waiting for video, because the effects are definitely best appreciated on the big screen.  "},{"Title":"Had its moments, but they were few and far between","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie because I am intrigued by the Mars theory (interesting stuff!). The movie started out with some potential, and the acting wasn't too bad, but I would expect a better quality script for great actors such as Gary Sinise.  The worst part was a certain moment at the end that completely ruined it for me (but I won't give this away). Anyway, I would definitely not recommend this movie unless you're really interested in finding out more about the Mars theories. "},{"Title":"Really BAD Movie","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is absolutely AWFUL.  As a hard-core Sci-Fi fan, I feel extremely upset that Hollywood can bring such an insult to my intelligence to the big screen.Plenty of eye candy, but not enough to save it.  No plot twists, just pretty much a movie that can be summed up by watching the trailer.Paranoid I may be, but with the Mars and m&m themes, I was have expecting to see Yellow and Red (the m&ms) walk on the screen at any moment.In summation, buy a bag of m&ms, watch the trailer, then go see a decent movie. "},{"Title":"ONE WORD RENTAL!","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was a movie of wonderful actors trapped in a never ending movie that once it got where it was going ended. It COULD HAVE been wonderful. Tim Robbins, Jerry O'Connell and Gary Sinise are wonderful and did great in a movie that went no where. Unless you are a die hard NASA buff, the movie has no value to you. I liked the effects but where was the drama. And the previews led me to believe they might actually talk about the subjects they only briefly mentioned in the end. I felt like screaming I already saw Apollo 13.   Wait for TV or rent it.  "},{"Title":"Mission to What?","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Okay so it wasn't as good as everyone thought it be, but it was still a very entertaining movie. The things I didn't like about it were that they just throw you right into the middle of the storyline, and the ending was less then creative. It was kinda like they had it all written out and couldn't figure out an ending so they let their 4 year old kids decide what to do with the ending. This movie was packed with stars and was a lot of eye candy for movie lovers. A lot of cool special effects and cool sets. This movie was in serious need of excitement. There's the odd bit of it once in a while but it got boring a lot. Overall though I enjoyed it for some odd reason. "}{"Title":"a mess of a film reflects a creatively dead director","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I don't know where to start with Mission To Mars. This film is a mess from cliched start to cop out ending. I have, over the years seen some pretty dumb films, and dumb sci-fi is the dumbest of all. I can, however still remain a sci-fi fan.In MTM it's 2020, and NASA are sending men to Mars. A group of astronauts are stranded and another group are sent to rescue them. It all goes badly wrong, as if you couldn't guess. I can't tell you anymore without spoiling the predictability.Tim Robbins plays Woody, the most poorly sketched character ever, alongside Gary Sinise as the second most. Armin Muller Stahl (Shine) pops up in an awful part as the commander of the space station. Awful, awful, awful. The special effects are nothing new or special and some of the dialogue is risible in the extreme. I was not impressed by the (understandably) limited photography and near-future technologies.I was appalled at seeing some of the most blatant product placement ever! You name it, it's branded. Terrible and an insult to an international audience. Much more appalling was De Palma ripping off just about every sci-fi cliche and making his trademark steals from oh, lets see Kubrick's 2001, Armageddon, Dune, and another couple from 2001. Has De Palma completely lost the plot? He manages to insult just about every sentient being on this planet in his search for sentience on another world. M2M as the cute marketing people would have you know it is one of the worst films EVER MADE. And that's not easy to say.  "},{"Title":"What a dud!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Give me a break.  I was expecting this movie to really have a punch...but it was very slow in places, the alien was too cheezy looking and what is up with that organ music in the background...cheeze, cheeze, cheeze....and more than this, the part where the alien scattered dna across the earth and we then evolved from that dna...what a joke! "},{"Title":"Houston, we have letdown","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Casting Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise could not have come cheaply.  The special effects (which are indeed first-rate) couldn't have been too thrifty, either.  What a tragic shame some of all that money couldn't have been spent on a script re-write or four.  Bottom line -- what could have been a great movie gets buried under useless and painful expository dialogue before the plot even gets going, and takes another haymaker to the jaw when one of the major characters gets killed in a ridiculously preventable and obviously contrived manner.  ...Sure is pretty, though. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The commercials made this look like it was going to have this huge pay-off, that the astronaut on Mars would be thrown into some gigantic, surreal extravaganza, like a 90's 2001. Well, copy one movie in a really cool way, it just copied a whole lot of movies in the worst ways possible.We get to stare at NASA logos for the first 25% of the movie, then spend the entire middle 50% involved in unrelated space complications, which serve no point except to be filler, and then, during the final 25%, the point at which we all expect to be treated to some gripping, wild stuff, we get the lamest sci-fi cliche in existence presented as sappily as possible with so much self congratulatory smugness that I wanted to puke all over both Gary Sinese's 10 minute Howdy-Doody grin marathon and the 6' Antz reject they called a Martian.    "},{"Title":"My additional two cents about THE WORST FILM OF THE MILLENIUM","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Given the number of reviews found here, it's unnecessary to describe film details once again.  I just have a quick comment directed at those people who approved of this film.To anybody who liked this film--DO YOU WORK FOR THE DISNEY COMPANY?  DID DISNEY BUY YOUR POSITIVE REVIEW THE WAY MIRAMAX BUYS OSCARS?  This film is so riddled with factual holes and plot holes it makes Swiss Cheese look structurally sound.  For one, the film takes itself so seriously (and remember, they keep reminding us how much input they received from NASA to make it accurate), you have to laugh when Fourth-Grade science students can point out the errors it makes in basic physics, biology, and/or chemistry.  So I find it implausible that anybody who knows anything about space travel or science wouldn't find this film insulting.  But that's only half the story, because there are audience members out there who don't give a darn how closely the film resembles reality.  They go to the movies strictly to be entertained (and there's absolutely nothing wrong with this).  On this level, even cheesy, formulaic, laughable movies like Armageddon work, because Armageddon never promises to be anything more than a helluva ride--and it delivers.  However, Mission to Mars abjectly fails in that way, as well.  Awful dialogue, characters, action sequences, music, aliens (Don't get me started on the most pathetic extra-terrestrial to ever grace the silver screen), and a story that seemed to be put together by placing scripts for Contact, Close Encounters, The Abyss, Apollo 13, Deep Impact, Star Wars, 2001, and 2010 into a shredder and taping the shredded remains back together.C'mon people.  This movie is a total failure.  In fact, the only way this movie will ever be entertaining is if Mike, Servo, and Crow get back together and SLAM IT on MST3K!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Bloated Hollywood filmmaking with nothing new to see.","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Normally, I abstain from adding my comments to a site like this, but potential moviegoers must be warned.  I love sci-fi.  I am a geek and I am quite happy living with that fact, but this is one piece of science fiction I cannot stomach.  There was nothing original to the storyline at all.  I am quite sure the (multiple) writers involved kept the Sci-Fi channel on at all times, copying down anything that could remotely be noticeably re-hashed into Mission To Mars.  There were obvious rips from The Abyss, Apollo 13, Contact, Stargate, and just about any other film shot in the last 30 years. Tim Robbins should be ashamed to be part of this, as well as such talent as Don Cheadle and Gary Sinise.  If you've liked them in other films, rent those again and skip this one!  The actual science used in the film is sketchy at best.  Every line of dialogue was highly predictable and cliched at best.  Of course, some of the ship designs were nice, but they in no way make up for the horrible alien design at the end of the film... which could not come soon enough.  My advice  matinee if you're really rich or else see it on HBO if you're a glutton for punishment. "},{"Title":"I am not an avid movie goer, but I like em...","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I understand what the director was after with this movie, but I am not sure what he was aiming for when he was filming this it, and why he bothered to pay so little money for writers. The Movie was very well filmed, but it was about an hour too long. If the first fifteen minutes, and last fourty five were combined, very little of the plot would be lost, and the movie would be much better. I think it would have been a wise decision to go without the millions of dramatic spirts of death-almost survival-just kidding death scenes. I fail to see how they effected the movie in any way other than a blunt try at emotions that is clearer than bottled spring water.Another blatent mistake that becomes rather obvious, are the massive technology over assumptions and time leaps. Three places in the film, there are time leaps with months in between from one event to the next.As far a technology goes, there is no possible way that any of the crafts that are suggested will actually exist in twenty years, save the robots. (and even those are a leap) Over all, I was very disapointed with this movie, and am sorry I spent my eight bucks to and see it, as opposed to enjoying a nice meal with my friends. >my two cents< Ryan "},{"Title":"Plot-free-film.","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After the producers of this film paid for the photocopying of the scripts from 2001, 2010, Aliens, The Abyss and Apollo 13, finished the special effects and then got some top notch actors to appear (Mr. Robbins, what WERE you doing in this film?), they obviously ran out of money to buy a plot line.The only reason I didn't rate this lower, was I am a sfx junky.Nice try guys.  "},{"Title":"A BIG PIECE OF S**T","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, they shot this movie on top of a landfill, and it smells every bit of it.  Folks, we are not talking about some average turkey here, or even some golden turkey of a movie...no, this is the MOTHER of all turkeys.  Disney has rocketed so quickly to the top of my s*it list, they flew right off of it.  Here are a few of the many issues I have with this stinker...-Absolutely disgusted with the TONS of blatant, in your face product placements.  I.E., look, I've got Dr. Pepper (holds up to camera), and I can save the day with it!  Also Budweiser, Kawasaki, Compaq, SGI, Issuzu, Penzoil, Sony, and M&M's (hey, made by Mars, Inc.--puke, gag, barf).-They hit you over the head with pathetic back-story (i.e., But Gary Sinise, if you hadn't trained for this for 12 years and blah blah blah... ugghh!)-ABSOLUTELY NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT WHATSOEVER!-A very very annoying computer voice for the ship's computer.-Sickening musical score (organ music??!!!)-*SPOILER IMMINENT* there is NO WAY they could have that big a gash in their fuel tank without an alarm going off...I mean, they're getting ready to fire their engines, and all this fuel is spewing out into space, so how could they not detect the drop in fuel pressure?!-*ANOTHER SPOILER* Last time I checked (which I think was in the 6th grade), dinosaurs did not evolve into Mammoths.  Any paleobiologists care to refute that?-Much too much use of Panavision's new Sideways 4-axis remote head. Nausea upon Nausea.-at least three times in the movie, Gary Sinise casually inserts the fact that he is 100 million miles from the earth into his dialogue.-for its being a Mission, the objective of that mission is very unclear. It is never said WHY they are going to Mars and what they are supposed to do while there.  The film is uninteresting because the astronauts are not given any reason to be there in the first place!  Come on HOLLYWOOD, characters need to have GOALS!!!The whole thing was one big advertisement, with no reason for me to be interested in the characters, no reversals or plot twists, and really really uninspired writing, and even worse, the execution of that writing!  (With a look as if he's just had THE EPIPHANY, Gary Sinise says, Wait, if you were to work it backwards, and come up with the missing sequences, it just might work!)I am officially on a boycott of Disney, and I implore you to join me. This includes films regurgitated by Touchstone and Miramax to name a few, and don't forget to stop watching ABC. "},{"Title":"New Age Mess","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars counts as one of the worst films I have ever seen.  Brian DePalma doesn't seem to know exactly what kind of movie he wanted to make. As drama/adventure it lacks the ability to make the viewer care about what happens next. As Sci-fi it is so cliched it makes Jules Verne look fresh. As human interest/consciousness expansion it plays the dilettante to such a degree that it really doesn't say anything.  There isn't enough depth to be engaging nor enough flash to make you forget that there's no coherent statement.  Long passages of this film could have been edited out with absolutely no loss to the narrative.  The dialog is embarrassing.  It's a squirmer and an eyeroller of the worst kind.   "}{"Title":"Not a happy movie goer","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The first rule of science fictions is to use science and fiction tell a great story. Secondly, only force your audience to swallow one incredible premise and the rest should fall into place. This movie respects neither. Want do you want from Disney?Possibly if De Palma had bothered to spend the money for a science advisor...or maybe the science advisor was Alan Smithee. Don't blame the actors for this dismal movie; I think their performances were good.De Palma's direction would make a three-minute egg take an hour(paraphrasing GMA's Joel Seagal comment) and the writing was so inept almost none of the subplot or crisises are plausible.Nor can I believe that NASA would lower the general IQ of its program for these astro-naughts. Most situations could have been solved by common-sense, something the plot did not allow.The special effects actually makes MTM a great half-hour movie. Too bad it runs almost two hours.   "},{"Title":"put GOOD sci-fi movies in a blender, and you get this","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One terrible film.  There were parts of this movie that were so cheese-coated that people in the theatre were laughing hysterically (at parts that had NO intention of providing comic relief).  De Palma and crew stole elements of 2001, abyss, contact, apollo 13, etc.  Which anyone who has seen any of them could identify.  I feel bad for actors like Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins, they must not have read the script before agreeing to take part in this movie.  The script was one of the worst i've ever heard, the characters insanely predictable, the score...oh god the score...HORRENDOUS! I never thought a score mattered much until seeing this movie, it was so bad it ruined any scene in which any music was present.  Add to all of these features the hokiest final 20 minutes of a movie ever, and you'll be caught up laughing hysterically at how terrible it is while at the same time crying over the 8 dollars and 2 hours you wasted.  AVOID  AT ALL COSTS! "},{"Title":"Negative review","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the worst movie I have seen in a long, long time. And I love sci-fi. Especially on the big screen. The effects were ok, but the rest of it...was there anything else? Was awful! I found it boring, and disjointed. I did not care about the characters, who seemed very lame. No fire. No real leadership. The parts did not make a good whole. I would never recommend this movie. I'm sorry I paid money to see it.  "},{"Title":"IT SUCKED","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There was nothing good about this movie! there was no action and there was one good line! that was when the guy said sorry I'm not here I left for earth 5 min. ago and that line was not even that funny!!!!!! it sucked! "},{"Title":"Mission to a Muddled Movie","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is a big budget movie with a couple of really good actors and a big name director.  I guess that's enough to get a movie made. Apparently there was no need for a writer or two?  A bunch of people read this script and said, yeah, this will make a good movie.  What were they thinking?The movie was so plodding and dull that I considered leaving my first movie. There were some possible conflicts set up that were never fully, i.e. minimally, explored (again, who needs writing?).Fortunately I got to play my favorite bad movie game, name how many other movies they just blatantly ripped off.  I got up to 10 and lost interest. A secondary source of entertainment was counting the conspicuous product placements.  There were 10 of them in the first 15 minutes.Without giving away what little story there was in this movie, let's just say that Tim Robbins had the right idea.My recommendation, wait for a rainy Saturday afternoon and rent the video. That way you can play your own home version of Mystery Science Theater 3000. There's plenty of fodder for making wisecrack remarks back to the screen. "},{"Title":"What a horrific experience","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, Brian De Palma's new film Mission To Mars is another example of the typically vapid Hollywood film searching only for the cheap, superficial thrill.  It is such a shame to see such fine actors as Don Cheadle and Gary Sinise literally prostituting their talents for a hefty paycheck, only to be trapped within one of the worst scripts I have ever heard.  The dialogue crawls throughout, the emotions could not appear more forced, and scenes only seem to be inserted to show off the like, way-cool special effects (ie. the whole Dance The Night Away sequence - what the hell was that for?). The real tragedy, however, is that the story has some merit.  It is an interesting fable of space travel, and the special effects do occasionally rise to the gasp-inducing level.  Yet De Palma (who is not exactly the most original director in the business) tries too hard to create a homage to 2001 from a script that owes more to the everything's going to be OK ethos of 2010.  The mystery so potent throughout the Kubrick masterpiece never really applies to this story - and De Palma's direction only heightens the ridiculousness of the whole mess.  Bottom line If you're looking for an intelligent exploration of the universe, go to the source and see 2001. If you're looking for a two hour exercise in superficial entertainment, Mission To Mars is for you....just don't forget the popcorn. "},{"Title":"A poor version of 2001","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With a year to go before reaching the date of Arthur C. Clark's famous vision, Mission to Mars tries to follow in it footsteps ... and fails miserably. The special effects were something to see, but they hardly made up for easy to predict plot twists and sci-fi cliches. They even stole Clarks famous spinning wheel space station. I expected to see Discovery on it's way to Mars.The ending left too many open questions. Some movies can end with some open questions, but this ending did not set it up for a sequel. After the credits started rolling, I felt that the producers simply lost the last few pages of the script and didn't realize it. I'm just glad I didn't pay full price.I'm going to surf over Amazon and order a DVD of 2001 A Space Odyssey. I suggest you do the same and skip this movie.  "},{"Title":"Writers?  We don't need no stinkin' writers!","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I keep thinking about that commercial for 7-UP (or was it Sprite or Mt. Dew?) where the movie execs sit around a table, trying to sell a movie to the head honcho.  They tell him about the film-inspired kid's meals, toys, clothes, rap music, etc, but when he asks about a script, they say they can crank out something by Friday.  Mission to Mars was the result. Maybe I expected too much.  But wait...  we're talking about a movie with Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle, directed by Brian De Palma...  shouldn't I have expected a great movie?I can't rag on M2M for everything, though.  The first hour and change was really pretty good.  Visually stunning and generally suspenseful.  The dance scene was quite good, as was the landing attempt sequence.  Then after that, M2M just died a slow, painful death.Anyway, for those of you still deciding, I won't give away any plot details.  Some of you may like this odd creation.  But in my opinion, it was, in a word, cheesy. "},{"Title":"Mission to ....","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I must admit, when I saw this film I knew from the very first scene to ignore the characters, I knew they would all be sappy and unreal. So on that note I watched this MOVIE (not film) knowing that Tim's neckless would end up in Gary's hands. Why is it that every film has to be religous, even one with EVOLUTION in it? Why? The characters are so poorly done in this movie that it made the characters in Armageddon look like real actors. I give this film a 6 out of ten, because I did like the effects and the sound, and the death scenes.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  All I can say is what were all of these excellent actors and the director thinking?  Probably blockbuster or money. Unfortunately they managed to make a movie that will probably make a lot of money without providing a good movie experience to anyone.I came into the theatre expecting a smart, exciting movie with a believable plot and cool CGI.  Did I get any of that?  Did anyone who saw the movie? Doubtful.  The characters were one-dimensional and initially had strong emotional foundations- unfortunately those strong emotions did not carry throughout the whole movie.  The dialogue was hilariously terrible and every shot could have been cut by at least 5 seconds.  The crises the characters were put in did not seem nearly as dangerous or suspenseful as they should have.  At several points I found myself able to think of a couple solutions to their supposedly impossible problem.  The score was also completely inappropriate, better suited for a really bad b-movie.The movie seemed to switch gears from sci-fi action to culminate in a goofy-not-quite-good-enough-to-be-campy-feel-good ending.  The film also lacked any sort of resolution.In short, the movie drags on through one ridiculous scene after another, each of which is funnier than the one before, but not intentionally so. It is so bad, you have to laugh.  Otherwise you would cry because you paid $8 to see this instead of staying home and watching the Lifetime Original Movie, which was probably far superior. "}{"Title":"Bad homage to 2001","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars - Bad homage to 2001Once again we have an example of Hollywood recycling old ideas and tossing some 3D special effects on top. Mission to Mars definitely has nothing new, in fact if you take 2001 and The Abyss, throw in a lot of really phony human sentiment ala Armageddon, you have Mission to Mars. But those movies were just the obvious inspirations for the look of the film, the plot is lifted from an episode of the television program Star Trek The Next Generation if you can believe it. I took the liberty of looking up the exact episode on a Star Trek fan website, its called The Chase but I'll say more on that later.Is Hollywood so bereft of ideas that they have to steal from old television programs? Aren't there any book books to steal ideas from? Probably there are, but I think this proves once and for all that most writers in Hollywood are totally illiterate and therefore have to get their ideas from another source, one that requires almost no reading whatsoever.The PremiseThe ludicrous plot is centered on the imaginary Face on Mars that people have been hallucinating about since the Viking probes of the mid 70's. This face recently was proven to be a simple mountain in the Cydonia region by the Mars surveyor satellite, but these facts seem to have totally escaped the notice of the movie's writers and producers.The movie begins with a party for the astronauts who are about to make the first manned landing on Mars, and for 15 minutes we watch these people and their relationships in a very poor attempt at character development. This time could have been much better spent showing us the technical achievement of how they were going to get to Mars. In fact all reference to how they get there is omitted, they even went so far as to leave out the first step on Mars! Isn't this what the movie was supposed to be about? Imagine a documentary about the first manned mission to the Moon where the first step on the surface is not mentioned or shown, would that make any logical sense? Nope, and neither does this movie.So it takes us from the party directly to the surface of Mars, leaving out all the interesting stuff in-between which incidentally might have actually made this an entertaining film. The one thing that might have made me care about these people is seeing the struggle of how hard it was to get to Mars. But by 'transporting' them there in 5 seconds of screen time they effectively eliminated any chance that we will ever care about what happens to them. So we're on Mars, now what? Well, how about a cheesy looking Mars monster that looks exactly like the Tornado from Twister, popping out of the huge Face and eating the helpless Mars-o-nauts, sounds too good to be true? Well trust me, it happens. Luckily one of them survives the attack long enough to get back to base camp, light a campfire, roast weenies and send a distress message, setting us up for the obligatory rescue portion of the film.Tim Robbins who is a fine actor and normally stays well clear of super-cheezy plots like this, seems to have come to his senses about halfway through the film, possibly sensing that his long-term career was in jeopardy he wisely decides to commit space-a-cide just before reaching the planet. Good move Tim, lucky you weren't cast as the lead in this movie or you would have committed career-a-cide like Gary Sinise.The rescue team reaches Mars, after some difficulty, where they do find the sole survivor of the first mission. He has been busy examining the Face and has come to the conclusion that it is sending out a signal that when processed by a computer, produces a graphical representation of human DNA. Furthermore it appears to be Human DNA, although how they determine the DNA to be 'human' based on a strictly visual examination is not made too clear. I guess when you have seen one human DNA strand you have seen them all. They are also able to deduce, again with eyes alone, that the beginning of the sequence is not there, and they somehow figure out a way to complete the sequence with a recording (?) and send it back to the face as a key for unlocking its message.Whew.This next part is stolen directly from the previously mentioned Star Trek episode. In the movie the DNA for all life on Earth is suppose to have come from Mars, the previous occupants spread their seed all over the place when they deserted Mars. This is supposedly why we resemble the face on Mars. In the Star Trek episode, an ancient race of humanoid aliens spread their DNA over many worlds before splitting. This is supposed to explain why all the aliens in Star Trek are humanoid looking instead of critters with big claws and 3 heads. Sound familiar?It just gets sillier...They get into the Face, see a little graphical representation of the history of the solar system, witness the fate of the original Martians and then poof, a Martian shows up and cries, right on cue. Yes you heard me right, the alien cries. I guess since no one in the audience was anywhere near tears, except maybe tears of laughter, the computer generated characters are wheeled in to cry and let us know that its supposed to be a sad scene. I was waiting for a little sign to pop up on the screen saying, Sad scene, please cry now. I don't whip out the word pathetic very often, but here its completely justified.The film would not be complete without a bimbo, this time played with remarkable sincerity by Sliders veteran, Jerry O'Connell. I don't think Jerry had too much trouble with his role, playing it with great gusto in the scene where he notices that there are only three graves, suggesting that maybe the fourth astronaut is alive. He looks crushed when someone points out to him that it only means the last guy didn't bury himself. (Insert droll laughter here.) Yes it's hard to tell if Jerry ad-libbed that line or if it was written for him, I'm pulling for ad-lib. How could someone this dumb be an astronaut? All the other people in the movie are doing huge spatial and mathematical calculations in their head faster than a supercomputer, and Jerry's character would have trouble figuring out what direction to turn the lid of a pickle jar. Is he supposed to be there for comic relief? If so the audience is laughing at him, not with him.How could this movie have been made better?I have no idea. I guess if it were up to me I'd scrap the Trek plot, go read some serious science fiction by Greg Bear or Arthur C. Clarke and start again with a new story.You can't make us care about them.They spent a huge amount of time in the film on characterization, trying to get us to care about the people on the screen. It didn't work, and for a lot of reasons. See Armageddon for a great example of hollow, false human sentiment, then you won't have to bother sitting through it again in Mars. When it's done correctly, you care whether the characters live or die. When its done incorrectly as it is here, you do not care. It's that simple.Dare I ask about the special effects?If you've seen 2001, then you don't need to see this movie. The literally ripped off all their ship designs and space walk scenes from 2001. It's almost an homage to Stanley Kubrick, but a very, very bad one. I can't believe they made 2001 in the 1960's and here we are in the actual year 2000 and we still can top that movie. Its not about beating 2001 either, it should be about having a unique and realistic view of the future rather than just drawing on ideas from movies of the past.Bottom line.The movie industry is in heaps of trouble; this movie is proof of it. We are entering a phase similar to what has happened in the comic book industry, comics are all written and draw by people who were weaned on comics and learned to draw by looking at them. As a result, you have a re-hash of a re-hash of a re-hash, and no new or original ideas can pop to the surface. Same thing with the film industry, instead of people who actually went out and lived a real life, you have movies being made now by movie fans. I'm sure the people who made Mission to Mars saw 2001 a thousand times, and it shows. But the people who made 2001 had real lives, they based that movie on their life experience, not their movie watching experience. Hollywood likes it this way too, they know what we like because they know what we rent and pay to see in theaters, as a result they can tailor current and future product to be similar to what they know we already like and consume.I really have a bad feeling about the upcoming crop of summer movies.Lobo69  "},{"Title":"NASA assisted in making this?! (possible spoilers)","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One character talked about inserting a chromosome into this DNA strand. Anyone who took high school biology, knows that DNA isn't -made- of chromosomes -- it's the other way around.  Another character was forming a single piece of DNA out of M&Ms, and he called it his perfect woman.  If a human being's genes come from one piece of DNA, then I'm Luke Skywalker's long-lost half brother. It's fine to make the science simpler so as to not confuse the audience. Getting it totally wrong is -not- fine.  "},{"Title":"Aiming for a 2001-esque sci-fi/philosophical, MtM misses completely.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A team of astronauts are sent to Mars (for no explained reason), and are attacked by an unknown force, killing all but one member.  A rescue mission is sent out, to discover the secret of the force that attacked them, and return any survivors.  While not a bad premise, it's very poorly implemented.  Take these lines from the script One There's Oxygen and Nitrogen in here, at 8psi. Another Otherwise known as air.  At the same time, they have an astronaut looking at a gauge that tells him the pressure is 6psi.  The acting, too, is somewhat below the quality of the cast.  The soundtrack constantly sounds out of place, and turns what were supposed to be tense moments into confusingly absurd ones.  And as a personal annoyance, the zero-gravity scenes were less than convincing, as was a good part of the blue screening.  I was severely disappointed. "},{"Title":"So very, very bad","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I tried not to go in expecting too much.  I expected a mediocre film with good special effects and some amusing moments.  Instead, I found a movie that was so badly written and idiotic that I spent the last half-hour hoping the characters would die so that I could go home. With brand name and proven actors like Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise you'd expect to at least like the characters.  But this proves that even the best of actors are only as good as the crap that someone passes off as a movie script.  The lines were cheesy and cliched, the situations were predictable and not at all suspenseful, I can't believe that a well-known director like Brian de Palma could have anything to do with it. One of the things that bothered me the most was this science-fiction film taking all it's science from Saturday morning cartoons.  Totally ignoring things like the laws of physics and the things we know about Mars when they became inconvenient to the plot or special effects, the movie got worse and worse with every science and computer buzz word that the writers threw in there.  The whole concept of DNA was backwards and the characters could somehow recognize what should have been millions of chemical combinations and recognize it as human. The last fifteen minutes of the movie were incredibly cheesey and stupid. The obviously computer generated alien and the story of life on earth was even skimmed over so that the climax of the movie just showed you things that made no sense. The only way this movie could be any good is if you went in and just picked at the stupid things that happen and plot inconsistencies.  Pull a Mystery Science Theatre 3000 on it and maybe you won't feel that you wasted 2 hours of you life. Please, please don't see this movie.  Warn all your friends too.  If we catch this thing early then maybe we can stop it before too may people get hurt. "},{"Title":"Mars can't really be this boring...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Definitely the worst movie of the year so far. A complete waste of several talented actors, and a waste of what might have been a decent script. With names like Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins you expect more. I fail to understand if this was supposed to be a sci-fi movie, or a cheeseball mellow drama? My commodore 64 could have made a better graphic interpretation of the alien in this movie than what was presented. Nothing works in this movie, except for Jerry O'Connell who again, could have been played by any half rate comedic relief actor. Definitely save your money, and time and skip this one.  "},{"Title":"I was disappointed","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to like this film because I like everyone in it and the people that crewed it.  Unfortunately this movie was preceded by Contact, 2001 & Close Encounters, which singularly and uniquely each fulfilled any aspect of this film's importance.  The CG fx at the end were fakey.  The level of despair in the actors was uneven and unbelievable.  The music (including hockey style organ music during a 'tense' space recovery) was inconsistent and obtrusive.  The fore-shadowing was so obvious that I checked my scalp for blood.  The coincidences were too incredible.  The science was either inaccurate or incomprehensible.  The editing was jarring.  I'm surprised NASA lent their logo to this restrained 'space cowboy' concept of astronauts.  I'd like to give a spoiler review so that I could really get into the lamer 'qualities' of this film, but alas, I hate it when reviews give things away!   "},{"Title":"A humorously bad film","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is not for everyone, because it is not a good film.  If you enter it expecting a competent, exciting, dramatic, engaging film, you will likely be disappointed.  Simply put, MtM fails to be any of the adjectives I described above.  It is however, goofy, confusing, laughably acted and written and does feature some good eye candy.  If you go in looking for a bomb, you will be well prepared and you'll have a good time.The movie features not one but two Missions to the titular planet (Getting your money's worth; at least in that department).  They mostly fail and things blow up and a lot of people die.  It isn't very interesting because the characters are pretty uninvolving.  I didn't really care what happened to any of them.  Several, I were hoping died (especially Jerry O'Connell, absolutely dreadful here).The acting is bad, the script leaves a lot to be desired, but the movie looks good.  When the characters shut up (a rare occurance I assure you), there are some gorgeous visuals.  Of course then they start yelling at each other and acting like idiots.  Note to self; if the cabin is depressurizing, take the time to put on your helmet.  Why would you refuse to?Good effects all around, but watch out for the laughably bad score.  For a good 20 minutes of the film, you'd swear the replaced the real score with one from an update of the Phantom of the Opera.  I kept waiting for the astronauts to start singing.The main problem lies, I think, in that this movie tries to be all things to everyone.  There's attempts (most of them failed, mind you) at emotion, romance, drama, science fiction, accurate recreations of space, and historical revelations.  I think if they had focused on one specific aspect, they would have probably ended up with a much better film.Still the direction and effects are good, and if you can see it in a theater without paying full price that'd be the way to go.  Just don't expect to much, and feel free to laugh at the mass stupidity. "},{"Title":"dont go to see this movie","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see Mission To Mars and was ready to leave after 5 min. The story line was lame. The acting was the worst that I have seen in years. The plot was there but that was all; I have seen a lot of SF movies that others have said was bad but I liked this is not one of them. The only good thing was the special affects. "},{"Title":"Sphere II","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was going to title this 2000 and dung a space travesty but figured that might not translate into text well.  This movie has done for space what Sphere did for the ocean.  It took an interesting story and a great cast and made something worse then Hollywood fluff.  I say this since normally when I go see a Hollywood big budget Sci-Fi fluff movie I come out thinking got my what once was 4.50 now $5 worth.  I did not have this feeling as I left this movie.  When I got in my car and started leaving I saw one person speeding away quite quickly.  I couldn't help but say to myself Yes!! run!! run away far away from the evil of this movie.  This isn't the worst movie ever made or anything near that but if you take everything into account, It really is horrible thinking of everything it had going for it; a stellar cast, huge budget, pretty interesting and promising story.  So when you hold it up to all that it is a really horrible movie to not come out very entertaining. Most of the blame goes to the screenplay for the trite dialog and anticlimactic scenes, but I feel some of the blame has to go to De Palma.  It seems as if he has something against action.  At least for this movie, because it is as if he took every stop possible to take any action out of them scenes.  There is a scene where they have to find a hull breach on the ship as they are losing pressure.  The slow painstaking lethargic way they go about this is ridiculous.  I realize that they are floating in space but every action and movement is so slow it is almost unwatchable.  It's as if they are using the more suspenseful scenes to fill time so they draw them out almost endlessly.  They do it again when they are all floating outside the ship as well.  Then there is the cast. 2000 is not the year of Gary Sinise .  After reindeer turds . I mean reindeer games he has this.  He and Robbins don't seem to be trying at all.  More so Robbins then Sinise .  Sinise seem more like he just needs a shot of caffeine as you are waiting for him to just give up on one of the pointless lines and take a nap.  I do have to complain about at least one more scene in here.  The scene in the commercials where the planet are spinning around them in a planetarium like structure,  I swear the music had to be taken right out of Highway to Heaven (which is not a good thing).  These scenes at the end of the movie would have been pretty impacting had everything up to this point made you so apathetic to the situation.  Its humors to see them trying to finish it off and pass it by you as this epic movie.  As if they are saying no really its and epic.....really.. It is PLEASE BELIEVE ME!!  Epics that flop are probably the hardest to watch cause like in the Postman they are still trying to act like a credible epic long after you have labeled it a campy B movie.  MY RATING WOULD BE A 6 HAD IT NOT HAD SO MUCH GOING FOR IT SO IN THIS CASE I GIVE IT A 3.5 "},{"Title":"Mission to Boredom","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of hard work probably went into this movie, but it didn't show in the script, the acting, or concept. I appreciated the great detail toward the spacecraft, suits, particle effects and animation, but they could barely keep together the scattered bits of unmemorable dialogue, flashbacks, and corny sentimentalism. The story read as if it were right out of the National Enquirer - Face on Mars Found!. Mission to Mars is bad enough that you will get a few chuckles out of it, whether you want to sit through this film peppered with conventional suspense scenarios is the question. The movie suggests that we have been developed by an intelligent alien race...I think I now know why they left.  "}{"Title":"Little to no originality.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  -(1)  Almost everything I saw in this movie, I saw in another movie.  Plus the message at the end isn't new either, but I've never seen that message delivered in a motion picture(note I haven't seen everything).  So it's got a smidge of originality.  The alien at the end, which I think was a hologram, should have been cut.  That put the movie over the top to absurd.  Plus the tear! (don't get me started)-(2) Some technical things I didn't care for either.  Why does a character have to mention common PC parts.  Just say Hardware or make something up, maybe something origional.  I thought the flux-capasitor in Back to the Future was original and kewl.  And the atmosphere on Mars... I'm no scientist, but last time I checked, there was no clouds and mars didn't have the capacity to have one anyway (If I'm wrong or a little off, please, someone correct me if possible or fill in the blanks).-(3)  Great actors (I just hope they got paid good). Great effects and cinematography.  Complete and total dud of a script/story.-(4)  PS  I thought of leaving more than once, and If I wasn't with someone, I would have!  (I give it a 2, and just for the actors, a little humor, and eye candy) "},{"Title":"Great Cast - Horrible Movie","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best cast in the worst movie I've ever seen. What motivated Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, et. al to sign on to such a disaster?  Their talents were wasted.  The horribly predictable dialog combined with recycled special effects and insipid score made my choice to spend $13 on tickets a tragic mistake.   "},{"Title":"Pitiful attempt at intelligent sci-fi","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Where to start in my rant about this movie?... I go to this movie expecting some great sci-fi adventure from one of America's great action directors, that being Brian De Palma, and what do I get? A waste of celluloid that contains bad acting throughout and outdated CGI effects.To start off with, I was treated to uncharacteristicallybad performances by Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise, and Don Cheadle...guess they're only as good as the material they're given. All three of these actors gave thoroughly unconvincing performances in their roles. Ahh...when will this movie end I thought to myself?!?Now on to my rant about the outdated CGI effects. The effects had that glossed over look I would have expected from the early 90s, this is the year 2000 for God's sake! Also, many of the effects that had to interact with the actors appeared jittery and shaky, as if they were matted on top without the use of computers.To sum up, if you are really in dire need of a sci-fi fix then go see it, but otherwise, leave it to a $2 rental 2 yrs from now when you're ready to watch a movie merely to make fun of it. "},{"Title":"Scientific Sci-fi?  I don't think so.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film offended me on so many levels.  Not because I had any sort of moral issue with it, but rather because it pretended to be a hard sci-fi movie, but it got most of the science wrong.Example  The Mars spacecraft had a voice recognition unit for the computer.  Why?  Were they afraid someone would hack into it?  Yet, despite that seemingly useless advance, they did not have anything to tell them that the fuel line had been punctured.  We know they had such sensors in the Apollo program - why had they lost the technology by 2020?Add to that a script so full of cliches that I was saying lines to myself before the actors spoke them and you have one of the worst films I have seen in a long time. "},{"Title":"Ugh.  That's all there is to say.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Honestly, I was hoping that Mission to Mars would turn out better than it was reported to be.  Really!  However, the organ score, the relatively hokey acting, and a really lousy, useless middle portion make this flick (as in throw it away) near the bottom of the scale.SPOILERIf you want to slow down so as to enter Mars orbit, don't you think you'll want to point the engines AGAINST your direction, so as to actually slow down?  And if you did, wouldn't certain little bits of frozen fuel float towards the FRONT of the spacecraft, rather than towards the engines at the back of the ship?  Give me a break... this is a plot device like no other.  Besides which, haven't astronauts heard of belt loops?  As in, run the tether through your belt before you clip it onto the craft, so that you won't go flying off into the void?Bah.3/10.  And that only for decent special effects. "},{"Title":"Where is Michael Caine when you need him?","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is surprisingly bad. In fact, it is one of the lamest excuses for a big budget film I've seen in a long time. Cliches abound--visual & verbal (Where's Woody? DRAMATIC PAUSE He didn't make it.) Then there's the argument over whether or not to send a rescue mission c'mon--if they weren't going to, there wouldn't be a movie! There was an amazing lack of suspense in what was supposed to be a danger-filled hull breach segment, but, then again, maybe it's impossible to sustain suspense in zero gravity. . .By this point I was groaning out loud, but what really made me smack my forehead was THE FACE. That's all I'll say the face on Mars. I kept hoping, when the face cracked open and light poured out, that a blonde-wigged Michael Caine would leap out and slash our intrepid astronauts to ribbons.One final comment I nearly hurled when the 3 of the 4 remaining astronauts all join hands with a Genuine Martian (3 guesses what it looks like) around a holographic image of Earth and smile beatifically at each other. I couldn't stop myself I broke out into the chorus of It's a small world after all...My only consolation as I left the theater (as I remarked to my companion) was, Thank God it was half-price Tuesday so we didn't lose 16 bucks... "},{"Title":"They should have called it, Mission to Uranus...","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this pathetic film with visions of Kim Stanley Robison's books on my mind.  Breathtaking vistas from the summit of Olympus Mons, intrepid explorers searching the far reaches of the poles for water, and tent cities built at the bottom of a crevas hundreds of times larger than the Grand Canyon would definitely have been possible.  Instead I was treated to a bunch of retarded space truckers who did not even have enough sense to run *SPOILER* when a large alien wind worm leaped out of the top of a mountain and began gobbling them up.  Don't get me started on the end.  That had to be the lamest CGI alien I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"De Palma continues his fast slide . . .","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Leaving where he left off with his last film, Snake Eyes, Brain De Palma continues his slide into Joel Schumacher-land competing for the worst director ever championship.  De Palma could not have made a worse film had he actually been trying.  Mission to Mars is a slow paced, boring film that rips off at least ten other science fiction movies that were all astronomically better than this turd.  The heavy handed, frightfully obvious script could have been written by a twelve year old.  I haven't heard dialogue that painful since Showgirls.  The special effects were great when I first saw then in Twister, four years ago.  De Palma also takes credible actors and turns them into high school thespians.  Cheadle and Robbins should sue De Palma for making them look so bad.  Lastly, we are graced with glaring commercial product placements for Dr. Pepper and M&Ms, whose real commercials are way more entertaining than this film.  I thought it would take a while for a film to be as bad as Wild Wild West, however with Hollywood churning out big budget flops left and right, I should have known better. "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time or Money on this one!","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Labeling this movie as 'awful' or 'boring' would be an understatement. The only way I could figure that some of these quality actors would be in such a movie is that they must have had some outstanding bills to pay and needed the money.  I can't imagine they took this project on as a serious endeavor. The script was awful and 50% of the time the only thing you hear is the 'shhh....shhh' noise of the astronaut backpacks...that is if you aren't counting the howls and groans of the unfortunate audience who paid $8.50 to see this joke of a movie.  "},{"Title":"very Dissapointed","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well lets just say i was really pumped for this movie.  Back in october i say a trailer and was amazed at the thought that some one is trying to make an equivalant to 2001. Plus its one of my favorite directors, Brian De Palma.  After watching it I was extremely let down.  All it was was a cross between 2001, Close Encounters, Apollo 13, and The Abyss.  the movie itself didnt not work becuase they tried to indroduce to many conflics and sitll tried to include some philosophical questions.  All in all the only things that impressed me were the effects but that doesnt make a movie good. Sorry but this was a really big let down. "}{"Title":"Run, don't walk, away from this movie","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is flat out awful. There is no attempt at even developing any real plot, the movie is more about the trip to Mars than the planet itself, and the characters have all the depth of parking lot puddles. I guarantee that this movie will be up for the worst of the year. The special effects aren't even that good, and I saw it on digital projection (which, by the way, is a fabulous way to see a movie). I found Armageddon to be light summer fare, and while it would never win any Oscars, it was entertaining. This movie didn't even do that. The ending was stolen from other movies and TV shows, and DePalma must have been trying to come up with this generation's 2001. Instead, he came up with another Lost in Space. I gave this movie a 1 only because I couldn't give it a 0. Save your time for something better to do, like watch paint dry. "},{"Title":"Yeah and the Point is???","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie all geared up for a cool Science pic.  What I got was a boring Travel log.  It had NO point..NO plot...and NO reason for being. All these great actors....and not one could save this flounder.  Mr. DePalma should stick to Crime Dramas!  Truth hurts. "},{"Title":"I hate Disney...","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  There really is too much to hate about this movie to list here and go into any serious detail about but here goes...there maybe spoilers but I'm doing you a favour...Actors-for a movie to completely make no use of Tim Robbins is definitely bad.  Did anyone care that he died in such a tragic manner?  Not a person even cared.Script-my little sister could think up better lines then this.  My god, the sentimental bulls**t was enough to warrant a walk out.  Sentimentality should have no place in sci-fi...but, Disney has no boarders it would seem.The Ending-I was both relieved that the movie was over and also appalled at what i had just been forced to watch for two hours only to get an ending like this.  the alien looked like something from a better forgot video game and it was typical 2001 rip off stuff.  You know, at one point, i was almost thinking that they would replace the alien with Mickey Mouse and Disney would hint that we're here because the Mouse said so....At least we wouldn't have to watch bad movies like this anymore...  "},{"Title":"Almost totally bad","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Some of the special visual effects aren't bad.  But that sort of thing isn't nearly enough to offset the sheer, simple, pure lousiness of this film. There is not a single really original idea or line of speculation or anything else here.  And what does get presented is presented in an unengaging, uninteresting, tedious way.  It must be very hard to do that, given the possibilities offered by the subject matter, but this film is just plain bad.  It is certainly not worth your time or money.  "},{"Title":"Horrible Waste","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Wooden characters, boring dialogue, and *horrendous* creature design. Tries to be a tearjerker, an action flick, and an awe-inspiring Why are we here? statement all at once and fails miserably on all three. This makes the highly overrated CONTACT look like a masterpiece. The dozens of references to 2001 A SPACE ODYSSEY don't help -- they only serve to remind how great a philosophical science fiction movie can be and how wretched this particular attempt is. A couple of decent sequences, some big unintentional laughs toward the end, and a lot of nothingness in between. "},{"Title":"The Lamest Movie I've Seen in Quite Awhile","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  During the summer of 1999, I saw many great films, but two horrible ones--The Haunting and Wild Wild West.  Since then, I've seen many more films, but none that I could call truly horrible.  Until now.For one, the movie is an amalgam of several Science Fiction motion pictures, stealing from The Abyss, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Total Recall, Apollo 13, Deep Impact, Armageddon, and most obviously of all, 2001 A Space Odyssey.  In and of itself, borrowing ideas from other films isn't that bad.  However, this movie seems to pride itself on taking key scenes or ideas from all the films listed above, then making those ideas as ridiculous or stupid as possible.  Even the scenes that are not all that bad, and are actually quite effective (the Final Approach to Mars segment), I couldn't help but think that all of this had been done before.Secondly, the beginning of the film was a multi-layered hodgepodge of space exploration film stereotypes (which is supposed to make the viewer care for the characters), but then turns around to become completely detached when the action shifts to outer space.  All of a sudden, I really didn't care what happened to these intrepid explorers.  It felt sterile to me.Take all of this so far, you have a flawed film, but not horrible.  Unfortunately, the film had to end sometime, and the ending of this film was so cheesy and lame it was laughable.  In fact, quite a few people in the audience were laughing, when they weren't shaking their heads in disbelief at the crud they were watching.  The premise was a veritable carbon-copy of 2001, the effects were awful (including a pathetic-looking extra-terrestrial), the dialogue of the characters was beyond lame, and the way everything was neatly tied up just made me hold my head in my hands, wondering why I just spent $7.50 on this pile of junk.And I thought the end of The Haunting (1999) was bad.  Mission to Mars ending made that other awful ending look like Shakespeare.So Please--for your own sake, and the sake of the future movie-going public--don't justify the continued release of film-swill like this in the future.  JUST SAY NO TO THIS MOVIE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If you've already seen the preview a couple hundred times like I have then don't waste your time or your money with seeing the movie.  With such a good cast and potential for a great story and amazing special effects this movie has done it's best work by staying mediocre.  I'm not going to say that it is the worst movie ever but it sure left me feeling empty and robbed of my time and money.  It's like a made for tv movie mascarading as a blockbuster. The sappy predictable lines and results left no surprises, no twists, and no entertainment. "},{"Title":"This movie stinks","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hated Mission to Mars.  The movie had potential to be a boxoffice hit The cast was all-star, the genre was hot, but the movie Stank.1) Basically, the movie (which I'm sure had a pretty large budget) needed about twice the budget it had.  The CGI was cheap.  There were see-through/fuzzy/wannabe objects hanging on the walls in some of the scenes.  there's latter in an antigravity chamber that the actors grab, but it's obvious that their hands don't match up right.  There's a 60 second evolutionary movie that looks like a commercial for animal planet.  And there were other CGI blunders.2) Also, the camera work was aweful.  I got dizzy watching the camera panning from room to room on the spaceship, and then again when the camera goes down the legs of one astronaut and up the legs of the other.3) Much like this review, there was no flow to the movie.  The director just tried to piece a bunch of scenes without attempting any kind of transition. There was no obvious change of context at any part of the movie.4) The hearts of the actors were not in the movie.  Enough said.5) The musical score came from Dances with Wolves or something.  It didn't fit.In Short, Don't see mission to mars.  "},{"Title":"Mission Straight to Video","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not sure what happened. Was it all the spinning and dizzying camera moves? Or perhaps it was the poorly placed and downright awful musical score. It might have been the trite dialogue. It certainly could have been the overabundance of product placements. What ever it was, the sensory deprivation test known as Mission to Mars made me ill.Mission to Mars follows in the footsteps of The Matrix in overproduced, overbudgeted movies that rely on the special effects to carry a project and fail. When the 'mission' took off for Mars, they left one important piece of equipment behind... The script.Brian DePalma can do better. Much better. Build a story, please. We don't care how cool playing in zero gravity is. We've seen it already.And the actors... I hope they used 1-800-COLLECT, because they all phoned in their parts. And I really like Gary Sinise and Don Cheadle, too. I hope they got paid well.All in all, it was a decent (yet not original) premise that got eaten up by the Hollywood system and spat out onto a plate of overproduced effects.But, that's just my opinion. "},{"Title":"Mission of Pain!!!","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The acting of this movie was horrendous. The direction was utterly silly. It had virtually no plot which didn't help the clunky, pathetic dialogue that went along with it. Also could they have at least added some more thrilling music to points where there was supposed to be tension according to the audience. And could the ending have been any more cheezy? I guess the story was designed to make us feel bad for all the characters in the movie that died, but by the end, I could have cared less. Half the people in the theater walked out in the middle of it demanding their money back. I don't blame them. Watching this film was more painful than a root canal. Talented actors like Gary Sinise shouldn't have wasted their time on this stinkburger. The original title should have been Mission to Suck. You have been warned. Steer clear of this trash.  "}{"Title":"a bunch of guys go to mars get spun into oblivion and Gary Sinise is sent to save them, and he discovers something else.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I would recommend this movie because of the very strange music.  That was about the only high point of the movie.  Despite the horrible acting and not very impressive special effects it really did not have much of a climax. It could have been allot better if the end where longer, or if they concentrated on the more philosophical part of the plot, or the more violent part of the plot, either way it would have been better.  But i will have to congratulate Kim Delaney, being as she was the only good excuse for and actor on this project, plus she looked great, but anyway thanks Kim Delaney, you are what made this movie slightly bearable. "},{"Title":"Mission of Morons (some spoilers here)","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I didn't want to get nasty, but the more I thought about this film the angrier I got. This is another example of a film that cost millions to make with a cast and crew of extremely seasoned professionals and yet they can't seem to generate even a single moment of originality.First, let me say I am a fan of science fiction. Also, I appreciate any attempts at making a realistic space film. However, I have no patience for filmmakers who think their audience has a 3rd grade education.Or filmmakers who seem to think we haven't seen all the cliches before. Where do I begin?How about characters who are just so gosh-darn nice you couldn't imagine any of them hurting a fly? Not a single conflict among them. The acting was so wooden my friends and I were bored stiff.How about dialogue that is unintentionally hilarious Come on people, lets work the problem! or The universe is not chaos. It's connection. Life reaches out to life! Sigh...What about incongruities such as a man who is able to survive a year on the Martian surface with only a tarp and some house plants to keep him alive?How about a tall, slim slightly humanoid alien that I think I saw lurking around the mothership in Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind and half a dozen other movies. (One local reviewer here commented that the alien looked like it was wearing the latest Bob Mackie gown. It did.)And the list goes on...Watching this film, I was concerned that I was the only one in the audience thinking what a waste it was. But as the words The End came on, I heard someone behind me mutter, At last! and a smattering of boos rose from the crowd. And we all saw the film for free!From the shots that were poor 2001 homages to the music that dripped schmaltz, Mission to Mars is a waste of two hours of your life you won't get back.  "},{"Title":"Getting the millennium off to a bad start.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This film will probably go down as one of the worst sci-fi films of the new millennium. From technical inaccuracies, to astronauts talking in street slang, to poor continuity (where do those hoses to the helmets go?), this film is poorly acted, poorly edited and not worth the $7.50 each I paid for my nephew and I. At age 10 my nephew thought we were watching a cross between Lost on Space and the Three Stooges. I thought it resembled an old Captain Video episode (a 50's TV show) meets Teletummies. Thumbs down all the way around. Save your money and rent 2001. And shame on you Tim Robbins. "},{"Title":"People were walking out in droves","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was the cast of the Big Chill goes to mars! Incredulously stupid acting. Tim Robbins is horrible! A total embarrasment!!!! Wimpy, self absorbed yuppies exploring space? So utterly unbelievable! The movie can be summed up in one scene; as the astronauts discover the secret of life on Earth, and have a chance to visit with mankinds' forefathers, one of them decides to go, and the other 2 are shocked!  no, you have to come back with us They cant understand that after traveling 100 million miles, one should want to meet the friendly aliens?????  "},{"Title":"I've Seen 2001 and this is NO 2001","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I've Seen 2001 and this is NO 2001The mere mention that this odd excuse for a sci-fi film is anyway related or comparable to 2001 is amazing.  This thing muddled about for 2 + hours and ended like it began with a yawn. Oh yeah I will applaud its efforts in remaining scientifically accurate and leaving out any flesh eating aliens however that does not excuse it from offering a what could have been a great film.  I won't spoil the movie with explicit details on key mistakes in the film (although I really, really want to). Instead I will give you a few broad pointers to look for so your experience can be as rich as mine1) Look for odd unexplained pauses in the movie, were characters just seem to be standing around waiting for the scene to catch up with them.2) Search for the most cheesy and pointless dialogue, its FUN! Make it a contest! Play it with your friends!  there so much to choose from you will never get bored.3) Find the most shameless Commercial Product promotion (hint, look for the Budweiser in a box)4) Marvel at the ability to skip over what could and should have been  key scenes to grab to viewers attention in the movie, OK just one spoiler, the next line down***Spoiler***Although it is called mission to mars you never actually see them land on mars or take off from earth. You think the accomplishment of humankind landing on another planet would at least make the cut. For example Apollo 13, no you really didn't need to see them take from earth to understand the movie, but its a transition, it moves you from area of the film to the next.***End Spoiler***5) Music, Music, Music - Yes Mr. De Palma bad soundtrack can kill a film, and it did its deed in this one.So Yes you should still go see this movie, it sucks but if you are a sci-fi fan it is always fun to watch sci-fi movies good or bad, I just wish there were more good ones.  "},{"Title":"Turn the music off!!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I won't waste a lot of words on a movie you shouldn't waste any time on. Three major areas sunk this movie  the plot is terrible (quite predictable through most of the movie, and hopelessly silly at the end), the 2001-style cinematography doesn't work (slow pans plus plot pacing make for some very slooww moments), and most important, this movie has to have one of the worst musical scores ever for a big budget film--in a number of spots, we actually starting laughing at how bad it was.  We weren't really amused, but the chuckles kept us awake.  The movie has a couple of decent moments, but forget this one.   "},{"Title":"Awful and unrealistic","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars was awful and unrealistic. The whole movie was based upon a premise that a grade 10 biology student would know to be untrue. De Palma failed miserably in his attempt to convey the classic theory that life began on Mars, both in the way it was shown, and the ideas behind the theory. Although the photography was excellent, de Palma is thinking too much with his camera and not enough with his head. The choice of actors was also sub-par. Don Cheadle as the main astronaut? Give me a break! And why does life look the exact same in the year 2020? Not to mention the obvious plagiarism from Sphere, 2001, and Apollo 13, among others. On top of that, there were too many factual faults, not to mention far too many what if's, ridiculous reasonings, and questions left unanswered. "},{"Title":"One darned cliche after another","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     Mission to Mars aspires to be 2001, but it doesn't even manage to be as good as its sequel, 2010.  Not one line of the dialogue sounds true; these characters don't speak English, they speak in cliche.  Scientific inaccuracies abound (apparently the writers aren't aware that it takes twice as much fuel to move twice as much mass, even in space), as do logical fallacies (would they really send a rescue mission all the way to Mars for one man who is probably dead?).     The visuals aren't bad, but we've come to expect that is movies set in space.  Some of the interior shots of the rotating space craft are good, but considering it has been 32 years since Kubrick did the same thing in 2001, that alone isn't worth the price of admission.  And it has the most blatant product placement I've ever seen (it's nice to see Dr. Pepper has replaced Tang with NASA in the future).  I give it a 3. "},{"Title":"What a Let Down","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was HORRIBLE! There was no focus. First you're expecting it's some kind of action movie. But then it turns out to be like a Jodie Foster's CONTACT with a much less direction and meaning. This movie is a large order of cliche topped off with extra cheese.When the hull is breached there was no sense of intensity, it's like oh it looks like we have a puncture, I guess we better seal it. Would you like some more tea?No agency would risk another quadrillion dollar space ship just to find one guy, the United States won't even save their own MIA military guys.And that was probably the most fake looking alien I've ever seen.Acting was ok. Story was boring. Special FX were horrible. No drama. No intensity. No focus on storyline. WAYY TOOO HEAVY on the cliche.  "},{"Title":"The disastrous  attempt to merge 2001 and Contact.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'd like to say up front yes the special effects were great, but it seems like today directors think that compensates for lousy movies (i.e. the Haunting). It doesn't. The actors in this movie look like they were given a few sedatives then asked to perform. Especially in the scenes where imminent death is approaching. They all stand around dazed and confused. Why? I have no idea. Another big biggie was the amount of cliches this movie spewed out and how the actors handled them. It was almost embarrassing to watch. And just when you think it can't get any worse. It takes another cliched turn for the worse as they go inside a big giant head to learn the mysteries of the origin of life. *ahem* This would very well all be forgivable with a few beatings De Palma's head, but then you must take in the fact that not only is his movie extremely bad, he tried to boost it up by taking two critically acclaimed movies and throwing them into his stinky stew. Namely, 2001 A Space Odyssey and Contact. It draws most heavily on 2001, even right down to the scene cuts (examples the men talking on the space station, then a fast cut to the spaceship 6 months out on its way to Mars. The way their ship is designed, the way the spaceport is designed, the talking computer voice on the ship. etc.). This movie is a serious blow to the originality that once came with science fiction movies, instead replaced with high special effects, high budgets, and extremely high let downs. Hooray for Hollywood.  "}{"Title":"THIS is how you ruin a movie that has a great actors, great effects, a great ideas","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How did this movie become so bad. When Tim Robbins killed himself, and all of that triumphant music played, I laughed my head off. When Gary Sinise meets the crying Martian, I laughed even harder. This is a great chance to be a good movie, and Brian De Palma ruined it, or maybe something got lost in the editing room, such as the audiances connection with these charecters. Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins did good for what they were given, but the writers gave all the good lines to Jerry O'Connell. Final Rating **1/2 out of ****** (MAYBE rent it a couple years from now.) "},{"Title":"Mommy, mommy, make it stop!","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  After five minutes I turned to my friends and said, See you later, I've got to go home and write my review.  I wish I had been serious.  What are Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise doing in a piece of tripe like this?  The best scenes consume approximately three minutes and are availble on line in the form of a trailer.  The other almost two hours are excruciating.  Everything is explained to the level of a ten year old's comprehension, and improbably explained at that.  Ouch, my head hurts.  This is the sort of film that is made to make very bad films look very good.  And also to make quite a lot of money for everyone involved.  What a precipitious drop from Scarface to mindlessness.  Wooden performances, a hideously awful brain numbing script, unconvincing special effects, and it's going to make a half a billion dollars.  This film has no redeeming qualities.  Therefore I fully expect it to receive ten Academy Award nominations. "},{"Title":"De Palma falls asleep, leaves film to technicians","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This script must have been computer generated along with the special effects. 2001, The Abyss, Close Encounters and Destination Moon are all brought in the mix. Add some idiocy about the Face on Mars and you get a film that could have been at least watchable fun but someone forgot to ask Brian de Palma to show up and direct his actors. He seems more interested in simulating zero-gravity then stimulating action. The first encounter with the artifact on Mars is astounding. Just watch the actors not react to incredible danger. It's like a 2 hour version of the Imax film  L5, great effects, run and hide story. "},{"Title":"Mission is full of ridiculous dialogue and a lot of dead space.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars By Dean Kish	Veteran director Brian DePalma ventures into outer space on a quest to discover the mysteries surrounding the Red Planet. But the real question maybe, was this film rushed to finish first in Hollywood's race to make a film about Mars? The other entry being `The Red Planet' starring Val Kilmer, due later this year. 	Mission to Mars' story is quite simple. The first mission to Mars is disastrous and leaves an astronaut either dead or marooned on Mars. It's up to veteran astronaut's Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins to save or bury their friend. This begs the question, would NASA send another manned mission if the other one failed so horribly? No, it would be a public relations nightmare.  With nearly 2 ½ months left before the summer movie season, Touchstone Pictures hopes to make a killing off this film before the real competition comes calling. But from seeing this film I begin to wonder if this film is such a force to be reckoned with. Mission is full of ridiculous dialogue and a lot of dead space. Not to mention a plot that begs the question, how much reality is actually here? Feeding off sci-fi monsters like `Close Encounters' and `2001', Mission tries to center itself in a reality type atmosphere of what would happen if we actually did the journey. But it gets bogged down in the subplot of the failed mission and the `Force' on the planet. A Mars movie like this should have been done like `Apollo 13' with the idea of actually seeing the brilliance of what the Red Planet is. 	 Is there any greatness in this film? The visuals and look of the film are as great as any sci-fi film out there. The Hollywood effects houses are brilliant every time we want a science fiction film. There are some moments which fascinated me. Such as the mystery of the FACE on Mars which so many of us outer space buffs wonder about. But these were hard to enjoy when a character named Luke is talking about the Force and I am trying to enjoy a film grounded some what in reality.  To conclude, I hope `Red Planet' is the Mars film all science fiction fans yearn for. (2.5 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"A wonderful SF film with great visuals","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Despite a few technical flaws in science and behaviour(which I will leave for you to ponder) and the confusing beginning, the film was excellent.  A definite must-see for SF fans.Its true that there's not a lot new in this film.  The story borrows heavily from fiction (previous SF stories by Arthur C. Clarke) and fact (the face on Mars).  But the way its put together really makes you feel like you're there.  I gave it a 9. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever?","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Well, maybe not, but let's just say _Santa Claus Conquers the Martians_ was a better movie about Mars.What can I say that hasn't already been said?  This is a movie devoid of anything resembling art or entertainment, or anything at all imaginative. Things happen, and you feel nothing, except a desire for your time and money back.The ridiculous death scene halfway through was certainly the low point. The audience saw it coming for so long that it laughed out loud as the movie went through the motions.Ennio Morricone's music would be wonderful in a creepy, atmospheric space movie, but here it is always inappropriate and completely out of place. It is also *always* present when people aren't talking.  One wonders if he realized what a turkey this is and decided to write what he felt like writing, regardless of the scene.  That, or he never saw the movie at all and just gave De Palma some music to use.Did it occur to anyone else that Luke and Jim are bad names to give your lead characters in a scifi movie?   It seems as if every two seconds you hear someone say Luuke or a short-clipped Jim!  It's embarrassing!Oh, what's the point of going on?  The *whole thing's* embarrassing!  All involved should have realized their mistake and paid the studio out of their own pockets to not release it.  De Palma should have done an Allan Smithee to have preserved some shred of credibility.To give you some frame of reference, it may not be as bad as, say, _Troll 2_ or _Quest for the Mighty Sword_, but _Mission to Mars_ is surely the _Plan 9 from Outer Space_ of big budget movies.   "},{"Title":"I want those 2 hours of my life back!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  For months, I've been dying to see Mission to Mars. I am a HUGE Gary Sinise fan, as well as a Tim Robbins fan. Add that to the fact that I'm an avid sci-fi fan, and this should have been the perfect movie for me.But, I don't remember when I was last so disappointed in a film. Eye of the Beholder was horrid, but at least I was *expecting* that. But this amazingly awful piece of filmmaking caught me completely off guard, and 12 hours later, I'm still suffering nightmarish-like flashbacks of this films senseless sequences. And, when I think about it, I don't know why I'm so surprised, considering DePalma hasn't made a decent film since 1987.There are so many, MANY problems with this film, but I won't elaborate, lest I tread heavily into spoiler! zone. But let me say that in a packed screening last night, I didn't hear a *single* positive comment as we were filing out of the theater afterwards, en masse. Never a good sign. "},{"Title":"You got to ask WHY?","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I awaited this film with much anticipation.  Oh good! An actual science fiction film, not a horror film thinly disguised as science fiction.  Ah, but what I, and the public, got was something else.  Some of my problems with this movie comes from the lack of research into some basic scientific laws.particularly Newton's laws.  I won't go into detail, but if you choose to see this abomination, either put your brain in neutral, and enjoy the pretty pictures or keep it in drive, and really look at the scenes and ask how and why?  More problems come from the advanced civilization concept. Why use a 'Death Tornado?'. Why go to deep space when a lovely blue ball planet was next door? Why is so important to continue to investigate something that has been there for millions, maybe billions, of years when your job is a RESCUE mission. You bring back documented evidence of what you find, and the whole world will be pushing to get back. I question the first group of 'astronauts' they are about as dumb as red bricks. Why was De Palma chosen to make this film? It's not a horror movie, but he tries to inject 'scary' elements like the deserted camp scene; like the wind flapping the tarpaulin. (Tarpaulin? Surely they have better stuff than that in 2020.) And what about this wind? Is there that much wind on Mars? I'm sorry I'm rambling a bit, but the upshot is If your going to make a science fiction movie; make your science make sense! Why does an automated resupply module have seats?.etc, etc, etc.  "},{"Title":"I CAN'T BELIEVE I STAYED UP UNTIL 3 IN THE MORNING FOR THIS!!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  If this is one of the most highly anticipated blockbusters of the summer season, I have a feeling that maybe I should order HBO.  This is probably the worst movie i have seen in the last 10 years.  This is taking into consideration all of the TV movies of the week that have aired and Waterworld.  The story was sappy, cheesy, and completely predictable.  The actors had really no chemistry and, at times, didn't even look genuine when saying some of their lines. The soundtrack to the movie was ridiculous. It sounded as if they just played the CD to Phantom of the Opera and it went so far into the musical genre at times that I was expecting Gary Sinese and cast to break into a melody from West Side Story....dancing and all. Bottom line.....if you value your money and dont want to waste it....stay home and rent a movie....because that will be the only Blockbuster you'll be seeing this week. "},{"Title":"Mission to insensibility","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen some bad movies, but Mission to Mars is probably the worst movie I have ever seen in my entire life.  One of the movies worst components is the character development.  The people in this movie are extremely tired and cliched.  In order to have any chance at producing a decent movie, a film maker has to create characters that the audience cares about at least to some degree.  That just doesn't happen in this movie.  When the characters were in danger, I really didn't care whether they survived at all.  In fact, I was cheering for a lethal disaster that would have ended this movie whose viewing could reasonably qualify as medieval torture.The script was the worst script in the history of scripts.  I wonder what went through the minds of Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise when they read the script the first time.  They must have thought, Wow, I really want to risk my respectable acting career on this Mission to Mars movie.  There was one cheese-ball line after another, I felt bad for the actors that were having to utter lines that I would kindergartners to write.  Sinise was great in Forest Gump, and Tim Robbins was great in Shawshank Redemption.    In Mission to Mars they both came off with all the polish and flair of Frank Stallone due to one of the poorest written scripts in the history of Hollywood.Mission to Mars also had a few holes in the realism department.  I really enjoyed how the stranded astronaut, (Don Cheadle), was able to survive for an entire year tent full of ferns that somehow provided him with enough oxygen and food.  The tent had more holes than the plot.  I also was amused at the great galactic ability of super glue on the space shuttle.  I breathed a sigh of relief when Tim Robbins used his space man glue gun to seal the holes in the ship and stabilize the air in the shuttle.  Yeah for super glue!  I was comforted by the fact that in the year 2020, there is an abundant supply of money.   The United States can afford to send a rescue to Mars to save one man, one man that our government isn't even sure is dead or alive.  Lets not forget that something like a single Mission to Mars would cost 100's of Millions of dollars, your tax dollars put to good use.  Yeah for taxes!  These are you just a few of the points in the unrealistic Mission to Mars.In conclusion, this was the worst movie I have ever paid to go see at the movie theater.  On a scale of 10 I give this movie a 1.  A one for the number one worst movie I've seen in my lifetime.  "}{"Title":"It began very well...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Mission to Mars last night and for the first hour and a half, was a very captivating film.  Clear, exciting, emotional at moments, overall a very good effort.  And I would have expected no less from Tim Robbins and Gary Sinese.  They were not the problem.  My issue with the movie is the last twenty minutes or so.  We went from really good movie to joke.  All i have to say is that when they enter the white room, shut off the movie before you go any further, because I promise that you will regret it if you don't. "},{"Title":"Spectacular effects. Predictable script. Great view.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Far from ridicule of director Brian De Palma, this is a new breed of sci-fi. Marvelous and different views of the angry red planet. Special effects, sound and cinematography are  pretty awesome. Talented cast with predictable script and reactions. A rescue mission is to investigate the ill fated first manned mission to Mars. Great acting turned in by Don Cheadle as Luc. Along for the ride are Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins and Jerry O'Connell. Connie Nielsen catches your imagination with or without limp script. The bigger the screen the better. Sit back and WOW! "},{"Title":"Not awful...but close.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting to be entranced. Boy! What a disappointment! This film pulled so much from the movie 2001 that I half expected to hear HAL the computer pipe in. Elements were cobbled together from several films. The sand effects were straight out of the Mummy...with a nod to Dune. The alien reminded me of a couple of Star TrekThe Next Generation episodes. Oops, I almost forgot the Apollo 13-ish plot. I don't mind a movie building on the ones before...if it's done well. This one was a mess. Brian De Palma seemed to throw everything out there then turn to the audience and say Hey, YOU make a movie out of it.  My advice...don't waste your time. Wait for the video. "},{"Title":"De Palma must be a Raelian","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When I comment on a movie I usually see it like this the movie was good, but that point could have been better, and this one was plain bad. But Mission to mars is so bad that I see it more like this movie is real bad, but there are a few redeeming factors. These factors are the sets and the special effects, especially the low grav situations, although they tended to become worse and worse as the movie neared its end. Then there's the original element in the classical rescue team story there's actually something to be saved. And the third (spoiler) is the other original plot element; the extra terrestrials (or should I say Eloims?) are not aggressive. Duh.But the worse thing about this movie is the lack of atmosphere. You never feel anything for anyone in the movie. There's no intensity. And the musical score is boring and overused. I'm not even talking about the loopholes in the plot and the fact that Jupiter has no moons in the holographic display of our solar system. Ah well...To sum it all up I found Supernova to be more entertaining. I had never felt the urge to leave the movie theater before the end of a movie until now. Heck, at times I was watching the floor and found it more interesting.BTW, if you do not know what Raelians are, they are a sect. This sect follow Rael, who said that life was put on earth by aliens, the Eloims, and that they'd come to get the Raelians someday. Something like that. So if you've seen the movie, you know why I say De Palma is a Raelian. And if you haven't seen the movie, it's not worth seeing just to know.I gave it a 1/10. "},{"Title":"Weakest sci-fi blockbuster in years","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  With a cast that boasts Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle, and Jerry O'Connell, I expected more from Mission to Mars.  A lot more.The movie opens with an Apollo 13-style barbecue at an astronaut's home to celebrate the upcoming launch of Mars 1.  The year is 2020, and admittedly the set and costumes did look slightly in the future, but not overshot (unlike the overly futuristic 1999 in the beginning of Demolition Man). Now, if only we had a good story, the movie would have gone somewhere. Instead, the set-up scene of the movie runs the gamut of space exploration cliches  one astronaut lost his wife several months previously and washed out of the mission (the same actor who washed out of the mission in Apollo 13), two astronauts have an established relationship, one astronaut is a cocky womaniser (like Kevin Bacon in Apollo 13), and another astronaut must comfort his little boy who doesn't want his daddy to go (like Tom Hanks in Apollo 13).*THESE NEXT PARAGRAPHS CONTAINS A FEW MINOR SPOILERS.  YOU MAY WANT TO SCROLL PAST.*After 20 minutes or so of this forced soap-opera drama, we switch to 13 months later for one of the few action sequences of the film.  With a feel reminiscent of something Ray Bradbury would write, a mysterious architectural artifact causes a windstorm killing almost all of the crew. Now we're getting somewhere, right?  Wrong.  This, the only interesting scene in the movie, lasts about five minutes.For some reason, the space station control room rarely has contact with the crew on Mars, so we're spared an entire Apollo 13 re-hash.  Instead, a second team (Mars 2) goes to the rescue.  In addition to a queasy, rolling camera motion that is used for all interior shots, we are treated to a lengthy scene in which the astronauts dance in zero-gravity, and the formerly washed-out astronaut watches videos of his dead wife making lofty speeches about finding the origins of Earth-based life on Mars.  Then, we are served with several contrived crises on the ship resulting in an astronaut unnecessarily sacrificing his life.  I certainly hope that real NASA spacecrafts aren't as flawed as this fictional one.The crew finds a half-crazed survivor from Mars 1 who survived alone for a whole year through a very unlikely scenario.  After becoming sane again in about a day, the survivor explains the earlier disaster, and the rescue team quickly solves the mystery in an arbitrary fashion.*END OF SPOILERS.*After a few minutes of what is supposed to be suspense, but is lacking any tension whatsoever, the hackneyed plot is resolved in a style combining both Contact and The Abyss.My rating  2 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Don't, just don't","Date":"17 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I take issue with the term spoil since something can't spoil if it started out rotten. If I were dead, like atheist dead where you're just rotting in a casket for eternity, and some deity or something said Hey, we'll getcha out of there for a couple hours and watch Mission to Mars I'd say no thanks, I'm good w/the worms. Even disabled people w/no grasp of physics or even basic human interaction would stand up and go wtf several times during this movie.I went to see this w/five other friends one afternoon. No one was really dying to see it but we were bored and it looked better than everything else playing (I'm tempted to go dig up what was released at the same time). A few of us were stoned, a few were not. No one had any particularly negative expectations. Four of us walked out saying what a POS and the other two just wanted to go and didn't want to talk about it. Oh, and two of us developed headaches.It's been 13 yrs so I can't remember it all. I recall the alien thing at the end looking pretty damn stupid even for the cgi capabilities of the time. But one scene stands out. One scene is my go to when stupid stuff in movies is brought up. Here we goSpoiler/warning Okay, so due to some explody thing happening or whatever, Tim Robbins ends up outside the ship in space and his wife (I think, maybe girlfriend) comes out to rescue him. Can't recall specifics but basically one of them is going to float out into space so the other one goes out to get them. BUT...the rope/tether thingy isn't long enough by like 4 feet! Oh no! So if she goes out those extra 4ft to grab him then they won't be able to make it back to the ship. They will be, hmmm let's bust out the ol' abacus...ah yes, they'll come up 4 feet too short. So what? That's called close enough to work with in my book. Couldn't someone grab a freakin broom or something and pull them in? It's 4 feet! 48 inches. A couple pairs of pants tied together or some shoelaces would do the trick. Someone could pee out the airlock and make a 4ft icicle (which would've been original at least). Well...nope. That just didn't occur to them apparently. No improvising in space. After all, astronauts are fairly stupid people, right? It's not like they'd have to have an exemplary grasp of physics and trajectories, ratios and geometry, to do their job. Okay fine, they were stressed. So poor Timmy is going to die in a stupid and extremely avoidable way. Fair enough. So what now? Do you A) Tell her you love her, I'll always miss you, sorry I talked you into that abortion last summer, etc. and float off quietly to your death? Or B) Say I love you or whatever he says, then stare right at her (from four feet away), open your mask (even though you still have air) and immediately freeze your face into some nasty ice mummy thing so that that's the last memory she has of you? Yeah, I know I know, rhetorical question. Of course it's B!! Scar that beeatch for life. Clearly she wasn't having a bad enough day already, might as well turn your face into a shattered meat snow-cone to punish her for not being able to think of anything 4ft long to save your ass w/on an entire spaceship.The internet brings out elevated standards in people that I seriously doubt they adhere to themselves in daily life. I don't want to be that guy. When the hero in the cop movie fires 19 shots w/his Beretta before reloading, I let the other 2-3 rounds slide. Suspension of disbelief is part of the deal. But that scene was so damn stupid...you know, you can forgive a lot in relationships, but if your husband roofies your mom and sister into a three-way then shoots you in the left boob...well, you're probably not going to be able to get past that, no matter how much he apologizes. And this movie doesn't even apologize. It just keeps crapping on you. Watch that scene if u want, just don't punish yourself w/the whole movie. You'll hate yourself for it.Thank you for your time and yes, I do consider my opinion to be fact. Ta ta!! -) "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars (2000)","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Some couples dance, others go to Mars.This is the story of the first mission to Mars. When it all goes wrong, a rescue mission is sent to bring any survivors home.The resulting space adventure is not that great. The story is bad, the script is bad, the actors are bad, the director is bad and the music is bad. Or to save time, they are all bad.The story is bland and full of problems. First off, the ship. The rotating habitat was all wrong. In order to generate gravity it should have been larger. 10 meter radius, at least. And it rotated way too fast. There is a limit to how many rotations per minute a human can take and that limit is very low. Like... 2. Yeah, that low. And the gravity generated would be small. Tiny, in fact. And if you go on an extended mission, you don't build your ship to be open space. You have to build some proper rooms and provide some intimacy. If you don't want everybody to hate everybody else by the time they get there, that is.Then on the surface. The thing had a security system??? And if it didn't get the right answer it killed everybody? Why? What kind of advanced civilization would do that? And who did they think would get there? A Gila monster? A cave bat? A zebra? Godzilla, maybe?The script is also terrible. The dialog is poor, the situations are lame and the overall story is boring. I though somehow a mission to Mars would be far more exciting. Plus, they saddle the guy with so much grief for an entire movie and for what? They robbed a team of smart people of any fun they could have, only to ham fist the ending in? What kind of idiot does that? Smart people should be fun to be around. They should be hilarious, in fact. But you make them sound like dimwits just because you have an agenda? Please.And so on. The direction is terrible, the actors aren't allowed to do anything, the special effects are... less then they could be, the music is quite bad and so on. In fact, the music is not that bad; it is just from the wrong era. I got that there were a lot of references to the space movies of the 50s, and I was fine with that. What was not fine, however, was that the movie forgot to make the trip back to it's own time. It went to the 50s and it got stuck there.Mission to Mars. A bad space movie. Expensive, too. 2/10. "},{"Title":"Mission To Farce. A Space Travesty.","Date":"19 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" A real train wreck, but not nearly as funny to be looked at...I'm *so* glad that I saw this on TV and didn't spend money on it for a movie theatre ticket or DVD rental.This is extremely bad on so many levels* The ScriptTerrible. Simply awful. Ripped off of nearly every sci-fi movie we've seen before (mainly 2001/2010, Contact and Close encounter...), but sans a believable story, anything like rhythm or pacing and bearable or credible dialogue.* CameraExtremely erratic most of the time. Adds a lot to the missing rhythm mentioned above.* EditingPerfectly matching the photography - 'nuff said.* Special effectsHard to believe that 2001 was made more than 30 years earlier, but still has much more convincing FX, especially regarding the scenes inside the spaceship and in space. The CGI sucks too, with only a few exceptions, but still nothing new here On Mars' surface we are often strongly reminded of the sandstorm in The Mummy, which preceded this by a year or so.* ActingOne of the main characters is called Woody. And all of them are acting accordingly...Hard to believe that people like Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise and Armin Mueller-Stahl would waste their talents here.* ScoreThe worst I've ever heard from Ennio Morricone - just pasting every scene (regardless of content) with a sickly-sweet layer of would-be dramatic kitsch.* ScienceThe movie makers claim that NASA was involved in the making of this film. Apparently, they only asked some administrative departments for advice - any decent scientist would be ashamed to have his or her name associated with this...As if talking of chromosomes instead of amino acids consistently wasn't bad enough, mechanics just fail to follow the laws of nature or just credibilityM&Ms float around each other weightlessly in perfect unison to form a rotating double helix, put into the thin air by hand (!) by a seemingly extremely steady-handed crew member.Moving in (airless) space If you do have a certain amount of propellant to move around, stopping earlier when already in motion will not buy you anything - you do need thrust to stop and reverse your flight if you want to return, regardless of where you do this. There simply is no such thing as a point of no return just 50 meters before reaching your desired target.It really hurts if you think of the beautifully executed space scenes in 2001 in comparison.Speaking of which All the action in outer space of course does not pass silently, regardless of the vacuum. But I guess 2001 and 2010 are really the *only* space movies that get this particular point right.Furthermore When taking your helmet of in space, you do suffocate, that much is true (at least they didn't let his head explode...think Outland etc.) But you definitely do not freeze solid in 20 seconds, no sir. I could go on.Now, there are only two things that *do* work perfectly* Plot holesLarge enough to fly through with a space shuttle including the external tank and the solid rocket boosters, no kidding.* Product placementsI never saw a big budget movie before which shamelessly displayed so many unnecessary brand names in the least likely places. I mean, renting ad space on the Mars rover? Gimme a break. Healthy soft drinks for the astronauts, just to be able to show the name fullscreen? M&Ms, floating around, lying around, even giving one main character a pivotal idea by just looking at them. And so on, ad nauseam...To round it upDo not waste your precious money and/or time. Go pick your nose or do something equally more productive.And then you maybe can even go on thinking of Brian de Palma as a great and innovative director and Ennio Morricone as one of the industry's leading movie score composers...Extremely overrated with a 5.2 at the point of this writing. * 1/10 "},{"Title":"Simply Fantastic","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is simply fantastic. I am not too much into sci-fi anymore but this film like any great fiction has a sense of reality added in to give more intrigue.Mars is an interesting planet to say the least and much is unknown about its history. The possibility for life to have inhibited the planet is science fiction but not out of the realm of possibilities and theories exist of Mars possibly seeding our planet with life, one that this movie clearly latches its storyline around. Scientists have been fascinated with its surface for decades and the fascination will not end anytime soon.I have seen this movie a few times before but watched it for the first time in a few years recently and was more mesmerized by this movie now than ever before. A great storyline with very nice special effects. A very believable story on this mysterious planet and our origins in the universe. "},{"Title":"What a Flop!","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" What starts out as a very promising movie ends up being a complete waste of time. What a cheesy, cliché, over-the-top and awkward movie this was. Brian DePalma directed it? Nahhh, I refuse to believe the mastermind behind 'The Untouchables', 'Scarface' and 'Carlito's Way' crafted this confusing misfire. The only decent part about the film is the acting. Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle and Tim Robbins are all top-notch in their roles even if their material flat-out stinks. Connie Nielsen is decent, while child-actor turned Sliders-star Jerry O'Connell is laughably bad. The writing is so jumbled and the film offers such a smug, arrogant and most of all confusing conclusion it will no doubt infuriate any viewer. I don't recommend this movie to anyone. Grade C- "}{"Title":"Houston, we have a problem- and this movie is it.","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'll warn you right up front that this review could be filled with plot spoilers. Unfortunately the plot spoiled before this movie ever left the studio. To say the least I was severely disappointed and wondered why I wasted my time watching it.Bad plot The title says Mission to Mars so there's half the plot. We all know that of course something unexpected will happen- or they never would have made the movie. We can guess before watching it that they'll find a monster or alien or traces of a former civilization's existence.Characters They are all cast so very typical. Our main character is the grieving astronaut who can't go, because his wife's death that devastated him so during the final stages of flight prep. Of course he's the best, the hot dog fly-boy who everyone wants to go. I'll spare you the others. Script The lines are so predictable, many not delivered well at all. The director must have been asleep during the filming to have let these 1st takes make it to the final film.The mystery on Mars SPOILER- Typically Sci Fi movies have two versions of alien life, the mean monster type and the gentle advanced type. Here we have the gentle advanced that appears like a mean monster like in the beginning. Next we have the films agenda, evolution has failed miserably to show a believable beginning of life, so the film presents it's answer how the aliens 'seeded' Earth millions of years ago from Mars after a great meteor creamed Mars. Lame.I shouldn't end on all sour notes so let me think of a few good points. Don Cheadle was probably our best actor. The space shots were well done. They did well making it look like Mars and not a Hollywood back lot. The mini rover with the camera had more character than most of the others &#150;Oops that's a negative hit. The last positive thing is that I didn't pay any money to see this movie because I got it from the library and am taking it back. "},{"Title":"Surprised at some reviews","Date":"13 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think the people that gave it 1's was out of spite more then anything, as maybe it didn't live up to their expectation. When i first saw this movie in 2000, i had no idea what i was walking into the theater to see. I sure as heck not going to say this was the best sci-fi i have ever seen, but it wasn't a 1. I believe if they added to much more to this movie to add so called facts. it would have been a 4 hour long movie. They had to make the characters believable with out over stating their personality's. The special effects were good and the whole idea of the movie was believable. It may not have as much action in it as the trailers made it to look , there was enough to keep you interested for most of the movie a couple slow parts are in it I true Sci-Fi fan would enjoy this movie, if you are an action fan it might not be what you want to see RENT. If your undecided , give it a chance. "},{"Title":"No intelligent life in this movie","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" As often happens, I refused to believe the options of other people and chose to watch this movie on TV despite its unanimous bomb reputation. After all, I had found even John Carpenter's B-movieish Ghosts of Mars quite entertaining, and was certain this could not be worse, what with a decent cast and much bigger budget and a director responsible for semi-enjoyable Snake Eyes, Mission Impossible and Carlito's Way immediately prior to taking over this one.Unfortunately all the good will and open-mindedness in the world could not help this film shine. It is morbidly boring, outrageously stupid and utterly pointless. Why? Let's see.- The cast lacks truly charismatic actors, and is further crippled by very bad writing and tepid directing these supposedly cream-of-the-crop astronauts act like panic-ridden teen girls whenever not busy wallowing around the ship in seemingly endless slow-motion scenes.- The grand idea of the script could be straight from the first attempt at sci-fi writing of a 5-years-old, and somehow fittingly the accompanying CGI associated more with Looney Tunes than an alien culture. This vacuum of a screenplay is spiced up with supposedly tragic deaths of characters you don't ever get to care a damn about.- Apart from these things, there is absolutely nothing else going on in the movie. So we have a tedious journey with annoyingly unrealistic and dimension-lacking crew, with anti-climatic revelation at the end of the road, offering zero entertainment value. And we have even more blatantly mumbo-jumbo science than usually in Hollywood movies, offering zero sci-fi value. AND the whole mess is appropriately capped by monumentally nonsensical ending.Do not make the same mistake I made; take the heed and avoid this film. 1/5 "},{"Title":"The horror.  The horror.","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I know I've seen a worse movie than this. I just can't remember what it was.Somewhere in a vault there's probably footage of the actors at various times breaking character and crying aloud, Oh, Lord, how did I get into this piece of crap? What if I die before I make another movie, is this how I'm going to be remembered? With video and DVD, how can I be sure my children and grandchildren never see this? And you can bet none of that footage shows up among the DVD extras.Did anyone read this before signing up to do it? Has Brian di Palma completely lost his sense of style? His best work- CARRIE, BLOWOUT, DRESSED TO KILL, OBSESSION (the best of his films), even lesser works like SNAKEYES- so much has his signature on it. You can watch ten seconds of these movies and see his touch in it. This is so impersonal.The absolute worst thing was when the three astronauts and the Martian stand and hold hands, uh, paws, whatever. That was the only time I wished I'd seen this in a theatre instead of on TV, because I can imagine the loud Bronx cheers and razzing it would get.The only think that was encouraging about this is that it does look as if it was very cheaply made, like those science-fiction films that save money on sets by shooting inside a science museum.I guess this sank di Palma's career. He hasn't done much since it. That's a shame. "},{"Title":"Close Encounter with 2001 ASO","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well, what to say.... The film is good. No doubts. Its considerably inspired by Stanley Kubrick's all time classic 2001  A Space odyssey. Instead of apes, the film starts with the a review of present civilisation and importance of human relationships & values, through a bunch of Astronauts who are Close friends. Later this is poorly related with an idea of existence of Life in the universe in spiritual sense. Ho ! Ho ! Slightly Silly.Brian De Palma cannot establish the Mammoth Philosophical Theme & Ideologies which was exhibited in 2001 ASO. Perhaps he lands up in a Slight Mediocre presentation.But the film is very good in visuals. The Special effects in one word is fantastic.These bunch of Astronauts are given a mission to visit Mars and investigate the Failure of communication & possible accident experienced by a Mars bound Space Station. Subsequently they also have to establish a rescue program if there are any survivors. Enroute their mission to mars, these astronauts face some adversities & technical calamities (a replacement of dispute with Hal 9000 in 2001 ASO) & one of the astronaut dies. Probably it was Brian De Palma's way of explaining our dependence on tools in outer space ....Mediocre again !! They manage to land on Mars and find a lone survivor. They encounter an unusual giant object lying on the Mars Surface... A Face. A Giant Solid Structure resembling a Human Face Similar to Lord Buddha (A straight derivation of the black Monolith & Zoarastrian influence from 2001 ASO).The Face sends an electromagnetic waves with sequences matching the algorithmic structure of a DNA. They visit the Monolith, oops The Face, I mean & find some Aliens who explains that Life on Earth was bestowed by them by donating & Planting the first DNA on Earth....Ho! Ho! Ho! So whats next. A straight derivation of Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Like the UFO Buff Richard Dreyfuss, one of the Astronaut CHOOSES to fly off with the new friendly creatures. No...He is not transformed into a Star Child, but Swaps-Off the Planet with Aliens in to their new world. THE END.The Film does not land up in the right corner & may be found as pathetic to many sensible Sci-Fi audiences. The Characterisation is too poor. And foremost the direction is highly amateurish, which couldn't be expected from Brian De Palma.The Zero-Gravity & Centripetal Artificial Gravity sequences are a direct inspiration from 2001 ASO. But even today we shall always prefer & love to watch the original sets of the 1968 classic.But Finally, the Film is worth a watch. The only best part is its Visuals, which we relish in all moments from the Space Journey to Mars Exploration. "},{"Title":"Great Movie - and a few puzzles (have not given plot away)","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Well worth watching - lots of surprises. A few scientific puzzles When an astronaut opens the external door of an abandoned lander on Mars there is a metal creaking sound. At first I thought that was a gaffe - where's the air and moisture to cause rust? but later we discover there is a biosphere inside - very clever.At another point an astronaut takes off his helmet during a space walk - we see that his head is instantly frozen. Wouldn't it have exploded given the pressure differential? - I can see how that would not have fitted the plot though.Our hero uses the last of his power-pack (during a space walk) to reach an object in space, but overshoots. It turns out that one of his fellow astronauts then has enough power to go to the rescue. Why not use the astronaut with the most power in the first place! and without friction -how could the second astronaut catch up anyway. Since the lead astronaut only glanced the object there would have been no reduction in his velocity.Still - it is pretty good science fiction. "},{"Title":"Underrated...","Date":"25 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  It was an AWESOME movie!!! great cast brilliant acting .Ill admit.McConnel's eyeliner was a TAD heavy .What suits Jack Sparrow doesnt suit our hero in this movie .But the idea that we came from Mars was novel and I enjoyed the take .The computer graphics for the mars to earth evo story was amazing!!. It had everything a good movie needs and I'm not ashamed to say I loved it .but then I also gave Stargate a 10. lol. Still of all the Mars movies ( I think there were 4) this was by far the best. I was a little dismayed to find that I had to post 10 lines in my comment. I fear that will make for people having to post a lot of useless fillers and drivel before getting to post. "},{"Title":"Great idea for a sci-fi movie.","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The ending of this film is really great for the imagination. Granted the beginning may be a bit dodgy but I think that overall the main story of the film is an excellent idea. The way the setting changes almost by the click of a finger from a real-life, albeit sci-fi setting to an amazingly imaginitive and epic concept is just brill. Even now, I think the graphics at the end are great and help make believeable an otherwise incredible concept. The acting is good; all the cast fit the stereotypical character of an astronaut. I think that keeping it a PG was a very good move since it made it wide open to young kids. Hopefully it will get more than a few interested in the futuristic adventure genre that is sci-fi. Added to this the coolness of the space ships and rovers, etc and you have one good film. "},{"Title":"Worst Ending Ever","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  ** Warning - spoiler  **If you decide to watch this movie, I suggest you turn this thing off when they hit that big white room. From then on this movie is a -6000 out of 10. It's so bad that you can't appreciate how bad it is without watching it. A bit of a Catch 22 I know. Try throwing 10 bucks into your toilet and flushing it when you finish watching it so you can get the 'cinema experience' that I did. "},{"Title":"Pretty good science-fiction film, what if life really originated on Mars??","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  CAUTION - MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS --First, let me state that I think the majority of those 15% of voters who rate Mission to Mars as a 1 are genuine movie idiots who probably couldn't recognize a good film if it slapped them in the face. This one is far from perfect, but for sheer imagination and novelty of story I rate it a 7 or an 8.Anyone who is a dreamer should really enjoy this film. To me, this film falls in the same general category as 2001 A Space Odyssey, Close Encounters of the 3rd Kind, The Fifth Element, E.T., Contact, Back To The Future, those sorts of films which explore the unknown and make us think what if...The very first Mars mission meets with disaster. A crew is sent to see if they can rescue any survivors, their friends. Along the way a small meteorite punctures the ship and threatens their survival. Then, right before Mars orbit, an explosion caused by the first problem gets them tumbling out of control and they have to leave the ship to attach to an orbiting module to eventually get to Mars. Not all of them survive.Getting to Mars, they discover the face on Mars, which leads them to a chamber where they see an animation of a destructive asteroid collision which forced Martian life to leave.  DNA was sent all over the universe, including into the oceans of Earth, which then became the spark of life from which all other life developed and evolved. I saw this on DVD. The surround sound makes you feel like you are there during the Mars storms and the space travel. The extras go into the various aspects of the making of the film, and how all the special effects, including weightlessness, were accomplished.  Overall the film is very well executed. It is not so much about space exploration as it is about relationships, and the big question, where did life on Earth come from? Use your imagination without watching from an overly critical point of view and everyone should enjoy Mission to Mars. "}{"Title":"stick with the previews.","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  From what the previews showed, this was looking to be a really good sci-fi drama, instead this was just another really bad attempt to swipe off of 2001 A Space Odyssey (1968).  Except the execution of 2001 was alot more dramatic and solid. M2M made me feel ashamed that I brought so many people with me to watch this movie on an opening night.  I really don't recommend the movie to anyone, even if you get to watch it for free on cable or if someone else pays for it, don't bother, you'll just end up wasting a couple hours of your life. "},{"Title":"in space no one can hear you throw up...","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Absolutely terrible! An AWFULLY bad movie. I went expecting excitement and adventure. What I got was dripping sentimental feel-good movie intended to make people feel safe and cosy. I almost gagged sometimes, especially when the crew where dancing in 0 gravity to some lame rock music.Awful! I actually cheered when things didn´t go slick for the characters, like when their spaceship blew up. Some Dr. Pepper couldn´t help them then! "},{"Title":"One mission that should have been aborted","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"     .....because what's on screen is certainly an abortion, the worst movie in Brian DePalma's career, one of the worst movies ever released by the Disney studio, a ghastly, boring, hackneyed mess.       The dialog reeks; there's not one good line in the entire film, and many terrible ones.  The producers pride themselves on scientific accuracy, but then have sound in space, and back-pack jets that are kept on throughout the maneuvers.  (It would have been relatively easy to rescue the lost crewman.)      The ideas in the film are borrowed from other, better (and some worse) movies, and on top of it, the big surprise in the film is revealed in the advertising.         Gary Sinise manages to give a very good performance under these terrible conditions, but Tim Robbins alternates between phoning in his lines, phonying up his lines, and clench-jawed hyper-sincerity, ending up giving the worst performance so far in his career.       This depicts the first (and second) missions to Mars, right?  So why doesn't De Palma include the landing on Mars?  It would be one of the most epochal events in human history; not only do we not see this, but we don't see how the world reacts to these events.  Not one shot of a news report!          But mostly, it's a bad script, badly directed, a waste of a ton of money and two hours of the viewer's time.   "},{"Title":"Mission to Nowhere","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  To put it simply, 'Mission to Mars' is awful. I am continually amazed that talented, veteran actors like Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise and Don Cheadle would climb aboard a project such as this one. A poor script brought to the screen with lackluster performances and dismal direction, 'Mission to Mars' is easily one of the worst films (of any genre) I have seen in many years. Uninteresting characters spewing out dreadful dialogue, exacerbated by an unpleasant, overdramatic score from Ennio Morricone. Furthermore, scenes meant to be suspenseful are just the opposite, to a point where they become almost comedic. The only pleasant thing I can say about this film is that the cinematography is quite good, and the special effects are also impressive. However, these only temporarily distract you from this appalling picture. It is the lack of dialogue in the special effects sequences, which allows you to enjoy at least some of the film. Save your money folks, this one is guaranteed to disappoint.  "},{"Title":"Its an Different kinda film, but its good!","Date":"11 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Look, this contains spoilers OK.Right; Mission to mars is more of a thinking family film than films like Terminater. Its a film that has horror, suspense, happy moments, a great back story. Its your average teenage kinda family film.But people rate it down because the Ad shows a giant man eating Dusk storm. THERE IS A GIANT MAN EATING DUST STORM IN IT! Its in the beginning. There's 'ya action. The rest of the film is an special effects masterpiece. From the epic views of the Mars 2, to even the death of Woody.Don't rate it down, its a thinkers sci-fi film, Like sci-fi's were back in the 50's and 60. But with amazing story and effects.If you love Apollo 13, nation treasure and D who watch it.AND UNDERSTAND ITS NOT AN ACTION FILM! "},{"Title":"Terrible movie, plot doesn't make any sense.","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The movie makes me angry because it wastes a terrific cast. Sure some of the scenes are cool, and great shots. But the problem is that the climax of the movie makes no sense. I'm not saying a movie has to follow perfect logic, but it should be able to follow its own logic. This is a story about the origins of our planet, and it should make scientific sense because it is asking us as the viewer to believe the science is real. The end doesn't make sense the movie before that is hoaky and forced, and the worse sin is that it doesn't follow the scientific logic that it wants the viewer to try and use. Terrible go see Danny Boyle's Sunshine if you want to see a movie that can follow its own logic "},{"Title":"If they were benign creatures when they sent their dna to earth....","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" After Gary Sinise realises that the last 600 million years of earth evolution was started by the the Martians sending their DNA to Earth, he makes a comment like 'we're the same as them' or 'they're the same as us'. Well if the Martians were benign,intelligent, sensitive creatures when they sent their DNA to Earth, how come homo sapiens turned out to be a bunch of greedy, small minded, war mongering loonies who can't even keep their population size under control!And why are there only two types of alien in Hollywood? They are either benign,sensitive creatures who wish us no harm,or homicidal maniacs bent on our total destruction. "},{"Title":"Plodding start, enjoyable middle, unimaginative ending","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Luke Graham and his crew are on an exploration mission on the surface of Mars.  They come across what may be a column of water within a mountain and approach it scanning for details.  However a dust storm immediately arises, killing his crew and leaving Luke trapped and injured on the surface.  Jim McConnell and Woody Blake launch a rescue mission from their base but quickly hit dangers as they approach, however the surface of Mars holds more than just a stranded astronaut.Getting average reviews from all who saw it lead to just not bother with this film until it reached tv last night.  I wondering if I should bother then but I thought I'd give it a shot.  The plot is intriguing but starts very slowly.  Once the `storm' does it's damage on Luke's mission then the film gets better and the whole middle section relating to the rescue is deliberate but gripping and enjoyable.  The climax to the film is a let down simply because it lacks any imagination and it comes off like a `2001 A Space Odyssey' for people who need everything spelt out for them!This is not to say that the ending is without interest but it is has been done before on 2001, X-Files etc and doesn't feel original enough to end the film .  The middle section works well as it is patient and built on minor problems that create massive problems in space.  Elements of both the `storm' scene and the rescue in space are gripping and quite shocking.The talented cast are given quite wooden dialogue at times.  Certainly large chunks of what both Gary Sinise and Robbins say sounds clichéd and rather wooden. Both men still do good work although neither really won me over as real characters.  Likewise Cheadle didn't win me over with his breaded crazy act, although he was much better at the start and end of the film.  However the main failing of the cast was that they didn't really manage to build the human drama side of the story despite several key, quite powerful scenes.Overall this was an OK movie that I'm glad I watched.  After a slow start the film is enjoyable and gripping, but the ending lacks imagination and does exactly what you expected it to do.  Shame, because it left me with the feeling that the film was quite average rather than as good as the middle bit was. "},{"Title":"candidate for slooooowest movie all time","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Caution, this movie is slow. We're talking 2001 (the movie) slow. I mean, slower than Open Range. 9600 modem slow. Slower than rush hour traffic when you have an urgent need to pee. You get the picture. Cripes, there's one scene in the spaceship that's so slow that I watched it on fast forward and it still lasted 10 minutes! With no one even talking! Made me yearn for the action-packed scene in 2001 where the stewardess is walking down the aisle for five minutes, but at least that had the excuse that when the movie was made the idea of zero gravity was cool enough that the director thought it merrited attention. This movie was released in 2000! Been there. Done that.The editor fell asleep at the wheel on this one. Of course, if they'd edited out all of the slow parts it would have been shorter than the trailer. I like Sinise and all, but this movie almost put me in a coma. I've never rated a movie with decent acting this low before (2) if that says anything about how slow it was. "},{"Title":"Cant believe people like this.","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Yeah, call me a 'hater'...because it deserves to be hated. People must have been really hard up for a good sci flick when they tuned into this hunk of dung, watched it, and defend it.Its basically just a badly done 'Abyss' with different surroundings.No real development of characters, and predictable that everyone on the first mission was going to die except Don Cheadle, because he was the only name actor. Send the movie stars out into space after them and have the worst luck ever just trying to get to the planets surface. Thankfully, Tim Robbins DIES, so we don't have to put up with his whiny ass for the rest of the movie. The same kind of relief one had when Steven Seagal died in the first few minutes of 'Executive Decision'.They finally get to the surface, and Cheadle is mad enough to attack someone in what is obviously a space suit from the same space program he belonged to. Then, upon recognition, then a quick shave, he is psychologically fine...after being stranded on freaking MARS, alone, for how long?Complete the DNA strand with the rover and time to open the mountain and meet the special effects and friendly aliens...you know, the ones that most likely KILLED the three other people on the first mission (unless you believe dust storms have intelligence or it was just a coincidence that the storm moved like an animal and intentionally chased astronauts).Of course, everyone finds it back to earth except for Roy Neary...um...Lieutenant Dan who goes with the aliens in a pod, some galactic boiling bag in which he will no doubt be cooked and eaten.Besides all this...seriously, just having and adult Jerry O'Connell in a movie automatically makes it suck doesn't it? 3 stars because the effects weren't bad.I gave this movie a chance to impress, and it kicked me in the nads. "}{"Title":"A High Budget Film That Falls Into The, It's So Bad It's Good Category! I Honestly Laughed So Hard I Nearly Broke A Rib!","Date":"8 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This movie just may fall into the, it's so bad it's good category. I'll have to watch it again to see if it holds the test of time. It doesn't only fail, it fails so horribly that it generates laughs the way the worst of worst B rate movies only could, except with much cheesier dialog's and overall style. It's been so long since I've seen it, yet I can remember the opening picnic scene, where everyone's getting ready for the Mission, to be laughably cheesy! At this point I knew I was going to be in for quit the ride and it went above and beyond my cheesiest and dreadfully written dialog and storyline expectations. I vaguely remember the part when one dude floats off into space, but I remember enough to know that it should make the cut for worst moments in cinematic history.So I'm sitting there plugging through the movie, it's horribly entertaining, yet in ref to visuals and special effects it felt as though I was watching a normal budget type of movie, then out of nowhere the movie introduces the alien. OMFG! I've never laughed so hard in my life. I'm not exaggerating when I say that I nearly cracked a rib. I was crying and I couldn't breath. I wasn't the only one laughing. It was a combination of gasps of disgust and laughter throughout the theater. One of my friends said something under his breath as a knee jerk reaction along the lines of ahhh geeeze and the combo of the disgust and laughter in the theater made this moment epic! I admit I laughed harder and longer then anyone else. It must have taken several minutes before I finally contained myself, only to have the movie pan back to the alien again and I was out for the count in laughing hysterics once more. No words could do this worst moment in CGI history any justice, all I can say for sure is, they could have used one of the creatures in the bar scene in Star Wars and had a more realistic looking alien. You have to put it in perspective of watching a real movie for over an hour only to be blindsided by this alien. Anyways, back when I was in college I took a whole bunch of stimulants for several days and wrote this really deep complex paper. Then I had to demonstrate it to the class, and it was nearly impossible to interpret it for the class and it just wound up being this confusing pile of crap, well that's exactly how this movie ends, except it's not that deep, just extremely lame, although the writer thinks it's the meaning of freakin life! Lieutenant Dan essentially gets submerged in water, yet can breath, gets a sense of enlightenment over his face and the movie ends. This obviously sparked quite a bit of laughter in the theater as well. There were even several subtleties in this movie that makes it all that much more epically horrible. For one, Lieutenant Dan looks like Michael Jackson in this movie, which just gives the movie an even sillier feel to it. He must of had a bunch of cosmetic surgery done just prior to this film. Now I can't remember entirely if it's just Lieutenant Dan that looks like he's been superimposed in every shot or if it's the whole cast, but it looked like he wasn't able to make it on set, so he filmed all of his scenes in front of a green screen at his house and mailed it to the set. Since I'm on a star wars kick, he almost looks like he's in hologram form like obi-wan kenobi after he dies and appears to Luke as a Hologram from time to time. Anywho, if you enjoy watching cinematic tragedies this may be a hidden masterpiece. It could be long and painful as well, but I'm fairly sure If I were to watch it again, the style is so bad that I would be surprised if it didn't maintain entertainment value throughout the whole movie. "},{"Title":"Underwhelming","Date":"4 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" While surveying the Martian landscape, three astronauts aim a sonic device at a large mountain and encounter a strange sand tornado which turns predatory, promptly sucking two of the astronauts up and spinning them around until they splatter into a million pieces. The strange storm unveils a large stone face sculpture. Mars astronaut Don Cheadle is unaccounted for, so NASA arranges a rescue mission featuring Lieutenant Dan, Tim Robbins, Connie Nielsen and Jerry O'Connell. After several mishaps and a decent space death for Tim Robbins, they arrive on Mars many months later to find beardy Don Cheadle living sans helmet in a homemade biosphere. They realize the face sculpture was sending out a code, crack the code and enter a door in the giant face where they enjoy a late-90's CGI A/V presentation explaining that aliens seeded life on earth but had to leave town. They left behind a spaceship should humans ever 1. figure out their code; 2. harbor no hard feelings about their astronaut buddies being ripped limb-from-limb and 3. want to join them in outer outer space. Lieutenant Dan thinks that seems cool, so he goes. The remaining crew leaves Mars, the end. Mission to Mars is derivative of several better films, but steals most directly from 2001 A Space Odyssey in terms of plot, spaceship design and glacial pacing. A perfect example of how the two films compare People who have never seen 2001 can still recognize its iconic classical score, while the main musical set piece in Mission to Mars is a floating dance number to Van Halen's Dance the Night Away. Skip the rest of this paragraph if you don't care about 2001 I had to go back and read about it because I hadn't seen it in a while. The basic plot of that movie is that aliens assisted human evolution; the discovery of a stone monolith gives mankind the information necessary to assemble a mission to meet their makers and basically advance to the next evolutionary level and take a lot of LSD. Good stuff I'm pretty sure one of the Russian cosmonauts back on the base space station was played by 1996 US Olympic Women's Gymnastics coach Bela Karolyi. The aforementioned Tim Robbins space death is pretty good. A space explosion causes damage to the rescue ship, requiring that the entire crew abandon one section for another by putting on their suits and jetpacking over to it. Tim overshoots and begins floating toward the Martian atmosphere to be burned up. His astronaut wife (Nielsen) is understandably upset and uses a grappling hook to try to retrieve him, but it falls short. She does not have enough jetpack fuel to get him and return to the safety of the ship, but is is about to try it anyway. Tim wins the argument by taking off his space helmet and freezing solid instantly. Most of the effects still look decent, with the exception of the alien A/V presentation. Bad stuff Two notable major instances of questionable science. I'm trying not to be too nitpicky because I hate the Goofs section where people say things like Tim Robbins mentioned that he bought his Seiko watch in 2009, but that model of watch was not introduced until January of 2010. However, I'm pretty sure that&#x85; 1. You cannot breathe on Mars without a space helmet. When they arrive to rescue Don Cheadle, they see that he has cultivated a little greenhouse tent. This tent is maybe 10 by 15 feet and is not air-tight. It's just a tent. Apparently the plants are pumping out an oxygen force- field because Don is living quite comfortably as a helmet-less human on Mars. He says I give them CO2 and light, and they give me oxygen. (Apparently these plants are not related to the evil shrubs from The Happening). To be fair, I have never studied the amount of oxygen a single plant produces, but I feel that even if breathable air was blasting out of Don's garden like a leaf-blower it wouldn't be enough to create an Earth-atmosphere bubble. This point is somewhat related to subsection a, which is&#x85; a. Why are scientists/astronauts always so quick to take off their helmets while kicking around in alien atmospheres? It happens several times in this movie. I don't even care if my spaceman monitoring devices tell me the air is perfectly great, I'm not taking off my helmet. It's an alien planet. Just because the air is fine now doesn't mean they don't have fart storms on this planet. How would you know for sure? This is something people do in lots of movies, most recently in Prometheus, which had many great examples of scientists doing the exact opposite thing a rational human would do in a given situation. 2. In outer space, you don't need to keep firing your jetpack to keep moving. This was a major factor in the aforementioned Tim Robbins face- freezing scene. His wife is unable to retrieve him because she grinds to a halt and there is concern that she wouldn't have enough fuel to return to the ship. Again, I'm no astronaut or physicist, but I'm pretty sure that once you start heading in one direction in space, you don't stop until something stops you. She would only need to fire her jetpack once, catch up to him, turn around and fire it once to start back to the ship. Speaking of the face-freezing scene, I feel it was a missed opportunity that they didn't show Tim Robbinsicle burn up as he entered the Mars atmosphere. I'm envisioning a quick scene where he thaws for a moment, says I'm okay! Hey guys&#x85;! then bursts into flames. So, all in all, not terrible. Not good. Not bad. Just unremarkable. "},{"Title":"Atrociously bad movie. Laughable for much of it.","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I don't know what I'm more flabbergasted by that a director of some decent movies can create such a terrible, cheesy, and downright simple minded movie and get it released; or that some people actually consider this to be an intelligent, emotional, and interesting movie.First of all, lets get one thing out of the way this movie is dumb. This is about as intellectual and profound as 'Jingle All The Way'. The ideas and plot-line are something that might be expected from a 9 year old and are so full of overdone clichés and hammy faux profundity it's laughable.This might be forgivable if it was all delivered in a fun and exciting way, but it isn't. It's really quite amazing that de Palma has managed to make something inherently exciting and interesting (travelling to Mars, discovering something world changing) seem so run-of-the-mill and uninteresting. I put this down to the script and acting, all of which is delivered with all the gusto you might expect in a conversation about taking the bins out. It's as if the production company came up with the basic premise and plot and then ran it through a computer quickly to 'populate' the film with characters and interactions. This is all the more remarkable considering that these are actors of apparently high standards (especially Cheadle). There is no emotion or sense of urgency/fear/stress/excitement/happiness/relief/loss/awe or in fact anything. The script is so basic it's incredible. Simple, monosyllabic sentences are the order of the day, usually just adding noise to what is happening on screen. One scene essentially goes like this- You're floating away - Yes - But I don't want you to float away - Sorry - No!And that is one of the 'exciting' scenes.The only salvaging aspect of the film is that there are one or two visually interesting scenes, but they are all lifted straight out of 2001 A Space Odyssey, and they only manage to be less spectacular than the 1968 classic, and much less intriguing.The 'science' in this is all nonsense also. The film ignores or neglects to understand basic principles of physics and biology and just serves to add to the sense of silliness. Great science fiction takes known scientific theories and extends them and poses the question what if..?, rather than just rough-riding over all known realities of science.Now, I understand that films are often a matter of taste, and I can allow for people liking this film, but this is not a 'good' film it is a very poor quality film, and that is scientific fact. "},{"Title":"The spinning DNA? The Sea Monkey crying alien?","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I think I used to like sci-fi movies but I think they're all stupid now. M2M has this really annoying CGA of a DNA strand and the actors keep explaining what it is to the audience in case someone with an IQ of 75 just can't understand what DNA is. I can't stress enough how annoying this is as they are all astronauts/scientists. They would not have to be saying to each other all the time Do you see that? Do you know what that is? of COURSE their colleagues KNOW what it is!Then there is this alien which the astronauts from earth meet on mars which doesn't talk, just makes motions. This alien looks like a very poorly animated, tall, skinny Sea Monkey, I kid you not. It has a long skinny noble face a gets them all to hold hands as it shows them an animation of how earth was hit by an asteroid long ago and it sheds a fake looking CGA tear.The concept for this film was pretty good but it was terribly done. "},{"Title":"Bad even by the mid 20-th century standards","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The movie is not thrilling, not exhilarating. It feels like a movie about walking in a park. Actors/protagonists are emotionless. It seems like they are bored with all this space mission to an unknown planet, like they have been to Mars at least hundreds of times. They are never shocked or even slightly surprised when something happens. When they are about to die they act like their shoes got unlaced. And they almost constantly smiling.But all that wouldn't be so bad if the director/producers would make a slight effort in making this film a little bit authentic. I'm talking about sound/audio effects. Whenever there's a communication between the control center and spaceship (or between the spacesuits) there's no radio distortion. Everything sounds like a normal high-quality microphone. This spoils everything more than any bad acting or directing ever can. "},{"Title":"Very good, but obviously not for everyone","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just watched Mission to Mars for third time. Really don't understand some reviews here. It is not masterpiece, but is quite enjoyable. Actually, one of very rare space movies where physics is respected. However, the movie is not about science. Even landings on Mars were not scened.Probably, people don't like it because it is some kind a mixture. No great suspense, yelling, chasing (classic). But we have nice shots, fine CGI - look 'walk around carousel' scenes. There is much of original in movie, but sadly much of stolen too. There is obvious influence by book 'The Mars Mystery' from Graham Hancock - (Minor spoiler ahead) the head and hitting of Mars . In any case strongly recommended for every SF and cosmos/evolution fan. "},{"Title":"Horrible, Horrible Movie","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Don't even bother renting this worthless movie. It was so horrible that we left the theater before it was finished. My boyfriend is still paying me back for having to endure that awful trash.Tim Robbins is utterly irritating as a husband to a wife with whom he has apparently zero chemistry. The whole space is a novelty goofiness in the beginning of the movie is weird enough, and then they head into this bizarre otherworldly experience...I try to have the willing suspension of disbelief but it's a challenge with this particular movie. The whole film is an exercise in relentless tedium. It makes you wonder what the heck the director was thinking. He obviously had no clue where the plot was supposed to begin and end. "},{"Title":"Disaster","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" This film is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It is total disaster. I can not start criticizing it, because it will take me hours to finish with all my remarks about this movie. The main malfunction of this film is that it is presenting itself as a science fiction, but it has no basic knowledge of science. Here I have seen so much braking of physical laws that in comparison, Supermen is a Nobel price winer. I can just tell everyone(who have basic knowledge of physics, biology and astronomy) if you watch this movie it will not be only a waste of time, but it will be a waste of lot of your nerves. So, is up to you.What are the odds to fall on Mars just near the place where the American flag was waving(and by the way it was pushed by the wind waiting for you to pick it and wave it proudly on the martian wind and under the martian sun) ). "},{"Title":"Incoherent movie.","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Mission to Mars is far from a good movie but it's hard to say what it is that makes this movie a not so good one. It probably is due to the incoherent feeling of the movie. Most of the scene's and moments don't really feel connected and the movie feels like several separate scene's, simply glued together. The movie does has some good and powerful moments but because of the incoherent feeling of the scene's all together, the movie never truly works out as it was supposed to and the ending leaves a bad aftertaste.The movie has some truly excellent actors in it; Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen, Tim Robbins, Armin Mueller-Stahl. Those are some big names! Every actor does really well in this movie and gives a truly excellent performance.The movie is professionally made. The movie is visually good looking and has some nicely looking special effects in it, even though they are a bit over-the-top at times. The are some typical trademark Brian De Palma tense moments in the movie but even those moments don't work out fully an 100%. De Palma fans will be disappointed.Ennio Morricone delivers a really great musical score for this movie. It's both dramatic and heroic and is truly a pleasure to listen to. It sounds strange but I think that Morricone is really underrated as an artist. Most people will only know him for his Western score's but Morricone has really delivered some memorable and under-appreciated score's in his lifetime such as; The Mission, In the Line of Fire, The Untouchables and many more. Mission to Mars is another of his under-appreciated score's. It truly is a soundtrack worth owning. From a technical point of view there is little wrong with the movie but it is the incoherent storytelling that makes Mission to Mars a failed mission. The scene's don't always feel connected and also the ending can't be called entirely satisfying. Also story-wise the movie doesn't always make completely sense and there are some implausibilities at times. Still fans of the science-fiction genre will find some joy in this movie. It really isn't a THAT bad movie and at times it also is a really entertaining one. It's just that the bad story and storytelling completely ruin all the movie its potential. It's still a watchable movie but I simply can not recommend it wholeheartedly.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Ho hum","Date":"21 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I've read some of the reviews here and decided to give it a go. Other than its sci-fi and has a few good shots its not much to rave about. For those that saw connections to 2001 I don't know what you were smoking but i found it a real stretch. In fact if anything I saw connections to Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Mostly though it seemed to used tried and boring conventions used in many films before. And Gary Sines's grin was always there from beginning to end...never changing. This is one of those movies you can sleep through and when you ask if you missed anything the answer is No. Lets see......need 10 lines to post this review........ "}{"Title":"Plagairism in Space!","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Seems throughout his career, Brian De Palma has a small problem with the words hommage and plagiarism. Harlan Ellison(a famed sci-fi writer) says it brilliantly De Palma loves to re-do the works of others I'm a screen-writer, science fiction mostly, and a indie filmmaker science fiction, mostly; and I want to tell the youthful future writers and directors on here--BE ORIGINAL!-- READ GOOD sci-fi! THEN make your films!This is how MtM COULD have been made well the crew is assigned to rescue mission. On Mars they find 1 survivor, living in a shack made from the wreckage of his ship, the older Russian and U.S. space landers, and some help from a cave(as a deep inner room, with the wreckage built at the mouth). He tells of a strange force that killed everyone but him. The rescue crew is attacked by the force--not a giant wind storm, but a wave of energy. 1 person is left conscious. He is mentally compelled to enter into a hole in a large mound. Once inside, he finds a functioning control room. It has video screens that he is compelled mentally, to turn on. On it he sees the last posthumous recordings of the inhabitants of Mars. They tell of a planetoid torn apart by gravitational pressures from Jupiter and it's moons and the Asteroid Belt between Mars and Jupiter. The aliens sent a few lucky ones to EARTH. Those aliens were HUMANOIDS, but not entirely HUMAN--they were more adapted to less sunlight, lower gravity, and extreme cold. Before the planetoid blew up and ripped most of Mar's atmosphere off, the planet could sustain human life! The survivors mated with earth humans, and lo and behold, modern Mankind evolved! He uses his suit mounted camera(a digital one) to film what he sees, to record it for science and future missions. The astronaut then leaves the control room, finds his friends awake and inside the lander, and when asked what happened to him he smiles and utters a cryptic line I looked through Man's family album End of film, as they fly up to their mother ship and go home with the digital video, and mankind's first inklings of it's origins. NOTE only a couple of people die(the force doesn't want just ANYONE to be contacted), and the rescue ship DOES NOT have a meteor collision and suffer loss of crew.... ALSO, NO living aliens, and NO rip off of 2001. "},{"Title":"So bad its GOOD!!!","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Have to say i've watched this film and it was a laugh .The joke is on Don Cheadle throughout .... and thats not maybe .The bit where Don Cheadle is rescued in the return mission and they find him in the wrecked spacecraft looking like Robinson Crusoe having a bad hair-day is just roll around on the floor funny .There are many more scenes in the film where actors like Gary Sinise are trying to keep in the laughing at the lines Cheadle is given .He is just made to look bad throughout.The only background i have on the film is an interview in Empire magazine with Tim Robbins .Seemingly DePalma realised at some stage that the shoot wasn't going to plan and he just started doing his own thing .Robbins decided he wanted out and so he was killed off 3/4 ways through .Why they decided to have a laugh at Don Cheadle's expense ,is anyones guess .My guess is that Cheadle became the butt of all humour because he was over awed by the gaggle of talent and it's only human nature ,if you don't get the joke at your expense and don't stand up for yourself,then people are going the pile it on .Watch this movie again with new eyes ,its a laugh .I would be very interested to hear what other people think ,is there any more background info about this film .I had a laugh ,i hope you can find the time to get back to me on this one !!! "},{"Title":"I want my money back","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" If having a ridiculous script, moronic dialogues, absurd sceneries (those err... tents in mars), a theft from Kubrick's 2001 (and the problem here is that DePalma refused to admit he had copied the scene from Kubrick's 2001, which he obviously did), if all this wasn't enough, this film also features the most pathetic alien ever in the history of sci-fi. I really don't think there was really any need to show an alien at all - as a matter of fact, there wasn't any need to show the entire film at all! - but if they wanted offer the audiences yet another green being, the least they could've done was to come up with a fairly decent one and not some piece of corny, bad quality 3D.On second thoughts, a corny alien is what suits best that oh so predictable let's-all-cry-together grand finale. Terrible. And what a waste of so many good actors' time. "},{"Title":"DePalma's 2001 Redux","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" MISSION TO MARS (2000) ** Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen, Jerry O' Connell, Tim Robbins, Kim Delaney, Elise Neal, Armin Mueller-Stahl, Peter Outerbridge, Kavan Smith. Lackluster special effects driven sci-fi flick set in the not-too-distant future with a NASA rescue expedition en route to Mars to investigate the maiden voyage's ill fated visit to the Angry Red Planet asks more questions than can be answered (What exactly is the origin of the universe?) but does so in a stylish Kubrickian way with its visuals thanks to Industrial Light & Magic and Dream Quest's out-of-this-world magic and a few hairy moments involving a space walk and an ominous sandy vista of the barren desert planet. An excellent cast goes through the motions thanks to the leaden screenplay by Jim & John Thomas and Graham Yost based on a story by Lowell Cannon and filmmaker Brian De Palma gets his ever impatient camera on all cylinders yet doesn't create a truly compelling story. By the film's unintentionally humorous ending it just comes too fast and with practically no closure at all. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars!","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is very good. I don't know what is wrong with it. It has a different cast, good acting, good music, and effects! Sure you may not be in love with the ending but its just another theory or at least it in My opinion. If you like Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Connie Nielsen, Brian De Palma, sci-fi, and aliens then watch Mission to Mars!Movie Nuttball's NOTEIf you like alien movies and/or the subject of aliens I also recommend the following films The Thing from another World, The War of the Worlds, The Day the Earth Stood Still, The UFO Incident, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial, John Carpenter's The Thing, Time Walker, My Science Project, Howard the Duck, Mac and Me, Explorers, Invaders from Mars, The Abyss, Communion, Fire in the Sky, Independence Day, The Arrival, Mars Attacks! Stephen King's Dreamcatcher, Xtro 3 Watch the Skies, Impostor, Stargate, The Puppet Masters, John Carpenter's Village of the Damned, Life Form, The X-Files Fight the Future, Signs, Alien, Aliens, Alien 3, Predator, Predator 2, The entire Star Wars saga (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, The Return of the Jedi, The Phantom Menace, & Attack of the Clones), the entire Star Trek movie saga (Star Trek The Motion Picture, The Wrath of Khan, The Search for Spock, The Voyage Home, The Final Frontier, The Undiscovered Country, Generations, First Contact, Insurrection, & Nemesis) and Stephen King's IT! "},{"Title":"This movie is so bad","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is such a stupid movie. The characters are worse than annoying. The are perfectly not worth wathing. Why should we care about all of this? There is no vision, nothing splendid about this movie. Kubrick´s Space Oddesey is probably one of the greatest movies ever and has intelligence, ethics and meaning. This sci-fi has none of that at all and should be avoided.  "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is one time i should of took notice of the critics.it builds up to the biggest anti climax of all time. the cast look as bored as i was, no doubt they were dreading the thought of having to see this crap at a later date. one to Avoid.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"worst movie ever !","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  first of all, I gotta say that this movie is so bad, that I don't consider it a shame to give you some spoilers.Notice how the critics can actually tell you why this movie stinks, while the fanboys just say it's great, it's dePalma & it's Tim RobbinsI respect all the people involved in this film, I even consider some of them among my personal favorites - Robbins, Sinise, dePalma.Instead of the comments about the dialoque and stuff, I'll offer you some more arguments. Early on we discover that Sinise had a wife that died, they were very much in love. To emphasize this, poor Gary spends the rest of the movie wearing eyeliner, to make him look reeeeeeeeally sad - why oh why ??The characters in this movie, are so thin that when Tim Robbins floats into space, you just want to hit the fast forward button, because you don't care 2 cents about his character. And this was the guy I absolutely loved in Hudsucker Proxy and The Player.Then they land on Mars and things get ugly. Sure you invent new ways depict spaceadventures, in every movie, but you can try. Why does it rip off 2001 ? - well when they enter the alien building, they're in a big weird white room with no walls, corners etc. - sounds familiar ??later on we get a very emotional story about how this poor giant alien got left on Mars, when his race started life on earth - now if anyone in the audience didn't realize that this was a deep moment, the giant alien cries a large mercury tear !?!?!?!! at this point I was ready to stand up scream at the screen, and I didn't even pay to get in.I think this movie is an insult to the actors, and to the movies it so badly copies. "},{"Title":"What this film proves","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  1. You can do special effects just as good as 2001... Good effects do not make for a good movie... 2. You can hire well known actors... Good actors do not make for a good movie... 3. You can show the USA flag for 15 minutes... Showing the USA flag does not give you any browny points... (Especially in Europe) 4. You can have lousy special effects mixed with good ones... The worst aliens since BEFORE the Swamp Thing! 5. You can have NO story and NO plot... Oh come on? The script was from the back of cerials box! 6. You can make a film tooooooooo long... I say it once, it was painful, just painful...All in all, the WORST FILM EVER...WORST!... NO OTHER FILM IS THAT BAD... NONE! NOT MY MUMS SUPER-8 FILMS... NONE NONE NONE! "},{"Title":"A root canal or Mission to Mars?","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You judge which is least painful.I'm usually a fan of the sci-fi genre, but M2M had me reaching for the air sickness bag early on. Why?First, the dialogue-- Jim McConnellno no no no no and great great great great great (eat your heart out Dalton Trumbo). Gary Sinise to Don Cheadle (after he's had his first shave and haircut on Mars) Sinise How does it feel. Cheadle Lighter, much lighter. (I was moved by the writers' economy of words).Second, the relationship between Connie Nielson and Tim Robbins--Is this married couple for real? Could they possibly be more perfect and in love? Anyone who's ever been married instantly realizes that it's this syrupy relationship which elevates this film to the realm of pure science fiction (personally, I'd prefer a slow, painful death to being stuck in the same spaceship with this couple for six months).Third--gaps in logic. Why would several astronauts stand around the surface of Mars and watch (evidently with little concern) as a 20 story high sand creature (accompanied by category 5 hurricane winds) is conjured before them? Don't they have college degrees?  By the time they think of getting their endangered  astrobutts back to the mothership, they're ripped apart limb-by-limb  by a highly evolved, very enlightened, and an extraordinarily compassionate alien intelligence which interprets and responds to a garden-variety radar beam as a sign of the apocalypse. Go figure.It'll be a while before I can screw-up the courage to see another DePalma film (or before I can see another film that DePalma's screwed-up). "}{"Title":"IF YOU HATED IT TOO....","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  okay so the movie sucked we all know that....but why take me on a two hour + trek to mars to tell me that we came from aliens....PLEASE!!!!if we came from aliens then why are we so stupid and i am sorry but we are not going to evolve into them!!!!plus there was way too much mellodrama for me to handle i think i could have done without the 30 minute float through space with tim robbins.okay now i am getting upset so i will just stop there....m2m is the one of the worst movies ever made and gary and tim are going to have to live that one down forever....sorry guys "},{"Title":"The WORST sci fi movie EVER","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  How ANYBODY could say that this movie is good is beyond me.  I think De Palma should NEVER make another science fiction movie EVER.   I am a pretty big fan of both Robbins and Sinise.  But, even their performances can't save this utterly useless script.  What really did it for me though was the ending.  Those aliens looked like paper cutouts held up by strings. Absolutely the worst science fiction movie EVER. "},{"Title":"one of the most horrible films ever made","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I like Sci-Fi and I like Tim Robbins, but this film has become the film that I refer back to all the time when measuring up horrible films. For example, Vertical Limit was absolutely terrible, but at least it wasn't as bad as Mission to Mars. What a waste of a film for Tim Robbins to be in, I hope they paid him good for being in this movie because it has no redeeming qualities. Bad story, boring, lame plot. Dumb computer animated special effect sequence.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrible and Utterly Ridiculous","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was stunned by the stupidity of the dialogue in this film, Gary Sinise spews out some of the most idiotic drivel ever uttered in a sci-fi film.  Many of his lines are read in an almost monotone voice, with a stupid look on his face.  This is one of those bombs that by the end has you hoping that all of the characters get tortured and killed one by one.  Don't waste your time on this dog. "},{"Title":"A major disappointment","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is easily the worst movie I have ever seen.  It seems that no one stopped to think about the story or the script for a single second.  It's just three special effects sequences with bad acting, offensive writing, and poor logic wrapped around them. "},{"Title":"Mission to find the stop button on your VCR and throw this to mars!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ok I saw this when this was first out and the first thought I had was yeah it's ok BUT then, while watching it I was thinking about the sloppy love scenes and couples on the same program at NASA, errrrhhh... yeah right. This movie ended up annoying me, I mean, What is it with that music???? and all those close up shots of Tim Robbins pulling a smarmy grin in the spacesuit. oh yeah,  that computer voice that just seems to get worse with no atmosphere... hmmmmm... Of course this is just MY opinion. "},{"Title":"nr five in my worst movies top ten","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is one of the most stupid movies I've ever seen. Although it starts off quite realistic, it builds up such an unrealistic plot, which ends in a hilarious climax. I have to say, it could have been a good comedy, I was laughing anyway. You'll find everything what you need for a good laugh heroic sacrifices (oh no!!! he is floating away to save the others), a course in how surviving the planet Mars... Let's face it Brian De Palma couldn't be serious making this movie. "},{"Title":"Umm ex-squeeze me, baking powder (May contain Spoilers)","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  what a load of crap. First it goes against everything the Bible. The they throw Tim Robbins in there. he is a great actor. He didn't deserve this. I mean, Red Planet was Ten times better than this mess of crap. Brain DePalma needs to stick to crime-dramas. Not science fiction. The ending, was without a doubt the corniest thing i've ever seen. It was just plain awful. Where the heck did the aliens come from.Aliens + Red Planet + Battlefield Earth = Mission to Mars "},{"Title":"Tell me that was a nightmare and not a real film","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Uh, Susan, please, please tell Brian to kill me.  Please have him kill my character!!!  Now!!, said Tim.Poor DePalma - his bad films keep him from being among the top directors of the last 20 years, because his bad films are SO bad.This film is beyond comment. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This could quite possibly be the worst movie I have ever seen.  I can imagine nothing worse than sitting through this horror again.  I feel that the producers responsible for this film owe me 2.5 hours of my life back. They should also pay my late fee at blockbuster for when I rented this piece of garbage. "}{"Title":"2001 or Mission to Mars?","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie seems like a very bad rendition of 2001 Space Odyssey. There were too many plot holes, and one of the only movies I have ever wanted to walk out on.  I will not watch this movie again after I saw it on the first day out.  It looked promising at the beginning, but when the story never really got going I was just disappointed. Mission to Mars copied the big ideas from 2001, from the walk in the rotating room in the space ship, to the white room inside the head.  I really like Tim Robbins, he's one of my favorite actors (Shawshank Redemption), but I was sad to see his fate. Please, do not watch this movie unless you want to rip it apart to look at what not to do in a movie.  "},{"Title":"A Cinematic Experience to be missed","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This is the kind of movie that has you wishing that a couple with REALLY BIG HAIR would take the seats directly in front of you and begin a VERY LOUD conversation over a JUMBO tub of popcorn. Even if you are that lucky, however, this movie will probably interfere with your enjoyment of the whole experience. "},{"Title":"It was so bad it was funny","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Two friends and I watched this right after watching Gladiator and boy was that a sinking feeling to go from an excellent movie to what must be one of the most inept science fiction movies ever made. I swear we three had a hoot pointing out the endless science blunders. Perhaps if you failed science completely this movie might not seem bad but if you know anything it's guaranteed to make you roll your eyes. Chromosomes are base pairs? The space station had one part rotating while the other was immobile? A tiny sliver of frozen fuel causes an explosion while the masses of ignited fuel from the engines is no problem? Mars is 20 light minutes away? A point of no return when fuel is only used to alter your delta V? Also it was a shameless imitation (and no flattery here) of the best movie ever made 2001 A Space Odyssey. In 6 days it will be 2001 and the 21st century and 3rd Millennium will start. I look forward to it.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have rented in the past decade!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had absolutely nothing going for it from the opening bell. The cast, with Tim Robbins and Gary Sinise, deceived me into thinking this might be a good movie. I'm glad we didn't spend $20 to see it at the movies! "},{"Title":"Now THIS is bad","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I hated this one. Everything's wrong - from the very start, where the astronauts have a garden-party where they get drunk the day before they go into space. Yeah right! The characters are one-dimensional, the story is just plain stupid and even the effects fail to impress. And the point of it all ??? Well, tell me this if the riddle of life on earth can be answered it was created on Mars - where did the life on Mars then come from ? Oh please - don't make a Mission to Mars II to try to explain. I've had enough. "},{"Title":"Best Feature of This Movie is the Ridicule From the Audience","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Because Mission to Mars was presented as a free movie at MIT, the lecture hall was packed.  Everyone came expecting a good movie based on the trailers.  Unfortunately, Mission to Mars did not deliver.  I am glad we did not have to pay for it.  It was evident from the start that Mission to Mars shamelessly stole ideas from other science-fiction movies.  Everything from the design of the spacecraft, the behavior of the crew, the all-too predictable disasters, and the totally moronic ending were cobbled from much better films.  We spent hours picking the scientific and technical gaffes apart after the movie in the Student Coffeehouse.  Although the special effects were often spectacular, the movie dragged for the most part.  The talents of the stars were wasted on one-dimensional characters and a dismal script.  The best part of this movie was likely not intentional.  The movie generated non-stop comments, jokes and ridicule from the audience which reminded me of the best from Mystery Science Theater 3000.  The antics from the audience actually made the movie funny enough to endure.  When Mission to Mars ended, the entire audience yelled in unison, This Movie S**Ks. I agree.  Mission to Mars is an insult to anyone who enjoys good science-fiction.  Although this movie can almost be justified as a vehicle for audience participation, like we had at MIT, such participation is usually frowned upon in a regular public theater.  Therefore, you cannot go to Mission to Mars with the hope that you can revive Mystery Science Theater 3000. I would rate this movie as a 0 out of 10 stars.  Unfortunately IMDb does not provide ratings this low.  If you like this movie, you will probably like Red Planet.  If you want to watch better science-fiction movies, skip this one and watch the movies it borrowed from instead. "},{"Title":"Everyone can make a mistake, and De Palma is no exception ...","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The plot is interesting and some of the scenes are awesome, but science fiction is unfortunately not one of De Palma´s stronger sides. The problem is the science in the science fiction, and this movie has no real cohesion, no root in reality. Mars is one thing. The Red Planet beckons ... but it is a long journey, and it is more likely that mankind will be sufficiently prepared when and if we decide to head for Mars. The technology used in The Mission To Mars bears more resemblance to what we have today, and does not reflect what we can expect to have in twenty years from now.The laws of physics should also be taken into account, and I can´t see why astronauts should not be allowed to have intelligent remarks from time to time. It isn´t possible is not very scientific ... and who put the fuel pipes on the outside of the spacecraft for crying out loud?  "},{"Title":"Possibly the worst movie ever made","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was possibly the worst movie ever made. While some scenes were visually very good, the story it self was rubbish. The product placement was so overwhelmingly blatant that this was the only talking point of the movie once it was over. "},{"Title":"Lame, lame, lame","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Once upon a time there was an episode of Star Trek Next Generation. Captain Picard  was enlisted by a former colleague in searching for clues regarding the genetic code.  Once they found all the pieces of the puzzle, an alien being appeared and announced to Picard and Company that their species existed millions of years ago and before their planet faced extinction, they dropped their DNA code around the universe, hoping that one day, their genetic offspring will solve the puzzle. Hmmmmm....sounds kind of familiar, doesn't it?  It was much easier to watch that one hour episode than this 2 hour soap opera.  Plus, what was with the music in this movie?  Other than Van Halen, it sounded like romance music from a cheesy 70's tv show.  For a good Mars mystery, I will take Total Recall any day. 2/10 "},{"Title":"What a stinker","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Once upon a time there was a director, who was my favourite director because of his suspenseful and visually stunning movies. What´s left of this director is his visual style which is still intact and still fun to watch. This director is Brian De Palma and I loved every movie from Carrie to The Untouchables. I even liked Raising Caine. But obviously Brian De Palma has lost his hand for good stories (see Mission Impossible and Snake Eyes). I feel sorry for everyone involved in this movie, except cinematographer Stephen Burum, who was as reliable as ever, and the visual effects team, which created some memorable images (which unfortunately does not include the bad design of the alien creature). Speaking of this alien, this whole section of the movie was nearly unwatchable in almost every aspect, e.g. the creature design, the bad acting of Gary Sinise, the dumb dialogue and the unremarkable finale. The entire good cast was wasted in this terrible story. They also often looked as if they didn´t knew how to act in a certain scene because maybe they didn´t even knew what this scene was all about. Just look at the first sandstorm sequence, where they all acted as if there was no dangerous situation. The listed screenwriters also have written movies like Speed and Predator, which have been great action thrillers. And Ted Tally (Scripter of The silence of the lambs) who is one of the producers, surely also contributed to the script, realized that this was a big mistake and removed his name from the screenwriter list. Anyway, they all must have been unconscious while writing this dumb stuff. Ennio Morricone has composed some great soundtracks over the years (all Sergio Leone films, The mission, Casualties of war, The Untouchables) and he also has composed some scores that are assaulting your ears (Hamlet, Frantic, Sahara). This one falls in the latter category and is extremely nervewracking and distracting from the images on the screen. This music is absolutely the worst I have heard in recent years of watching movies.I can pick a lot of other people and several other scenes but this leads to nothing more than what I have already written. This movie is a complete failure for everyone involved and especially for Mr. De Palma, who after the failures of Snake Eyes and this one will have to make his next movie a hit, otherwise he may have a hard time getting another big budget job. So, do whatever you want with your time, but don´t even think about watching this movie !! "}{"Title":"Save two hours of your life!","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I wept like a little baby during this movie, not because it was a tear jerker, but because I would never get that two hours back ever! The only entertaining moment of the movie was the alien, which was clearly created by a two year old, with an etch a sketch! If you only do one thing this year, save two hours of your life and skip this movie. (go rent 2001 to see a real space movie!) "},{"Title":"Best Cast in Worst Movie","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I was hyped and ready for this movie.  When it started I thought I was in for quite an entertaining ride.  But as the movie progressed, the dialogue got more predictable and even BAD.  The horrible score (something fitting of a 50's sci -fi movie) constantly reminded me I was only watching a movie.. and a bad one at that.  Over all, I feel horrible for the wonderful actors involved in this abymsal project.  And to you ,the reader, I caution, DO NOT SPEND YOUR MONEY.  It is horrible. From the trite dialogue to the recycled special effects.  It's a B movie with a big budget. "},{"Title":"Film was in color, and for the most part in focus.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This was, without a doubt, the worst movie I have ever seen. Armageddon looks like Citizen Kane compared with this waste of celluloid.The script was filled with hockey dialogue that was for the most part laughable. The plot had major holes, here is an obvious one why were the circuits only fried on the escape vehicle, yet there are obviously computers working when the rescue team arrives? There are far too many to write.Most of the film seem like it was shot just for product placement. I never saw so many corporate logos in my life. Does NASA slap a Pennzoil and Kawasaki sticker on all it's vehicles. Or my favorite blatant placement shot Gary Sinise arrives in his 2020 model Isuzu car which you can make out by the giant Isuzu logo on it. The camera zooms in on the subjects as the recite dreadfully cheesy lines then zooms back out to get a full shot of the car and logo before cutting. Some ad wizards at these companies are going to get fired.In all I suggest seeing this film, I want someone to suffer the way I had to.  "},{"Title":"A movie for the masses who don't care.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  You know what? When I walked into this movie, I really thought that I was in for a great sci-fi movie. However, the outcome was nothing near what I expected. This was a completely inaccurate movie (I watched all the credits - I didn't even see any consultants listed), and there was a very predictable plot. Half the technology in the movie seemed to be stolen from 2001 A Space Odyssey (I was basically waiting for a space baby to appear.) And lastly, the strapped on happy ending was complete trash.This movie might be good for someone who is not a big sci-fi fan, but to all of us smart people who didn't enjoy stuff along the lines of 1998's Godzilla, this movie will look bad to you too. "},{"Title":"Almost laughed until I cried...","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I had heard some information about Mission to Mars from my coworkers and we all decided to go see it at a matinee show. Seems as if it was made up of several scenes from other films. The opening sequence was very similar to the opening sequence of Apollo 13 without the excitement.  The grappling scene in space was similar to the TV pilot for Lost in Space.I was totally amazed by the imagination of the producers of this film.  So many special effects were so impossible that it was laughable.  I laughed aloud several times as the Mars 2 micrometeor scene unfolded.  It is really just not possible to have a liquid at room temperature freeze solid from a few seconds exposure to the vacuum of space.  Also, Tim Robbins body could never have frozen solid in 3 seconds like that. SPACE is a VACUUM... remember those thermos bottles you hold your hot coffee inside of?  A VACUUM does not transport heat, except by radiating it, which is a very slow process.  Tim Robbins body should have exploded inside his suit.  His space helmet should have gained enough velocity from the escaping gases, that it would have been moving further and further from him, instead of just hovering a few feet above his head.  The fuel that was leaking from the engines, well, it shouldn't have been trickling out (as well as the soft drink shouldn't have been trickling out of the hole in the spacecraft) it should have been spraying out like a aerosol can, and it wouldn't have frozen solid either, for the reasons stated above.As for the acting, I frankly expected much more and got far less than I had hoped.  It all seemed directed, you could see the directing all though the film... could not get into the fantasy at all because of that.  The alien, well, that was so Disney-esque, so much so that it was hokey.It will be a film to be laughed at for a long time.  I hope they use it on Mystery Science Theatre 3000 some time soon. "},{"Title":"Terrible!!!!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie about two hours ago. This is a terrible movie.  Did anybody think at all before making this movie?  It is a bad rip off of 2001 and 2010 and Apollo 13.  I can't say enough bad things about this disaster!  What a terrible terrible terrible terrible movie.  It is just terrible.  I don't even know where to begin....I can't even think straight....the acting is bad, story is bad, plot? what plot? I kept waiting for something to happen. When something finally did happen, in the last 15 minutes of the movie, I wanted to die it was so stupid.... "},{"Title":"Ponderous","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Boy, this movie would just not end!  They really lost me when the astronaut checked her wrist computer for fuel and it said Point of no return.  I mean, who the hell would program *that*?Not much good to say about this movie.  I really liked the ship and some of the landscapes on Mars.  I just can't imagine what Sinise and Robbins could have been thinking when they read this script.  "},{"Title":"Truly Awful","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie definitely does not live up to the trailer. The only thing worthwhile about this movie are the truly spectacular  weather effects. Down here in Texas we are very familiar with major dust storms and what I saw on the screen was very realistic. Other than that the movie truly stinks and not even Gary Sinise is able to save it. The supporting cast is limited to B movie actors and the acting is similar to what I occasionally catch out of the corner of my eye when my girlfriend watches soap operas. The story is completely uninvolving and the editing is jumpy, creating a discontinuity that is very disorienting. The stupidity of the characters is overwhelming. For example, as the mountain they are trying to scan develops a huge, yet very localized duststorm that eventually begins dropping large chunks of rock on the surrounding area they continue to look on in amazement and never bother to seek shelter. In fact no one even seems concerned until they get sucked up one by one. I feel robbed of my $6 dollars and too embarrassed to admit I was there on opening night.  "},{"Title":"Wow, that was bad!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I won't rehash the many fine bashings that have already been done. Suffice to say that I agree with most of the negative comments and few, if any, of the positive ones.  I'm truly sad for the actors though.  Sinise, Robbins, Cheadle and Mueller-Stahl are all far above this kind of movie.  I'm even disappointed for O'Connel.Some of the visuals were decent, others were laughable.  I guess some of the space stuff was reasonably realistic--although, again, some was laughable.With as much focus as there was on DNA in this movie, couldn't they have done at least some research on genetics?  At one point we see a tiny snippet of DNA, and a character claims that it looks human...given the size of the snippet, you'd have been lucky to identify whether it belonged to anything. Then we're told that, based on this double-helix snippet, it can't be human because it's missing two chromosomes.  How many stinking miles of double-helix does it take to make up two chromosomes?  Alot more than the tiny snippet shown on the screen.Go see Pitch Black instead.  It had serious problems too, but it at least had some redeeming points. "},{"Title":"Disappointingly mediocre.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Great special effects can't make up for poor writing.  Direction was slow and uninspired. Lame,  lame,  lame. "}{"Title":"One of the worst movies of 2000","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  What do you get when you have 1) a terrible plot that goes nowhere, 2) a soundtrack that sounds like an old lady learning to play an organ, and 3) dialogue that seems to be made up by the special Trekkies?  Answer Mission from Mars.  What is sad is that the special effects are more advanced than the story.  This is the first movie in which I cannot relate to what happened in the movie.  From what I saw, the Mission from Mars is not yet finished....what was the mission anyway?  "},{"Title":"Kubrick is spinning in his grave","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst movies i have seen in a long time. It has very few redeeming qualities, in fact it has none save one good scene. A great cast, none of whom performed. There is absolutely no on screen chemistry. None of the actors (all of who i know can be great) convinced me that this movie was anything other than a dry read. It is extremely contrived, cliche, and anticlimactic. It is also sadly a homage to 2001 that falls very flat. I haven't felt this cheated at a movie theater in a very long time. This is definitely DePalma at his lowest. One of the theater goers at the end of the movie booed quite loudly to much laughter. I just wish he hadn't beat me to it. "},{"Title":"Otherwise Known as AIR??WHAT THE HELL!!!!??!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Terrible, just awful. A real travesty. I could have pulled a better script out of an outhouse. Otherwise known as air.  WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT!?!?THANK YOU WE ALREADY KNOW YOU DUMB ASTRONAUT!!!Everything about this movie was cheesy. From the CGI to the ultra predictable plot. DONT see it, if your still interested, RENT it at most. This is not worth $8!!!NOT AT ALL!!!thank you for reading. "},{"Title":"Mission to rip you off","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has NO good things. Who composed the soundtrack?!?!Between the bad acting, terrible script and annoying soundtrack, this movie made me dizzy at times. The only reason why I watched the whole thing is because it was sci-fi.The special effects were poorly done too, no innovation there.Bottom line if you wanna waste $8.50 go to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Horrible script, directing & post production.","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have never left the theatre before a film was finished until today.  If you are into B movies then I highly suggest this one because it is just that.  Right off the bat this flick rubbed me the wrong way.  During the opening credits, the music score was some hip hop oldie song (or something) and did not fit the general feel of the film.  Later on, when the rescue team aproaches mars, we get a little Van Halen interlude with Robbins and his wife dancing in Zero Grav...CHEESE!  The script jumped all over the place and the shot selection was just horrible.  When Robbins' character is about to die, he is so casual about never seeing his wife again (she is trying to rescue him) that it's like they're back dancing to Van Halen. The computer effects are typical, swirling dust clouds just like The Mummy and so many others.  Bottom line, if you decide to see this film wait for it to come on HBO.  Don't even spend your cash renting the video when it comes out next week.  "},{"Title":"A good nap, at best","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a waste of time, money, and talent.In short, the movie's makers thought they were being profound, but they weren't.  Instead the movie was stupid and cliched, almost a parody of itself.When I watched the PREVIEW, I figured that, in a nutshell, the plot of the movie probably went something like this a team goes to Mars, but something goes wrong.  A rescue team is sent, but some trouble happens to them too. But then they find some incredible thing on Mars, some awesome secret about life and evolution and earth and the universe...blah blah blah...Pretty vague and maybe interesting, huh?  Well, the problem is that that's exactly what the movie's about.  And it doesn't really get any more profound or concrete than that.It was painful watching such accomplished actors stumble awkwardly through such a horrible script.  A 4 year old could have written it. And the melodrama they try to force into this movie drags it out unbearably.I wouldn't even bother renting this movie, unless you're tired and want to sleep.   "},{"Title":"I've never wanted my money back before . . .","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I guess I went in expecting a science fiction film rather than an unintelligent melodrama set in space.  Perhaps had I gone in expecting the latter, this movie would not be one of the few I will caution my friends to avoid.DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!  Let it die a quick death, and send a message to Hollywood that we are not mindless zombies.The most saddening part about this wretched movie is that it could have been salvaged.  Had the director, producer, and script writers worked on the human relationships rather than focusing their attention on how can we get X to happen it could have been...well...not a good movie, but at least a movie I could have respected rather than a movie that resulted in my gasping as the credits were rolling, How awful!Rather than see this movie, donate your time to some worthy cause, or read a book. "},{"Title":"Give us some credit Hollywood!","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  And the winner for most misleading trailer of 1999 goes to...For anyone with a shred of intelligence and dignity this movie is quite painful to watch. I can accurately summarize M2M as several hundred painfully corny emotional scenes interspersed with the occasional contrived space-vehicle action sequence.The acting was horribly hammy, though in the actors' defense, there was little anyone could do with the cheesy, unnaturally dramatic dialog that populated this film. If only (dead character) could be here to see this. He is. He  did it for all of us. Here, he would have wanted you to have this.The special effects were enjoyable in their early appearances, but the plot and script soon overwhelmed the enjoyment this brought. The early sequences of the film were almost exciting (if the schmolzy BBQ at the start didn't send you to sleepy-land) but after that, the awful plot reduces any special effects to the movie-making equivalent of rhinestones glued to a cheap polyester tuxedo.The insulting lack of subtlety of the movie is also worth noting. Flashbacks of the dead wife, replays of scenes of the film to remind us of important clues, You know and I know there's only one man for this mission - sheesh. It was also very Americo-centric, the non-American actors had about a minute of screen time, whereas the scene of the star spangled banner flapping in the Martian breeze got two. World Space Station my ass.Also, as one with a degree in Astrophysics it would be appropriate to comment on the scientific plausibility of the film, except that I don't think I really have to at this point, do I. Hooray for Hollywood!I was forced to watch Armageddon because I was on a plane, but alas I paid for this one. Don't make my mistake - steer clear of it unless you're somewhere over the Pacific and can't sleep. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars F-","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is nothing short of a complete snoozefest. From the moment it started to the moment it ended, I sat in my seat yawning like crazy, and wondering where the heck is the actual movie? It truly was one of the most stupid films I've seen in quite a long time. Gary Senise was ok, but in every scene you saw him in, I thought Man, they really put on a couple coats of make-up on him, didn't they? The actual only convincing acting in the whole film was done by Kim Delaney, seen only in flashback videos as Senise's dead wife. The special effects were at least half-way decent, but couldn't make up for the atrocious dialogue and film itself. Mission to Mars tried too hard to be a combination of 2001, The Abyss, Apollo 13, The Mummy (yes, I said The Mummy), and Close Encounters. I pity everyone involved in this disgraceful attempt at a film. And you could tell the writers didn't know what they were doing, because in the obvious places they encountered writer's block, they just inserted a scene where Gary Senise remembers his dead wife and is sad, as if the audience is really supposed to sympathize or something. The film is a laughable mess, from beginning to end.  "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars fails in all areas","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I am a fan of science fiction. I especially like films that deal with current or near future explorations in space. When I first heard of Mission to Mars, I was excited that we were going to have a film that explored the idea of our first mission to the red planet. Finally seeing Mission to Mars, I have to say that it was one of the few movies I have ever wanted to walk out of. From opening to ending, the film is filled with plot holes, bad acting, even worse dialogue and illogical direction.I was expecting a `goose bump' inducing scene showing our first landing and steps on Mars. We don't get it. Once taken to Mars, we are introduced to a Mars rover and we then see humans are already there stumbling onto a mysterious phenomenon. (The movies really pushes it's PG limit's in a few death scenes early on.) There is almost no sense of mystery in the film and it gets worse as the film goes on.The acting in the film was stiff and forced. We have a collection of good actors, but the dialogue is so horrendous, it elicits unintentional laughter from the audience through out. There is one character, which is supposed to be the comic relief, but he ends up getting laughter because his dialogue is so bad.  The direction of the movie is probably the worse aspect of this film. Despite an interesting sequence involving dancing in `zero g,' everything else is filmed so we get the impression that everyone in the film are idiots. Take the scene where the first crew finds the mysterious object on Mars. While the wind picks up and such, they just stand there. Not in awe or fright, but for no reason at all. Maybe just to be targets to die early on. One crewmember shields his face from the sand. With a helmet on?Another scene shows us a crewmember that sacrifices their self to save others. I don't want to give it away, but the method they use is so illogical and badly directed, that you don't know how to react. They show the scene and then give us 3-4 long shots of the dead body. This scene disturbed my wife, because it was unexpected and extremely awkward and she felt it wasn't necessary to further the film. I agreed with her. Again, the scene was directed so badly you didn't know whether to feel sad, grossed out, or laugh out loud. Again, the film may have pushed its PG limits again.When we finally get to see some `aliens,' it is too late. And this scene, while it could have been an emotional and uplifting scene, reminds me of Close Encounters, Contact and The Abyss all mixed into one.Overall, I can't recommend this film because it is a disaster in screenwriting and direction. There is a scene where an `alien being' sheds a tear. Being in a film like this, I don't blame them. I give this film a D-.  "}{"Title":"Horrible movie","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Bad acting. Putting a great cast into a lousy movie. This must be sphere II. Best of all, now we know the origin of earth. How lame can you get..... If you feel like wasting your money and getting a good laugh, have fun. "},{"Title":"Can it get any worse than this?","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Depalma puts on his Kubrick hat and tries his hand at space and the infinite beyond. This is good but apparently the plot to this film went on another mission and left the crew of this castaway film drifting with no direction. Lots of pretty spaceships float about and cool gear fill this film but the heart of it is as cold as the vast space it occupies. All the while I was just waiting to hear Blue Danube fill the soundtrack. At one time I thought Depalma was a great director but now he has just became a Francis Ford Coppala ala Jack. What has happened to the talent that these great directors once had?  Visionaries in the seventies, demographic whores in the nineties.  All signs pointed to this film as being good.  Marketing, word of mouth, and press were all very enthusiastic about this film.  But it just goes to show what Disney's financial backing of a film can do to drive your advertising over the top.  I went into this film with aspirations of trying to relive a moment of my youth, another Star Wars moment, if you will. Immediately, I realized that this film was not going to be anything that I expected it to be.  Assembled are a good group of actors.  Sinise and Robbins, both have proven that they are good actors with critical acclaim. But really, was the rent due this month or what?  Why did they choose to be a part of this film?  I felt no emotional attachment with any of the characters.  Even Robbins and his wife seem distant, as if they had just met that day on the set.  Each character has their typical trademark.  Sinise, with his sly grin.  Robbins, with his patriotic ramblings.  Not to mention O'Connell, with his awe shucks, we're going into space attitude.  Once we have actually reached our destination of Mars,  many of the original characters are either gone, or disappear from the film for long periods of time.  Characters unravel one mind boggling conundrum after the other without batting an eye.  Come on, you're trying to tell me that Jerry O'Connell plays a part in discovering the origins of life?So in closure, avoid this movie if at possible.  But if you, like me are unavoidably attracted to car crashes, or train wrecks, then you might just enjoy seeing the tragedy that has become Brian DePalma's career. "},{"Title":"yet another bad review","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  after reading all the horrible reviews preceeding me, i'm almost embarrassed adding to the list, but i wanted to mention the main point that seemed to be a shining example of how ridiculous the movie was.  When Sinese's character is attempting to log onto the computer to find the leak in the ship (1st 30 minutes) why is there a voice authorization on the computer?  there are 4 people on that ship, and they're not likely to be taken over by the Klingons...i would have walked out of this film if i didn't have to shut the projector down.  don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"watch it for a good laugh","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Ironically, the acting in the movie, despite a good cast, has the feel of an episode of Sliders. Jerry O'Connell seems to have infected the entire movie. Besides the countless Kubrick ripoffs, the dialogue is incredibly cliche and the music is just plain bad, bordering on ridiculous. In the middle of one intense sequence, cheesy organ music plays in the background. The timing on scene cuts is ridiculously off and the plot holes are big enough to stick your head through. Pretty much every good scene is in the trailer. I watched an advanced screening and the audience was roaring with laughter (but not at any of the movie's jokes). "},{"Title":"The worst film I have *ever* seen outside of MST3K.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Someone elses quote, but hits the nail on the head.Although I generally like the actors (Sinise, Robbins) it was very hard to develop empathy with any of the characters.  Generally sci-fi flicks bend laws of physics, but the science in this movie was broken enough for an 8th grader to notice. "},{"Title":"Can you say LAME?? & HOLD THE CHEESE","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Give me a break. I mean this film had to have spent some big bucks--on the FX, the actors...but not the writing!!!! Why oh why could they take such a decent idea and turn it into puke? I mean I honestly thought that this was going to be intriguing or at least somewhat stimulating. Once you get past all the commercial plugs (Bud, Dr. Pepper etc.), you find yourself sifting throughout the CHEESE to find the plot. I will say that the FX were awesome, but the whole movie tried to be what other movies are and failed miserably. Save your $$ and wait for video, or even TV! "},{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Geez - where do I begin?  Obviously, this movie had no technical direction at all.  Unfortunately, science issues are presented in technical terms so as to expect the audience to believe that the concepts are correct.  If this movie is a huge blockbuster, which I doubt it will be, the world will be a dumber place.In addition, the soundtrack is overblown and cheesy.  At times, the acting is tedious.  Is this the work of the real Brian De Palma, or a really mean (expensive) joke?The visual presentation of the film was entertaining, but, hey, it's not that hard to ask for a little decent acting.  The producers could have paid for that with all of the clever product placement (I thought Tang was the official drink of the space program, not Dr. Pepper).  The money obviously didn't go into writing a script - all that was done was to paste together bits from other movies like Apollo 13, 2001A Space Odyssey, The Right Stuff, and Close Encounters of the Third Kind.This movie has some eye candy at best.  Just try not to look at the actors, or you will quickly become as bored as they appear.  "},{"Title":"Clumsy product placement and a horrible script","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was the most abysmal film I have seen in as long as I can remember.First the viewer notices the blatant product plugs divorced of any relevance to the movie Hey, what's this on the ground? (Holds up package) It's a pack of **M$Ms**. This trend continues with Corona, Bud, Penzoil, SGI, Sony, Kawasaki, Dr. Pepper, to name a few.Next there is the script. It must have come out of a bubble-gum machine. Not only is it chock full of the most stilted, cliched, artificial dialogue, the writers must have chosen to meet their word count quota by insisting that each line be uttered three or more times Oh, no! Oh, no!, Oh no! Come back! Come back! Come back! Oh God! Oh God! Oh God!The acting is nothing to speak of, but I'd probably blame the script rather than the actors. The story is fragmented and nonsensical at times. The mood music is comical (think old horror movie organs). Any attempts at suspense and tension are utterly unconvincing.Okay, how about the SFX? Well, unfortunately the big sand monster from the trailer is about as good as it gets, and that's over in about three minutes. The rest while tolerable, certainly doesn't astound.Lastly, there is the 'big-picture'. What 'deep-and-meaningful- questions' does the movie pose? Despite the supposedly keen insights the characters have, there is no message in the movie more engaging than those found in fortune cookies.I got a free pass to an advance screening of the movie, but I still feel ripped off.  "},{"Title":"Another fine Brian De Palma Ripoff!","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't find very much redeeming about this movie.  The characters are all one-dimensional (despite decent acting), the dialogue is corny and full of cliches (..It's like looking for a needle in a haystack!), and the ending is a 2001 ripoff (maybe not an identical clone, but a thematic and cinematic one certainly).I got the feeling that the opening party scene was inspired from a similar (and much better) scene in Apollo 13.  Only a couple of scenes (notably the sandstorm/vortex scene and the spacewalk scene) ever raise to the level of Hey, at least it's pretty to look at.If you're in the mood for intelligent sci-fi, you'd be much better checking out the aforementioned 2001 (along with 2010, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Apollo 13 or Contact).  If you already have, don't bother with Mission to Mars, 'cause you've already seen it. "},{"Title":"Apollo 13 meets Contact meets the Abyss meets the Three Stooges","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Moe, Larry, Mars!  Moe, Larry, Mars!  Ok, its not that bad but clearly we have a sort of Apollo 13 where Mission Control is merely a spectator.  True there is a 20 minute time-gap for transmissions, but the Mars team might as well be sending postcards.  They solve all their near-disasters through improvisation and doing back of the envelope calculations on their wrist computers.  The characterizations are poor.  We are supposed to believe these guys all love eachother, they are men who hug.  What are their motivations, what makes them tick?  5 minutes of FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON or THE RIGHT STUFF has more character development than the whole interminable two hours of MISSION TO MARS.Did anyone remember that there is supposed to be science going on for these multi-billion dollar missions?  Other than one 30-second tricorder scan which goes horribly wrong, there is no telemetry, no data collected, no instruments deployed.  Apollo 11 only spent 2 hours on the moon and they did 100 times more science than these guys. "}{"Title":"This movie is poorly crafted.  Period.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars absolutely bites the big one.  Being an  aerospace engineer, I'm normally not too critical of movies  which bring our profession into the limelight.  However, this  film rips off from  much better movies such as Apollo 13, 2001  A Space Odyssey, The Mummy(1999), Alien, among others.  To make  matters worse, the visual rip-offs are made even worse by a horrible script that makes scenes painful to sit through (such  as the emergency EVA scene upon arrival at Mars, the space dancing scene, and the white room scene, among others).  All  of this is peripheral to the blatant misrepresentation of  physics and technology in the film, but then again, this is Hollywood we're talking about, not a simulation of the real  thing.  My advice is, don't waste your time  "},{"Title":"Save your money, this is the worst film of the year","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Mission to Mars is the most disappointing film and the greatest waste of cinematic resources that I've viewed in several years. The film fails dramatically, intellectually, and emotionally.I had been intrigued by the movie's effective trailer and had looked forward to it, despite some obvious 'steals' from 2001 A Space Odyssey. But Mission to Mars could not bear comparison to films of such average quality as Apollo 13 or Contact, let alone a masterpiece like 2001. Even a mediocre episode of Earth Final Conflict is a more satisfying dramatic and intellectual presentation than Mission to Mars.It's hard to say where the project went wrong first, but one should always start with the script, and there are so many problems here. From the beginning there are repeated, and repeatedly unconvincing, attempts to make one care about these characters - all to no avail. The most effective scene shows us one of the astronauts saying goodbye to his young son. It's a scene that's full of promise and it's well-acted. But the film fails to carry through with the character line, and the scene's brief emotional impact is ultimately wasted.All of the actors seem poorly directed, and several scenes are almost laughably amateurish, as if they were just the first rehearsal for the upcoming first take.The martian scenes are well-lit and presented visually but there are problems with the lighting in many other scenes. The excellent actor Don Cheadle, who has very dark skin, almost disappears into the background in several scenes, due to inadequate lighting.The music, by the once renowned Ennio Morricone, is consistently obtrusive and overbearing. And worst of all, it telegraphs every upcoming narrative development. One frequently wishes that his 'music' would just go away and let the story unfold on its own.The talents of director Brian de Palma seem to have completely abandoned him here. Whoever thought that he would be the right choice for this science fiction project? At least when he was doing his best Hitchcock imitations it was fun. His most effective idea occurs in the first thirty seconds of the opening scene, but the film immediately sinks to a level of mediocrity from which it never recovers. "},{"Title":"Lame lame lame.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The worst movie I've seen in the last 2 years. Some movies are so bad it's not even funny. No. Actually it is funny. It successfully aims at the lowest common IQ denominator (it's worse than your daytime network show), it makes use of scientific buzzwords to make you feel smart, it features a shameless product placement (Dr Pepper is photographed from 3 different angles so you sure won't miss it, as well as many others), and above all the stale play of the entire crew is beyond belief. It is not even good for ESL training, so primitive the language is. In short, unless you consider yourself an authentic redneck, try spending your $8 somewhere else. -) "},{"Title":"Bad Publicity Stunt","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  When first going to see this movie I expected an epic. What I got was a beautiful visual movie, 2 thumbs up to the people at ILM once again you have created a master piece. The story line is another story. It was edited down to a simple fast action story, emotion had no time to truly affect the audience, the lines that were given to the actors degraded there image as good actors (the director probably had alot to do with this aspect). Viewers also could easily see all the publicity stunts, that Im sure went for high dollar. Throughout you saw Dr. Pepper, M&M's, Kawasaki, Penzoil, Isuzu, and others. This was very distracting to the overall plot. Also the end left the viewers disappointed with the not trying to capture the rest of the story on film.Overall good special f/x, script was horrible, writers should be shot....sorry guys, I usually don't bash this hard, but this one deserves it. "},{"Title":"Bad, really really bad.","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was shown as a sneak preview at the college I attend. Now, granted, college students can be a bit sarcastic and harsh, but this was bad.  The movie attempted to be serious and suspenseful with occasional humour, but the audience (including myself) laughed at everything except for the parts that were supposed to be funny, and the movie was NEVER suspenseful.  We were cheering when people died and filling in the next line every time there was a dramatic pause (and there were many of those).  It was actually quite fun to watch this movie with a college crowd, but not fun the way I'm sure the creators were going for.   "},{"Title":"Mission to Shmars","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I can't bring myself to spend more than 2 minutes reviewing this film!You know how on Who Wants To Be A Millionaire, the audience is right nine times out of ten? Well if the Toronto premiere audience is anything to go by, this film will rightly crash and burn.On so many levels it didn't work; the director didn't manage to coax performances from otherwise fine actors, the script was lacklustre, the direction was .. well, it looked like Dawson Leary's first Sci-Fi effort, not that of a seasoned pro like De Palma. (I like a lot of his earlier work) Good Points  The particle/wind effects from the graphics guys when the first party get killed. This only serves to pump up your 'scifi gland', and build your expectation of the movie. Only to have them dashed on the cruel rocks of mediocrity!The worst thing that can happen at a film showing (albeit one littered with cynical media types like myself!) is that the audience laughs at *all* the wrong bits.I couldn't help but start giggling when the Source-Of-All-Life-Alien at the end held hands with them all round the hologram earth! Oh and Ennio Moriconne's score showed him at his most bombastic and obtrusive since his spaghetti western c**p!This film will be edited/cut/rejigged before it's general release in April, but to no ultimate avail; get the stuffing ready folks, this one's as fine a fowl as ever sat upon the Christmas table!  "},{"Title":"I'm glad I saw this for free...","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw a free preview of this at my college, and all I can say is THANK GOD. I have never felt the urge to walk out of a movie before, but I must say that I was quite tempted.  The plot was not only incredibly out of this world wacko, but it was extremely cheesy as well.  I have never seen a piece of Tim Robbins' work that I didn't like, and shame on him for being a part of this.  The acting wasn't bad, but the lines prevented any credible talent to shine through.  This film had such potential, but it fell quite short. Also, the fact that it ripped off several other films like Apollo 13, Contact and 2001 was very distracted.  Shame shame shame. "},{"Title":"avoid this film at ALL COSTS","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately, this is one of the very worst films I have ever seen. Everything about it is just a huge disappointment.  The acting, even with the veteran cast, is awful.  The writing is almost embarrassing. Everything about this movie is just horrible.  It tries to have a deep and thoughtful meaning, but it is just laughable the whole way through.  And I mean that literally.  The audience I was with was laughing out loud at the parts of the film that were meant to be the most dramatic.  This film is just an embarrassment.  Please, save your money, do not go to this movie. "},{"Title":"Not like it seemed it would be","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The film had some very nice FX and the acting was  pretty good.  I wouldn't expect less from Gary Sinise or Tim  Robbins though. IMHO they both are seasoned actors. I wasn't very happy with the storyline. Gary's  character was asked to ride along side Robbins' to  Mars on a rescue mission. There were some unexpected  twists on  the way to the planet. In some places it was  suspencful (sp?) but some decisions made by crew membersmade the story unravel sooner than anticipated.  Once on Mars the remaining crew found the survivor  they were looking for. One character makes a choice  that takes the film to The End, it was  disappointing  that there was not a real climax in this film. The  climax was technically in the galaxy and it was the loss of one of the four crew. I won't spoil it with  who. None of the other 3 people I saw this with  would see this again, I wouldn't either. It s worth  seeing once though for the acting and FX. Not since  The Mummy have I seen this kind of FX.As they say God Speed      "},{"Title":"Three words  Hor rib ble","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie for free.  All I had to pay was 2 hours of my life.  I overpaid for admission to this movie.  Those two hours would have been better spent watching univision, or might i even add PBS.  Wait.  Does anyone know what channel paint drying is aired on?This film could be the best comedy yet this year.  I was laughing so hard, along with the rest of the theater.  The only problem is that this movie is a science fiction film, exploring such deep issues as the origin of life, and the loss of loved ones.  Not only did I not feel sympathy for the characters, but I found myself thinking of creative ways for them to die, thus ending the film faster.Let me say that I don't normally play with my gum, but I was much more entertained by playing with my gum than with the film.  It is a complete waste of time, and I would not wish it upon my worst enemy to watch it.  "}{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I'm glad I had the opportunity to see this movie for free because I would hate for them to take my money as well as two hours of my life.  This movie is a horribly thrown together ripoff of 2001, Apollo 13, and Contact.  The plot has little or no connection jumping wildly around, being highly technical at some point then skipping over glaring technicalities which make this movie incomprehensible.  Perhaps some of the special effect budget could have been spent on a script rewrite as to eliminate the two hours of cliche dialogue.  If you must see this movie, first review 2001 so you may really know what a good  sci-fi movie is then sit back and laugh at Mission to Mars. "},{"Title":"Absolutley Terrible!!","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I just got back from a sneak preview they held in my town and I am extremely dissapointed.  I think the film is one of the worst I have ever seen.  The plot jumps around like crazy, the characters are unbelievable and unpredictable, the music is terrible (Wait until you hear the organ at that climatic scene in the middle, just wait), and the ending is unsatisfying. Just beware.  I wasted 2 hours of my life. "},{"Title":"By far the worst thing I've ever seen.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  My prior worst movie was night falls on manhattan, with its total lack of plot, acting, and cinematography.  But Mission to Mars has beaten it.  Its managed to drag even worse.  Its only redeeming values is in ones ability to laugh at the movie for the farce that it is.I won't even mention the names of the movies that it rips off.  Needless to say they did so much more with fewer effects, and obviously smaller budgets. This movie only serves to confirm ones sense of the detritus that makes up the movie viewing populous.  And Hollywood's contempt for us.  Makes sense, snow falling on cedars got no respect, and no advertising.  But it had it all, except violence, and a big budget.It amazes me that Hollywood can be developing this and Dogma at the same time, I wonder how Kevin Smith tolerates it.Saw this for free courtesy of WBCN, and I want my 2 hours back! "},{"Title":"Thank God I didn't pay to see this tripe","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Quite the worst movie I've seen in years. I hope this isn't the final cut, but realizing that the movie is being released in three days, it seems like it is. The dialogue, acting, and just plain everything is horrible. Don Cheadle, Gary Sinise and Tim Robbins are generally good, but in this movie, they are just going through the motions. I can't imagine them reading this script and saying boy, I'd like to be in this movie, unless loads and loads of money were thrown at them.Most of the movie (a good 90%) is superfluous to the plot, which is very thin itself. When the audience at the screening realized how bad the movie was, everyone just started laughing at almost every line (watch for Don Cheadle's character saying no, no, no after he finds out his friend is dead...so bad!!) The S/FX are pretty typical, and I can't imagine anyone who likes effects movies even enjoying this one.A friend who sat next to me said when the female lead's computer said point of no return, that it was the point of no return for the movie. He was wrong, the point of no return was the first line of dialogue. This movie would only be good if you were really stoned. Even then it would be bad.   "},{"Title":"Mission to mars...is a disgrace to modern cinema.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Brian DePalma has been rewriting Hitchcock for a while.  In his latest work, he takes on Kubrick's 2001.He fails miserably.This movie uses cheesy computer generated f/x, whereas Kubrick at least attempted to make his material seem realistic.  In addition, the script is truly bad.  It is filled with producer's cliches (heroic sacrifices and similar bs) and goes nowhere but from one f/x sequence to another. "},{"Title":"Stunningly awful","Date":"25 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I saw the director/cast and had high hopes. Those hopes were repeatedly smashed into a bloodied pulp within minutes of the film starting. I often stop watching bad films before the end. This film crossed a rare threshold (see Knowing), one so bad I had to see it to the end, almost to be sure it was dead and I could safely go to sleep.Plot Magically convert $90m into a thin streak of urine lasting 113 mins. Script Appalling. Soundtrack Deserves special mention. While bad, what really sets it apart is the apparent total disregard for what's happening on screen. Inspiration Takes a multitude of famous sci-if scenes from the last 30 years, digests them, and then excretes them onto a Petri dish, with CGI bloom effects. Ending Takes about 35mins longer to happen than you'd expect.I didn't even pay for this movie, I got it for free on a Netflix trial. I still feel ripped off. "},{"Title":"Crappy sci-fi flick...Watch Prometheus instead.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" By the title alone most people can guess this probably has to do with space and aliens. Well it has astronauts maneuvering the spaceship and such but it doesn't has much to do with mars or aliens. This is a sci-fi movie that doesn't really accomplish what it tries to do. There is just nothing really thrilling or exhilarating about this movie. Boring characters that doesn't stand out, the special effects are good for when it came out but nothing memorable. From start to finish this movie is just boring with a pretty dull build up that doesn't really add to the movie. Everything for this movie is for the build up but the revelation just plain disappointing in this because of the way it's delivered. The use of melodramatic music is to boost and to care more about the characters but it just doesn't work. You just won't care what happens to any of them. It deals more with malfunctioning and crap more than anything else but it's just not interesting. The whole time I was like let's get moving to somewhere else for crying out loud. There just isn't anything interesting, I was expecting to be terrified at least but that didn't happen. This movie just seem to drag in certain parts without getting to the core of the story. Most of the way through this is insufficient drivel. This movie is a sci-fi space movie for scientologist but I am pretty sure lot of them thought this movie was crap as well. It's unrealistic and I am not just talking about the alien stuff, yeah movies doesn't have to be realistic but this one tries to go in that direction and tries to make it believable but fails. It's close to 2 hours but feels so much longer. It just mashed in elements that aren't coherent to the main story at hand. Thus making it way longer than it needs to be. Watch 2001 a space odyssey and 2010 instead, even Prometheus is a way better movie than this. The design of the alien is crap as well. The last scene with the flashbacks is more corny than dramatic.2.5/10 "},{"Title":"I'm biased","Date":"18 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I'm more visual than verbal. That is when the visual is there it detracts me, mostly, from hearing the bad dialogue. And DePalma is a great visual tactician.There are at least 3 great sequence/scenes here. The dust storm scene, the space junk and space rescue sequence, and the ending sequence.You can analysis a film to death AFTERWARDS, but some times people forget how in tuned or absorbed they are when watching the movie, especially for the first time. That should be one of the primary measuring sticks. And this is a tense one - as for most of De Palma's films (except for some possibly stagy ones like the opening of Femme Fatale) In the same year, Red Planet is not bad... but compare to this... I don't know. "},{"Title":"A beautiful Mars Odyssey","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I just recently watched this movie again after 9 whole years. The first time I saw it, I was about 10 or 11 and I was as ignorant and stupid as most of the IMDb.com population. Plus, I was a kid. But now, after watching it, I appreciate it so much more.The reason why people hate this film is because they take everything literally with it and/or they are Christian or religious. So it's no surprise, at all. You weren't meant to take the whole alien scene literally, it was clearly a metaphor for how life started, by evolution and not by some magical fairy called god . I mean, let's face it, we all came from water. A percentage of our body is made up of water, so how can you even claim that this so called god created us? that's no true and it sound stupid and insulting.Anyways, back to the movie review. I liked this more than Red Planet. It's more realistic. The visuals were beautiful. The sand storm scene reminded me of the first mummy movie. OK, so Mars may not have those kinds of dust storms or those kinds of aliens, but whose to argue that life does not exist beyond earth? Exactly. The acting was great, and so was the plot. Although I wanted to see where Gary's character goes to at the end. And let's not forget, this is Brian DePalma, he made the Godfather which is in the top 10 IMDb.com list, are you forgetting who this is? One of Hollywood's greatest directors among many.Overall, a 10/10 for original ideas and great metaphors. Here's a fun fact, the movie takes place in 2020, and the mission to mars starts in 2021 or 13 months later. In real life, in the year 2020, we have a manned mission to mars already planned, so I guess you could say this movie was ahead of its time, it certainly did its research on Mars. Great movie, I hope we colonize on Mars someday. "},{"Title":"Horrid","Date":"28 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" One of the worst sci-fi films I have seen in a long time. This movie is completely lacking, and the acting is actually rather poor. This movie falls in line with other Hollywood cheese-fests like The Rock and ID4. Several attempts to create suspenseful moments are completely lost, and the characters' reactions to various things are just pathetic. I don't know who wrote the script, but it is gag-worthy. And the story is really bad too. So why is this single Martian just chillin' on Mars waiting for mankind to show up? Why does it feel the need to show our 3 astronauts how life on earth was created? It almost seems like this was the central idea for the film, but the writers just could not construct a valid story around it...Anyone who gives this film a good rating obviously has no idea what good sci-fi is....either that or they just like to be spoon-fed cheesy Hollywood rubbish. "}{"Title":"This movie sucked!","Date":"27 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was so stupid. The alien at the end looked absolutely idiotic. There was no depth in this movie. The plot was weak. Apollo 13 was an excellent movie because it was realistic. This movie was so unrealistic it wasn't even believeable. I just have one question to the makers of this movie, if man evolved from an alien species from Mars, who made the aliens? I hate this movie with a passion, I'm going to go beat myself now for watching it. I don't really have anymore to say, they just require ten lines or more. I was expecting a lot more from this movie then what I got. There wasn't enough character development, not enough humanity, not enough explaination, just simply it was a big budget movie that was cheap in detail.  "},{"Title":"Most boring sci-fi flick ever?","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Soap-opera script, typical underwhelming direction and a misplaced musical score. Nice cast wasted. Comparing this to Kubrick's gem is akin to comparing 41,42,43 to real presidents. I'm just glad I got this at the local library and hoping that the OC system didn't pay for it.  "},{"Title":"Truly one of the most boring scifi films I've seen!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  OK, this film might have worked. But, the films is about two hours long and nothing happens until 1 and ½ hours. Maybe this films tries to be 2001 for 21th century, but it surely isn't. The movie has mediocre effects and acting isn't very bad, but script is boring. Watch Red Planet instead, which is better, but not much. * out of *****. "},{"Title":"Great director, great cast, great special effects--but filled with undeveloped characters are plot problems. ** out of ****.","Date":"29 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  MISSION TO MARS / (2000) ** Starring Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins, Don Cheadle, Connie Nielsen, and Jerry O'Connell. Directed by Brian De Palma. Written by Lowell Cannon, Jim and John Thomas. Running time113 minutes. Rated PG (for language, sensuality, and brief violence). (The Following review of Mission to Mars contains a plot description that may or may not be of a spoiling nature.) 	Is the amount of gravity on Mars really equal to that of the Earth? In Mission to Mars it is. Are aliens really the origin of all life? In Mission to Mars they are. Is it imaginable for a first rate director to supply talents to a mislead, wondering screenplay with mechanical characters and a sketchy plot line? In Mission To Mars, it is. Brian De Palma's second catastrophe in a row (his first being Snake Eyes, 1998) is a science fiction adventure that is more interested in science than in fiction. The film is written so the average Joe will probably struggle to understand what happens. I did not comprehend much of what occurred; the movie explains next to nothing. Is Mission to Mars worth seeing? If you are a rocket scientist, perhaps. 	Mission to Mars opens with a backyard barbecue supposedly developing condition and characters. We meet various individuals, including Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise) who's dream of traveling to Mars has been delayed, astronauts Woody Blake (Tim Robbins), and his loving wife Terri (Connie Nielsen), Luke Graham (Don Cheadle), who took the place of McConnell on a current space mission. 	The setup neither develops the characters or the situations. The introduction consists only of talking heads. We meet several characters, but learn their intentions through flat dialogue rather than descriptive actions.  If the movie does anything correct in the first act it is casting the actors in their rolls perfectly. However, even in a science fiction film, the writers add a recycled cliché to McConnell his wife recently passed away thus he is struggling emotionally in reconnecting. How many times do we need to see this subplot in movies? It is becoming so typical nowadays. We skip ahead during one of the film's clumsiest circumstances, and witness a clan of astronauts on the great red planet working among a project without motive or premise. Within minutes, a planet's discovery turns into a disastrous encounter leaving several dead and Graham stranded alone, with Blake, Terri, Jim, and Jerry O' Connell (Phil Ohlmyr), on a rescue mission. Once on Mars, after a horrible causality, the astronauts discover Luke living off oxygen from plants. The film then drifts into its most intriguing segments detection of the origin of life.	Mission to Mars gradually builds intrigue though suggestions contained in the third act, raising the line of tension. I never once believed a character's life was at stake here, however, thus beyond the closing scenes, the suspense is nearly nonexistent. There are a few thrilling scenes in the beginning on Mars-but they evolve from the film's excellent usage of special effects. There are believably crafted space shuttles, a mysterious alien, an overpowering space cyclone, and nifty camera effects to name a few of the movie's skillful successes. 	De Palma's direction is focused but shallow. He seems to spend more time on the character's recycled intentions than the engaging in portions regarding Mars. He also fails to create a honest sense of time lapsing in Mission to Mars. The characters explain how time passes and months travel by, but unlike the also mislead Apollo 13, without the dialogue I could not determine whether the story took place over an hour or a year.	Mission to Mars is a movie of wasted potential and misused special effects. The conclusion seems effective, and some of the scenes by themselves are interesting-but the individual sequences are better than the movie as a whole. This highly anticipated production is lacking of a fitting soundtrack, clear intentions, developed characters, and worst of all, dramatic impact. As the characters proudly post the American Flag on the magnificent planet of Mars, in a scene that should be powerful and emotional, I felt nothing.Mission to Mars is brought to you by Touchstone Pictures. "},{"Title":"Sinise...aaarrrggghhhhh","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I liked the movie, especially the end when they encounter the last remaining alien on Mars. Only one thing I didn't like Gary Sinises' performance is TERRIBLE. That guy can't act if his life depended on it! Throughout the movie he's showing us the same face over and over, when he is happy, sad, excited, mourning, scared...its all the same to him. And he never ever blinks! That guy is scary. The movie could have been soo much better without him, considering the excellent performance of Tim Robbins. Sorry, but I think Sinise is embarrassing. Especially when he has to deal with the alien and where the remaining crew and the spectators alike are on the height of excitement...Sinise is impassible. His face hard and expressionless as usual lets everybody down. I guess my grandmother could have done a better job. "},{"Title":"Mission to Mars","Date":"8 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" From the great director Brian De Palma (Carrie, Scarface, The Untouchables) comes his first, and pretty cheesy, science-fiction/space melodrama. It is the future, and man has now managed to land crafts on the planet Mars, and more importantly walk on it. After a visit to the planet has interference, and a crew lead by Mission Commander Luke Graham (Crash's Don Cheadle) disappears, a rescue crew head to help any survivors. The team Jim McConnell (Gary Sinise), Dr. Terri Fisher (Gladiator's Connie Nielsen), Commander Woody Blake (The Shawshank Redemption's Tim Robbins) and Phil Ohlmyer (Scream 2's Jerry O'Connell) have a tricky time getting there safely, after malfunctions, escaping the screwed ship, and Woody having to kill himself (freezing himself in the atmosphere, pretty much to save the others), but they get there. It seems Luke is the only survivor, and spending time on the planet has seen many weird going-ons. Eventually they find the reason for the others' disappearance, a large face, built by aliens, is on the planet, and Jim, Luke and Terri go and explore it, to discover it opens, and inside is a breathable atmosphere where they discover a way to another life. The film concludes with Luke, Terri and Phil going home, and Jim staying to go home where he feels it is right. The story is pretty touchy-feely with cheesy dialogue and acting, it is almost similar to Contact, but the special effects are quite cool. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Mission to Farce","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" *Mission To Mars* exhibits so many misdemeanors, misrepresentations, misapplied physics laws, mistaken facts, missteps, mysterious logic, and misapprehension of spacefaring dialect that one wonders which second-grader took three months off school to helm it.Brian de Palma &#150; the dark force behind *Scarface* - appends his name as director. But I think he's lying. Starring Don Cheadle as the Crazy Black Guy, Gary Sinise (wearing more makeup than David Bowie on the Ziggy Stardust tour), Tim Robbins as The Apple-Pie Hero, Connie Nielsen as The Chick and Jerry O'Connell as The Fat Kid from *Stand By Me*.From its first space scenes, the film trumpets its ignorance, showing a remote rover aiding a manned mission on Mars. Audiences are so conditioned to robot helpers in space cinema (since Will Robinson and Dr. Smith leaned so heavily on theirs for comedic side-kickery in *Lost In Space* of the 60s) that they do not realize this particular rover's superfluity. Rovers are reconnoiter craft for *unmanned* missions &#150; consequently, this 26-million-dollar redundancy would not exist in a space agency whose motto became faster, cheaper, better to appease the ignorant, impatient public and the even more ignorant, penny-pinching government. From there, it's downhill fast.Crazy Black Guy gets stranded on Mars. Blatantly throwing logic, budget, orbital mechanics and NASA protocol to the pigs, Apple-Pie, The Chick, Fat Kid and Ziggy are sent to rescue him. Another launch window to Mars is years hence, yet these American Pie Heroes &#150; working on the fact that everyone in the film and the audience regard the launch window as a McGuffin &#150; go anyway. Launching outside a launch window is not a dramatic element that illustrates Team Spirit - it is an impossibility. Without gravity assists (by flybys of Venus and Earth), a spacecraft already constructed for such a journey would have to be retrofitted to house inordinate amounts of additional propellant, construction exigencies alone putting the mission outside budget and payload constraints. No one can just declare their heroic intentions and have everything ready to go by Sunday &#150; which is basically how Ziggy achieves his launch; to save someone openly considered dispensable by the space agency (who train scores of astronauts for the same missions, for just such eventualities), who may be a corpse anyway, considering all radio contact with him was lost. You lost me at hello. Our rescuers discover a giant Face on Mars &#150; that old 70's superstition from the Viking 1 probe photo. In a space age where we have already disproved its existence, the film-makers opt to pander to conspiracy theorists, pseudo-scientists, astrologers and imbeciles who shun scientific evidence like the mystical evil they have been inculcated to believe is tangible. In a technological era that possesses extraterrestrial soft-landing spacecraft (Pathfinder) and high-altitude surveillance (Global Surveyor), even if we need to regard The Face as real for dramatic purposes - it should have been discovered decades before these astro-nots landed. Instead, the movie ramps further into idiocy. Speciously landing on Mars, Crazy Black Guy is found (spearing fish and talking to a volleyball named Wilson), whereupon ensue conversations about DNA that only a screenwriter with absolutely no biology knowledge could appreciate. Their super-redundant rover leads them into the Face on Mars, where they encounter a tall alien being wearing a flowing number that would look fabulous on Barbra Streisand. Of course, helmets - as in all space movies - are completely arbitrary. Who knows why NASA spends so much useless time engineering environment suits when every planet in the universe - as Lost in Space taught us - already has a breathable atmosphere? Before we can even ingest the next twenty stupidities that the movie flings at us like ape-poo, helmets on Mars are eschewed for the purpose of contractually appeasing the pretty movie stars and their agents who insist on verifiable screen time. (How else to prove it if there's that unfashionable helmet obscuring the star's $500 hairstyle?)Barbra shows them a solar system hologram - with all the planets orbiting in the wrong direction (proving that there are idiot screenwriters even on Mars) &#150; and a nifty morphing computer program which she bought from Michael Jackson, showing that Life on Earth was seeded from Life on Mars. Well, that accounts for all those Jerry Springer guests.Every aspect of the DNA scenes, zero-gee scenes and orbital mechanics scenes is completely blundered from the dialog to the action to the fallacious physics laws which go in and out of play as the plot requires; spacecraft do not emit vapor trails; sound does not propagate in a vacuum; galaxies don't look that way in visible light; the atmosphere analyzer on Ziggy's forearm shows Nitrogen 56% Oxygen 20% Trace Gasses 1% - the film-makers are so lazy that they do not even bother to make the numbers add up to 100 percent!Every scientific fact that mankind has strove so hard to identify is treated like so much dross by the ignoramuses who forged this worthless and useless, deformed, retarded thing they call a movie, that their greatest punishment will be having to see their names attached to it for millennia to come.(Movie Maniacs, visit poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"Doesn't deserve one...","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" The tittle of the movie is Mission to Myars and boy does it ever live up to it. I mean where do I start? Hmmm OK, since we are talking about movies and the main star in movies is actors... let's start with the acting in this movie. I can't really use words to the describe it, so I'll simply refer to title of the movie itself. Yes, some people will say i'm rude and ranting and raving, the truth is to pay any money to see this piece of junk is what is rude. The storyline of this movie... hmmm has a good start I'll give it that, but never lives up to expectations... maybe it was the acting? maybe... but actually it's a combination of everything, acting, storyline, bad character development, the only good thing is perhaps some of the special effects but they are avg. at best. Anyways, I don't think I need to bore you with any further comments you probably know i voted this movie #1. "},{"Title":"Completely idiotic","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I don't even know where to begin on this one. I was so angry at the gross factual errors during this movie that I actually began to shout at the screen. Don't worry, I was at home, not in the theater. But seriously. Anybody with a BASIC level of education in the biological and physical sciences will be offended by the stupidity of the plot and dialogue of this movie. Especially when they see the DNA sequence and one character exclaims, That's HUMAN DNA!!! Oh. My. God. Yes, of course I forgot that you can tell the species to which a small sequence of nucleotides belongs just by glancing at it. Seriously, couldn't they have just run this script by someone who has been to college? "},{"Title":"Brian De Palma should NEVER direct sci-fi movie","Date":"15 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This along with Battlefield Earth are two WORST sci-fi movies ever made.  The story is very weak, the acting is even worse, and even the special effects (which you would think would make up some for the general weakness) are bad.  DON'T waste your time with this one.A better Mars movie (though marginally so) is Red Planet.  At least the acting in that one is OK, and the alien special effects don't look like dolls on wires. "}{"Title":"Awful, plain awful. What was Gary Sinise thinking?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Probably on the 10 worst movies ever made list. What could have been a decent and even great movie is consistently ruined by horrible timing. 30 minutes into the film your interested in the characters, by the end of the film you are board to death and could care less. Avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Trashing Mission to Mars","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was poo. Absolute poo. It was unrealistic. How could someone live in a tent on Mars for 10 years? The acting was bad and the plot was terrible. The movie was mearly bad in the first half but it went downhill shortly after the teary eyed speech made by the main character's dead wife. The end...i'm still trying to forget it. I have lost 2 hours of my life and i'll never get it back. "},{"Title":"The worst movie of human history","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this movie in pay per view. I like sci-fi; even crappy ones. Actually I like crappy movies, including crappy horror movies, Arnold movies, even karate movies every now and then.But this movie is the WORST freakin' most dreadful movie I have ever seen in my whole life... and I probably will never see a worse one. It was a horrendous movie, even for a crappy movie. Bad script, hideous acting and continuous scientific mistakes ... As if that was not enough, every freakin' second they tried to make the audience get 'emotional' The terrible emotional music, dead hot-chick and a cool futurama science husband trying to cary on and serve humanity, the super scientific husband who gives his life for the others (boo-hoo boo-hoo, I am crying again), the incredible hero who stayed on Mars alone for a year (and he had no problems because there was a 7-11 right across the street) wondering why I lived but the others died but who finally finds out that the signals are 3-dimentional (which is shocking, because you know, we live in a world with 31 dimensions. Also, what 3-dimensional signal means is another story), and finally the hot but sexually not threatening alien chick who communicated with the human kind...This movie was even worse than the Water World movie. It was so bad, you have to see it.  "},{"Title":"The Movie Is Better Than Critics Say","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  Though Mission to Mars may lack the power of 2001 A Space Odyssey, its still worth seeing.  All actors and actresses give good performances and the special effects are very good.  The landscapes of Mars are totally convincing giving the impression that is where the movie was actually filmed.  The spacecraft and space station are also done very well.  Unlike 2001, the characters show a full range of emotion and reveal their vulnerabilites.  Unfortunately, it lacks the mystery and wonder of 2001 as almost all questions are answered simplistically.Still, if you want to know how we could get to Mars, this movie provides an answer. "},{"Title":"This is the worst SC-F movie I have ever seen.","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" First, is nothing to learn from it. No sciences at all? You can see a sex and rock 'n roll inside? Music and American barbecue is very important in science adventure movies? O my... Faces are so dump - no offense! OK, about the idea'For this Movie? C-Mon, Mars aliens (frogs) have create us? And who we are? What about the God in this movie? Very short movie, actors are not real, not real at all. Black dude for the main character? Beginning of the movie awful, ending the same... Actions inside, is there any? Give anything what you can say it is smart for this movie?Sincerely, D "},{"Title":"in space no one can hear you yell at movie to stop","Date":"24 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  A $100 million space epic that starts at a bbq, shot on what looks like the Tool Time set, which then stays there for an eternity of stupid faux drama and pathos just has to suck. It does, but it's the how it sucks that matters here; great actors wasted, big effects made to look cheap, a truly tensionless narrative that by turns has you not giving a damn or wishing the whole crew would go past the point of no return. the whole thing feels as if the sly smile on Tim Robbins face will break into a mad laugh revealing the film as a sly satire at any moment. It's as funny as that user review on the front page here telling you not to consider the story, dialogue, acting, as important, just marvel at the visuals...errr right.  This has to be on the 100 worst list.   "},{"Title":"Krap","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":"  The soppy pathetic alien, made even more grizzly by the awful cheesy music, was the ultimate nail in the coffin for this sickly movie. I would steer well clear if I was you. The only way to watch this is if you take it as a very subtle comedy - a joke about the patriotic sickening american way. "},{"Title":"On the worst of the year list","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" I wished going into Mission to Mars that wouldn't have to put it on my worst of the year list (from the trailer, who knew)...then I saw the movie. This film is not worth not even a gander. Which is sad because this film has some great talent (Don Cheadle, Gary Sinise, Tim Robbins) mixed with a great director (Brian DePalma). But unfortunately, they are mixed with a dog crap screenplay that would make Roger Ebert's Beyond the Valley of the Dolls seem like Ibsen. Sure the visuals are good, but they were also good in 2001, the difference is that Kubrick pushed the boundaries while DePalma wallows in it. It is a waste of time to use valuable talent and good effects on a terrible script and momentum. Pretty bad, and definitely makes DePalma's Scarface look like Baby Geniuses. D- "},{"Title":"Groan","Date":"4 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Sci-Fi, Thriller","Review":" Hi, I'm not a real astronaut, but I play one on the silver screen and get paid about the same amount as the cost of a Shuttle launch. This is bad. Maybe good for kids but not for grown-ups. A pity because I really wanted to like it. These fudpuckers would have been dead at the first glitch. I just hope that NASA (land of REAL astronauts, men and women, for those of you who've forgotten) got royalties for allowing the use of the NASA meatball on the Mars EVA suits.What, real space exploration not exciting enough for you? My advice is, next time a space movie like this comes along (and there's plenty of them) instead of forking out the bucks for the show, send it to NASA - they'll put it good use. "}]