[{"Title":"My brilliant career","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Pamela Drury, a journalist in her thirties, is in a rut. She suddenly remembers her love for Robert Dickson, a man who went to marry another woman and appears to be happily married now. Pamela wonders how her life would have turned out had she married Robert. Ben, a kind soul, who wants to pursue his interest in Pamela, arrives in her life at the time when her vivid imagination takes her to change places with the real Mrs. Dickson.Needless to say, the sophisticated Pamela Drury, sticks out like a sore thumb among this well adjusted family living an uncomplicated life in their spacious home. Pamela relives her passion for Robert, a man that turned out to be not everything she remembered. She gets much more than what she bargained for, until the day she sees the family celebrating in their favorite restaurant and she realizes she doesn't fit in that picture, at all.Pip Karmel created a charming film, which even on a second viewing, leaves the viewer smiling. It helps to have a good cinematographer to enhance the movie, something that Graham Lind does with great style. The movie score by Charlie Chan works well in the context of the film, but ultimately, Ms. Karmel shows she has quite a knack for directing this winning comedy.The main reason for watching Me, Myself, I is Rachel Griffiths. This wonderful actress runs away with the picture. She is unique in that she can play comedy and drama with equal amounts of intelligence and wit. David Roberts makes a pleasant Robert Dickson and Sandy Winton is good as Ben.Highly recommended because of the combined talents of Pip Karmel and Rachel Griffiths. "},{"Title":"Virtuoso Performance by Rachel Griffiths","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If Rachel Griffiths keeps this up, she is going to be a potent force in feature films.  She continues to show her versatility in both dramatic and comedic roles.  This delightful comedy reinforces the notion that you need to be careful what you wish for.  Pamela Drury (Rachel Griffiths) is a successful journalist whois having a mid life crisis as another birthday rolls around.  She is afraid that despite all she has accomplished, she might have been happier if she married Robert Dickson and raised a family.One day, through mechanisms unexplained other than the magic of cinema, she is hit by a car while crossing the street by her twin, Pamela Dickson, whom I can only assume is living in some parallel universe.  Drury discovers that Dickson is actually living the life she wondered about, married to Robert with three children.  Suddenly Dickson disappears, leaving Drury in her place.  Now Pamela begins to discover the multidimensional joys of marriage and family from the front lines.  She is so ill equipped for the experience, that it produces a parade of comical situations that range from mildly amusing to absolutely hysterical.This is a virtuoso performance by Griffiths, who has impressed me in every role I've seen her play.  She was outstanding in `Hillary and Jackie' delivering a compelling dramatic performance of a complex character in a supporting role.  In this film, she has the lead and she runs with it.  At various times she is called upon to be dynamic, sexy, compassionate, affectionate, independent, helpless and despondent and she handles this incredible range fabulously in every case.  She is a terrific comedian with excellent timing and a knack for physical comedy.This is a very funny and enchanting film.  `What If' movies seem to be popping up everywhere lately, and this is the best one I've seen.  I rated it a 9/10.  It is extremely entertaining and I recommend it highly.  It is a shame it didn't reach a wider audience.  "},{"Title":"A hidden gem. Funny, moving and true. See it.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a true hidden gem. I cannot say too strongly - see it, see it see it. The premise of the movie might seem a little strained... and perhaps also overused - it's very much the same basic idea as the Nicholas Cage vehicle Family Man, but with a female rather than a male protagonist. But this movie really works, on so many levels. Rachel Griffiths (Brenda from Six Feet Under) gives a lovely performance as the central figure, who finds herself at the verge of mid-life confronting and changing paths with an alternate self. The movie is very funny in parts, in a slightly exaggerated but spot on way rather reminiscent of Bridget Jones' Diary. But I think this film actually manages to do as much in this way as BJD, whilst going considerably further in connecting with emotional realities and the sense of choices and consequences in life. It's not astoundingly deep, I guess. But it's very funny, moving and true. And fair, as well  - it never gets preachy, or comes down with a trite moral on one side of a complex issue. I suppose the movie's most obvious appeal would be to women of a certain age either single and (to some degree) wishing they were married or married and (to some degree) wishing they were single. But I'd have no hesitation in recommending it to anyone. "},{"Title":" Being who &#145;you' are is not as easy as it seems!","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have been keeping a close eye on the rising career of Australian actress Rachel Griffiths. Of course she is best known in her role of Rhonda in the great Aussie film, &#145;Muriel's wedding'. She certainly is talented, and continues to astound many TV and moviegoers around the world, who are captivated by what she can do onscreen. In the Aussie film &#145;Me Myself I', Griffith's takes on a double role which she handles beautifully.Pamela Drury is an attractive, intelligent thirty-something award winning Sydney journalist. Yet Pamela has missed the love boat, and is resigned to the odd porno flick and blind date. She could have had it all thirteen years ago, when she turned down &#145;Mr. Right', Robert Dickson. On the edge of despair, Pamela literally collides with her other self - the Pamela who married Robert thirteen years ago - and comes complete with three kids, dog, goldfish and a white picket fence. When the married Pamela disappears, the career Pamela is left with the family she almost had, and the man she always wanted. As she struggles to cope with a family oblivious to the switch, she is challenged by poignant, humorous and ultimately enlightening experiences.&#145;Me Myself I', is a film which you have to look at closely, to really enjoy. Its story while it might be simple to some degree has merit. The way we see Pamela go from one world to the next is quite good. The comparison to &#145;Sliding Doors' is noticeable. Although it might not be as good as what Sliding Doors is, the way it uses the question of &#145;what if?' in this story is pretty good. The director/Writer of &#145;Me Myself I' was Pip Karmel. With Karmel, I got the feeling that she put some of her own life experiences into the story and in the character of Pamela. Pip has been a part of good movies such as Shine and Hearts in Atlantis. There was a pretty good cast in this Australian movie. Griffith's is the standout performer in this one, as she takes on many facets to each side of her character. I like how we meet up with her two characters at the start and the end of the movie. Her husband Robert (David Roberts) was another interesting character. He really has to adjust to what the &#145;other' Pamela is like. When he finds out what she wants, he is more than satisfied with her. Yet the young cast of the Dickson family was surprisingly good. I enjoy how the story focused on Stacey (Yael Stone), and how her mother helps her come to grips with womanhood. Then there is the funny scene with Douglas (Shaun Loseby), who is told in no uncertain manner that calling Mum a &#145;dumb head' or the like is just not on. Yet the character of Rupert (Trent Sullivan) is most vital to the story, as he points out to the audience many times that he realises Pamela 2 is not his real mum. However, Pamela 2 does help him grow up immensely.Outside of the Dickson family there are many interesting characters which we get to meet. The dinner scene is quite funny, as we get to see how sleazy a guy Geoff (Felix Williamson) really is, and that the other Pamela is as unfaithful as her own husband is. Then there is the character of Ben, who has taken a liking to Pamela 2. Pamela is strongly attracted to Ben (Sandy Winton), and she can not control her feelings towards him either.This then leads me to the important lessons that this movie points out to its audience. The question of &#145;What If?' is of great significance all the way through out the film, as Pamela 2 is thinking that at one stage &#145;Why did I let you go?' in reference to Robert. Then in the blink of an eye, Pamela 2 is placed into the very situation that she thought she had lost 13 years ago. I am sure that we have all wondered at one stage or another, how a different decision might have effected our future. &#145;Me Myself I' also asks other questions like &#145;what is more important, a family or career?'. In the fantasy world that this film is set in, Pamela 2 gets to experience the best of both worlds. Then there is the idea of love and relationships. Pam and Robert both talk of how difficult their relationship/marriage has and continues to be. Pamela 2 also shows what effect a &#145;risk' can or could have had on her life if she enters into a relationship or not. The rewards certainly outweigh the risks that were presented to her.In conclusion, this was a very enjoyable film to watch, and while Rachel Griffiths has done many small-time films that we have probably all overlooked, she is one actress who demands that people take notice of. After seeing &#145;Me Myself I', it has made me appreciate this Aussie gals talents all the more. I will continue to look out for her with keen interest in her upcoming movie roles.  &#145;Me Myself I' allows us all to look at who we really are, the &#145;individual' that is inside us all. The finale to this one is a great look at just that. I also like the new remix on the song &#145;Me Myself I', which was performed by Marie Wilson. Take the &#145;risk' when you are next looking for a good Aussie film and view &#145;Me Myself I'. You will kick yourself if you don't!CMRS gives &#145;Me Myself I' 4 (Very Good Film)    "},{"Title":"loved it","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i thought this movie was wounderful. it teaches you how if you envy one persons life they may envy yours and it isn't allways better then yours. It made me think of if given the opportunity would you go back and change something that you have felt that you did wrong, and if so would you change it?  "},{"Title":"Rachel Griffiths Shines","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  No denying the talents of Rachel Griffiths and her turn in this dual role shows that she is quite capable of carrying a film. Also, a great comic turn, with a flush of drama.The film goes where we would all like to go, (It's a Wonderful Life style) the path not taken. Answers to the what if's that plague a person over time.Terrific handling of the subject matter and great performances by the supporting cast.  "},{"Title":"A Delightful Little What If Romance","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Me, Myself and I is for fans of little romantic Australian movies like Hotel de Love and Muriel's Wedding (which I am a sucker for) or alternative universe/what if movies like Sliding Doors and Twice Upon Yesterday or sort of Next Stop Wonderland (of which I am also a sucker for) or even mid-life crisis movies like Metroland (which I deeply went through when I turned 40 so can really relate to). Except for a tacked-on romantic ending in the closing moments, this is a charming tour de force for Rachel Griffiths (Hilary of Hilary and Jackie) as she plays both what if's in her life. I liked that each parts of herself learn from the switch.I would think that both singles and confirmed marrieds would enjoy what each self goes through as they seemed realistic to me. Well to women at least (the women in the audience were rolling in the aisles at the scenes of the single woman suddenly having to cope with how a married woman deals with birth control).(originally written 4/8/2000) "},{"Title":"Rachel Griffiths' Movie","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Based on the popularity of the TV show, Six Feet Under, Rachel Griffiths is now getting the popular and critical recognition she deserves.  But to really appreciate her breadth as an actress you must watch some of her earlier films, and Me Myself I is a good candidate. For one, it's almost a one-woman show, and Griffiths actually plays two parts. We all wonder what would have happened if we'd made a critical life-decision differently. Driven, single professional, Pamela Drury (Griffiths), gets the chance to actually experience this 'what if'. Through some weird event, Pamela is thrust into an alternate reality where her new life is as if she had married her childhood sweetheart and settled down to some serious homemaking. At the same time, her double (the homemaker from the parallel reality), trades places with her and assumes the life of a single professional.  I know it's confusing, and I can't explain it any better. If it sounds intriguing, rent the movie.  "},{"Title":"Regret is futile","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  On her 30th birthday, Pamela Drury is given the chance to see what might have happened if she had married Mr Right 13 years ago.In a sequence that could have been endlessly corny if badly handled, Pamela is transported to her married life where she discovers what would have happened if she had chosen marriage over her journalistic career.  The writers did not take the obvious route of making her husband out to be a rat, and the moment she discovers that she was the one that had been unfaithful is very telling.All the cast are very strong, with Trent Sullivan as four-year-old Rupert stealing every scene he is in.  Rachel Griffiths is totally believable as Pamela, in both her incarnations, and combines humour with pathos and credibility.Somehow this film manages to avoid over-sentimentality, and reassures the viewer that regret is futile.  Very funny and rather touching in places. "},{"Title":"What if?","Date":"28 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I really like this movie. Maybe I also related myself a lot with the Pamela but anyway it is brilliant. We already know that the life is all depend our choices. And aren't we all wonder sometimes what would happened if we choose the other path.It really made me thinking over my personal choices and asked myself the question ''what if...?''. And I think it is good to think over again our choices, imagine what would have happened, would i be more happier or miserable. but the beauty is we cannot tell. that is one of the mystery that will remain forever. So it is not the final goals of your's what makes you happy in your life but it is the journey that takes you there. And it is this journey that makes you who you are. "}{"Title":"Sweet, but unsatisfying","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to admit, the only reason I watched this is because I'm a die-hard Christine Stephen-Daly fan. However, although she didn't feature in it as much as I would have liked, Rachel Griffiths provided a fairly compelling performance which kept me happy throughout the rest of the movie.I was a little disappointed by all the characters EXCEPT Pamela though, and I'm afraid not even the girl who played Stacey can sway me on that. I felt that they were all very 2D. I am glad I've seen the movie (if only to get a glimpse of Christine in such AWFUL tights) but I'm also glad I didn't have to pay any more than £4.99 for it. "},{"Title":"Dreadful, dreadful movie","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i couldn't stop watching this movie because the acting is so good  (and David Roberts is just so adorable) and the kids are so great but WHAT a BORING PLOT!  i don't know why it affected me so deeply that i had to comment on the movie, but it was just a horrible stupid movie. "},{"Title":"Ignored by Hollywood so they copied the idea and made A Family Man","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Why, oh why does Hollywood ignore super films like this and then make a copycat, in this case the abismal A Family Man. Rachel Griffiths is great in this film, the story is fun and original.Australian films deserve a lot more success in the US, not just Australian actors. "},{"Title":"I Myself Me - a bit mixed up","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  sorry, poor excuse for a joke.Film not bad I thought, and only a little mixed up at times.  Definitely worth the watch.There were in the end perhaps too many ideas, and many of these were left dangling and un-pursued at the end. (like the reasons 'why' the 'married version' had started an affair with that complete loser....or what was going to happen when the married version finds out she has got the sack....). But I guess that's okay.  A film doesn't have to explain everything I suppose....Right, Griffiths.  Good or bad ? Well, Im going against the grain here. She's okay, but there are some forced moments (e.g. early scenes with the school councilor.....who wasn't that great either for that matter). Agree with other commentator that the daughter was v.good.Better than sliding doors ?  No.  Both films surprise, but I didn't really end up liking any of the characters that much in MMI.  Probably strict baptist upbringing coming out here, but boy do these characters find it easy to sleep with someone else.  This in itself is not unrealistic of course.  But the lack of comment by the film or reaction/ feeling shown by the parties is frankly too cold for my tastes.  Maybe things are different in Australia.....maybe, Im just plain jealous and wish I had fewer hang ups. Hey ho.Sliding doors is a lot funnier and has charm. MMI didnt hit my funny bone, mildly amusing was how I would describe it...., and lacked charm.But I will give MMI credit for it's domestic realism. Spot on.....excruciatingly so at times.  Puts 'Family Man' firmly in its place so it does.Last comment though must be reserved for the husband. Given that he is apparently the great-love-of-her-life-that-she-let-slip-though-her-fingers sort of thing, I was expecting someone, well you know, quite nice ?  But he wasn't that at all. He was a complete a*se.  He was grumpy, arrogant, sexist and had a perpetual down turned mouth all the time. What was she thinking ???!!!It would be fair to give MMI the benefit of the doubt that its undoubted ambiguity is intended and carefully managed.  Both lives have hope at the end, and you can't say one is better than the other.  If this was the intention, MMI is a success and makes for a colourful film compared with the normal Hollywood black and white.  "},{"Title":"A romantic comedy with a brain.","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the best films of '99 which was largely overlooked, probably because it's Australian and Julia Roberts isn't in it.  See this instead of Family Man.  They stole the idea from this for the Nicolas Cage movie and this is a much better film.  Rachel Griffiths is equally terrific as Pamela, a single woman who regrets her choice earlier in life not to marry and have children, and as the other Pamela, who DID marry the so-called Mr. Right and bear his three ungrateful brats.  Both worlds are explored, and we are left with the conclusion that life is all about choices, and neither choice is better than the other.  The film is witty, but never wacky or silly. If you're tired of pratfalls into wedding cakes ala Runaway Bride, rent this one.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"If it were not for Rachel Griffiths, this movie would not have been worth seeing.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Rachel Griffiths made this movie worthwhile seeing. Don't miss her in Six Feet Under. The movie itself was extremely silly but it was completely justified by Griffiths's performance, which was magnificent. We all know about stupid, flashback romantic comedies, but Griffiths came through with a stunning performance. "},{"Title":"Beats The Family Man on the same plot","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Compare the hollywoodian 'bigger than life' approach of The Family Man -- luxurious flat/sports car/supermodel girlfriend vs perfect family, nice house, lovely wife -- with down-to-earth approach of Me Myself I -- single professional woman living alone vs housewife in the suburbia. That's a script about credible characters, a touching slice of life, real people. A pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"Absolutely wonderful!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a terrific movie.  It's clever, funny and really makes you think. Rachel Griffiths is excellent.......in fact, everyone is great.  I laughed out loud all the way through this one, but was also very touched by the tenderness this movie showed for the characters.  Pay attention to the ending, it's perfect!P.S. My husband really liked it too, so please don't think it's for women only. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable! Interesting to compare to Family Man.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you wanted to enjoy Family Man with Nicholas Cage (Dec 2000), but found that it didn't quite meet your expectations, please see this movie, Me Myself I.  The concept is very similar -- a person has the chance to see what might have happened, if only . . . -- but the alternative life in which our heroine finds herself is much better realized.  The direction is superb; quite often, what we think is happening is not quite the case! The scenes range from thoughtful and sad to downright hilarious.  The film is ultimately life-affirming in a way that the self help mantras can never match!  A wonderful film!  (And the secondary roles are all played to perfection!) "},{"Title":"Glowing","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Me, Myself, I combines two genres of romantic comedy the body swap with the what if? story (you know, Dating the Enemy meets Sliding Doors). The film flounders a little in the first twenty minutes or so as it establishes Pamela (Rachel Griffiths), single and luckless in love. Pamela is a journalist, and has just met a fellow writer (Sandy Winton) who seems to be the perfect mate. Until she sees him with his kids... Pamela is wondering what her life would have been like if she'd married high school sweetheart Robert Dickson (David Roberts) when WHAM! she's hit by a car. She comes to in the arms of married Pamela (also Rachel Griffiths) who takes her home to her suburban house, three kids and married life with Robert.This is writer-director Pip Karmel's first feature (she received an Oscar nomination for editing Shine). Karmel is obviously close to her material, but she's not overly protective of it - she wants us to enjoy her conception. She has the perfect star in Rachel Griffiths, who we're more used to seeing in supporting roles (most famously, Muriel's Wedding and Hilary and Jackie). She carried a film in Amy, but she played a glum, washed-out single mum. Here, she's a lot of fun. You want to know more about Pamela, and the subtle differences between the single and married Pamelas are simply, but impressively, conceived. She's well supported by David Roberts and Sandy Winton, as husband and potential boyfriend. Refreshingly for a romantic comedy, the men aren't thoroughly likeable or dislikeable. I found it easy to suspend my disbelief with Me, Myself, I. It's that rare beast an Australian romantic comedy that's funny, and leaves you with a warm glow inside when it's over.  "}{"Title":"You can identify if you're in your 30's and single","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Generally, I enjoyed this movie (Me Myself I)and appreciated the ending - not another 'poor ole me' or some namby-pamby Cinderella ending.But I laughed to tears during the beginning scenes whereas the lead character is picking out a photo - to meet an unknown single man, their meeting, the look on her face...and the dramatic camerawork...panning the floor of the lead character's apartment, showing the shoes, the nylons, the clothes, hearing the passionate voices of two people...the camera moving along the floor...to find her solo, watching a passionate movie...oh that was one of the best setups I've seen. It was hysterical!I laughed throughout this movie, although there are a few moments that are rather sad. I can relate. "},{"Title":"Deserves Attention","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When one makes a movie with a tacky plot such as this one, it requires great skill to make it work.  There must be some real learning accomplished via the plot device and the actors must make us care about them.  As I watched this movie unfold, I was satisfied at every turn while dreading the imminent horrible misstep which would make the whole film crumble into a pile of mush.  Much to my delight, that misstep never occurred.  The film succeeds at satisfying our desire to experience the alternate choice that the protagonist could have made at an important crossroad in her life and makes us realize that happily ever after is only an illusion no matter what choices we make.  It was also a touching reminder that when we take a fresh look at our situation and concentrate on the positive aspects that exist in all of our lives, the quality of our lives will be dramatically improved.  Are these ideas unique?  Certainly not, but it's always enjoyable to have them reinforced from a new perspective.  And through the eyes of the talented Rachel Griffith, the message successfully hits home.     "},{"Title":"A film with heart","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  More enjoyable and slicker than the advertising campaign would suggest this is a memorable if at times derivative film that overcomes some second-rate support actors and a weak finale by imbuing the leads with such likability and making us care for Pamela's (the beautiful Griffiths) predicament.Similar in theme to If Only..(released internationally as Twice upon a Yesterday) but populated by real people as opposed to sexy mannequins, this is at times crass but sometimes strangely moving. And against all odds even if it is at its most basic a  kitchen sink romance, it is never boring.Griffiths, Roberts and all three kids are superb. And there are some great musical memories on the soundtrack.I didn't find it as funny as some reviewers (the audience I saw it with were pretty quiet) but it is a film with ideas and intelligence and heart, and they don't get made very often these days. "},{"Title":"More memorable than Sliding Doors but ...","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Is this movie better than Sliding Doors? Without Gwyneth? Hard to say. It is very different, more grounded, more memorable but not necessarily more entertaining. Rachel Griffiths does a wonderful job; the entertainment gap stems from a rather plain supporting plot and cast. Yet this is what makes the movie more realistic. (How much time do you want to spend watching a single yuppie woman cope with three boisterous children in entirely routine daily life?) This movie could have been more but should be appreciated for what it is. I rate it on par with Sliding Doors which is substantial praise. "},{"Title":"Charming, cute but not too cute","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A great romantic comedy, better than Sliding Doors and Twice Upon A Yesterday!!! Well directed, nicely acted, and real. This isn't a hollywood film that is boring and clashed and fake, it's honest and often hilarous. The only one problem is Regal Cinema's projector lighting, it seemed too dark (the Sony Pictures Classics logo was very dark blue, not sky blue) anyway this film is lots of fun! "},{"Title":"genuinely funny, warm, charming story - see this movie! I loved it...","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Very very funny! I saw Me Myself I at a Patrick Rafter charity preview screening in Melbourne, Australia & it was really well received - the audience got quite involved & even vocal. The story is based on a very simple What if. premise and explores the theme in an entertaining manner without being hokey or contrived. It was a genuinely funny, warm, charming story & Rachel Griffiths was perfect as a thirtyish single journalist Pamela Drury who gets to discover what her life would have been like if she had accepted a marriage proposal many years before. There is a poignant scene with Rachael's character in the bath when I was crying with laughter, then wondered for a brief moment if this was actually the right response, but I wasn't left dangling for long before the story swung back to it's comedic theme. A truly enjoyable experience. Go and see it if you've ever wondered it you've made the right decisions in life (and haven't we all?). "},{"Title":"Clever plot, brilliantly played out. A 'feel-good' movie.","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Have you ever wondered what might have happened if you had made a different decision or choice at some point in your past? I think we all have and this common wondering is brilliantly played out in this clever new movie from Australia. I saw this film at the Telluride Film Festival and it is my pick as best of the festival this year. Director Philippa 'Pip' Karmel has done a wonderful job with this film. My understanding is that this is her directorial debut though she has been involved in the technical side of film for some time (editor of 'Shine'). She has taken the aforementioned question I wonder what would have happened if... and run with it. Fast-lane journalist Pamela Drury (wonderfully played by Rachel Griffiths) is taken back in her life and is given the 'what if' test to the max. She experiences the life she would have had, had she made a different choice in her past. She experiences the spouse, family, house, children, pets, job, and everything that goes with these, if she had've made that other choice. The experiences she has in this 'new' life are simply slices of real life but they are slapped in our faces with such clarity that we identify deeply with her. It shows how often we pay little attention to those little events in our life, like, say, potty training. Trust me, you need to see it. Also, the director included a popular film technical 'trick' that I've never really liked in the movies; I've always thought it so unreal that it distracted me from the story. But in this film it is done so smoothly, and brilliantly, that it was just wonderful. The audience I was with laughed frequently and heartily during this film. This is a genuine 'feel-good' movie, and I LIKE feeling good after seeing movie. I'll be seeing it again when it hits the theatres. Thank you Pip. "},{"Title":"wrong release date.","Date":"11 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It states that this was released in 1999. Well, in the spring of 1998, I was very ill, and hospitalized for a while. well, in May of 1998, I watched this movie in my hospital room on video cassette. so, it either went direct to video in 1998, prior to the spring, or it was made in 1997. either way, I saw it was too early for it to even be considered 1999. just bitching. go about whatever it was that you were doing. Besides that, I thought the film was decent enough for at least hospital viewing. If you are ever stuck in a bed eating pudding or whatever they try to pass off as meat in some backwards medicinal facility, and this movie comes on, go ahead, watch it. you might enjoy. you might not. it really left me with the feeling of eh. to tell you the truth. "},{"Title":"An entertaining movie about life's choices and oversights.","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Rachel plays the role of a woman in her thirties, married to her job. She begins to lament not marrying at least one of the several sweethearts she knew while younger. I felt that most of the actors in this movie were convincing in their roles. There were some very good child actors whom we shall likely see in other roles later on.Through an imaginative set of circumstances Rachel suddenly finds herself in another life married to her high school sweetheart. Yes, I know there have been other movies with a somewhat similar plot, but there is something rather charming in the way she portrays the woman dealing with the unexpected changes. She must quickly learn to deal with three children, and the rigors of family life. She convincingly plays the role of a woman attempting to make the best of a situation she had at least occasionally dreamed of being in. It isn't easy for our heroine, but she struggles and learns to make her way through dealing with a toddler, a smart aleck nine year old boy, and a twelve year old daughter. All the while juggling the writing job she has with a magazine for women, and the usual responsibilities of caring for a household. This from a single woman who seldom cleaned her apartment, and answered to no one else. This is a movie about people dealing with the difficulties of life, and even a hint at some preconceived notions of how to do things wrong. Her husband was good in his part as the work-a-day man who has to deal with the frustrations at work and come home to a household that needs even more from him when he is tired. There are some heartwarming scenes of the whole family at play to remind why us why people marry and have families. There are some sex scenes that others felt were unnecessary, but it was about a husband and wife renewing their love and passion after a rather dull period in their life. In a few scenes Rachel carries the whole action with a multitude of facial expressions, not one word is spoken. She does it so well, you find yourself knowing exactly what is going through her mind and even feeling a bit of her emotions. This lady must have a thousand expressions. I was amazed that she could convey so much emotion without speaking even one word. She is one of those rare women who have a subtle sort of sensuality. It doesn't slap you in the face as with some other women, hers is the type that slowly occurs to you and you begin to realize what a special person she is. Her hairstyle in this movie was not very flattering, but I saw her in a Hallmark special a few weeks ago with a gorgeous full head of wavy hair and it really was an improvement of her overall appeal. I hope to see more of this lady in the future. "},{"Title":"imitation of life...","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A huge hit in Australia for this film whose topic is very influenced by Frank Capra life we could have had in the past. Pip Karmel exploits and masters rather well her subject in spite of certain clumsinesses, especially in the end of the film. She also adopted a quiet and sober directing, perhaps a little too sober so much that it makes the movie listless, notably at the level of the performance. Nevertheless, the script contains several humorous details and Karmel knows how to alternate laugh and emotion. A light and pleasant movie that allows to appreciate Rachel Griffiths' spicy performance. "}{"Title":"Rachel Rocks!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not only is she beautiful, she's got more talent than I ever imagined. Any fan of Ms. Griffiths must see this film.  She carries the whole thing on her broad, sturdy shoulders and keeps us entertained throughout.  The idea is a bit on the generic chick-flick side but with some smart writing and her spot on delivery, it rises way above the Lifetime Channel fare and keeps us off balance from beginning to end.   "},{"Title":"Interesting moments, not ready for prime time","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I found the ambiguous ending unsatisfying. Of the two relationships, I found the first,  single version so much more real that Rachel Griffiths acting could not overcome the dangling elements in the script. some really funny or cute moments, and nice performance by the actress playing the daughter ( a three dimensional character, not a cardboard cutout teen), but too much unexplained, and unsatisfying resolution. If the message is that all choices are equal, whats the point of choosing well? Kind of negates the timelessness of  It's a wonderful Life. Maybe the message is find happiness within your choices, but that wasn't clear enough.worth watching once, just for Rachel, and the few good lines, but no where as good as Sliding Doors.  "},{"Title":"Optimistic, austere, and mildly entertaining","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Me Myself I is a minimalistic, lighthearted film about the schizophrenic introspections of the centeral character. Save a charming and sometimes whimsical look at some ordinary lives, a good performance by Griffiths, and excellent musical punctuations, this enjoyable film offers nothing new and risks being labeled a chick flick. "},{"Title":"A Delightful and Surrealistic Movie, With Touches of `Sliding Doors'","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Pamela Drury (Rachel Griffiths) is a single thirty and so years old woman very dissatisfied with her life. She writes a column in a magazine for women and she regrets why she did not say `yes' to the proposal of her boy friend Robert Dickson (David Roberts) thirteen years ago. Her dates are usually terrible, and the last guy she met apparently has a wife and two daughters. She is almost committing suicide, when she suddenly meets herself on the street, married with Robert. She becomes the other `her', but with memories from her single life. The situations are very funny and dramatic. This is really a surprising good movie, with some touches of the 1998 `Sliding Doors'. Rachel Griffiths has a great performance and is very charming and delightful in this surrealistic movie. Since Pamela keeps her memory of her previous life, it is really funny to see how she handles a type of life 180 degrees from hers. My vote is eight.  "},{"Title":"Griffiths excels in variation hybrid of It's a Wonderful Life  meets Sliding Doors","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ME MYSELF I (2000) **1/2 Rachel Griffiths, David Roberts, Sandy Winton, Yael Stone, Shaun Loseby, Trent Sullivan. (Dir Pip Karmel) Rachel Griffiths has always struck me as a lankier, sexier déjà vu of Juliette Lewis, but with more sublimity than her American compatriot. The Australian actress &#150; who received a Best Supporting Actress nomination in 1998 for 'Hilary and Jackie' &#150; has always been interesting to observe onscreen since I first noticed her in the indie surprise hit 'Muriel's Wedding'. Here she gets to be funny and succeeds more often than the film itself.Griffiths stars as Pamela, a self-observed Type A writer for a woman's magazine that is always on the go and busy even on her birthday which proves to be a hindrance than a blessed event when she begins to sink into suicidal depression over the latest break up in a string of faceless, nameless lovers with no satisfying reason to continue her breakneck freestyling life. After several hilarious half-hearted attempts to do herself in (including the gradual lowering of a hair drier into her bubble bath) her wish comes true when she is knocked unconscious after walking into oncoming traffic. When she awakens she isn't herself but instead her fantasy self &#150; a married woman with three children wed to her high school crush Robert (Roberts) &#150; and finds the sudden change to be challenging but in the end rewarding.Along the way she comes across sexy Ben (Winton) from her previous existence again and must decide on being a stay at home writer or a freestyling single with an active sex life.Throughout Griffiths is winning as the new found mother juggling her tykes, writing and her husband &#150; all experiencing a new and improving person as well. But the film's familiarity &#150; from 'It's A Wonderful Life' to the Gwyneth Paltrow flick 'Sliding Doors' &#150; ends up derailing the storyline altogether even if it is presented with a lot of energy. "},{"Title":"A down-under film that deserves to be on top","Date":"2 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" (Mild spoilers)The Australians have been quietly cranking out a succession of brilliant little comedy/dramas, including The Castle, Muriel's Wedding, The Dish, Strange Bedfellows... nonetheless, this film really snuck up on me. I've been a fan of Rachel Griffiths for years, but here she finally gets the sort of leading role she deserves complex but above all charming. It baffles me why lesser actresses continue to get more adulation, unless it's maybe because Griffiths refuses to play the Hollywood game, always picking more-interesting parts, and continuing to work both in the US and the UK, big screen and small screen (Six Feet Under, Very Annie Mary, Blow Dry, etc.).Me Myself I shows how great a 'little' film can be when everything is handled with just the right light touch. The details of Griffiths' job (writing ludicrous self-help articles for a women's magazine); her stale yet loving marriage; her occasionally surprising love life... these build up into a portrait of perfect, crystalline precision. And yet, each element is painted with both truth and humor. Griffiths' reluctant recognition that her 'dream' marriage is going sour... and her practical, matter-of-fact reaction. Her relationship with the kids... And what kids! The little punk blows me away every time; Griffiths' relationship with him is a perfect 'Taming of the Shrew' mini-movie in itself. (And the performance is one of the best I've ever seen by a child.) But the purple-haired girl, struggling into adolescence, has her moments of wry humor as well.This is a note-perfect film. The script and direction by Pip Karmel never seem forced, yet manage to bring an entire world vividly to life. Despite the strange dual-world premise, and the simple message, the film never seems preachy, or contrived. It unfolds with a delicate inevitability, like a flower opening up, showing each petal for us to admire. We see every facet of Pamela's life, as does she. The revelations take us to surprising places, and build up to a resolution that manages to be both obvious and remarkable.For me, this is one of those 'desert island discs'... If I had to prune my DVD library down to a handful of films, this would most certainly be one of them. It makes me think of the best films by Frank Capra, or the best Tracy/Hepburn vehicles clever, yet overwhelmingly likable, stylized, yet in its light-hearted way somehow more true to life than many grittier dramas. "},{"Title":"Comedy/Fantasy experiments with virtual reality...","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Strictly a hit and miss kind of thing, a chic flick for the romantically inclined types who revel in seeing a woman putting down men as worthless love objects and dreaming of an alternate life style for herself while not making any real commitments in the real world, but living in some kind of virtual reality so she can test the waters of being someone else.On the credit side, it's all very stylishly photographed in handsome settings, has a bouncy musical score to keep things moving along at a nice pace, and has a virtuoso central performance by RACHEL GRIFFITHS that would be even more charming if her character made any sense.She reminds me of the sort of appeal Betsy Drake (American actress once married to Cary Grant) had in films like EVERY GIRL SHOULD BE MARRIED. She has the same girlish charm and very expressive eyes and mouth that can let you know what she's supposed to be thinking, especially when glimpsed in close-up reactions.But it's as light as air, as flimsy as plots go, with some pleasant incidental scenes of families trying to bond, as for example the dinner restaurant scene with hubby, wife and children eating out in a candlelit atmosphere, including the little boy who says he has to go to the toilet at a picture-taking moment. These sly observations of single life vs. family gatherings give the film its human qualities.But the character of the rather neurotic young woman is only vaguely suggested and she has so many annoying traits and sudden changes of mind that it becomes frustrating to keep up with her whims.As the ending shows, she values her independence but longs for something like a relationship with her latest love, Ben, (played with romantic finesse by attractive SANDY WINTON), who clearly is nuts about her. Again, she's afraid to commit.Another demerit The fantasy angle with her double only adds to the general aimlessness of the plot. The film's chief merit is RACHEL GRIFFITHS and her winsome charm. "},{"Title":"Honestly Inspiring","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The comparisons to Sliding Doors (which literally put me to sleep) and Family Man (which was not as good as Me Myself I) are simplistic and inaccurate. Btw, this movie is also not another It's a Wonderful Life. This may be the best chick flick ever made, but I promise it won't make men gag! It's funny and interesting enough to be relevant to a lot of people. Neither of the two lives Pamela experiences is particularly good, and what lingers with me long after seeing the film is how this everygirl takes charge of her reality, takes responsibility for her fate. It was, in a word, empowering. And now if you'll excuse me I have to go punch myself in the head for using the word empowering. While i'm doing that, you should definitely rent this one. "},{"Title":"No morals-good movie! )","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was funny, serious and it had a good choice of music.  I'm still confused though, this woman named Pamela trades places with her lookalike and is stuck raising three kids.  You see her many times having intercourse with her fake husband, and you can just bet that she(her lookalike) is having sex with other men too.  Which means that the two Pamelas are cheating, Pamela(mother of kids) is out with other men, and Pamela(spinster)is having sex with the other Pamela's husband, and during the pertend marriage, the Pamela that is taking place of mother cheats on her fake hubby with a man from work.  Does this woman have any morals?  It also turns out that the husband was cheating on his wife(other Pamela(mother)) when they find out he has condoms in his jeans. Overall I guess my favourite character was Stacey, I liked her hair with the pink highlights also her one line mom if I don't have my period yet do I need condoms?(she's 12!!) "},{"Title":"Second-rate Sliding Doors with a poor script and worse acting","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't particularly like Sliding Doors or Twice Upon a Yesterday, so I certainly didn't this poor second-rate excuse for those films. An idea that's been done to death (what would happen if...?) and the script is shoddy and unsuccessful, not to mention the obvious attempt at adding sex/nudity simply to gain an R rating and certain scenes that just weren't necessary but were there to push the boundaries (I really don't need to see a kid urinating or a struggle with a diaphragm. Especially when they have absolutely no connection to or use in the film).The acting was also very poor, the only actor I found the least bit satisfying was her daughter; the rest were two-dimensional and quite unbelievable. The people I watched this with left the room about halfway through; I managed to finish it, but not without fast forwarding through part of it.Overall Nothing new here, it's a generic and boring film. The few rather amusing moments are far outweighed by the silly or stupid ones. This would be dull even if it hadn't been done before. If it weren't such a rehash I'd rate it a five, but even for an Indie film this was severely lacking, and as a rehash it loses on originality as well 3/10. "}]