[{"Title":"Frankenheimer's Rosebud...","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"41 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can imagine the pitch for Reindeer Games being thrown at the execs behind the picture...Okay, it's about this guy, who's not who he says he is, who everybody thinks he is, who fools these guys who thinks he is, falls in love with this girl who thinks he is, even though he isn't, and they try to pull a heist with his expertise, even though he has none.Nick (Ben Affleck) has just been released from jail for defending his girlfriend in a fight prior to being thrown into the slammer. Upon his release, a long-time pen pal named Ashley (Charlize Theron) greets him and they immediately hit the sack. However, her brother (Gary Sinise) wants Nick to help them pull a heist on Christmas Eve at a local Indian casino, which is run by a money hungry wannabe (Dennis Farina). Her brother kidnaps Nick, holds a gun to his head and commands him to draw up a sketch of the security points in the casino, since he used to work there and knows all there is to know about the casino. There is one minor detail, however, that may hinder their plan.Nick is not Nick.Nick is really a car jacker who overheard his jail cellmate, Nick, reading his letters from a penpal named Ashley aloud. Nick was killed before his release in the jail cafeteria, and so Nick took his identity so that he could meet up with the infamous Ashley he kept hearing about, forming a mental picture of her in his head.If you stop to take the time and think through all the minor details of the film's plot (especially given the twist ending), you'll probably arive upon the conclusion that it's all a bunch of bull. It simply doesn't make sense if you really take the time to think it through.If you don't put your brain to work, however, you'll find yourself having fun watching director John Frankenheimer's last film. Frankenheimer was a talented director, the man behind such films as The Manchurian Candidate, Seconds and Ronin. His last feature was one of his most stylish and brutal, fast-paced, funny, and often just fun to sit through.Gary Sinise (Forrest Gump, Ransom) is his usual villainious self, while the real surprise comes from actress Charlize Theron, who switches character a lot through the film, especially towards the end, and is a real beauty and delight to watch. She's the film's high point, and though people criticize the plot, I found Reindeer Games mildly inventive with its shifting twists and turns, even if they aren't always so believable.The film's downfall is its ending, which feels as if the filmmakers got caught up in all their twists and turns and unconsciously wrote themselves into a wall, then suddenly slapped on a cheesy, cliched ending with a sentimental good guy closing scene. It's rushed, silly, and doesn't fit in with the rest of the film.Irregardless of its uncountable flaws, Reindeer Games (or Deception as it is called in the UK) is a fun film, John Frankenheimer's final movie. Reindeer Games is often linked as Frankenheimer's long-time dream picture, much like Sergio Leone's Once Upon a Time in America. Like a dying man's final words, perhaps it conveyed some hidden meaning to Frankenheimer. Or, maybe everyone was wrong. Maybe Reindeer Games is nothing but another Frankenheimer film, this one not as good as most of his others.But Rosebud didn't mean anything to anyone except Charles Foster Kane. Maybe Reindeer Games meant something to John Frankenheimer. However, as anyone who has ever seen Citizen Kane probably knows, it's not likely that we'll ever find out what it means, even if we try.3/5 stars. Enjoyable if you don't put your brain to work.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Very Well Done Action Flick","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"37 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of the great actions flicks that is completely underrated on IMDb. Great plot twists, great acting, great actors, great story. This movie kept me enthralled the whole way. It was when Affleck still had his charisma from Good Will Hunting. Charlize Theron dazzles us with her smile and charm and Gary Sinise is sinister as the intimidating older brother. My only complaint was there were one too many plot twists in the end. Otherwise, settle in for a smooth ride.My favorite part of this movie are the prison sequences at the start and the final scenes. The prison sequence was very well done and Affleck is immediately identifiable as the likable car jacker. The final scenes are a great touch after the explosions, a nice touch to an enjoyable film. Sinise's fellow gang members are excellent as well, their intimidation tactics and craziness well transmitted to the screen.See this movie around Christmas time. It may hold some more value. "},{"Title":"Are you game?","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"27 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After being imprisoned for six years on a grand theft auto charge, Rudy Duncan(Ben Affleck) and his cellmate Nick (HILARY AND JACKIE's James Frain) are finally going to be paroled. After hearing endless stories during his incarceration of Nick's romantic correspondence to a woman named Ashley he has never met (CIDER HOUSE RULES's Charlize Theron), Rudy is looking forward to returning to his family and having a fresh cup of hot chocolate. When Nick is killed during a prison riot, Rudy decides to assume Nick's identity upon release from prison and meet up with the unknown woman. Burdened with a base knowledge of Nick's Indian casino employment past, Rudy finds himself in too deep with Ashley's brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) and is violently forced to cooperate with a casino robbery that Gabriel and his gang have been planning with Nick in mind.From an original screenplay by Ehren Kruger, REINDEER is very much in the same vein as his last script ARLINGTON ROAD. While much more of an action film than the paranoia drenched ROAD, REINDEER holds it's deceptions very close to it's heart as well. Who can you trust, and for how long? Helmed by esteemed director John Frankenheimer (THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE, RONIN), REINDEER seems keenly aware of it's inane story, yet he keeps pushing the proceedings along briskly, trying to keep this casino heist plot afloat with good actors and a passable script. It's fun just to watch this tale unfold. All the professionals involved know this material isn't CITIZEN KANE, but as action films go nowadays, REINDEER's restraint is it's most endearing aspect. No pop culture references, not too many exploding fireballs, and Frankenheimer keeps the edit count down. REINDEER GAMES is a far more classy film than it's brethren.It takes some time to get used to Ben Affleck as a tough ex-con. His baby face and peanut brittle voice do little to sell him as an action hero. As REINDEER trudges along, you get used to watching him act tough. It isn't the best performance that's come out of him (I'll save that honor for DOGMA), but Affleck is a likable enough guy and makes Rudy a character you want to see save the day. Imagine an aging lead vocalist for a Black Sabbath cover band and you'll have an idea what Gary Sinse looks like in REINDEER. He always makes a great passionate villain, but this time he takes his appearance one step further and actually looks like a threat. Charlize Theron keeps improving as an actress, but it is her new brunette look and honey smile that one takes away from her performance. She looks lovely in the snow, but not too much presence beyond that. The whole cast is somewhat stuck with Kruger's elementary script, and they all try hard to overcome it. It ends up being their individual charms that make REINDEER come out a winner.I liked REINDEER GAMES for the throwaway Christmas thriller that it is. Taking advantage of the topical Native American casino boom and deliberately waltzing away from many clichés, GAMES is a pleasure to enjoy. We need more of these. ----- 8  "},{"Title":"Decent, but not special","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"28 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reindeer Games is about an ex-con who has taken over his cell mate's identity, so he can run of with the other guy's girlfriend when he gets out of jail. Of course not everything goes as planned. Not only does he get the girl, he also gets a lot of trouble, because some other criminals wanted to use his cell mate to rob a casino. He doesn't know anything about the casino, nor about robbing one, but if he doesn't help them, they will shoot him immediately. So he helps them robbing the casino, wearing a Santa costume, because it is Christmas...The concept is quite good, but of course not very original. In fact the whole movie is professionally done, but not that special, so don't expect anything innovating or new. However, when you can forget that for a moment you'll have some good fun watching it. Only at the end it really failed, there were just too many explosions who aren't really doing any good to the rest of the story if you ask me.But no problem, at least it's something different than The Sound of Music or Home Alone which you'll normally see around Christmas. It offers decent fun, without excelling once, so that's why I give this movie a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Affleck-ted, but Not Fatally","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Frankenheimer follows up his great comeback film, Ronin, with Reindeer Games, a flawed but efficient thriller that recalls his earlier 52 Pick-Up.Freshly paroled ex-con Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) assumes the identity of his cellmate, Nick (who misses out on his parole when he is taken out during a prison riot), when Rudy falls for Nick's gorgeous pen-pal, Ashley (Charlize Theron).  The ruse goes awry when he is also mistaken for Nick by a gang of thugs (headed by Gary Sinise) who recruit him in their planned heist of an Indian casino at which Nick had been employed.Like 52 Pick-Up, Reindeer Games has a central character whose flawed behavior puts him at the mercy of dangerous individuals who conceive a scheme that spins out of control.  52 Pick-Up was successful because the entire cast, beginning with Roy Scheider as the trapped hero, was equal to the task of bringing the grittiness of the material to the screen.  The one significant problem with Reindeer Games is the casting of squeaky-clean Affleck as its central character.  Through no fault of his own, Affleck looks like a lightweight alongside a supporting cast that includes Sinise, Clarence Williams III, Danny Trejo, and Dennis Farina -- all actors who look like they have lived a little.  Affleck cuts a profile similar to that of Scheider, but without the lived-in look that made him convincing as someone who would be able to go toe to toe with his tormentors.Reindeer is helped greatly by the performance of Theron, who, while also young, always has been able to project a more adult presence like the young Kathleen Turner.  Credited more for her on- and off-screen glamour, Theron often is underrated as an actress.  Here she conveys equal parts sweetness, intelligence, dismay, and ferocity.  Of course, she also livens up her sensual scenes.  For many actresses, nudity itself is the extent of their sexuality, but Theron generates heat simply by looking comfortable and bringing an unforced quality to the proceedings.The other major plus is Frankenheimer's direction, which turns an adequate screenplay into a solid thriller.  He keeps the story moving and handles the action scenes economically, avoiding the excesses of Michael Bay, Simon West, and other directors of MTV-inspired fireball-fests.  As in Ronin, the action actually stays within the bounds of plausibility, which makes them more involving. "},{"Title":"Twisty Movie","Date":"14 September 2006","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you love movies with a bunch of twists, this is a wonderful movie. Up until the very end you are wondering what/who is what/who... It is a suspense filled movie with some well known actors and actresses, which is why I thought I would watch it. I had never heard of the movie, but was glad I watched it. I like Gary Sinise and he does a good job with his role in this movie. I like seeing the scenery and the casino, not sure if the movie was filmed on location, but it sure looked like it was. If you like fast paced action it is a good movie. If you are looking for something high brow, you may want to pass... It is just a good movie for the sake of a good movie. And I like the ending, and never saw it coming! "},{"Title":"Before I kill you, let me tell you why...","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When a movie has one or two cliched events in it, you can let it slip. But this film has so many, I can't believe it was given a go to be produced.  There are so many implausible plot twists and scenes that would have NEVER happened, it takes away from what actual story might exist in this film.  It's not like Die Hard, where you're so involved in the movie, you're willing to overlook dumb twists or bad lines.  The bad twists in this movie only remind you that you're watching something that should not have made it to film. I can't figure out why Frankenhiemer did this film.  BUT, it does have the great Gary Sinese, who I think is one of the best bad guys in film. For that, it can't be totally bad. "},{"Title":"It's entertaining and thrilling.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"29 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *** out of ****Reindeer Games is a semi-guilty pleasure to be sure.  I don't feel it's one of those so-bad-it's-good sort of movies, but the script relies quite a bit on chance and one of the plot twists, though quite fun and unpredictable, is a bit on the implausible side.  The likelihood of this situation panning itself out the way it did here isn't very high, but the film works because of John Frankenheimer's direction, the charismatic cast, and the dark humor.Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck), a car thief, and his cellmate and best friend Nick Cassidy (James Frain) are two days away from being released from prison.  Rudy just wants to return home to his family, while Nick plans on meeting with his pen-pal girlfriend, a beautiful woman named Ashley (Charlize Theron).  Unfortunately, a food fight breaks out in the prison cafeteria and Nick is killed, leaving Rudy with a dilemma.  When he's released, at the last moment, he decides to pose as Nick to Ashley.For the first few days, this is Heaven for Rudy.  He and Ashley click immediately, and they make love in a motel.  However, returning back to the motel from some shopping, he's ambushed and beaten by Ashley's brother, Gabriel (Gary Sinise) and his men.  Having read Nick's letters and discovering he'd worked as a security guard at the Tomahawk Casino, he plans to use Rudy (whom he thinks is Nick) to help him rob the casino.  Rudy has to now find a way to convince everyone he's Nick and get out of this situation alive.From the opening scene featuring five dead Santas in the snow, Reindeer Games had me riveted.  It's a fine way to open the film, giving the feeling that something disastrous has just occured, and it piqued my interest. Using the flashback method in this film is effective, which may now be considered tiresome in films overall, but it works here.After The Island of Dr. Moreau, it looked as if though director Frankenheimer's career was almost over; then came Ronin, an action thriller that featured some exciting shootouts and one of the most brilliant car chases ever filmed.  Reindeer Games still features Frankenheimer doing a first-rate job.  While his direction is far from flawless (he has a pesky insistence to shoot many, many close-ups) he does an excellent job creating suspense and believable action scenes.Reindeer Games tries to work as both action and suspense, and for the most part, it succeeds.  The action is refreshingly not over-the-top in the how do we top the next stunt style seen in so many Jerry Bruckheimer or Joel Silver blockbuster films.  Frankenheimer injects tension into the gunplay, fistfights, and chases, and these scenes work better than they probably could have in another less talented director's hands.Ehren Kruger wrote the script, and he puts in a lot of dark humor.  There are a lot of funny moments, due mostly to Affleck trying to ad-lib and convince everyone he's actually Nick.  Of course, Kruger is also (in)famous for plot twists that just about nobody can predict, but are also wildly improbable.  Actually, Reindeer Games' final plot twist is perhaps more likely to occur than the twists in Kruger's other scripts (Scream 3 and Arlington Road).  Speaking of that twist, let me just say that you might or might not figure it out almost exactly a minute before it happens.  Unlikely or not, there's no denying that last twist is a lot of fun.Director Frankenheimer and screenwriter Kruger also seem to know what the audience wants from this sort of movie, and they fill it with everything they can, including violent action, the dark humor, the twists and turns, as well as a good dose of sex and nudity, provided mostly by Charlize Theron. The fact that she's a lovely woman doesn't hurt matters at all.The cast plays a major part in the film's success.  Ben Affleck has proven he's one of cinema's most charismatic young actors.  His Rudy Duncan is character you can root for the whole way through because Affleck molds him into a likable and energetically funny persona.  Gary Sinise chews the scenery big-time as the villain.  Let's face it, he's easily one of the best actors around and it's somewhat of a shame to see him play a role like this when he's easily suited for something more complex, but he has so much fun in the role it's hard not to feel his enthusiasm.  Charlize Theron doesn't really get a whole lot to work with.  She has only a few modes, mostly just relegated to smiling or crying, or looking lost or angry.  The supporting cast mostly consists of Gabriel's henchmen, which include Clarence William III, Donal Logue, and Danny Trejo, all of whom deliver okay performances. The only other cast member with signifcant screen time is Dennis Farina, who tries to chew the scenery like Sinise, but isn't half as effective or memorable.Of course, not everything in the film is effective.  The film has a dark tone and atmosphere almost the whole way through, and it creates more unpleasant scenes than are welcome.  You also have to wonder about the intelligence of Gabriel and his men; they simply don't have a lot of it. They get fooled by Rudy a little too easily and after a while, it feels like they give him too many chances.But ultimately, those are my only true gripes with the movie.  Reindeer Games hardly takes itself ultra-seriously, and as a result it's a fun ride virtually the whole way through.  There's nothing truly innovative or brilliant at work here, and the film's certainly not saying anything deep; it's just for entertainment value, and all the elements work together well to create an enjoyable and fast-paced thriller. "},{"Title":"Badly Written And Acted","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd never heard of the movie DECEPTION , possibly because it's known as REINDEER GAMES in America ( I really had a problem trying to track the title down at this site ) but what struck was the short synopsis given to it in the TV page of the newspaper   An ex-con adopts his former cellmate's identity in order to meet the man's girlfriend . Thriller with Ben Affleck and Charlize Theron  . Instantly I thought I would be watching something similar to NIGHT OF THE HUNTER , yeah okay Ben Affleck sure ain't Robert Mitchum but the plot sounded very similar . Unfortunately what let's this movie down is the script along with the star So I should have guessed that Affleck wasn't going to play a bad guy , but let's face it he can't play good guys either - he is a very poor actor who only became famous because of his connection with Matt Damon which goes to prove it's not what you know , it's who you know that's the key to success . Pain , mortal fear , angst - Affleck is unable to portray any of these negative emotions and considering his character Rudy/Nick spends much of the movie getting beaten up and threatened this is a major draw back to the movie . Nice to know we won't be seeing him in too many movies in the future and if Matt Damon is looking for a new best friend I'd happily nominate myself . Let's do lunch Matt . Thankfully Gary Sinese and Danny Trejo ( Check out this guy's bio ) manage to carry the film with their performances The screenplay by Ehron Kruger doesn't play out like NIGHT OF THE HUNTER , the  Man stealing the identity of his dead cellmate  subplot is just used to set up the story and if anything resembles CLIFFHANGER with a bunch of bad ass gangsters holding their victim hostage to get what they want . There's lots of chases in the snow and the occasional passer by getting bumped off but there's some ridiculous plot holes . For example Rudy and his girlfriend are drowning under the ice so Rudy uses his gun to shoot his way out of a watery grave . What he can fire a gun under water ? And there's a scene where Rudy is shackled to a bed . He then manages to break free , go to a swimming pool to discover a plot twist , go back to the hotel room he is held hostage and dupe one of the bad guys into believing he's still shackled to the bed by having the bed rest on his foot , then the action cuts to the morning where Rudy is taken out to the villains' van . It's just that come the morning none of the baddies has noticed that Rudy has dismantled the bed to escape his shackles . Little things like this ruin the DECEPTION's thriller elements . I know in these type of movies you have to suspend disbelief sometimes but here you have to suspend it a little too much for the movie to be effective . And because it's John Frankenheimer's last movie many of the reviewers seem to slightly more forgiving about this thriller's faults than I am "},{"Title":"Winter Blunderland","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ben Affleck plays Rudy, a con just trying to go straight (are there other kinds in the movies?), waiting for his imminent release. He and his cellmate Nick each have plans of enjoying themselves once they get out of stir. Nick's involves meeting and spending the rest of his life with a woman he's never met, a pen pal named Ashley (Charlize Theron). Ah, but the best-laid plans and all that go horribly awry when Nick is slain a few days before they're both due to be sprung. What a coincidence! Naturally, Rudy pretends to be Nick to Ashley, discovering her to be quite the cutie. You see, he's just gotten out of prison, hasn't been with a woman in years, and.... Well, anyway, he hooks up with the gorgeous Ashley, and all is well - for a few hours, anyway, until Ashley's brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) shows up and demands Rudy/Nicky help him and his gang - who have never robbed anyone - pull off a heist of a local Indian casino. Of course, Rudy, being Rudy and not Nick, doesn't know a thing about the casino (Nick was a guard there years ago). And he tries to tell Gabriel that. But wouldn't you know it, the creep just won't listen! (Bad guys are like that.) So your basic plot involves Rudy trying to help/not help these guys with their evil plan, and of course they'll stop at nothing, and of course things go wrong, etc. Oh sure, there are a few plot twists, and some will have you guessing, but my bet is there's going to be a lot in this movie that you've seen before. And if you think the plot's relatively ho-hum, with few surprises, then you're left with the performances of the three main leads.Ben Affleck is miscast, in my opinion. His character's not terribly likeable (I mean he DOES lie to Charlize Theron, after all), but that's not his fault. Affleck's problem is that he combines arrogance with tough-guy attitude and thinks it makes him multifaceted. No, Ben, it makes you look like a jerk. A better choice for this role might have been Edward Norton (Fight Club). Norton can play tough with foibles, and I don't think Affleck has that ability.Charlize Theron is outstanding. She delivers a deep, stunning performance that produces new wrinkles with each scene. Much like Barbara Stanwyck in Double Indemnity, Theron is crafty, essaying more in those bewitching eyes than most actors can in an entire soliloquy.And Gary Sinise? He's Gary Sinise. He's sinister, he's mean-spirited....he's the heavy. He's the bad guy, folks, and Sinise has played this role a few times, so he knows what he's doing. Oh sure, maybe his character is nothing more than a cardboard Bad Guy role, but hey, that's more the fault of the screenwriting than it is of the actor, so I won't blame him. I've seen his talent range, and I know he's got some. (See Of Mice and Men or The Green Mile or Ransom.)Bottom line - it's not exactly filled with the kind of twists that'll keep you guessing, but it's not too bad. It is, however, a bit of a comedown from the director of The Manchurian Candidate. But fret not, friends - it is, after all, a rental at this point, and it's worth the $3.50 or so.  "}{"Title":"An Entertaining Xmas Heist Movie","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The action in Reindeer Games takes place at Christmastime and this is also probably the best time of the year to watch the movie as it's funny, entertaining and best appreciated at a time when your critical faculties are not at their sharpest!! This slick thriller is action-packed and fast moving but also tense and very violent at times. The plot is complicated by numerous twists, mistaken identities and double-crosses and also a bunch of characters that are often very unpredictable. Characters called Rudy and Nick and a soundtrack full of Christmas songs contribute to the strong Christmas theme which is maintained throughout and the regular humorous moments provide an effective counterpoint to some of the more unsavoury things that happen on screen.Rudy (Ben Affleck) and Nick (James Frain) are a couple of cell-mates who are serving out their final few days in prison. Nick has, for some time, been corresponding with a young woman called Ashley (Charlize Theron) and tells Rudy how much he's looking forward to meeting up with her when he's released. Rudy replies that he's simply looking forward to going home and enjoying some pecan pie and hot chocolate.Shortly before he's due to leave prison, Nick gets killed in a mass brawl during which he also saves Rudy's life but as Ashley knows nothing of this, she waits outside the prison for him on the day when he's scheduled to be released. When Rudy leaves the prison and sees the beautiful Ashley, he decides to assume Nick's identity and the two of them then leave for a passionate evening at a nearby motel. Their fun soon comes to an abrupt end, however, when Ashley's psychopathic brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) and his gang suddenly turn up.Gabriel knows from reading Nick's correspondence, that he used to work at a casino and now wants to make use of his knowledge of the business to enable him and his gang to rob the place. Rudy tries to explain that he's not Nick but Gabriel won't believe him and Rudy soon realises that even if he convinces Gabriel that he's not Nick, he will probably be shot because, as Rudy, he would be of no value to Gabriel. A series of rapid developments follow and Rudy winds up participating in the casino heist with the rest of the gang who are all dressed in Santa Claus outfits. Further surprises then follow before Rudy's nightmare finally comes to an end.Reindeer Games gets off to a really intriguing start when the dead bodies of a number of Santa Clauses are seen lying in the snow and the story that led up to this situation is then told in flashback. The plot twists that follow produce a number of funny and surprising situations until the story finally concludes in a way which doesn't really bear too much scrutiny.Ben Affleck is tremendous as the unfortunate Rudy who, after making a bad decision to impersonate Nick, finds himself in more trouble and danger than he could ever have imagined. Charlize Theron is consistently good as the femme fatale who goes through a number of shocking changes and Gary Sinise looks incredibly evil and menacing as the villain of the piece. "},{"Title":"If this movie could talk, it would say that Budapest is in Turkey.","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A laughable thriller with a plethora of idiotic twists.Recently I watched a documentary about Frankenheimer in which he said that he still has a dream of making the perfect movie, like his favourite, Citizen Kane. So obviously he went ahead with something like Reindeer Games. Clearly this must be the Citizen Kane of the 21st century everyone's been waiting for. It was just a matter of time. The movie works well on so many levels, it's frightening. We all knew deep down in our hearts that the old geezer still had it in him. Bravo.First of all, this reminds me a lot of Long Kiss Goodnight; plenty of snow, plenty of the Christmas spirit, plenty of idiocy. It's almost macabre how dumb the plot and the plot twists of this movie are. So basically this whole huge, elaborate scheme was designed by Theron and her ex-con boyfriend so that someone else would rob the casino?! Could a heist be any more complicatedly planned?!! This is one of the most far-fetched, laugh-inducing premises since Dressed To Kill! There are so many logic problems with it that there is absolutely no point in going into detail. And the logic is just one of the problems the movie has.The casting insane, absurd, laughable. Affleck as a prisoner in a jail?? I don't think so. Affleck as an inmate who taunts a big black convict??? I think not. Affleck the tough guy who cracks jokes every time Sinise's gang break a couple of his ribs???? Surely not. Affleck might steal his mommy's chewing-gum but you don't go to jail for that. Theron as a sly, evil, scheming, genial criminal mind?? Maybe in Citizen Kane's Blood The Fantasy Continues II. And what's with Sinise with long hair again... He was funny with long hair in Forrest Gump. Wasn't that enough? A repeated joke is never as funny the second time around. What kind of instructions did they get from Frankenheimer? Okay, Gary, you will be a smiling, sneering psycho in an action thriller. You, Charlize, you shall be a sniveling broad in a romance movie, and then you'll overact your way as a sinister criminal genius through a dumb Depalmesqian thriller/comedy. And you, Ben, you will play it for laughs you are in a comedy. You're not funny, but who cares. This is basically the first half of the movie Affleck cracks joke. Sinise hits him. Theron cries. Sinise asks if he is the real Nick. Affleck lies. Affleck cracks joke. Sinise hits Affleck. Theron sobs. Affleck runs away. Sinise catches Affleck. Sinise asks Affleck if he is the real Nick. Affleck cracks joke. Sinise hits Affleck. Theron cries. Sinise hits Affleck. Affleck cracks joke. Sinise hits Affleck. Affleck cracks joke. Theron cries. Etc. The second half is like this dumb surprise twist. Another dumb surprise twist. Action. More dumb twists. Dumb action scenes. A twist. Absurd action scenes. Final twist. Affleck gets revenge. Everyone's dead. Affleck is happy. At the end there is even Affleck moralizing in an attempt to make Theron the Evil Bitch feel guilty about everything! And the worst thing is that it succeeds she actually starts justifying herself to him! They're all like little five year-olds here! This is just too dumb for words.No doubt that Frankenheimer can make the next Citizen Kane, but only in his dreams, whenever he is lying next to a swimming pool on a Hollywood party/orgy, all doped up with heroin. Is this movie a comedy, a parody, a thriller or what? None of the above. It is a piece of s***, however. A special movie category suitable only for those rare works of utter crap.I think Frankenheimer did the right thing by casting Charlize Themoron. She is infamous for saying how much she enjoyed Turkey when she was in its city of Budapest. Such a tiny mind is an ideal match for this dumb movie. "},{"Title":"You're sending me into an Indian casino dressed as a Cowboy?","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reindeer Games finds Ben Affleck playing an ex-convict who is manoeuvred into robbing a casino by a sultry femme fatale, played by Charlize Theron. It's a lightweight plot, but veteran director John Frankenheimer directs with an assured hand, making good use of close ups, noirish dutch angles and much dark humour.Most appealing, though, is the film's festive atmosphere. The entire plot unfolds over the Christmas weekend, every scene filled with snow capped scenery, Christmas decorations and hot chocolate. This lends the film a cosy and somewhat funny ambiance, Frankenheimer's rather dark caper contrasting nicely with the homey holiday season.The film ends with a great sequence in which Affleck, dressed as Santa Claus, walks around town with a big bag of cash, distributing stolen loot amongst the local homes. Prior to this, though, is a silly scene in which the real bad guy is shockingly revealed to the audience. It's a needless twist that is wholly illogical.Still, if you overlook this narrative misstep, the film is lots of fun, and makes a good companion piece to Fargo, A Simple Plan and Bad Santa. Charlize Theron is sexy, Gary Sinese is scary and the usually intolerable Ben Affleck turns in a good performance.8/10 &#x96; Frankenheimer made many excellent films over his long career &#x96; Ronin, Birdman of Alcatraz, Manchurian Candidate, Seven Days in May, Black Sunday, Seconds, 52 Pick Up, The Train, French Connection 2, Gypsy Moths &#x96; but largely spent the 90s making TV programs or hack films solely for the cash. Reindeer Games was chewed to death by critics, but its unrated cut is a fun crime film with some witty post-Tarantino one liners. Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Terrible film","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Absolutely ridiculous film - so many twists and turns and all so somebody can construct a ridiculously over-complicated scam to rob a casino when in the end all they really need for the job are enough guns to kill absolutely EVERYBODY. Highlight of the film - Afleck's disguise - so that no-one will recognize him he dons a ten gallon hat and a mustache like the edge from U2. Works a treat. Looks just like Afleck wearing a ten gallon hat and a moustache like the Edge. Great for laughs though not meant to be funny I think. Most tedious feature of the film - the gang keeps threatening to kill Afleck and each time he escapes them they meat out some justice on him in the form of violence. However, considering they never do actually kill him it becomes painfully apparent just how empty their threats are - to the point where the viewer no longer has to sit on the edge of his seat but can sit back safe in the knowledge that these criminals will never kill Afleck no matter what he does to them. Why, is never completely clear. They probably just liked the mustache I guess. "},{"Title":"No Cigar","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The flaws in this movie are various, though for 2/3's of the movie they can be overlooked.  One prime problem is that Afflick is just never convincing as a joint hardened car thief.  When he is inside prison, he looks like a nice suburban kid acting like he is in prison.  He is almost never convincing in this role.But ultimately, the problem with this movie is in the number of plot twists that Frankenheimer throws at the audience.  Rather than build a plot, all too often when interest begins to lag, Frankenheimer introduces a double cross, a character who was already killed or some such nonsense.  Eventually there are just too many turns to sell us on the results. "},{"Title":"A new low in stupid criminal behavior","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  We checked this one out on video because `the little man' in the San Francisco Chronicle gave it top rating.  Not sure what he was smoking that day because this one was truly bad.  Not even a pretty good (not great, mind you) performance by Charlize Theron (Cider House Rules) could save this flick.The premise is bad Gun-running bad guys decide they want in on the big money, so they decide to turn to armed robbery &#150; their first job an out-of-the-way Indian casino in a remote part of Michigan in the middle of a snowy winter that for some reason has millions of dollars in its vaults when it has trouble attracting customers.The acting terrible Ben Affleck proves he can't act &#150; and this pretty boy can't get away with playing an ex-con.And a new low in incredibly dumb crooks Gary Sinise snarls through the whole movie, playing a cold-blooded killer who could have put us all out of our misery if he had just put a bullet through Affleck's head in an early scene.  Does he really fall for all of the bull that Affleck feeds him?Don't bother.  "},{"Title":"I saw it being filmed","Date":"11 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I lived in Prince George Canada,I saw most of the mediocre film in production as it was mostly shot in my neighborhood.Went to the cinema to see it out of curiosity and was most disappointed.Best part? Meeting Ben and getting his autograph. And it was funny to see April in British Columbia been turned into Michigan in December with the help of sacks of white stuff called Snow Business! One of the crew gave my daughter a hat that had the name of the film on it.Crews all get those for all the films they're working on.He wasn't supposed to give it away.but it was plain,Demetrius rather fancied my pretty daughter,Christie.She also saw it in the theater with me and was also quite disappointed.Seeing familiar places from our 'hood was a novelty. "},{"Title":"Endless conflict unencumbered by logic","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I needed to see Frankenheimer's final film. I was crushed. I have great difficulty understanding how the director of the subtle, lyrical thriller Ronin could have created and put his name to this mindless and miscast sequence of irrational plot twists and dull, meaningless physical beatings and chases. Plot twist is too nice a word for the unmotivated interminable reversals and red herrings. Viewers who don't always follow plot closely may easily lose track since it makes no sense.It tries and fails to be several things at once. It is primarily plot driven, but the plot is so ridiculous and full of holes and arbitrary reverses that one quickly ceases to bother predicting what will happen next. It's never surreal (might have helped) but it is so illogical. There is extensive brutality and gun play, but it is mostly of little consequence and seems more played for laughs. The entire climactic casino shootout seemed more comic than dramatic. Gary Sinese and his men's interminable beatings of Affleck have little dramatic impact after the initial one. The gun choreography is lazy with little sense of care or threat. There are moments meant to be comic, mostly Ben Affleck mugging, but virtually none of them work. There are multiple love affairs but these are just more red herrings to keep the plot tottering along--not one of them is convincing or deep.We're left with what I guess I'd call a dumb guy's popcorn heist movie along the lines of ; something that keeps us lurching forward with gunfire, the pounding score and the moving camera and letting us know that if we don't care about the current scene, something disconnected and brutal will be along in five minutes. CGI is missing; instead we get overacting. I cannot fathom how a script development process arrives at this conclusion. Nonstop unmotivated physical abuse is not interesting to most audiences. The lovers of cinematic mayhem will be so much happier with any Tarantino film or The Raid or even Jack Reacher where every fight means something and has a consequence. Here the violence just continues on repeat, with no one changing or learning or even dying for most of the picture. "},{"Title":"Ben trying hard to be hard, and then a really bad twist","Date":"25 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) is doing 6 years for grand theft auto. He and his cell mate Nick (James Frain) are closing in on parole in a few days. A new arrival in prison thinks Rudy rat him out. Before he could get Rudy, he kills Nick instead. When Rudy gets out, he decides to impersonate Nick to get with his romantic pen pal Ashley (Charlize Theron) who Nick talks incessantly about. Then her brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) forces him into the gang to rob a casino.This is closing in on the end of director John Frankenheimer's career. He just doesn't have it anymore. Time has passed him by. The movie drags along for the longest time. It's extremely tiring to see boyish Ben trying real hard to look like a hardened ex-con. All the close up camera work is some kind of desperate attempt at artistic flare. The fact is that I am annoyed by Affleck in this movie and couldn't care less about the character.The movie was within salvageable range with the gun fight action. The loud bangs could have drowned out the movie's troubles. Then it goes completely off the rails with an unreasonable twist. There isn't any point to anything by then. It becomes a giant mess. "},{"Title":"Tis the season","Date":"11 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If John Frankenheimer's Reindeer Games provided me with any sort of advice, it's not to neglect nineties/early-2000's action cinema. During that time, many action films were released, boasting names like Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and Steven Seagal and usually served as nothing more than cinematic timekillers or blatant star vehicles for muscular men catering to an audience that beared heavy testosterone levels. From my very limited acquaintance with the genre, it seems the attractiveness of these films was their inanity and their craziness, along with their often far-fetched plot-points, far-from-realistic instances, and technical and aesthetic imperfections that are now widely different from the glossy, overly-polished action filmmaking techniques we're used to today.But who would've thought the actor to jump on this train would be Ben Affleck and the director to capture this moment be John Frankenheimer? This, unfortunately, marked a sour time in Affleck's career, as nearly every mainstream effort he did seemed to garner nothing but negativity, and was Frankenheimer's final directorial effort before his death in 2002. This isn't necessarily the best film to conclude a career like his on (he directed the original Manchurian Candidate and Seven Days in May). It's quite possible that if I saw this back when it was out, given the director's list of renowned films, I would've hated it. But if there's anything that has changed about me in recent years, I'm beginning to love a silly, completely ridiculous thriller or action film. Preferably, but not restricted to, those starring Ben Affleck.Reindeer Games takes the cake for being one of the most asinine films I've seen this year in terms of plot, twists, and character motives. Characters possess unrealistic, confused ideas, for being such confident criminals, the storyline in itself is a muddle of complete buffoonery, and don't get me started on the twist ending, which is convoluted and almost too ambitious. I'm aware this sounds like the making of a negative review, but damn, I'd be telling an unforgivable lie if I didn't say I got some weird, B-level entertainment out of Reindeer Games. Here's a little diamond in the rough boasting A-list actors, an intriguing little premise, and several settings there are at the mercy of their actors in terms of the way they're utilized.Ben Affleck plays Rudy Duncan, a car-thief currently serving time with Nick Cassidy (Nick Frain), his cellmate. Nick has been writing letters to a woman named Ashley, who is the only person that seems to bring Nick any kind of happiness in life, unlike Rudy who has nothing but basic middle class life to look forward to upon his release. A day before Rudy and Nick's release, a prison uprising results in Nick's death, and realizing that Ashley will now be left alone, he decides to assume the identity of Nick in order to at least have some affectionate love, a caring soul, and some great, if violent, sex upon his release.Arming himself with the knowledge he has gained from Nick's letters to Ashley, Rudy exits prison with the adopted personality of his former cellmate and meets Ashley (Charlize Theron). It turns out, Ashley's brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) and three of his friends planned to rob the casino Nick used to work at and utilize him as a source for information regarding the building and the whereabouts of the casino's safe. Ashley confesses to Nick (Rudy) that she wrote to him with this in mind, and despite Rudy imploring that he isn't Nick and faked this entire thing to earn the company of Ashley, he is forced to go along with the robbery at hand.For starters, Gabriel and his thugs are some of the most listless robbers in movie history. They have a vague plan, they have little intelligence on their side, and they are often blocked by their own pitiful ineptitude. This is noticeable immediately after Rudy confesses he is not Nick. They don't believe him but threaten to kill him. Then Rudy says he is Nick. Then he isn't Nick. This goes back and forth for about five minutes in a confusing manner, so that we can't even be truly certain how the robbers plan to justify that he is Nick (or isn't).But such things like this become in the back of our minds when we see the craziness the film continues to release. Consider what Rudy looks forward to upon getting out of prison (six months of eating nothing but leftovers among other things he states in a corny monologue the film begins with and ends with). But when he agrees to help Gabriel and his band of goons, what does he request? Some goddamn hot chocolate and some pecan f****** pie. You couldn't find a better line in this film (although Gabriel referring to Rudy's stalling as reindeer games comes pretty close).Besides the film utilizing intriguing settings, such as a large hotel and a spacious casino, with a nice sense of placement and activity, the film can be known for having some at least above average performances, particularly from Gary Sinise. Sinise works as a menacing villain, somewhat reminiscent of a Steve Buscemi kind of character with the straggly hair and the intimidating grimace. Affleck and Theron, for a brief time at least, have solid chemistry, even if their sex is more violence than sensual. Then there's appearances by Isaac Hayes (in a role stranger than the sex-obsessed, dirty-minded chef in a school cafeteria) and Danny Trejo that can guilty bring a smile to someone's face.Reindeer Games is pure entertainment, briskly-paced, constantly moving, and very active in the suspense department. There are noticeable restraints on the material, given the crudely-strung together subject matter and purely ridiculous plot-points in some cases, but there's fun in the film waiting to be had for an absurdly optimistic viewer looking for a supremely different kind of Christmas picture. Come all ye faithful, I suppose. "}{"Title":"Horribly Miscast!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though I seem to me in the minority I enjoyed this movie.  It will not be the best movie of the year but I thought it was worth the money.  The main problem I think it faced was miscasting.  Affleck (who I don't like to begin with) is a momma's boy not an ex-con, gun-totting robber.  I think Mark Wahlberg would have been the perfect fit for this role, the ladies love him but he too has that momma's boy, regular guy look they were going for.  Theoron wasn't that good either,  she is very attractive but I found her acting skills to be lacking.  I was very impressed with the plot,  there was never a very low point in the movie.   Not every movie is made to win best picture so I don't think they all should be viewed the same.  This is a movie you go see if you want to suspend reality for a little while and enjoy yourself.  Maybe I'm just unsophisticated but I don't go to every movie and compare it to the Godfather.  "},{"Title":"I see why it didn't come out before Christmas.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure why it was released at all since it will likely be expensive for Ben Affleck to buy back all the copies of a movie which will surely be a low point in his career.So, where did the title figure into all this anyway......they wouldn't let poor Rudolph play in any Reindeer Games........, somehow has something to do with this movie? I don't think so.We weren't sure in the end if anything had anything to do with this movie.There are holes in this stinker's plot big enough for the bad guys to drive their semi truck through, but they pale next to some of the scientific goofs that the moviemakers rely on for the 'special effects'.From western Canada once again standing in for the mid-U.S., through the use of booze as a low temperature flame accelerant, the movie seems determined to remind the viewer at every opportunity that they must have the sophistication of village idiots to buy into this film.Certainly the people in front of us enjoyed it and I suspect that much of middle America will think it is the best movie of the year.If you want to preserve any illusion of Ben Affleck or Charlize Theron as actors, don't see this film. "},{"Title":"Reindeer Games","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unbelievably implausible action crime thriller where Affleck, the film's hero, seems to be the luckiest released convict on the planet considering how much time he spends with a gun pointed at him, always escaping a sure bullet to the head, must help a group of nasty, vile thugs (Gary Sinise, Danny Trejo, Clarence William III, and Donal Logue) rob the wintry casino of Dennis Farina (his recent death was the reason I watched this again, to tell you the truth). All of this comes about when Affleck (substituting for a man (played by James Frain) stabbed with a shiv in prison, who was his cellmate) meets the author (Charlize Theron) of letters pinned for Frain, read to him. Affleck himself fell in love with Theron through those letters, but it isn't long before he's accosted by Sinise's brood and expected to help them rob a casino. This film has two/three twists that challenge any existing credibility that remains left over from entire ridiculous sequences that rescue Affleck from certain death, and there are multiple, long-winded expository back-and-forths between heavies and Affleck endlessly explaining Haha, I got you! The last one involving Frain and Theron was the straw that broke the camels back for me. I could barely swallow the James Bond delays in killing off Affleck, with the film's villains finding convoluted means to bump him off just so the screenplay could allow him plenty of time to come up with an escape plan. All of this said, time has mellowed me quite a bit towards Affleck. I like him a lot now, and his performance in the film didn't bother me at all. He has some fun actors to work off of. Sinise lays it on mighty thick, but the part requires lots of psychopathic tendencies. Of course, Clarence seemed to remain in employment just because he could play with relative ease those cold-blooded heels that accompany the likes of Sinise's ringleader&#x85;he always had the look casting director's must relish when a human monster is required. Logue seems out of place if we look at his career after this particular film, while Trejo can just appear and convince as a bruiser willingly following this rogue's gallery of homicidal scumbags. Thankfully, Frankenheimer's direction has lots of energy and pizazz attempting to compensate for a screenplay that tests our tolerance for character stupidity. Theron, like she was in 2 Days in the Valley (1996), is a feast for the eyes and libido at this point in her career, but the twists regarding her ulterior motives as it pertains to the heist were just too much for me personally. She can play the bitch, though; there's no denying that. At least, the ending is gratifying in that all the criminals get their just desserts; and they all deserve what they get for being so dumb. "},{"Title":"An entertaining, sometimes clever, action-thriller.","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rudy (Oscar-WinnerBen Affleck) is about to be released from prison for being there for five long years for Grand Theft Auto. When his best friend Nick (James Frain) got killed in prison was stabbed by one of the prisoners (Dana Stubblefield). Since his best friend was supposed to meet his gorgeous pen-pal Ashley (Oscar-WinnerCharlize Theron), when Rudy goes out of prison at the same day, Nick was supposed to meet her. Rudy decided out of stupidity to pose as Nick and meeting Ashley. But Rudy doesn't realized that Ashley's criminal minded brother (Gary Sinise) and his gang (Donal Logue, Danny Trejo and Clarence Williams the Third) wants Rudy to rob an Casino during Christmas Eve. Since his recently dead best friend was working as a security guard. Now Rudy has an tough time to tell them that he is not Nick and now he is forced to make plans to rob the casino! The Holidays will be never the same for Rudy.Directed by the late John Frankenheimer (Birdman of Alcatraz, Ronin, The Train) made an entertaining action-thriller with some cleverness, thanks to Ehren Kruger's script. Which Kruger is best known for writing Scream 3, Arlington Road and The Ring-2002. Affleck is certainly fun in the lead role, Theron is certainly sexy and an joy to watch in this film (Although she claims it is her worst film) and while actors like Sinise, Logue, Trejo and Williams the Third seems to be having an great time playing bad guys. While Dennis Farina is a hoot as the sleazy, fast-talking, casino owner. Reindeer Games was an box office disappointment, although the movie certainly plays better on DVD and during the holidays. If you are in the mood of action, watch Die Hard 1 and 2 and Reindeer Games during the holidays. You will certainly have an blast.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an strong Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD includes an decent commentary track by the late Frankenheimer, an behind the scenes featurette and trailer. Reindeer Games did have an small loyal cult following over the years. It is certainly not the greatest action movie out-there but it is certainly entertaining as a trashy guilty pleasure. If you love action, don't miss it. Watch for the late Oscar-WinnerIssac Hayes and Ashton Kutcher in Cameos. Super 35. (****/*****). Director's Cut runs 124 minutes. "},{"Title":"I can't believe this is from the director of The Manchurian Candidate!","Date":"30 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's a movie full of twists and turns which gets worse at every twist and turn. It's sad that John Frankenheimer, who directed the brilliant movie The Manchurian Candidate, ended his career with this trash.In it, Nick and Rudy are in prison about to be released. Nick has a girlfriend named Ashley who he has never actually met. Before the release, there is a fight and Nick appears to die. Rudy meets Ashley upon getting out of prison... and claims to be Nick. He begins an affair with the girl, which seems to disturb him slightly. This might not be the greatest of story lines, but it was interesting and there were Christmas references thrown in that were enjoyable. It would have been interesting to see Rudy struggle with his conscience and how Ashley would have reacted to the truth. But then comes the first twist Ashley's brother Gabriel arrives with a plot to rob a native casino, and he forces Ashley and Nick to become part of the plot. This, while no masterpiece, could have been an okay B-movie. But there are still more tedious twists and turns Ashley and Gabriel are lovers instead of siblings, Ashley was in charge of the plot to rob the casino, etc. And it comes to an ending- with Nick still being alive and the brains behind the whole operation- which is completely unrealistic. Poor performances to boot. "},{"Title":"Ho-Ho-Hum","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ben Affleck is no tough guy.Sure, he's got a big chin and the Deion Sanders swagger, but deep down he's just a Charles Atlas middleman of sorts -- not the pumped up Ahnuld-esque end result, but a few steps above the 90-pound weakling. And so to place him in an Ahnuld role seems, well...awkward.Reindeer Games is the byproduct of this awkwardness. It's a sloppy, uneven and groan-inducing effort not worthy of the talent involved, including Affleck. It reminds me of an old Kids In The Hall TV sketch about a doctor/quack who coasts through med-school entirely on charm. Similarly, Affleck attempts to glide through this film on puppy-dog eyes, a Luke Perry forehead and a rat's smile. And he comes off looking like a jerk.John Frankenheimer, phoning this one in, fails to capture any of the magic of his earlier films (heck, this ain't even on par with Ronin). Charlize Theron plays the harlot. Gary Sinise is the bad guy (well duh, he's got long hair). And like I said, Affleck is the jerk. Reindeer Games lacks brains, lacks credibility, lacks fun and lacks energy. It has nothing but an ending of blatantly moronic twists straight out of an episode of Scooby-Doo.Long story short, it's a Razzie nominee if there ever was one. But it also preaches a valuable lesson Don't put the 90-pound weakling into the fight until he's ready. Otherwise, he gets ridiculed. And he gets the snot pounded out of him.  "},{"Title":"Implausible","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie did not contain a believable scene from beginning to end. The implausibility meter was pegged from the get go and never went back down.  It is as if somebody came up with a plot and then had to invent ways to make it work.Miserable from beginning to end, predictable and painful to watch.  "},{"Title":"Too sombre for the big screen.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Uninteresting movie about an auto-theft convict (Affleck) who, after a name switch, claims to be his recently murdered prison inmate. Why? Well, his friend had a girlfriend Ashley (Theron). After seeing Charlize Theron's bosom wiggle, who would be dumb enough not to? Of course, her gun-toting, money obsessed,  extremely peeved brother (Sinise) may be one reason. The movie feels very much like a normal TV movie, and Affleck's acting is just too unrealistic. In one part of the movie, Sinise hands Affleck a map of the casino. Ben's acting that, the original layout of the map changed was so unbelievable that any gun toting impatient man would have blown Affleck's brains out as soon as he played stupid. Theron, although unbelievably sexy, has a lot to learn if a few cute smiles, extremely deep kisses, and showing off her incredible body thinks it will make her acting career go any further than what she makes. This movie, although having a satisfactory ending and showing an unusually buff but cool Sinise, is TV material at least. Rental at most. Watch it with hot chocolate, and some pecan pie. "},{"Title":"Good script,great special effects,make for a great movie.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was well worth the $5.00 that I payed for. I like the actors in it.This is my 1st favorite movie from John Frankenheimer and the best screenplay by Ehren Kruger making up for some of Scream 3s mess.Ben Affleck is likeable in this movie and so is Charlize Theorn and Gary Sinse the bad guy can't go wrong there.my gradeA-One last thing this movie has some cool action sequences. "},{"Title":"Average at best but with ludicrous twists and a poor ending","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rudy Duncan and Nick Cassidy are cellmates during stretches of a few years each. Both are looking forward to getting out, but Nick most of all as he is going to meet up with his penpal girlfriend for the first time. However when Nick is stabbed to death on the day before his release, Rudy takes his identity as well as bedding the attractive and trusting Ashley. What Rudy doesn't know though is that Nick had told Ashley in a letter that he used to work in a casino and had joked about aspects of the weak security. Ashley's brother has read the letter and he and his gang decide to snatch Nick (or Rudy as he claims to be called) and force him to help plan their robbery. Obviously though, Rudy knows nothing of this casino and faces a no-win scenario of coming clean about is identity (and being killed) or giving them false information about the layout (and being killed).Despite the arresting opening scene that sees a group of dead Santas lying in the snow, this job gone wrong thriller actually is pretty ordinary and perhaps it is understandable why it made comparatively little money at the box office. I'm not saying it is a bad film because it isn't, it is just very much par for the course in terms of the genre. It engaged me for most of the first half because I was sticking with it to see where it would end up but once the twists starting coming then it all got increasingly silly. The biggest twists are not just silly &#150; they are out and out ludicrous and the script doesn't even bother to really explain them. This damaged the film because it just seemed lazy writing (which of course is probably what it was) and it just stopped me caring (which is just as well considering how poor the ending is when it finally comes).The cast features lots of names but nobody really has much to work with. Affleck is pretty average; I don't really have anything against him but he just didn't fit the character. Sinise is a better fit while Theron gets naked and, seemingly unable to work out who her character is, just overplays any chance she gets. Support is solid enough from Trejo, Hayes, Williams, Farina and a few others. None really have much to do in regards the material but they fill out the gang the genre requires.A nondescript genre film then. At best it ticks all the boxes but as it goes on the twists become increasingly silly and any viewers still gripped by it at this point will be likely to stop caring. The cast go through the motions all the way to a roundly rubbish conclusion. "}{"Title":"Worst film in the year","Date":"16 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Amazing that in 2000 Ben can take over a role in this trash-movie - plot completely predictable, easy, cheap, annoyingly two-bit - just DON'T WATCH!!!! The flix starts poor and gets poorer the longer it last... The characters do not become more sophisticated - they just burn the last bits when it comes to the end. You can guess the budget to about 20.000,-$ - the whole time you wonder, if anything will come around the corner, if it turns into a funny movie, into a morality turn, into something that matters - it will not - trust your instinct and just turn it off! The more I think of it, the more I must rate it a 2! "},{"Title":"Underrated bit of mean spirited pulpy fun","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really like John Frankenheimer's Reindeer Games. Which is a turnaround for me, because when I first saw it years ago I wasn't too impressed. Last year I saw it on vacation around the holiday season on TV though, and found myself enjoying it. It's not the greatest movie, and much of it is ludicrous, but it's packs a mean spirited, sleazy punch and keeps up a nice wintry atmosphere to keep you warm on a cold night, whether from the booze or the bullets. The film gets shat on a lot, especially by star Charlize Theron who famously said she only did it to work with Frankenheimer, but I think it's way more fun than people give it credit for. Ben Affleck back in the sordid chapter of bis career, plays a recently paroled convict who's on his way to meet his cell mate Nick's pen pal girlfriend, pretending to be him. Nice guy. She turns out to be a sweetheart in the form of Theron, and things look up for old Ben. Until, however, her volatile, psychotic gangster brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) shows up with a pack of thugs who have a notion to rob a casino that Nick used to work at, using him as an inside man. Only, he isn't Nick, and has no idea about the casino, forcing him to think on his feet and stall his way through the dangerous predicament. Sinise is a guy I'm usually indifferent too, or bores me, but here he's a wide eyed, brutish lunatic and really has fun with the role. Theron is appropriately sexy and enigmatic, and there's standout work from three tough guy actors I really enjoy, playing Gabriel's henchman, sporting the delightful monikers Pug (Donal Logue), Merlin (Clarence Williams III) and Jumpy (Danny Trejo). They're like the three ill tempered elves to Gabriel's raving Santa, and steal the film. Dennis Farina plays loudmouth, dirtbag casino owner Jack Bangs, James Frain has a silly bit, and there's a demented cameo from Isaac Hayes (monsters in the gelatin!!). It's a loud, dumb flick and it knows it, but it also knows how to have a good time in style. Even when the third act erupts in a cascade of increasingly laughable double crosses and perplexing plot turns, it never stops having fun. Nothing says the holidays like jail time, casino robbery, backstabbing sociopaths, Santa suits and shotguns, and a little murder. "},{"Title":"A Total Game.","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reindeer Games (2000)Dir John Frankenheimer / Cast Ben Affleck, Charlize Theron, Gary Sinise, Dennis Farina, James Frain Laughable mess with a lame title. The only games being played are at the expense of the audience. Ben Affleck is two days away from prison release and he shares a cell with a guy who tells of the letters he receives from his girlfriend. Unfortunately his friend is stabbed during a riot and Affleck is left to inform the girlfriend but he decides to wait until after the holidays. That is the first of many stupid moves made in this crap. This obviously leads to sex where they thrash each other about as if a pay per view wrestling event. I cannot believe that John Frankenheimer took so much slack for directing The Island of Dr. Moreau when a film this bad would be a life sentence in some countries. This may very well be his worst film. Affleck delivers a laughable performance while Charlize Theron is cardboard as this conniving bimbo. Gary Sinise plays the villain who forces Affleck to rob casinos. The role allows him to constantly jab Affleck with a gun. Perhaps it was a reflect action having gone from Forrest Gump to this crap. Dennis Farina is wasted in another cardboard appearance. James Frain plays Affleck's pal in prison who is the connection to Theron. Pointless snow blown crap with a screenplay that was probably rewritten more times than the casino map. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Honestly, I think it's hilarious.","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For the most part, the How Did This Get Made guys (and girl) have been doing great with their movie choices, but for whatever reasons, I thought this movie was actually kinda good. I mean sure, it has a horrible plot, the acting is awful, and don't get me started on the tongue-in-cheek Christmas jokes. But once you fight through those, it's surprisingly funny, quick and dare I say enjoyable. Most of the cast are tolerable, but I liked Gary Sinise most. It's not a movie to take seriously, of course, but at least it will keep you guessing without you asking it to. Nothing makes sense, and that's the best part. (PS Charlize Theron has great breasts.) "},{"Title":"Reindeer Games","Date":"20 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Old film, but finally got around to it. Sure it has some very silly moments and extremely cheesy dialogue at times, but it was an entertaining way to kill time. The dialogue is so ridiculous at times, that its hilarious. I've heard people slamming this film, but its honestly not so bad. And seeing Ben Affleck get beat up by truck stop thugs is sure to please a lot of people. I had some gripes with the film, and how they progressed the plot. Surprisingly I did not see that ending coming, threw me off.Overall its got its cheese and stupidity, but if you get past that you have a decent Christmas flick. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The 2 main actors in this film-Ben Affleck and Charlize Theron-who are my personal faves-should have made this movie absolutely outstanding. However there are numerous flaws in this film and it did fall a little short of my expectations. 1)Weak script. Not only is it weak it's just all out silly in some parts.2) The plot lines, in general, with all the small twists was a little too far-fetched to be realistic. 3) Charlize Theron although a terrific actress and incredibly beautiful, seemed a little too overglamerous for the part. Somebody of her beauty and stature would not be writing a prison seeking romance from an inmate.All in all..I would love to see Charlize Theron and Ben Affleck together in another film, hopefully of a little better quality. This is not a bad film to see overall, I just expected it to be better with all the talented actors in it. I would give this a 6 but since you get to see Ben Affleck's bare butt in it it gets a 7/10!! "},{"Title":"take it with a grain of salt...","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  first off i went to this movie for one reason...Charlize TheronWith that said I can comment on the rest of the movie.  It was surprisingly good.  Ben Affleck's character was believable as believable as can be with an action movie.  About half way through the movie I started to feel sorry for Rudy and hoped he could get home and watch the game and eat left overs for about 6 months.  As for Gary Sinese I have seen much better from him (hopefully Mission to mars will be better).  And as I said Charlize Theron is hot hot hot, I throughly enjoyed her performance.  For those of you who haven't seen it I won't spoil it, but she really drives the plot and keeps the audience on its toes....As for the rest of the movie take it with a grain of salt.  And keep in mind that its just an action movie and it will be a fun game..... "},{"Title":"Decent film with some nice twists","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though this is a good movie this one is more of a renter than a theatre film.  Ben Afflek is good in it and the direction is good but it's not terribly memorable.  Plus the ending (while enjoyable) is incredibly implausible so the good and the corny cancel each other out into being simply OK.    "},{"Title":"Whoopty-Doo","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How very exciting.  My, there sure were a lot of explosions.  Didn't see THOSE coming at all.Several clever and funny moments, I like the way Affleck's character blooms in the situations he's backed in to; and Sinise actually gets some nice character development in, too.  Save for Farina's brief scenes, these are the only two characters in this movie worth a damn, and by this point I think anyone on the database can teach a class on How To Write an Ehren Kruger screenplay.  (Arlington Road, Scream 3, and now this).I supposed it's a testament to Theron's acting talent that I really hated the character once I got to know her, but that's not good writing, that's a misogynistic screenwriter.5 out of 10.  You can do so much better, and you know it. "},{"Title":"Stuff goes boom","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  That's really the best thing to be said for this movie. Stuff blows up. People run around. Mayhem ensues.It's not a bad ride if you don't mind stifling the giggle and yeah, right! every fifteen minutes so as to not disturb the people watching it with you. There appears to be no reason for the framing sequence used in the movie and the 11th hour suprise ranks up there with what you'd expect in an old Batman or Star Trek episode. It's worth a shot. >I'd give it a 5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Silly, but creative and fun.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was not a movie I was exited to see. I am not generally a fan of the action movie genre, but Frankenheimer's name managed to get me into the theatre. I came out very surprised. This is an example of what the action-thriller-comedy film should be. The jokes are actually funny, the suspense is... well, suspensful, and the last ten minutes leave your head spinning with plot twists. Having a super pro director and top notch cast sure helps, too. I mean, Danny Trejo and Dennis Farina can do these kinds of films in their sleep by now. That's not to say it was without weak points. It does fall into the one-liner trap, which I'm sure some people enjoy, but I sure don't. Also, a few action movie cliches are present, but they are handled in a witty way. All told, if you've seen the ad and liked it, go see the film. You'll only think you know what to expect. "},{"Title":"This one looked like it was going to be a winner...","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  But it failed to deliver.  Big names like Ben Affleck, Gary Sinise, Dennis Farina, and Clarence Williams III almost guarantee a solid film right?  Not so, unfortunately.Maybe I've just seen too many movies, but I can't remember another movie where I so consistently knew what was going to happen.  This is supposed to be an action comedy, but there's almost no comedy, so the action comes off looking stupid.I'll set the stage a little but, I don't want to talk about the plot too much because there are many built in twists that would be spoilers.  In as few words as possible, Rudy (Affleck) is in prison with Nick (Frain) and both are due to be paroled in a couple of days.  Nick has a pen-pal girlfriend who he's never met, and she's a fox as you see in the pictures she sent.  Her name is Ashley and she's played by Charlize Theron.  Nick has constantly read all of Ashley's letters to Rudy. She is all he can talk about as they are about to get out but Nick gets stabbed in a brawl before he gets out.  So Rudy pretends he's Nick upon his release so he can be with her.  Just as the romance is getting going, Ashley's brother Gabriel shows up because he found all of the letters from Nick to Ashley.  He knows that Nick used to work at a casino and he's going to force Nick to help him rob it.That's the basic plot of the this flick.  It's very weak and the big names are powerless to save it.Gary Sinise plays the bad guy, Gabriel.  Here's an actor that can play anything and do it well, and all they ask him to do is be mad and shoot things.  He comes off as a moronic villain that would probably mess up finding a wallet full of cash.Dennis Farina shows up as the casino manager.  Along with Clarence Williams III and Sinise, this is another waste of a fine actor in a crappy role.This movie is full of predictable action.  It's an implausible story to begin with, and the plot twists that show up at the end only put more holes in the swiss cheese.  Wait for video if you have to see it... "},{"Title":"surprisingly good!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this movie after reading some pretty horrible reviews.  However, sometimes i don't think the critics know what they are talking about.  I think they misinterpreted frankenheimer's piece.  Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Would've been better with just a touch of more action","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I though REINDEER GAMES was a pretty good movie, especially compared to some other movies of the year 2000 so far, but I think there should have been a little more action than there actually was. There was quite a lot of buildup to the casino robbery, but when it finally got there, not much happened. The ending was very good. Just when you think you've identified all the twists, there's another one right there.Rudy (Ben Affleck), a car-thief, and his cellmate Nick (James Frain), a guy who killed another man while defending his girlfriend, are both about to be freed from jail when Nick is murdered during a lunch fight. Rudy decides to pretend to be him when his pen-pal-like girlfriend Ashley (Charlize Theron), who never met Nick before, comes to find him. The two really hit it off and things are going well, until Ashley's brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) finds Rudy and threatens to kill him if he doesn't help them get into and rob a casino, which the real Nick previously worked at.The plot is actually pretty cool, but it's hard to believe that this bunch of idiot-thieves would really believe that this was the real Nick, even after he told them time after time that he wasn't. There are many great twists at the end which leads to an unpredictable, although somewhat unbelievable, ending. The characters are pretty cool, about half of which turn out to be different from whom you originally thought.Ben Affleck, new to the action genre, did a pretty good job. After proving himself to be able to play very different parts, like in Dogma, Armageddon and now this, I think he is really going places. Charlize Theron did an OK job as well as the mysterious girlfriend of Nick. Gary Sinise stole the show. I really like this guy. Boy can he act! He's played so many different characters very well. Gary doesn't do as well as the villain as he did in SNAKE EYES or RANSOM, but he still did a very good and believable job.The main flaw in this movie was the lack of action until the end. The casino robbery itself should've been more action-packed, like it seemed on the commercial. Even in the ending there was more irony and surprise than there was action. But the story and was action was there was still very well done. I'd recommend this movie over many of the movies out now. "},{"Title":"Decent movie that could have been very good!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     I sat down in the theater last Friday prepared for the worst but somewhat hopeful that Reindeer Games would be a pleasant surprise. I was worried it would be a cheesy attempt at an action film that would be no deeper than the puddle I stepped in on the way into the theater. But I still held out hope that it would deliver.   I walked out of the theater content. It was a good movie. The plot had many twists and turns. The character of Ashley took on many different forms and she was always a mysterious character. Ben Affleck played a somewhat convincing role in his crude yet heroic character of Rudy. The acting in this movie was fairly good. The action wasn't the entire basis of this movie. It did have a solid plot and was enjoyable to watch.   However, there were some missed opportunities to make this movie great. First, the special effects at the end with cars flying off cliffs was pathetic. It looked like a toy truck falling down the stairs! But I can handle that. What really bugged me was the 'bad guy' at the end explaining the whole plot of the movie in a 3 minute speech to Ben Affleck before his impending doom. A true film artist would have wound the movie in such a way that this plot all came together and made sense without it being handed to the audience on a silver platter. Make us think, damnit! That made me angry. It was a missed opportunity that only made this a decent movie instead of a very good one.   This movie delivered entertainment and quite a few twists and turns. It was more than just a flaky movie but could have done so much more. I won't dissuade you from going to see this movie. It's fun. But if you wait for video you won't be missing a great opportunity like the director of this movie did. "},{"Title":"Game Over","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games is an action movie, of this there can be no doubt.It makes no bones about its intent, showing the audience gored and flaming men in Santa suits in the first thirty seconds of film.  Obviously, with landmarks like these, its going to be a rocky trip, and, judging by the gaping hole in the jolly belly of one unfortunate Kringle, it's a journey with a not-so-happy ending.Ben Affleck is the Rudolph in our little story, guiding the plot.  The metaphor is hard to miss, as his character, a car thief just getting out on parole, is called Rudy.  Rudy's cell-mate, Nick (alaus, perhaps?), has had a five month relationship via the post office with a lovely girl named Ashley (played with flat-faced pluck by Charlize Theron).  Once he gets out of the slammer, Nick will finally get to meet the girl in the pictures, and Ashley will finally get to see what Nick looks like.But, alas, Nick is stabbed with a shiv before he leaves, and its up to the lonely and (I'm guessing here) sexually frustrated Rudy to approach her under the guise of his late cellmate.  Ashley and Rudy hit it off and consummate their relationship.  Of course, things go downhill from there.Since the late Nick once worked in a casino, he is wanted by several thugs to lead a heist on his former place of employment.  Heading off our gang of rowdy ragamuffins is Gary Sinise as the extremely unattractive head bad guy, Gabriel.  Sinise plays his part with sneering extravagance; his performance is one-note, and although it's a decent note, it drags the speed of the movie down.  With a body twice as big as his head (obviously he bulked up for the role) Sinise never really achieves a believably threatening level of villainry.  Because his menace is only partially convincing, the movie only partially works.  What is lacking is the followingOur protagonist, Rudy, mentions a number of times that he is not Nick. He'll say he's not Nick, his life will be threatened, and then he'll say he is Nick.  This sequence happens about four to five to seventeen times in the movie.  Gabriel is either an idiot, or he's an idiot.  Although screenwriter Kruger has given us an element of suspense by adding confusion as to how much Rudy does and doesn't know about Nick and his past, he also succeeds in aggravating the plot with the continuous frictional contrivance that is Rudy's inability to make up his mind about his identity.  Because Rudy changes courses so often, Gabriel's own threats against his life are called into question, and since Rudy can't die (at least not until the end, if at all), Gabriel must pretend to believe Rudy's pleas that he IS Nick, and the audience must shift about in their seats some more.There is no skimming here of the good ole' elements of all traditional action movies every element is present and accounted for right down to the cheesy bad-guy-reveals-his-plot-right-before-leaving-the-hero-in-an-easily-escapabl e-death-trap scene.  Don't look for unexpected twists or turns, but just for blaring guns, hallway running shots, and plenty of sex.  It is a Frankenheimer film.In a lot of ways, Reindeer Games wants to be more than it is.  The craft of the filming and the clarity of the cinematography aren't weak by any means, but the movie essentially fumbles most critically where its plot is the thickest.  In the end, you're left watching a movie that, while eminently entertaining on the most superficial of levels, is still just another excuse to watch guys shooting each other.  Instead of a story that runs away with you, Games just seems to be toying around. "},{"Title":"Reindeer Games Delivers!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to this movie not really expecting much of anything other than a two hour diversion.  Reindeer Games totally went beyond all of my expectations. I was impressed with its twists and turns and it kept me guessing until the end.  The pairing of Ben Affleck and Charlize Theron smoked and I was impressed with the performance of Gary Sinese.  Overall, Reindeer Games didn't play any reindeer games with me. "},{"Title":"Mindless Entertainment.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"       REINDEER GAMES reminded me of two styles of action films put together to make one.  The first element is the intelligent stylish action films, like director John Frankenheimer's previous film RONIN.  The other element is the loud and brainless action films produced by Jerry Bruckheimer.  But taking these two elements and making it into one film is fun yet brainless.      Ben Affleck stars as Rudy, a man who's been in prison for the last five years for grand theift auto.  Rudy and his cellmate, Nick (James Frain) are both about to be released, and what perfect timing.  It's the Christmas Holiday in a few days, and Rudy is looking forward to be spending time with his family.  Nick however has different plans, he's spending his holiday with a striking beautiful woman named Ashley (Charlize Theron), to whom he's written to while in prison.  Then Nick does get fatality wounded during a prison riot, so Rudy has feelings for Ashley and decides to tell Ashley that he is her pen-pal.  Things are going great for Rudy until when coming back to the motel, they get a unexpected visitor.  Four men are waiting to meet this former prisoner, who all think it's Nick, when it's Rudy, especially Gabriel (Gary Sinise) who is Ashley's cruel brother.  Gabriel heard that Nick use to work ata Indian casino, so Gabriel wants Nick (when it's Rudy) to help them rob the casino on Christmas Eve.      From there on it's a non-stop rollercoster ride of twist and turns.  There are plenty of action scenes to keep one entertained, yet the logic of the film is sort of silly.  But I did enjoy REINDEER GAMES, since I had my brain turned off while I was watching it.  The acting in this film is decent, Affleck proves that he can carry a film and be a likeable action hero. Theron is extremely beautiful in this film, and her acting is also decent.  But I did enjoy the wicked personality of Gary Sinise in this film.  He proves that he can be cruel and twisted, without being silly or cheesy.      But the strongest and weakest portion of this film is behind the scenes.  The direction by John Frankenheimer is great, and after coming from high success of RONIN, Frankenheimer proves that he's doing top-notch thrillers again like he did with THE MANCHURIAN CANADIATE.  But it's the dialogue and some of the scenes written in the film that are at fault.  The writer gives Sinise some good dialogue as a villian, but Affleck witless punchlines and catch phrases as if he was in a DIE HARD film.  But overall, like I said, turn your brain off while you watch this film, and look at the pretty lights. **** (out of five) "},{"Title":"these games are out of season","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first problem with this film is the fact that it is out of season. The Christmas season ended almost two months ago, it's near the end of February. Violence and robbing casinos is that really the message of Christmas I don't think so. Violent Christmas films are ok if the film is really goofy and funny like the straight to video horror-comedy Jack Frost. The thing about Christmas is that Christmas is supposed to be a pleasant and fun holiday where you get gifts. The film is funny in some parts but in other parts the film takes itself a little too seriously. The villain Gabriel attitude and actions in a couple are just plain too nasty for film that takes place days before Christmas. The critics disliked this film because they thought that the twists and turns in this film were stupid. I agree with them the twists and surprises in this film were kind of retarded. The film has plenty of action so it is quite easy to watch and you might even have some fun watching the movie. Christmas is over so please Hollywood don't release any more Christmas action/thrillers until November.      "},{"Title":"Good thrill ride!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie was a lot of fun, it entertained me throughout.  We'll all agree that it's no Die Hard or The Rock but it delivers what it promised.  I liked how the theme of Christmas was woven into the story itself (names like Nick, Rudy, and other stuff that I can't give away here).  Some sequences kept you on the edge of your seat and there were some very smooth one-liners.  I really was not disappointed. "}{"Title":"The action movie that wanted to be a thriller, but wasn't","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This should have been a traditional action movie. It had a hero who you could root for (Ben Affleck), a creepy villain who you could hate (Gary Sinise, backed up by his motley band of merry men), and a real prize of a woman who the hero could end up living happily ever after with (Charlize Theron). It even had a unique location and a premise unique enough to avoid cliches and raise it above the run-of-the-mill action flick. But it didn't figure this out. It tried to be a smart, twisting thriller, and it overestimated its intelligence and fell flat on its face.There are three basic scenes in this movie 1) Gary Sinise holding a gun to Ben Affleck's head, and if Ben answers wrong, he dies. After about the fifth time, this scene loses it's suspense. It's pretty obvious that Ben's gonna get out of it. 2) Ben Affleck doing something for Gary Sinise, messes up something, and then runs away while getting shot at, eventually getting caught, usually accompanied by yet another scene with Sinise holding a gun to Affleck's head, or some variation thereof. 3) The plot twists without any warning or credibility, and Mr. Naive (Affleck) still doesn't realize that maybe it's time to screw this whole deal and jet.At the end, it felt like the director looked at what he had, figured it wasn't worth it, and plowed the movie into the ground by adding the bar none stupidest plot twist that has ever been put into a movie. After all the layers of deception have been peeled away, the only one who could convincingly be at the center is Keyser Soze. And it's not Keyser Soze, I'll tell you that much.Maybe I'm making this sound like it's worse than it actually is. It's not a bad movie. It is just a mediocre movie that could have been great if it had realized what it was and ran with that. Wait until it comes out on video, because $2.50 is just about the right price to pay for this one.(And who's stupid idea was it to release this in February?) "},{"Title":"A THRILLER WITH SOME AWSOME TWIST AND TURNS","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most people hated this movie because they were expecting to see an action packed movie but that's not what this movie is. This movie is more of a thriller, so for those people who are expecting an action packed movie don't expect action throughout the whole movie. There is a load of action at the end of the movie, and the end of the movie has a real awesome twist. Basically the whole movie is full of great twists and turns. Ben Affleck gives his best performance since Armageddon (***1/2). Gary Sinise gives one of his best performance ever, especially as the bad guy. Personally I think playing the bad guy is what Gary Sinise is best at. Danny Trejo and Clarence Williams were two awesome criminals and Charlize Theron was hot. As long as people know what to expect from this movie they will enjoy it. ***3 OUT OF 4 "},{"Title":"Incredibly mediocre...","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has a lot of potential that is never delivered on... The plot is too complicated and there are definitely too many twists... Affleck is okay, but Theron is noticeably bad, and Gary Sinise is uncharacteristically bad... Can you say Did it for the money, not that there is anything wrong with that...I was very disappointed... "},{"Title":"Old pro meets young schmoe","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's nice to see the seventy-year-old John Frankenheimer back in the saddle again, making big movies with the big stars of the moment. It's sad to see that the scripts he's forced to work with are as bad as the low points of his seventies and eighties hack jobs. Ehren Kruger, the author of REINDEER GAMES, was handed SCREAM 3 by Miramax, and it's easy to see why REINDEER mooshes together RESERVOIR DOGS, CON AIR, CASINO and a handful of other influences, and ratchets up the twist-o-meter to the point of psychotic implausibility. It's the kind of through-the-duck-press script in which a bad guy hands the hero a Santa suit as a disguise for a big robbery. The accompanying dialogue? Guess. Tis the season...convict!The premise is that a good-guy car thief (Ben Affleck) is about to get out of prison. His cellmate is due to get sprung the same day. (How's that? Never mind.) The cellmate has been carrying on a correspondence with a girl who just loves convicts--and she happens to look like the South African supermodel Charlize Theron. (Are we supposed to...forget it.) The cellmate gets a shiv in the ribs, Affleck gets released, and, sure enough, he runs up to Theron and pretends to be the cellmate. If you haven't been turned off by the dialogue of the two white cellmates, which resembles that of two upwardly mobile college guys sharing Jagermeister shots at a TGI Friday's, then you have an opportunity to be repulsed by Gary Sinise as the bad guy, Theron's truck-driver brother. Sinise once had a reputation as an actor's actor. He has become the Anthony Zerbe of the millennium--and now, with this movie, Charlize Theron has become its Elke Sommer.That leaves us with Frankenheimer, whose compositions are so beautiful and bulbous, so heavy on portentous closeups and so light on the Tony Scottish, prettified lighting of contemporary action movies, that he seems to have raised the bar permanently on this sort of genre material with RONIN and his work here. I can't praise his work with actors (even stalwarts like Clarence Williams III and Danny Trejo annoy) and he doesn't make the script look one jot less noisome than it is. But he knows how to compose and cut this stuff in a way that makes the Renny Harlins and John McTiernans of this world look like drooling idiot man-children. Students of Frankenheimer's craft will be pleased by his work here (especially at the climax); the casual moviegoer will want to box Ehren Kruger's ears. "},{"Title":"Save your 8 bucks","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games is the story of a recently released felon named Rudy Duncan(Ben Affleck). Rudy pretends to play himself off as his deceased cellmate Nick, to sleaze his way into the pants of Nick's attractive pen pal Ashley (Charlize Theron).  Unfortunately for Nick, He gets involved with Ashley's sinister brother, Gabriel (Gary Sinese)who found Nick's love letters from jail and planed to use Nick to take down a Casino that Nick used to work at.  Affleck finds himself between a rock and a hard place. After this point the movie loses interest.  The movie throws convenient coincidences our way in hopes that we wont pick up on them... It also Tries to have clever plot twists that did nothing but make me chuckle.  I was moaning for the movie to end more then i was surprised... It is apparent that the director does not respect my intelligence as a viewer.  Save your money, what til this movies on HBO.  I give it a 5 "},{"Title":"The first best film of the new millenium Reindeer Games","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING A FEW SPOILERS ARE INCLUDED IN THIS REVIEWReindeer Games Film review by Gordon Justesen 2/27/00 Rating ***1/2 stars, out of ****Reindeer Games is the first film of 2000 that I have seen, and the results are extremely satisfying. It is not a film to be taken seriously at all, but one to be very entertained by, and this high energy flick entertains for just about every single minute of its running time. This is yet another grand-slam piece of moviemaking by longtime director John Frankenheimer, who's last film, 1998's Ronin took the action film to a whole new level.I can never seem to get enough of Ben Affleck. The guy is simply a solid actor, one who's always eager to please, and one of the best of the younger actors out there. His groundbreaking work in the previous film Dogma proved that he can fufill any role that comes his way. He's certainly on a roll with his career now, being that his other new film Boiler Room, which I have had yet to see, opened exactly one week before this film. He's always terrific playing guys who are nothing short of astonished by the situations they're involved in. Here, Affleck is perfectly cast in the role of a down-on-his- luck ex con Rudy Duncan, who is released on parole. Upon his release, Rudy spots a beauty named Ashley (Charlize Theron), a secret admirer of his cellmate Nick, who was just killed in prison riot. Rudy assumes Nick's idendity in pursuit of a little passionate love.Enter Ashley's psycho brother Gabriel, played to manic perfection by Gary Sinese, still a very underrated talent. Gabriel, thinking Rudy is really Nick, plans to use his suspected expertise in the robbery of an indian owned casino, where the real Nick used to be employed, such as was revealed in the letters he sent Ashley's way. From that point on is a crowd-pleasing ride of a movie that perfectly combines comedy, suspense, numerous twists near the end, and some nicely executed action scenes set amongst a snowy side of Michigan.As mentioned before, Reindeer Games will go down as the first great film of the new century. Whether or not it will end up on my own ten best list for this year is undetermined, since we have ten more months to go. If it's a pure action film you want, take a chance and play these 'Games'. "},{"Title":"Not just bad...","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was really expecting a lot from this movie.  I could tell from the preview that it had Ben Affleck, a casino and a robbery... what could be better?All my expectations fell way, way short.  Although Ben did a decent job with the script, the plot was so bad that it was laughable.  Several people walked out of the movie when I saw it... I wish I had too, because the only thing worse than the plot was the ending.  I can't remember being so disappointed with the last three minutes of a film.  So if you do go see this, I urge you to walk out right before the end.  ) "},{"Title":"It blowed up real good","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was entertaining.  The most redeeming qualities were that it was filmed in the town I live in (although, not really a promotion for our fair city) and has Charlize Theron in it.Lots of violence, explosions, some steamy scenes.  Reminds us that in Hollywood all cars that go off cliffs explode with great force.  Plot's a bit much to swallow but in general this is a good show for a cheap night if you're craving action. "},{"Title":"A good roller coaster ride -- Frankenheimer is a pro.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ben Affleck puts the dental work he got from the astroid movie to good use.  The whole cast was really flawless -- unlike the plot.  But I only worried about the plot glitches after the movie was over.  While it was on the screen, it was a good ride. "},{"Title":"Pretty thrilling Action Film","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the type of movie hollywood likes to call a b-movie. Entertaining, fun and moderately funny. But that also means a very unbelievable script and plot, cheap humor attempts and the obvious bloodbath for a finale. Ben Affleck (Dogma, Armageddon) never passes off as an action hero, Charlize Theron  (Astronaut's Wife, Cider House Rules) tries her best in an underwritten role and Gary Sinise isn't bad as the psycho brother. The real stars of this film however are the often funny supporting characters played by skilled actors such as Clarence Williams the third, Danny Trejo and Dennis Farina is funny and effective as the casino owner.But the saving point of the film is that the film goes at a brisk pace and is for most of the movie very entertaining. Although there are more than a few dull spots. Overall a fun movie. If you like action thrillers with the occasional funny line, this movie is for you. 7/10.  "}{"Title":"ROADKILL INSTEAD OF VENISON","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As Richard the III bellowed A Diehard, a Diehard... my kingdom for a Diehard (or something to that affect if Joe Bob Briggs was doing the Bard). With this wreck of film from John Frankenhemier, the streak of bad action films continues unabated. Action/Adventure films are my very un-guilty pleasure of going to movies. While I've matured to look forward to the fall and winter seasons that bring with them a proportional higher number of quality, serious works, it is the summer that is the apple of my eye. Put your brain in neutral, grab some Raisinettes and head for the seats in the sweet-spot. I'm sure I caught a few You said it, brother's coming in across the ether from others so inclined. In other words, I was pre-sold on liking Reindeer Games. An ex-con blackmailed into helping a crew of thieves pull a casino heist at Christmas? I'm there baby, I'm there. I would have really been psyched if I had remembered that John Frankenheimer was behind the lens of Ronin as well.  What turned this Reindeer into roadkill instead of Grade A venison? I finger the writer, Ehren Kruger.  If I pointed out he was also behind Arlington Road and Scream 3 I'm sure many out there will tell me I should have been forewarned, but I must claim ignorance as I truly didn't know. If you thought those two were bad, Reindeer Games is worse. I get the feeling Kruger once said I want to write a movie with a big, surprise twist at the end and Reindeer was his warm-up for Road. I'm really fearful now for two more films he has coming out this year Impostor and Texas Rangers.Ben Affleck, who should have been a good choice to play a car thief, is expected to inhabit a character who is much harder than he can pull off. At least the prison we meet him in is much tougher than Affleck could have survived without becoming the local pump. The rest of the cast, including a completely wasted Dennis Farina, are well suited to their roles. It's a pesky problem with logic that derails this would-be thriller.This is one of those films that asks you  not once or twice, but repeatedly, to accept that characters will always do what other characters expect and predict them to do. It asks you to accept that the bad guys can act like bad guys out in the open (at one point, Gary Sinese and his gang pull a NRA wet-dream of weapons out of a car trunk NEXT TO THE CASINO THEY WANT TO ROB!). That characters who are play-acting would do things that only make sense if they aren't play acting (sorry, but any less vague on that one and I'd spoil one of those twists for those who read this and STILL want to pay good money just to see Charlize Theron naked).What's really depressing is when you look back on it, it should have been decent. All the elements are there (interesting setting, smart hero, clever ways to kill people). Either Kruger can't get past the point where he comes up with these elements and puts them in a workable script, or he is so busy (5 movies coming out in the space of about one year must be some sort of record) that he ignores the cardinal rule of screenwriting writing is rewriting. All of those released so far needed a few more runs through the word processor. I might have to go to Westwood, where The Matrix has returned to the big screen to celebrate its technical nominations, to cleanse myself and reaffirm my faith in Hollywood's ability to produce Movies For Guys Who Like Movies like nobody else on the freaking planet  "},{"Title":"The games are over; this movie ended in a tie with me","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There were parts of the movie I liked and there were parts I hated.First of All, Ben Affleck was unconvincing in his role. If this movie were to become a bigger success with me it would need someone else in the role. Affleck is a good actor; however, he was wrong for this part.On the other hand, Charlize Theron took a different role in this movie and I liked it because she hasn't done this type of acting before that I have seen.Gary Sinise is ever so convincing as the evil perpetrator as in previous films. The one thing that sold me was the evil look Sinise gives in his performances.The plot needed work because it seemed to me like it had been done before but in a  similar fashion. The one thing that saved the plot was the twists at the end. However, to see them, you must see Reindeer Games for yourself.Grade 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"They Owe All Of Us An Apology","Date":"20 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Another of my garage sale finds. I'm so pleased my total investment (loss) is limited to $1 and 2 hours.How could so many talented people have spent an estimated $42 million dollars on this hopeless and totally useless piece of junk? Film Tech 101--If you start out with a stupid story line, you will produce a stupid screenplay. Your stupid screenplay will flop no matter who the actors are trying to do the job.Suffice it to say that this is one of those films where you will appreciate having the fast forward button handy. If you don't walk away altogether. I know there are people out there who can't wait to see Ms. Theron in one of her usual silly sex romps. I can live without it. I would pay her extra to keep her clothes on for awhile. Her scene with Affleck is pornographic. That's cool, but you certainly don't need to attend university classes to pump on screen and there is no--no--way it should have cost $42 million to get to her swabbing Ben's mouth (literally) with her snaked tongue. I wanted to reach through the screen and pass Affleck a bottle of mouthwash.What is wrong with these people? "},{"Title":"Ridiculous Games","Date":"26 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Upon release from prison, a man assumes the identity of his dead cell mate so that he can hook up with his hot pen pal. This film produces a high quotient of groans and rolling of the eyes. It starts with a ridiculous premise and then ratchets the narrative to preposterous levels with stupid plot twists on top of twists that make no sense. Frankenheimer made some terrific films in the 1960s, but his career has gone downhill from there. His action scenes are clumsily executed and he overuses closeups and tilted camera angles. Affleck is rather bland as the hapless hero. Sinise overacts as a sinister criminal. Theron looks nice. "},{"Title":"One Foggy Christmas Eve In The U.P.","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Frankenheimer who directed so many fine films especially with Burt Lancaster in the Sixties ended his big screen career with Reindeer Games in the year of the millenia. The Upper Peninsula of Michigan has not been the location of too many motion pictures, except perhaps for Anatomy Of A Murder previously. And that was forty one years before Reindeer Games premiered.It's a heist drama which stars Ben Affleck as a newly paroled con from Iron Mountain prison who hijacked a few cars back in the day. Two days before his release Affleck's friend James Frain who was also to be released gets himself shanked in prison. Frain has been writing to this girl on the outside played by Charlize Theron and Affleck who has the same needs that other newly released prisoners have sees an opportunity for satisfaction of same with Therone if he poses as Frain for a bit.But before that happens Theron's brother Gary Sinise breaks up the happy party with two of his fellow truckers, Clarence Williams, III, and Danny Trejo. They wanted Frain to be the inside man on a job robbing a casino on Christmas Eve, a night that is notoriously slow in gambling houses. In fact the gambling house they want to rob is an Indian run casino called the Tomahawk which someone had the bright idea would boost tourism in that thinly populated region of the Upper Peninsula and the Tomahawk is not taking too many gambling scalps on a good night.To keep himself alive Affleck's got to string everyone along. But the film is loaded with some really nice twists in the end. And Theron isn't quite the airhead she first appears to be.The three hoods, Sinise, Trejo, and Williams are a really sinister trio who'd soon murder Affleck because they don't like his looks. He has to keep one step ahead of them mentally. Sinise especially is one scary dude. There is also a nice performance from Dennis Farina who plays a Las Vegas high roller who can't make a go of managing the Tomahawk and just wants to go back to Vegas.There's lots of action in Reindeer Games with some interesting character development and plot twists that would be worthy of Hitchcock. Reindeer Games was a fine film for John Frankenheimer to end his big screen career with and I think you'll agree if you see Reindeer Games. "},{"Title":"Nicely spelled-out fun","Date":"30 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Most of this movie is pretty cool. The casino heist, the cat and mouse-game between the good guy and the villains, every scene involving Charlize Theron, all of those things managed to keep my interest throughout. The shoot-outs are the same shoot-outs I've seen millions of times before, but somehow I was still entertained. John Frankenheimer always knew what he was doing, no matter what material he had to work with. However, there are some scenes in this movie that just make me want to throw someone of a bridge. At times Ben Affleck is not as bad as people claim, in this movie he is. I don't know, perhaps he was bored with the whole thing, but his emotional scenes really look like he has a train to catch. No interest, no effort, he just learned the lines by heart and that was that. I have an even bigger pet peeve though. Near the end this movie drops a bomb, with a twist I really didn't see coming. It should have stopped there, perfect ending. But then they figured they hadn't thrown in enough American values yet, so they threw in some retarded TGIF moments to wrap it up. I could have done without that. However, this movie is still a fun, simple, guilty pleasure. "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck in a decent action movie? That's umpossible!","Date":"12 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When this movie came out in 2000 Ben Affleck was a star on the rise and this movie looked action packed- what a dynamite combo! Unfortunately i never got to see it at the cinemas and after a short time seeing Ben Affleck movies, due to a stream of shockers, was not the cool thing to do.Fast forward to 2006 and I'm in a video store still looking for 3 movies to take advantage of Video Buster's 8 for $8.50 deal. I stumbled across Reindeer Games, the store was quiet and I thought why not?. Everyone deserves a second chance right? To my surprise, the movie wasn't too bad at all and, get this, Ben Affleck was pretty good.The movie begins in prison where Rudy (Affleck) and Nick (Paul from Season 4 of 24. This is how seriously i take my reviews, I don't even bother to look up the guys name) are only days away from release. Rudy has no real plans but Nick can't wait to hook up with girl he has been communicating with via letters for 6mths through the pen-pal thing, Ashley (Theron). Things go horribly wrong though when Nick gets stabbed just before release. Rudy soon is released and toys with the idea of trying to pretend he's Nick. He gives it a go but soon regrets it when he becomes entangled in a planned heist of a casino they think he used to work at. Will he confess his true identity? Will he go along for the ride? Will he fool Ashley? These are questions that can only be answered by forking out $1 or $2 and hiring it. "},{"Title":"play these games","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ben Affleck, Charlize Theron and Gary Sinise sizzle as they star in Reindeer Games.Reindeer Games is one thrill ride that is sure to entertain viewers. Not only does it star a well established and talented cast, but it is suspenseful as well as twist filled. There are so many good things about Reindeer Games, I don't know where to begin.The script was well done because it kept me guessing as to what will happen next and who might be the real villain. The plot is enticing and the direction is so good that I had to remember it was a movie. It seemed very real and they were shooting it as it was occurring. The best part about Reindeer Games is that it is not all action or all drama or even romance, but that it is an equal balance of all three, which is very nice to see in a movie like this.I was extremely impressed with Charlize Theron's performance because she proved she had the stuff to make it on her own. With every scene she was in, Theron brought a presence that most actresses don't have. She is an actress that will cause everyone to sit up and take notice and hang on her every word.Gary Sinise plays a man intent on robbing a casino; however, he needs Affleck's expertise. Sinise was one reason I wanted to watch Reindeer Games.Reindeer Games is filled with action, twists, turns and strong performances that is sure to stay in my mind forever. This is one heck of a ride I'm willing to take again.  "},{"Title":"Blonde Games","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*I saw this one with my dad. He usually ends up enjoying most movies he sees. If you ask him, What did you think of the movie?, he'll pause for a second and then say, I liked it.  When we walked out of Reindeer Games, I turned to him and asked him what he thought about the movie. There was a slight pause and he said, It sucked.Reindeer Games is one of those twisty action/thrillers that is too twisty for its own good. It twists and twists until it breaks its own neck. Affleck gets out of prison and runs into a beautiful blonde, (Theron). She wants Affleck to play some Blonde Games. Affleck can't say yes fast enough.What is the deeper meaning of Reindeer Games? Is there one? Is it saying that if a beautiful blonde comes on to you for no good reason your goose is cooked? Beware of Blondes and their Blonde Games! True words of wisdom indeed.The ending is what twists this movie's head off and caused my dad to despise it. In fairness, I have to give the movie credit for a decent shootout scene in the casino. But overall, Reindeer Games is just too asinine to be taken seriously. Or enjoyed. 4/10.  "},{"Title":"A New Breed of Christmas Turkey","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Possible SpoilersChristmas is the season most associated with turkeys, and every Yuletide Hollywood manages to churn out its fair share of turkeys of the cinematic variety. Most of these, of course, are sentimental feelgood comedies, but John Frankenheimer has come up with a new breed of bird; the Christmas crime thriller.Rudy and Nick, two prisoners in a Michigan jail, are both approaching their release date, set for a few days before Christmas. Nick tells Rudy that when he gets out he is most looking forward to meeting his female penfriend, Ashley. Although the two have been writing to each other regularly, and Ashley has sent Nick several photographs of herself, they have never met in person.Unfortunately, shortly before his release, Nick is killed during a prison riot. Rudy, attracted to the beautiful Ashley, pretends to be Nick when he is released, introduces himself to Ashley and the two begin an affair. This, however, proves to be a mistake. Ashley has a brother Gabriel, himself a thuggish criminal, who kidnaps the pair. Gabriel has learned that, before his imprisonment, Nick worked as a security guard at a casino, and thinks that Nick's inside knowledge will help him and his criminal associates to pull off a robbery there. Rudy protests in vain that he is not Nick; Gabriel refuses to believe him.It is at this point that the problems begin. The film is far too reliant on that over-used plot device, the twist- the sudden development which reveals to the audience (and often to the hero as well) that the truth is the exact opposite of what they had previously believed it to be. This film contains not one but two twists which suddenly reverse the direction in which the plot was travelling. For the benefit of those who have not seen the film I will not say what those twists are, but I can say that I found neither remotely credible. Now although the twist is over-used, it can sometimes be effective, especially when it produces a development which is unexpected in terms of what has gone before, but which leads to a conclusion more satisfying and plausible than that towards which the plot had previously seemed to be leading. (A classic example is the famous twist at the end of Clouzot's Les Diaboliques).In Reindeer Games, however, the two twists have precisely the opposite effect- that of converting what had originally seemed to be a believable, if somewhat routine, thriller, into the purest nonsense. The villains appear to have exercised their ingenuity in devising the most complicated scheme imaginable when it is obvious that their purposes would have been much better served by a simple one. No criminals would ever behave in such a way in real life; the only reason they do so in this film is because the scriptwriter thought his audience would prefer a complex plot to a simple one.Visually, this is an attractive film. Charlize Theron looks stunning, and the director's use of the snowy winter landscapes against which the action takes place is highly effective. (The point of setting the film at Christmas-time- there are many Christmas references, and at one point the villains all dress up as Santa Claus- is presumably to make some ironic contrast between the `season of goodwill' and the manifest ill-will that most of the characters bear towards the rest of the human race). In terms of its story, however, this is a silly film, wholly devoid of credibility. It is sad to remember that John Frankenheimer was earlier in his career the director of such fine movies as The Birdman of Alcatraz and The Train. 4/10. "}{"Title":"A good action/suspense film that is more than just a holiday movie.","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was good. Rudy Duncan (Affleck) is in prison for car theft and he meets a guy there named Nick Cassidy, who has a beautiful girlfriend named Ashley. Nick fakes his own stabbing during a prison riot, and so when Rudy gets out he takes on the identity of Nick (whom he looks like) and gets with Ashley. Nick formerly worked at a casino, and Rudy (who is posing as him) is kidnapped by Ashley's brother Gabriel and his gang of thugs, who need his help in robbing the casino. He basically has to fake-help them throughout the film and he attempts to escape several times, and this all leads to an excellent ending sequence. This is full of suspense and takes place on Christmas, like many other movies that happen to come out during the holiday season. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "},{"Title":"After the roaches in the jello scene, it's all downhill...","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My nomination for Worst Film of 2000 (of those that I actually saw). It drags and the entire premise is ludicrous - there's not much else to say. After a good laugh in the prison mess hall scene, I quickly lost all interest. Ebert's 1 1/2 stars was VERY generous, and it's sad to see a great director like Frankenheimer involved with something as bad as this.....  "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck is the wrong guy for this genre","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A nice movie of the master John Frankenheimer that will entertain  you action lovers out there. But I think that casting Mr Affleck was a mistake that made some scenes more unbelievable that they would be with a tougher guy. Anyway 7/10 "},{"Title":"This movie rocked!!!!!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I never get bored of watching this movie, it's very clever.  Charlize Theron is amazing, and everything she does in this movie, if you watch a second time, fits into place. Charlize really acts with her eyes in this movie, and boy do her actions speak louder than words.  Watch it to see what i mean. Great stuff. "},{"Title":"Let It Snow","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of the things I loved so much about Die Hard 2 was the setting. Yeah the story was satisfying and the action entertaining, but having Christmas with the snow falling and a crowded airport full of people going their way with wacko terrorists bouncing around made things all the more jolly. Oh how I love the Christmas feeling. Most action yarns take place during the hottest day in New York, Los Angeles or some place similar. Very few movies step outside the summer-like boundaries. Probably something to do with budget, but I like it when they don't opt for a place and seasonal setting we've all seen before a thousand times. So I was optimistic about Reindeer Games. Let see we've got the Christmas theme going, loads of snow and in place of a crowded airport, we have a casino heist plot and stuck in the middle is the likable Ben Affleck. Pass the eggnog would you please.When Reindeer Games starts, we are introduced to Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) and his cellmate friend Nick (James Frain). Over the time they've spent together in prison, Rudy has become sickly aware of Nick's regular correspondence with a girl from the outside that neither whom have met, Ashley (Charlize Theron). Nick often talks about Ashley much to Rudy's dismay. He's sick of hearing about her. Rudy just wants to get back to normal life while Nick dreams of being together with Ashley. Unfortunately things take a turn when that same day a prison riot breaks out in the mess hall and Nick is killed. Suddenly Rudy finds himself out of prison impersonating Nick when he meets up with the sad Ashley. Unbeknownst to him however is that Nick used to work at an Indian Casino and told Ashley through correspondence and problem is Ashley's brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) now has plans for Nick involving him in the robbery of the casino he used to work for. Of course Nick isn't really Nick.The movie isn't without it's bumps however. To some the story might be considered predictable and it doesn't do itself any favors when some noticeable holes are exposed along the way. Surviving that as we near the end, the whole thing comes very close to becoming completely ridiciclous with some twists and turns that verge on going overboard. On the plus side, Affleck is able to carry his role well enough and the unique setting helps the flick stand out. Worth a view on a slow night with minimal expectations, but just don't watch it in the dead of the summer. "},{"Title":"An entertaining film to liven up a dull day!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that this was a good film, though the plot was a bit wishy washy. I don't personally think that it is a very likely plot in some places, but then again, films are only made for entertainment purposes and therefore this film achieved its goal. I was interested in the film almost straight away and was throughly involved throughout. I do recommend this film to anyone looking for a good night in!The acting was great, and I think that the direction given to the actors by John Frankenheimer was excellent. The actors created a feeling of mystery and suspense to the audience watching the film as well, which is obviously a vital element to a film of this genre.  "},{"Title":"better than I thought","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  why all the bad buzz about this movie? It had a fun mistaken identities plot, some nice action, and good performances. Gary Sinise was especially fun as the villain, although it's not much different than his usual schtick. Charlize Theron was good as always, but Ben Affleck was a bit miscast, I thought. He didn't come off to well as a tough guy. But he did the best he could. The plot was a lot of fun, quite different than usual. I liked all the twists at the end. Although it may be a tad implausible, it did seem more realistic than the twists in, say, WILD THINGS. REINDEER GAMES worked because the characters were very well developed right from the start. It is a great thriller and action movie, and it's humorous too. One of the best I've seen in recent times, and I highly recommend it to you.RATINGS  ***(0 TO ****) ***1/2(* TO *****) 7(0 TO 10) B(F TO A) +2(-4 TO +4)  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece delivered by a real filmmaker!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games is the first motion picture directed by acclaimed filmmaker John Frankenheimer after his 1998 top-notch thriller Ronin, the movie that marked his regained prestige. The success of Ronin landed Frankenheimer a three-picture-deal with Miramax, and by judging the quality of the first effort, Reindeer Games, Miramax did the right thing when they hired Frankenheimer.He may have made some wrong career moves (like directing The Island of Dr. Moreau), but he shows here that when he puts his mind into something, the man delivers perfection Working with a young and talented cast, Frankenheimer once again creates the kind of thriller that made him famous for Reindeer Games is a rollercoaster ride of suspense, tension and a lot of style. It reminds a lot those exciting and explosive masterpieces of the 70's like The French Connection.Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) is a tough but good-hearted con who is going to be released soon from prison after doing his time  and wants to start a new phase on his life, completely devoted to his family. He is inspired by his best friend Nick (James Frain), a guy who is also going out at the same day of Rudy. Nick exchanges letters with a kind and sweet girl, Ashley (Charlize Theron), and she gives this man the strength he needs to deal with the horrors of prison. When Nick is stabbed to death during a fight inside the Messroom, Rudy decides to pretend that he is Nicky in order to conquer the girl's heart. But he didn't count on the fact that Ashley has a dangerous brother who read all the letters Nick made to her, and now wants him to be part of a risky plan  to pull off the perfect casino heist during Christmas. A truly exciting and compelling movie, Reindeer Game came on the right time, bringing originality and quality for a gender that is in the I.C.U. thanks to bombs like Get Carter and Mission Impossible 2. This is a one-off, a masterpiece built by the guy responsible for classy and unforgettable blockbusters. Reindeer Games carries a kinetic, wall-to-wall energy like those good old fashioned tough-as-nails movies of the golden era of Hollywood, using quick cuts, intelligent camera movements and a dry and direct style of telling a story. The sharp and ironic dialogues yield some funny moments, but Frankenheimer shows that he didn't lose his touch when it comes to orchestrate action scenes with mastery.   "},{"Title":"Ho! Ho! Ho! This Is Fun!","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Far fetched and increasingly violent as the movie progresses, this is nevertheless a wonderfully entertaining story about mistaken identity.This paragraph contains some small spoilers, so skip ahead to the next if you prefer not to read them. Ben Affleck plays ex-con Rudy Duncan, who, on his release from prison, tries to connect with the pen-pal girlfriend of his ex-cellmate by pretending to be the ex-cellmate, only to discover that the girlfriend (Ashley, played by Charlize Theron) isn't quite who she seems to be either. She in turn gets him mixed up as a kind of technical advisor for a plot to rob a casino on Christmas Eve. Theron gives a wonderful performance throughout, playing what amounts to a variety of roles ranging from innocent young girl to crime boss, depending on who she's interacting with at any given time. The highlight of the movie for me at least was Gary Sinise, offering up his usual powerful performance in a supporting role as Gabriel, who thinks he's the mastermind behind the casino plot, but who is in reality just another of Ashley's pawns.The movie opens with a shot that definitely captures the attention of the viewer, and it's almost exhausting (and exhilirating at the same time) trying to follow the twists and turns in the plot. This will probably become a regular on the Christmas movie circuit, even though it's not exactly peace on earth; goodwill to men. It sure is fun, though. Definitely a 9/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Too Much Stuff","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love complex movies.  They're like puzzles the audience has to solve.  They require intelligence, determination, and patience to watch.  Well, Reindeer Games tries to be like this.  In fact, it tries a little too hard.  This is no Usual Suspects.John Frankenheimer is one of my favorite directors of all time. Ronin is sheer brilliance.  But, I believe that he has sold out into pure action movies with this movie.Reindeer Games isn't bad, some of it is fun.  Frankenheimer does have a gift for suspense.  But this movie suffers from too much stuff.  There are some plot twists in this movie... lots of them.  About every five minutes, you find out something new.  That is okay, but this movie does it so much that by the end of the movie, everything just seems ridiculous and stupid.  The movie gives a good effort, but I guarantee you won't be seeing it twice.The action is good.  The suspense is tense.  Charlize Theron is hot.  But, the movie is stupid.  It tries to be smart when it's not.  It tries too hard, it's as simple as that.  Mr. Frankenheimer please go back to France and make another spy movie... PLEASE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!4/10  "}{"Title":"The Worst Movie of the Year!","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was awful. The dialogue was lame. The action was uninventive. The characters were uninteresting. The actors were on autopilot. I expected a lot better from the likes of Ben Affleck, and Gary Sinise. For them to even consider making this movie was a bad career move (or they were in it for the money). They had to throw in some gratuitous nudity to keep people interested.How many times was Rudy almost shot dead because he kept saying he wasn't Nick. It was repetitive. Why didn't they just shoot him. It was repetitive. Why didn't Rudy just leave when he had the chance when he got out of his Hotel Room. By then, he'd already discredited Ashley as a genuine, caring lover.Anyway, there's too many things wrong with the whole plot, it wouldn't be worth the while going over each and every flaw. The film's not worth thinking about. I just want to forget it.. I have forgotten it. (Rating 0/10)  "},{"Title":"Violence, boobs and no respect for life","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented this DVD because they're running short of movies I REALLY want to see at the place I go to. So, in fairness, it's not entirely my type of movie to begin with. I wanted to see what was so special about Ben Afleck, and Gary Sinese as a villian seemed interesting. Having said that, I was disappointed that this movie contained so much shouting and gratuitous violence. Sinese would have been better off to play his character at something under 90 decibels of volume. Violence on the screen gets tiring for me when it is presented as an attraction in and of itself, as it is in most action movies, including this one. And when Charlize Theron goes topless in the swimming pool it seems more a calculated move to get a few more horny 18-year-olds in the theater than a plot advancement. The only remotely interesting actor in this film is Dennis Farina as the casino manager. As for Afleck, I couldn't see what's so special about him.  "},{"Title":"Terrific acting and directing wasted on dubious plot","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I realize that when you watch a film there is a need to suspend disbelief, but this film is ridiculous.  This story has more holes than a colander and it gets more ludicrous as it progresses.It starts out well plausibly enough.  Upon release from prison, Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) impersonates his cellmate Nick (James Frain) in order to get with Ashley (Chalene Theron), his lovely pen-pal girlfriend.  After a short frolic, Ashley's evil brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) and his thugs kidnap Rudy, thinking he is Nick.  It seems Nick once worked as a security guard in a casino that the thugs want to rob.  The film is intriguing to here, but a succession of dubious situations and plot twists mar what started out as a good setup.Ehren Kruger has given us some good scripts (Scream 3, Arlington Road), but in this story he tried to be a little too clever and it bombed.  There was a lot of exceptionally bad dialogue.  Rudy had at least two opportunities to make a clean getaway and decided not to.  Various bad guys had at least half a dozen chances to kill Rudy after he had outlived his usefulness, but they all decided it would be better to talk with him for a while to give him time to figure out how to wriggle out of it.  There were so many holes in the plot, Kruger felt compelled to try to patch it up with explanatory dialogue near the end.  The ending was so far beyond inconceivable that it bordered on moronic.Director John Frankenheimer did a very nice job with the camera, giving us a great variety of innovative perspective shots, and pacing the film well. The action scenes and stunts were also well done.The acting was terrific by the entire cast.  It is a pity that they didn't have better material.  Gary Sinise was nefarious and slimy as Ashley's evil brother.  Chalize Theron was wonderfully duplicitous as Ashley, all dewy eyed with Rudy at first, then playing the helpless victim, and later as the cold-hearted woman with the pistol in her hand.  That was quite a range and she was fabulous in just about every scene.  Ben Affleck might have been a little too nice to be Rudy.  Though he was only a car thief, he just didn't seem much like a convict.  Still, he has good screen presence, and he carried the role off pretty well.I rated this film a 6/10.  I subtracted three points for the dubious plot and another point for the absurd ending.  The acting and directing were marvelous, but the story was so flawed that it couldn't be redeemed.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie.  Had me stunned at the end.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Overall this is a very good movie.  Not one actor/actress really stood out in my mind as stealing the show but the writer really had me going on the outcome of this movie, it was great.  Not too much excellent cinématography used either, I'd recommend renting this one if you like thrillers.  The Beginning was excellent too as you'll find out at the end. "},{"Title":"ouch...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One question  Who thought this script was good enough to make into a movie?  They need a lecture.Plot holes, bad dialogue, unbelievable characters, and an unbelievable story.  Affleck's (sp?) character was weak, not even his talent could keep you interested in him.  Theron's character was ridiculous, and while she's not a terrible actor, she doesn't have the juice to save a badly scripted character.  Sinise's character was unbelievably stupid, BUT Sinise carried it through.  He delivered bad lines with impressive credibility.  Personally, I thought the best aspect of the movie was the head of the casino, Jack Bennet or whatever his name was.  Forgive me for not recalling the actor's real name.  This movie was not worth the $3.91 I paid to rent the DVD and not only endure the film, but watch (don't ask why...) the production featurette; in which they talk about how to have a good time and make a great movie.  Ouch folks.  4 out of 10 - Only because of the performance of Sinise and the casino boss. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on opening day, it rules! It was the best movie I've seen since...well it's great. It is about Rudy Duncan(Ben) and his friend (Where the Heart Is's James Frain) are finnaly going to be parolled, and then the whole seemingly boring slow plot, spins wildly out of control on a non-stop thrill ride that is the best I have ever seen. Charlize Theron needs to pick a hair style and stick with it. Gary Sinise needs to cut his hair, bad! James Frain plays a small but VERY important part. There are many twists in this plot and the majority of the audience will not expect.-----10 "},{"Title":"This Game came to Town","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The writer of Scream 3 tries for another good movie, but he forgot Kevin Williamson's outline.  The movie is good for action, but if you boil it down it really has no audience and little quality.  It has been classified as a horror thriller of film-noir distinction.  Whom outside of film-class can even picture what that is?  It has aspects of horror and thus may pacify Scream fans a bit and it has aspects of thriller/noir and may pacify Arlington Road fans a bit (as those are recent Euhler films).Otherwise, Reindeer Games is predictable in parts, intriging in others, but overall a disappointment.I classify it as in the worse/bottom half of the early 2000 movies (early meaning the first 4 months).With the best part being when copius amounts of Santas come to town to rob a Casino, you know there are problems.But, the story does offer intriging possibility and should satisfy a small audience (whomever that is?)so the rating is a tad higher.Rating 6 (2 stars)Viewed in theatre (35mm scope) "},{"Title":"THIS WAS A GOOD ACTION FLICK!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rudy Duncan is released from jail pretending to be someone else. He is posing as his dead prison mate so he can meet his prison mate's pen-pal-girlfriend. Rudy meets the girl and has a wonderful time until the girls gangster brother Gabriel, (Lieutenant Dan from Forrest Gump) shows up with his buddies and many assorted guns. They threaten Rudy's life if he doesnt help them rob a casino that his dead prison mate used to work for...and he is posing as the dead prision mate....they think Rudy knows how to steal the casino blind, but he doesn't ! Sucks for Rudy!I liked Reindeer Games, it was full of action, guns, and a little bit of comedy....this is my type of movie!!!  Reindeer Games was also way better than I expected it to be! The trailer made it look awesome! They should have released this movie before christmas. (it took place during the holidays) Gary Sinise performance as Gabriel was awesome.....he plays a good sleazy b*****d!....his long hair makes him look like a physcopath!What I didn't like about the movie was the end....he gave all that money away! What a moron! He need's a good punch on the mind!My vote is 7/10.I suggest you see it if you like action and suspense...I'm definitely buying this one on video! "},{"Title":"A Well Done, Low-Key Thriller","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games is a good film, ignore the absurd negative reviews and see this one for yourself.  I wasn't quite expecting this one to pull me in as it did, but it kept me on the edge of my seat, with a good performance by Ben Affleck (who plays a good reluctant hero role here) as Rudy Duncan, an average guy caught up in a heist to be pulled off by typecast villian Gary Sinese. Reindeer Games is a film about low-key criminals, small time people and a good story that keeps the proceeding moving for the relatively brisk, but enjoyable 98 minutes. Rudy Duncan, released from prison, assumes the identity of a friend stabbed in the big house, and shacks up with his gorgeous pen pal (Charlize Theron), only to get mixed up with her crazy brother (Sinese) and his cronies.  Duncan is forced to take part in a casino heist, and amongst the film's run time, there are enough double crosses, chases, nuded scenes, suspense and plot twists for several movies! I had a good time watching this film, the cast pull off a great job and Frankenheimer continues his recovery from The Island of Doctor Moreau.Reindeer Games won't win any awards, but there's no reason why you can't enjoy it.  It was one of the most exciting thrillers I've seen in a while, just a good time!  See it. "},{"Title":"A Fun, But Not Great, Movie","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you don't take this film too seriously, then it is fun to watch and quite enjoyable.  It is an action film with a few unexpected twists and turns. Don't expect an Oscar winner and you're sure to be entertained from beginning to end.   "}{"Title":"Could have been much better but an all right film","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie had so much going for it. The talent of director John Frankenheimer, Ben as the hero and Gary as the bad guy. But this movie failed. It's a thriller not an action movie. I would like to leave it at that. There are so many areas where this movie could have been great. It has so many scene where there could have been memorable action sequences but they just stop. And the end (minor spoiler warning!!)it had so many twist I felt like I was in a tornado. I guess twist endings are in now. Wait until this comes out on video for to rent and then make up your own mind. Ben does a nice job as the Bruce Willis type but he's not Bruce. I would have rather seen Bruce in this directed by Simon West, John Woo, or Michael Bay. I give it a 6. Sorry Ben, you came off as a better action star in Dogma.  "},{"Title":"Too Much Of Not Enough","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a action movie that is passable for the two hours or so required to view it, but it is hardly a major contribution to the world of film.  Ben Affleck is good but hardly great, the character actors are great, especially Clarence Williams the third, but the manner in which they are used is merely good.  The script?  A not very plausible ending and some twists that are not organic to the plot - things often happen because the writer wants them to, not because they come out of what went before - make the script, again, no more than good.  It's trying to be hip like a 'Usual Suspects' and winds up more like 'Unusual and Suspect.'  This is a game you should play at home - in other words, it's a rental.  "},{"Title":"Not a bad effort","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games is about a recently released prisoner (Ben Affleck) assuming his dead best friend's identity and getting involved with the girl the friend was writing to in prison (the always-attractive Charlize Theron). Gary Sinise plays her brother -- an arms runner who wants to use the dead friend's talents to help hold up a casino. I could suspend the disbelief here and there and try to hold back laughing over some of the inane implausibilities (when he escaped from his hotel room for instance, why didn't he try and hide out? Why didn't he steal a car and bail once he realized who --plot spoiler--Charlize really was?) but the real problem with this film is it's lead. Affleck is an ok actor but he's not 100% believable as a con. Had they cast someone older, say a Willem Dafoe-type this film could have been a true classic. Also, the guys who make up Sinise's gang are all excellent, veteran, character actors who hardly have anything to do but look menacing. The few lines they do have (like the one guy who gives his reasons why America should have two Christmases a year) are pretty hilarious. Yet, to give baby-boy Affleck more screen time, I have a feeling that a lot of their lines were cut. They end up as being mere props for Sinise to yell and scream at. A pity. What could have been a great film is a mere ok action flick. Also, the film's conclusion -- in keeping with Hollywood's insistence on creating happy endings -- is a true sap-fest. Couldn't you guys have done a bit better? "},{"Title":"Great film, Watch the director's cut","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is entertaining and fun. There are a lot of plot twists that might seem a little tedious but check out the directors cut with the commentary by Frankenheimer and they start to make sense. I thought the actors were great; Theron is beautiful and talented as usual, Sinise is evil and comical as the appropriately named Monster and Affleck has great comedic timing and should stick to playing roles like these. The other minor actors are all great and well fleshed out, Look for unexpected cameos by some well known actors. I think in time this film will easily become a cult classic and will get the respect that Frankenheimer wanted it to have. "},{"Title":"Not so bad - Average Thriller","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie offered many plots and twists and an unexpected end. It didn´t convince me and my wife enough because I expected more action and suspense. My wife´s opinion is that this is a film for boys but I don´t think so. The story turned many times surprisingly in new dimensions. I think the role of the villain was boring and empty even if Gary Sinise played it very cool. The dialogs were sometimes too long. Charlize Theron was very sexy and Ben Affleck was great too. The scene of the Santa Clauses was very original. REINDEER GAMES is a must see for all fans of Charlize Theron and Ben Affleck and it could work for an entertaining evening. Our rating 5/10. "},{"Title":"Flawed but never a dull moment","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games has the kind of plot that is impossible to take seriously, much less believe.  I watched it for a second time, now that I bought the DVD, and I found more and more flaws--even more than I found on the first viewing.  The plot twists are preposterous, and Gary Sinise's henchmen in the film are the same bumbling caricatures you see in the standard action vehicle.  Nevertheless, this is a fun movie.  The actors and director never try to play it off like a serious action movie, and just utilize the far-fetched mechanics of Ehren Krueger's overwrought script.  They just decide to have fun with it, which I wish audiences would have done as well.  There's lots of comic relief.  I love Ben Affleck's pecan pie line.  I repeat that line over and over again, whenever I can.  And I like the line he says at the end, Rule #1  Never put a car thief behind the wheel!  Those who haven't seen the movie yet will find out the significance of that quote when they do.  Speaking of comic relief, Dennis Farina delivers some good laughs, as the corrupt casino owner who wants to move his business to Las Vegas.  In Vegas, there is no snow.  In fact I think they have laws against the s**t, he says to two of his Native American employees.  And I liked the twist at the end, involving the powwow safe.  Reindeer Games is sometimes so preposterous it's laughable.  But that doesn't, in any way, impair its ability to please a crowd.  I was locked into this movie from beginning to end.  This is a movie that grabs you and never lets go.  And you're glad to go along for the ride.  Reindeer Games is fast-paced, thoroughly entertaining and funny.  You'll have a blast! "},{"Title":"the games are about to begin","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ben Affleck, Charlize Theron and Gary Sinise sizzle as they star in Reindeer Games.Reindeer Games is one thrill ride that is sure to entertain. Not only does it star a well established and talented cast, but it is suspenseful as well as twist filled. There are so many good things about Reindeer Games, I don't know where to begin.The script was well done because it kept me guessing as to what will happen next and who might be the real villain. The plot is original and the direction is so good that I had to remember it was a movie not real life. It seemed very real and they were shooting it as it was occurring. The best part about Reindeer Games is that it is not all action or all drama or even romance, but that it is an equal balance of all three, which is very nice to see in a movie like this.I was extremely impressed with Charlize Theron's performance because she proved she had the stuff to make it on her own. With every scene she was in, Theron brought a presence that most actresses don't have. She is an actress that will cause everyone to sit up and take notice and hang on her every word.Gary Sinise plays a man intent on robbing a casino; however, he needs Affleck's expertise. Sinise was one reason I wanted to watch Reindeer Games  he was perfect.Reindeer Games is filled with action, twists, turns and strong performances that is sure to stay in my mind forever. This is one heck of a ride I'm willing to take again.  "},{"Title":"Very good, satirical movie.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A good movie that cannot be taken as completely serious.  Mostly all critics do not like movies like this.  The general public does, however.  Do not listen to the critics on this movie, go see it for yourself because it is worthy. "},{"Title":"Not sure how I keep catching these low points, when looking for Frankenheimer's work","Date":"29 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Seriously, I've heard great things about him. I loved the entry he made for the The Hire series, Ambush, in fact, it's by far my favorite. But apart from that, thus far, I've only gotten to watch Ronin, and now also this one. I understand... and fully believe... that both are him not at his best. Anyway, this has Affleck(who doesn't do half bad) play a small-time car-thief who gets out on parole, and passes himself off as his deceased cell-mate to get with the latter's girlfriend. The problem is, the late convict apparently had an idea or two about how to rob a casino... and a group of none-too-pleasant fellows now want Ben to help them out. Fortunately for him(and the producers... otherwise there'd be no film), he's not bad at making stuff up on the fly, and with that, the story's in motion. It unfolds nicely enough, with some big plot twists along the way(after the last one of them, credibility for the movie is just plain gone). This is relatively engaging, and the action is fun. The cinematography and editing are well-done. Humor tends to be decent. The acting isn't bad, characters are reasonable. This has sexuality and nudity, relatively strong violence, and the language is moderate in tone and frequency. I recommend this to any fan of the genres, heist flicks and/or anyone who helped make this. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Preposterous mess","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" That's it! No more Ben Affleck flicks. Armageddon, Reindeer Games, Pearl Harbor, Daredevil, Gigli - this guy's stinkeroo ratio is higher than any A-list actor I know. Of course, that might be because he CAN'T ACT! I've given him every chance. The few decent films he's been in (Dazed & Confused, Good Will Hunting, Shakespeare In Love, Boiler Room, Paycheck, Hollywoodland) were OK/good DESPITE his presence. Give him the lead, and you got about a 75% chance of that film appearing on critics' worst lists for that year. And he ain't getting' better. Keanu Reeves is Laurence Olivier in comparison.Reindeer Games is a crime thriller (I guess) often played for attempted laughs (unsuccessfully). I won't go into the details as they're well documented by other posters here, but suffice it to say that the quintuple-cross ending ranks among the most ridiculous ever offered in filmdom. Absolutely preposterous without a shred of believability. But unfortunately, it's not so bad it's funny/cool - it will just make your eyes roll. A lot. And perhaps, like me, say out loud, Oh, come on. Give me a break! Trust me, and don't waste your time to find out.Charlize Theron, whom I consider to be often great, and one of the most beautiful women in films, is completely miscast. Nice to see her nekkid, though. Gary Sinise CAN act, but his character here is simply a cartoon; he has very little to work with. This script should have been burned; how it was ever made into a film with big names is one of those great Hollywood mysteries. Avoid at all cost. "}{"Title":"Extremely suspenseful and exciting thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer games is a brilliant little movie. It works splendidly as a massively effective violent action film and it works as a gripping, amazingly built suspense classic. One of the best qualities of a successful, entertaining and a good thriller are constant surprises and Reindeer games has lots of 'em. Last night I watched this film for the second time and luckily I had already forgotten most parts of the plot so it was a nice to experience all of the thrills all over again. Movie only got better when I saw it again. This is quite likely my favorite Ben Affleck film even though Gary Sinise once again steals the show in one of his greatest bad guy roles. If you happen to bumb into this one in the video store don't pass it by but rather take it on the shelf, go instantly home and just enjoy the hell of a ride. "},{"Title":"Thank God I got the ticket for this movie for free... .","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a waste of 103 minutes! I wouldn't have mind had the film been boring and predictable. It's all of the above alright, but it is much much worse than that. It is incoherent, illogical and most importantly - acted really badly. Even the so-called twist near the end of this nightmare made me yawn and ask myself huh?!? Where did this guy come from?. Definitely Ben Affleck's worst ever! Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"Appalling misfire for all involved.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What exactly is a reindeer game?  It's the title of the movie, there is a point in the script where Gary Sinise's painfully ridiculous villain exclaims don't be playing those reindeer games on me.... and still it is never explained!!  Reindeer games is a pitiful mess of a feature, guaranteed to be one of the worst movies of the year.  So seldom are action movies invested with any sort of novelty or wit nowadays, that it is sad to imagine some people may actually enjoy this film.  After solid work on RONIN, another John Frankenheimer thriller seemed promising, but it is every bit as bad as his ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU.  Crude, unnatural camera angles.  Awkward performances from all involved and a sloppy repetitive plot that exploits its audience in the most insulting way.  Why does Chelize Theron take her clothes off twice in this movie?  Why is it that Gary Sinise is walking around in sleeveless shirts all the time in the middle of Winter?  (Perhaps because he appears to have been working out and wanted to show off?)  The entire plot consists of a juvenile mistaken identity gag, played over and over as Sinise holds a gun to Affleck's head every fifteen minutes and threatens to kill him before instead changing his mind and agreeing to let him live.  The entire movie is one big mess penned by the writer of Arlington Road and Scream 3.  Ehren Kreuger is shaping up to be Hollywood's king of plot holes, just the same way Akiva Goldsman became the king of bad Hollywood one-liners.  But the biggest letdown is Frankenheimer, who should have known better than to take on this pathetic project.   "},{"Title":"Uneven, badly miscast thriller","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot is by the numbers (although a few twists in the final reel are good), the direction lackluster and some VERY bad miscasting. First off Gary Sinise looks, and acts, very uncomfortable playing the head villain. He's a good actor, but this role is underwritten and he doesn't really play villains all that well. Charlize Theron was actually pretty good. I've never liked her before, but this role seems to fit her perfectly (especially at the end). Biggest problem with this movie is Ben Affleck. Yeah, he's very cute and a very good actor...but not for an action movie. His acting style is low key and he's not exactly muscular--an action film needs a physically and emotionally imposing actor--that isn't Affleck! The scenes when he had a gun in his hand actually drew a few snickers from my audience--he just looks so out of place with a gun! All together the movie was unexciting, unfunny (even though it tries to be) and just plain boring at times. Worth a video rental MAYBE. However, there is a hot sex scene between Affleck and Theron. "},{"Title":"play this game","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ben Affleck, Charlize Theron and Gary Sinise sizzle as they star in Reindeer Games.Reindeer Games is one thrill ride that is sure to entertain viewers. Not only does it star a well established and talented cast, but it is suspenseful as well as twist filled. There are so many good things about Reindeer Games, I don't know where to begin.The script was well done because it kept me guessing as to what will happen next and who might be the real villain. The plot is enticing and the direction is so good that I had to remember it was a movie. It seemed very real and they were shooting it as it was occurring. The best part about Reindeer Games is that it is not all action or all drama or even romance, but that it is an equal balance of all three, which is very nice to see in a movie like this.I was extremely impressed with Charlize Theron's performance because she proved she had the stuff to make it on her own. With every scene she was in, Theron brought a presence that most actresses don't have. She is an actress that will cause everyone to sit up and take notice and hang on her every word.Gary Sinise plays a man intent on robbing a casino; however, he needs Affleck's expertise. Sinise was one reason I wanted to watch Reindeer Games.Reindeer Games is filled with action, twists, turns and strong performances that is sure to stay in my mind forever. This is one heck of a ride I'm willing to take again.  "},{"Title":"At least Charlyze Theron once again removes her clothes...","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So after the bad guys are killed (in Santa Suits)...we have the hero WALK 15 miles toward home.....putting stolen money....in mailboxes (remember, its x-mas)...in broad daylight...in a SANTA SUIT....gee wouldnt the cops be looking out for that? Gee...wouldnt a guy who just spent 5 years of his life in prison DITCH that SUIT because he doesnt wanna go back to jail?.....Dont actors speak up when what they are shooting doesnt make sense to them?....do they CARE?....are they THAT DUMB to NOT see the plot holes?....A VERY DUMB MOVIE...for VERY DUMB PEOPLE.... "},{"Title":"Another comment","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, there were many flaws.Yes, Rudy could have escaped during his time in the hotel. Yes, he could have notified security in the casino.Yes, he could have called the police while he was trapped in the hotel even though he was walking around.Yes, he could have escaped during his outing into the parking lot at night front he bedroom window.Yes, he could have told the guy in the casino bathroom what was going on and to call the cops.Yes, there were so many ways to get away and deal with the sh1t that was going down, but he didn't and I still love this film.Maybe it's because I have a Charlize Theron fetish and addiction.Maybe it's because it's a unique Christmas story and it's not sappy like the Frosty and Jesus stories.Maybe it's because Charlize looks so damn hot. Maybe it's because it has a few cool snappy quirks of dialog.Maybe because I like the cast in certain areas.Maybe because Charlize is a babe...maybe because the soft spoken Charlize is a gun toting, manipulating little beast with a stunning smile and outrageous gorgeous looks.Oh...did I mention Charlize Theron is in here and she is totally a hottie? Oh, yeah...Charlize is in here and that's the reason I watched it and feel that it's worth my time. "},{"Title":"Much better than I was expecting.","Date":"11 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Wow. I'm pleasantly surprised. Put this in to satisfy different tastes in small group--figured it would be acceptable to everyone, but, like vanilla ice cream, pretty much ordinary and forgettable also. The production values were only on par with TV and the acting was not particularly compelling, but it kept moving forward in unexpected ways and legitimately held everyone's attention. Nobody was disappointed, and while no great film, it's more than watchable. The ending slightly disappointed me, because that is not quite how I would have handled the money situation, but then I think that's probably because Ben Affleck's character is a better person than I am. "},{"Title":"Deception","Date":"12 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reindeer Games known as Deception in Britain is John Frankenheimer's final theatrical film. Rather a shame that its a moderately thrilling film that was critically lambasted.As a thriller it has plenty of twists and turns but you always fear that there is something predictable about it and in some instances poor scripting does not help.Affleck is a carjacker doing his time. His cell mate is in a relationship with a pen pal who he intends to hook up with after getting out but dies just two days before they are both release.Affleck takes over his cell-mate's identity, hooks up with the pen pal who turns out to be the gorgeous Charlize Theron and after some good sex has a run in with her brother (Gary Sinise) and his gang who want him to rob a casino in a reservation where the cell-mate once worked at.Of course no one believes him when he protests that he is not who he pretends to be and he has no option but rob the casino that he knows nothing about. As its Christmas, six Santas go in to rob the casino.The plot has a lot of standard thriller concepts and you always anticipate a few twists and turns even those relating to the dead cell mate's ultimate motives as to why he wanted Affleck to hook up with Theron.The film kind of looks cheap, it was mainly shot in Canada. It has some scenes that do not make sense such as the actual Casino heist where the security guards are all over the place and even Dennis Farina firing rather aimlessly and wasting bullets.Therefore you rely on the actors to carry the film off. Sinise and Theron are good enough to keep you watching. Affleck is average but his character does enough to be likable. However Affleck is really not a strong enough actor, even now he is an actor who has mastered his limited range and his future does lie in directing.However I wish this film would had been a better send off for the conspiracy meister Frankenheimer. "},{"Title":"Santa Claus Is Coming!","Date":"24 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reindeer Games is actually quite an entertaining movie and more so than I was led to believe. The one thing that may go against the movie is the absurd plot and even more absurd ending, but I was able to stay with the ridiculous twists and turns and embrace them for what they are. This movie is the thriller version of Bad Santa, so do not be expecting a feel-good holiday movie. In all, the movie was fun and explosive and it is a change of pace from recent holiday films. John Frankenheimer's film is about a man named Rudy who is about to be paroled from prison after serving a sentence for grand theft auto. His cellmate, Nick is also about to be paroled, and Nick tells Rudy of his love with his pen pal named Ashley. Due to an unfortunate accident, only Rudy is released from prison and decides to meet with Ashley. However, it goes downhill after Rudy is forced to go on a heist by Ashley's nefarious brother, Gabriel. The acting is not too bad. I have to admit that seeing Ben Affleck in the midst of such strong, overpowering men is laughable. But I think he manages to hold his own. Charlize Theron delivers a great performance as Ashley and she is not only beautiful, but she acts incredibly well. Gary Sinise is an excellent bad guy, although I feel like his character whimpered out as the movie progressed.Overall, Reindeer Games is entertaining enough as it is despite some incredibly ridiculous moments. There are some glaring plot holes, but it's Christmas(in the movie), so we shall all just be jolly. With such a premise, the film could have been better but luckily it's not too terrible. A note to the casino Santa Claus is coming!My Grade B- "}{"Title":"One of Ben Affleck's Christmas Movies","Date":"19 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After assuming his dead cellmate's identity to get with his girlfriend (Charlize Theron), an ex-con (Ben Affleck) finds himself the reluctant participant in a casino heist.On top of the excellent Ben Affleck, we get Danny Trejo (before his big break), and Gary Sinise as hard core as he has ever been. This may be his finest role (with all due respect to Lieutenant Dan). All around some fine roles and casting.The film also has more than a few twists and turns. Who is working for who? Is anyone who they really claim to be? You will never know until the final shot...As far as Affleck Christmas movies go, this is probably the best. Sure, Surviving Christmas has its moments, but what a bunch of junk compared to this action flick. "},{"Title":"With troubling results, Ben Affleck assumes the identity of his erstwhile cellmate","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" John Frankenheimer's skill as a director shows through in Reindeer Games. He was working with a decent neo-noir script that is heavy on the complications, double crosses and predicaments. His touch showed in orchestrating action scenes so that they seemed realistic, not cartoonish, edited so that the action was clear, and with good setups.The movie featured the strong acting of Charlize Theron in a substantial part and the excellent acting of Gary Sinise. His skill shows in the way that he can yell, show anger and still make it seem very real and intimidating. Clarence Williams III had a notable supporting role. Dennis Farina has some comic relief. Ben Affleck was adequate, no more, and sometimes wobbly in even being adequate. The problem is partly in the part written into the script. He's just a little too self-deprecating, humorous, indecisive, hiding his cleverness and skills underneath. It makes it hard to identify with him. He doesn't give us a likable enough character with at least some glimmers of heroism. He seems too much like a college chap.I found this movie a cut above the standard action movie because of a deeper neo-noir script and generally better acting and direction. It was an enjoyable outing that I think will hold up on a second viewing. "},{"Title":"All Rise...The Case Against Ben Affleck","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This Movie could be used as Exhibit A in the Case, Ben Affleck accused of impersonating an A-List Actor. He is at His best when he does not distract. In this one he almost single handedly destroys what is already a Film struggling to maintain any credibility.It is unsure of itself and too much emphasis is put on things that are boring, or unnecessary and not enough on those that should be definitive in a Witty Action Thriller. The early Love Scenes are unconvincing, as is the Plot of misidentification and nothing seems plausible as the Setup begins to unfold.This is not the Director's worst Movie, for that see (or don't) The Island of Dr. Moreau (1996). Highly removed from His best work, this is watchable, but the cleverness is clunky and there are too many things that just don't flow. It hiccups its way through a twist or two or three or too many to count, but it is all for not as things just don't add up and the ride getting there is hardly worth it. "},{"Title":"Tiring Clichéd Borefest","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I think that the inventor of the gun must be rolling in his grave with unsettling anger that his deadly contraption was utilized in poor timing and handled with flawed effort to boot. Granted there are no protagonists in the movie, it has become utterly monotonous as we are treated to an endless exhibition as the Hollywood clichéd baddies are interrogating their foes at gunpoint as the disgruntled viewers watch as the easy task of pulling the gun trigger doesn't come off at the right time. Even though we don't like to see someone get killed on film, when they might be someone you admire, the credibility gets lost in the shuffle properly. The only time I ever accepted this flaw was the 1960's Batman series where the baddies shoot awkwardly and Batman and Robin find themselves in a silly situation and resourcefully managed to break out of it. By rights Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) should have been killed halfway through Reindeer Games' and I'm the last to judge whether he lives or dies, but when watching this film all I can say is DUH! Rudy is an ex-convict who's on the brink of parole and when he's discharged he will confront a young lady who will potentially rectify his life back in sync. These two are total strangers to one another. The only contact these two know each other from is through letters But there's a flawed twist behind this land of confusion. Rudy is coming off as a cell-mate who was killed in a prison rumble and this cell-mate was too meet this lady. Because his lust over women makes him tingle in delight, Rudy comes out of jail, he get more than what was expected from him. His new girlfriend, Ashley (Charlize Theron) has a brother who's a small-time #$%$ named Gabriel (Gary Sinese) who assigns Rudy to take down a casino. It was claimed that the cell-mate Rudy's posing as once ran a casino on a Native American reservation near Detroit, so Gabriel wants Rudy instructions of how the casino is set up, the security patterns and whatnot, anything that will make this heist a huge success. So Rudy, who's in a hole can only bluff his way out of the predicament because he's not the right person or the real person to pull it off.The film is full of holes it's enough to put Swiss cheese to shame. In one scene, Rudy tries to convince Gabriel that he's no the person who he really is and gives a hand-written letter to Gabriel to reveal if this is the right man. So why didn't Gabriel juxtapose the cell-mate's handwriting and Rudy's handwriting to see if this is the same person? Rudy could have reported this to the police, but see that he's being held by law breakers would violate his parole and he would be back in jail again. Some of the entanglements between the characters are quite hilarious and filled with unintended humour and the twists were jilted and contrived and it's hard to root for a leading character we don't really care about.Director John Frankenheimer uses his signature perplexity in making this movie. The real trouble here lies by utilizing his vision, he dismissed the flaws in Ehren Kruger's script. I can't believe that this script was written by the same person who wrote the much better thriller Arlington Road. His attempt to be different badly hurt Kruger's script. The proof comes from Rudy escaping from the casino as he gets caught in the wilderness. He seems savvy at hot-wiring cars, so he just randomly hijacks one and makes a run for it. How ironic! Plenty of well-known performers are given only one scene and really have no point or any kind of focus to what the story is about. Others are on a substantial amount of time and were not really needed in the end which is always annoying and maddening. John Frankenheimer put in other hackneyed films in the past like 52 Pickup amongst others and the results were an utter failure. He has potential to be really good, but finds himself lowering himself by making flops like Reindeer Gamesand knowing how long he's been in this business he should have known better.The more accurate title should be called Lamedeer Games. "},{"Title":"Ho Ho Ho!!","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A group of cons try to out con a con.This movie isn't too bad. Lots of drama,with some action thrown in.Once again the truck driver is a psycho. Cool paint job on the truck. Is pecan pie and hot chocolate a staple in Michigan? I knew from the start of the scam that Ben Aflac would out smart the cons.Gary Sinise drove the Freightliner 18 wheeler!!Gary Sinise is a permanent A list actor!!Charlize Theron is smokin!!---One Truck Drivers Opinion---erldegstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"Not an awful lot in the way of Reindeers, but certainly a lot in the way of games; Frankenheimer signs off with a rough around the edges neo-noir thriller.","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Reindeer Games does just about enough to garner a dumb, border-line recommendation; a confused, neo-noir infused heist flick that darts all over the place with so many tricks, turns and rug-pulling up its sleeve; that by the end the entire carpet is up and all that's left is to strip away the tiles from under both the character's and audience's feet. The film's a little messy, a bit patchy, full of somewhat inconsistent characters and a little wavy in overall tone; but there's a sense of adventure about it, a feeling of energy &#x96; a sense that it wants to try and entertain you as it takes you on this rabid ride all across the snowy outback of Michigan, as deceit; terror and characters as cold as the setting it is in which they're based, rule the roost.Reindeer Games is somewhat more of an exercise in second unit direction and punchy, surprise reveals than intricate plotting and precise character progression. There are a number of individual sequences, in which very few is said but rather a lot is done, that keep the film on some kind of straight and narrow. For instance, a passage of the film sees the lead attempt to escape from the grip of those that have him when they leave him alone in a motel room for the night. The attention to the motel and its surrounding area, its car park in particular, as a space while this individual attempts to avoid certain characters and catch up with others is a wonderfully unfolded sequence. Additionally, the premise for the entire passage places its criminal lead, a rather bland Ben Affleck, in an escapist-driven scenario thus complimenting the actor's annoyingly consistent expression of being frightened, as he strains to get away. The film begins, somewhat needlessly, right nearer the end of the piece as an array of dead individuals in Santa Claus outfits lie strewn around a casino building. We're greeted by a certain Rudy Duncan, and it's Affleck's voice. Rudy's been in prison for a number of years and just wants to lay low as his time in jail nears completion, something that looks in jeopardy when a riot breaks out in the cafeteria and mostly everyone gets involved. His cell-mate and good friend Nick (Frain), is stabbed rather mortally, leaving a bitter taste as freedom beckons. Upon our lead leaving prison, we learn that friends and relatives of these hardened criminals just getting out stand patiently outside in the cold so that they may greet these now free head-cases with warm smiles and cuddles as if they were waiting at an airport terminal for them after a long flight. We also learn that, the best thing to do in order to honour his friend, Rudy reckons getting with the girl he's been exchanging letters with whilst behind bars for all this time might be a good idea.And what a girl. We're lead to believe that Charlize Theron's Ashley; being the reasonably pretty twenty-five year old, easy going girl that she is; needs to go so low as to write to prison inmates in order to find that special someone. Rudy's been studying Ashley for longer and in ways she's unaware. Beginning from the bottom of the photograph and working his way up whilst doing exercises, Rudy has gazed at the pictures Nick was sent of her, by her, from over the years. The notion of having to work strenuously, whilst directly under the eye of her in some sort of form, echoes what's to come. Now, with Nick supposedly knifed; dead and out of the picture and with Ashely completely in the dark as to what Nick's supposed to look like, an advantageous scenario beckons. Director John Frankenheimer, making his last film before his death in 2002, pays closer attention to their relationship and the basis of their relationship than he might otherwise have done. Going into the underlying theme of their bond would spoil too much, but suffice to say; it is to do with identity and who it is they say they are at first meeting.Following a montage in which Ashley and Rudy get to know one another, a cringe-worthy passage that looks like it belongs in the latest Christmas time released romantic-comedy than anything else, Gary Sinise and his leather-sporting tough guy baddies turn up, seeing mostly all of Hell breaking loose. Sinise's Gabriel and his cohorts know that Nick used to work at a local casino, thus they presume he knows all the ins and outs of the security and layout which would be perfect for a robbery &#x96; a robbery Gabriel and co. want to perform. The film enjoys exploring the relationships between these characters and the power play that comes with them. In most of the scenes, Rudy has to bluff as Nick so as to avoid being simply killed; with bluffing playing a prominent part in who exactly is aligned with whom. The film is peppered with some daft instances in which the lyrics from popular Christmas musical numbers act as dialogue, while other Christmas songs pop up as part of the soundtrack. Of the film's other raging inconsistencies is a scene in which the enemy must explain the entire plot to the lead as he thinks he's about to eliminate him; and a bloodied, dual Uzi sporting Dennis Farina doing his best to defend himself. Reindeer Games has few admirers, and while it has that ability to have you emit the odd groan, it's the pulpy material and consistently smirking execution of said material which keeps it alive. The film doesn't settle for mindless action, and most of the more intense scenes revolve around the explosions of emotion between characters as revelations and in vein bargaining play out. This isn't the best by most involved, but it suffices for what it takes on. "},{"Title":"Stupid script.","Date":"23 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ehren Kruger has written some good things in his life but this movie really isn't one of them. It's an overwritten script, with completely unnecessary twists and turns that tries to make the movie look more clever than it in fact really is. Instead it makes the movie a completely implausible one and the movie would had worked out much better if it was just a brainless simple action flick.Also sort of sad that director John Frankenheimer had to end his career with movies such as this. In the '60's he was a great director who made movies such as Birdman of Alcatraz, All Fall Down, The Manchurian Candidate and Grand Prix and in the '70's with movies such as French Connection II and Black Sunday. Yet he remains best known to the general public for the movies he did in his later career, of which this movie is one of them.Problem is really the movie its script. On the one hand it's a simple action movie script that's hanging together from its coincidence while on the other hand it tries to be a really clever one, involving around a 'criminal master plan', that however instead comes across as really stupid in the end.The movie also suffers from some poor casting choices. It has a great cast but yet not everyone feels like he's at the right place. I'm no Ben Affleck hater but this just wasn't the right role for him to play. He felt miscast, also since he often approached his character more in a comical way than in a serious action movie way, it seemed to me. Gary Sinise is a great actor but he doesn't really play a good and strong enough villain in this movie, also because of his crazy look perhaps. Other actors such as Dennis Farina really aren't given enough room in his movie to shine, which is a real wasted opportunity.It's not like this movie is the worst the genre currently has to offer but it's not exactly one of the best or most memorable movies either. It's still a movie that mildly entertains, or at least it's not a movie that ever really bores, so the movie still remains somewhat watchable when there really isn't anything better on TV or to rent for you.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"When I get in there you better be wearing nothing but a candy cane!","Date":"19 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" God, I love a good caper. And, when I can see a good caper and Charlize Theron's tatas, what more could you want? This film is loaded with favorite Ben Affleck (Shakespeare in Love, Dogma), Gary Sinise (Ransom, Forrest Gump), Dennis Farina (Paparazzi), Danny Trejo (Grindhouse), Isaac Hayes (Hustle & Flow), and, of course, Charlize Theron (The Devil's Advocate, Monster).That right there is 3 Oscar winners, as well as 54 other awards. You would think this movie would be a powerhouse. You would be wrong. It is a decent caper with come funny and weird twists and Charlize Thereon's tatas. That's it. Worth a view when you have nothing else to do. "},{"Title":"Not a bad crime Flick, but deffo not the best","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Personally i thought this movie was very amusing, some funny 1 liners from Ben Affleck, and some other amusing banters between Affleck/Sinise. With this cast i think, it's destined for success or at least a couple of cheers, it's the hippy mad cast, Gary Sinise(Ransom), Ben Affleck(Daredevil), Danny Trejo(From Dusk til Dawn trilogy), & the gorgeous Charlize Theron(Monster), with Pop ups of Ashton Kutcher & Michael Clarke Duncan! it's not the best crime movie to be compared with the likes of Heat, Assault on Precinct 13, Carlito's Way, or Casino. But take it as something on it's own, abit of fun to watch with afew friends, it's good light hearted Affleck fun. & also for the people who fancy Charlize Theron, you should buy this, there's an exciting, raunchy scene, not as raunchy as Two Days in the valley, but enough to wet your apatite. You might wanna rent rather than buy. "},{"Title":"8 on a scale of 10","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie much better than the average viewer (obviously - as the average is a paltry 5.5). When you have crime thrillers, there are several variables that must come through for it to be a success - not the least of which is the surprise ending. I was surprised about 3 times at the end, so no matter what else I thought about the movie, that carries a lot of weight.I can't say that I liked every aspect of the ending, but overall it was satisfactory. The movie had a very unique and interesting notion - one that I have not seen in a movie before. It was violent, but not overly so. It was gritty, but had romance. It was cold, but ... Well, there is no but. The whole movie was in frigid conditions. Not exactly Pearl Harbor.Affleck was the star along with Sinise and Theron. All were good enough for a movie such as this - where action and suspense rule the day. I want to single out Sinise, however. He was very good as a bad guy - really a good job of acting. I might not have always believed Affleck's character, but I never doubted Sinise's.All in all, a good movie - and free at that! "}{"Title":"Happy Xmas(Jail is over)","Date":"27 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is probably John Frankenheimer's best film for years .He did not come back to top as he used to do in the sixties with such incomparable works as the Mandchurian candidate bird from Alcatraz or seconds.But his thriller is never boring ,and IMHO,certainly wittier and less pretentious than Tarentino's extravaganzas.For there's a lot of humor and Sinise's playing borders on parody ( he is par excellence the cartoons villain) and for once Affleck's acting is less wooden than usually.Theron's part is not a decorative one .Frankenheimer 's use of yuletide is hilarious.The soundtrack is almost solely composed of Xmas songs let it snow rock around the Xmas tree jingle bells' and above all,the little drummer boy which often comes back as a leitmotiv.The song with its line I've got no gift to bring is perfectly suitable for the final sequence,one of the most delightful a thriller can offer.SPOILER/If I should remember Affleck in one sequence,it probably would this one when he played Father Christmas,filling the mailboxes with dough.END OF SPOILERRecalling sometimes Fargo and a simple plan ,because of the snow,Reindeer games features more plot holes than Swiss cheese,but more unexpected twists you could hope for in a relatively short movie (about ninety-five minutes).And I must admit I've been taken in every time.Save it for Xmas time.An alternative to It's a wonderful life . "},{"Title":"Moderately enjoyable crime/suspense caper with Ben Affleck.","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie has some serious flaws that made my wife abandon it about half-way. However I stuck with it, overlooked the violence used in bad taste, and came away with a moderately enjoyable viewing experience. Affleck is serving two years in prison for car theft, is getting out, knows about his cell-mate's correspondence girlfriend who doesn't even know what he looks like. Not a very believable setup, especially when we realize that the penpal looks exactly like gorgeous Charlize Theron. Hmmm ... something must be fishy, and that's what the rest of the movie is about. The ending, which is partially given away at the very beginning, when we see various fallen costumed Santas, happens around Christmas time, and generated the name of the movie. Affleck, Sinise, and Theron deserved to have a better screenplay than this.SPOILERS follow, you may want to quit reading now! The day before they are to be released, Affleck's cellmate is apparently knifed in a cafeteria fight and later dies. Since the penpal girl doesn't know what he looks like, Affleck pretends to be him, meets her outside the gates, probably hoping for a nice one-night stand with a pretty girl. The whole thing turns out to be a set up, the cellmate did not die, Theron is actually the girlfreind of Sinise who is pretending to be her brother, their whole motive to rob the reservation gambling casino and Affleck's cellmate is part of the plan. They all dress as Santas, pretending to go into the casino for a drink after their Santa gigs, there is gunfire, all the Santas are shot at various places, Affleck escapes, meets former cellmate and Theron, gets away, everyone but he go over cliffs and die, he finds a big bag of money in the snow, he walks to town, putting a stack of money into each rural mailbox as a Christmas present, he keeps nothing. "},{"Title":"REINDEER GAMES (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I bloody hate Xmasmovies, there should be a law who forbid those sort of things, the good thing is that you only have to watch them in December but sometimes there are movies that have a Xmastitle and that it's just not fair. This Frankenheimermovie is such one... We all know that John can direct good made actionmovies and this one is a good one, there is even a perverse taste in it that gives a glimpse of Twin Peaks as the bad guys are really bad, the vamps are really vamps (Charlize Theron is stunning) and the hero is nothing but a sad sucker, in this case Ben Affleck (I only read bad things about him but the movies I saw with him so far are quite good...). So Mr. Ben Affleck is released from prison and he thinks he has found heaven with Charlize and God knows those moments in bed were but then comes the day her psycho-brother comes along and believe me, a psycho he is! Of course not the best movie ever, of course not a movie that will be remembered but hell I saw at least 10000 movies who are worser than this one, decent one, even more than that and it's not just Charlize who did it... "},{"Title":"Um...did I miss something?","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As one of the other reviewers said, if you enjoyed films like Fargo and Red Rock West, then you'll most likely quite enjoy this.I disagree with those who said Charlize Theron was hamming it up in this movie - I thought she was great. Gary Sinise was fine too, if a little dumb, and Ben Affleck...well, he's just Ben Affleck, isn't he?***SPOILERS AHEAD***I didn't understand why the important reference was made by Theron's character about there being FIVE dead Santas. The four bad guys get killed in their outfits Gabriel, Pug, Jumpy and Merlin. So surely after the mayhem of the casino heist, the cops would still be on the lookout for the 5th Santa that did them over?Surely a tidier ending would have been for Ben Affleck's character Rudy to have swapped clothes with Nick Cassidy before letting the truck go over the cliff, thus providing the police with their 5th Santa heister?***END OF SPOILER***Overall, I thought it was passable fun with some good twists but some sadly clumsy editing and lack of violence.6/10 "},{"Title":"Cheesy, shoddy and laughably flawed action-flick.","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first heard about this movie only a few weeks ago. I was surprised I hadn't known about it longer, given its high profile stars in the lead roles. But having watching it, its easy to realise why it wasn't famous or anything above par. In fact, it's much worse than your average action flick. It doesn't start out very promising, but still has potential to be an enjoyable movie. Unfortunately, it continues on in a downward spiral into nonsense and reaches rock bottom long before the end. There are a few twists in the plot, but by the end they are just plain ridiculous and fall into every single plot-hole they come across. Of course there's the usual, `I-won't-kill-you-now, I'll-give-you-an-exotic-and-elaborate-death-that-never-works' cliché along with countless others. The acting standard ranges from below average to laughably bad. Ben Affleck doesn't do much with his part as the typical hero. Whoever told Charlize Theron that she could act, should be shot. She overacts to the worst degree, hamming it up and being totally unconvincing. Gary Sinise received an Oscar nomination for his part in `Forrest Gump' but the director clearly didn't want him to act here. His villainous character is highly unmemorable and he's given very unconvincing long hair and facial hair.The thing that bothered me the most is the overlooking of small details. The film was poorly edited as at each camera angle for about two minutes at a time. Christmas music is played in the background to the most serious scenes and it simply doesn't cohere. The movie isn't to be taken seriously but in some scenes it attempts to, and the results are, er, pathetic. There's a brief scene in which we see a bunch of pictures, pitching Dennis Farina's supposedly famous character alongside Hollywood heavyweights like Cher and Robin Williams. We're not supposed to take much notice of them, but the trick-photography is extremely poor. This unique type of visual effects was done much better in `Forrest Gump' as more work went into it.As I said, the twists in the plot are a nice addition at first, but are overused to make them seem more and more ridiculous as each one comes and goes. My advice is to give this brainless and inane action movie a miss. It looks like it was made within 5 or 6 days and has absolutely nothing to recommend. That is unless you want to witness an unintentional laugh riot! My IMDb rating 3.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Its called Reindeer Games...Wheres the reindeer?","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  'Reindeer Games' had much potential to be a good crime-caper movie. I thought it was ok...not worth renting..but if its on TV you might want to check it out. Like all action movies (basically) it stars with to young people who barly know eachother having sex in an extended scene but then the man ends up being betrayed. What else is knew? Sex, love and betrayal are the topics in this uneven action thrillerStarring- Ben Afflek, Charlize Theron and Gary SiniseRated R, sex, nudity, strong violenc eand language   "},{"Title":"Drab","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A rather dull and unspectacular christmas thriller about the heist of a casino, this is nothing special all the way through --- other than Charlize Theron of course )Affleck is acceptable enough and Sinise puts in one of his most average performances of recent years.One to miss unless a TVM! "},{"Title":"Some people miss the point, this movie is a riot!","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like Nicolas Cage in Red Rock West and Con Air, or Sean Penn in U-Turn, Ben Affleck is a guy in the wrong place at the wrong time.  In this case he impersonates a fellow inmate to get it on with Charlize Theron once he's released, only to find himself forced into an armed robbery scheme with a crazed looking long-haired Gary Sinise.  Affleck is great; I was never a huge fan of his but he cracked me up with the way in which he kept pushing Sinise's buttons.  Sinise is way over the top and keeps coming with the nasty one-liners.  He enjoys a rather warped variation on dart-throwing for example.The Christmas setting makes things even funnier.  If you like stuff like Red Rock West, Fargo, Midnight Run and Con Air this could be up your alley.  Don't expect anything resembling great art or serious suspense here, but it is pretty snappy with the one-liners and a real hoot. "},{"Title":"Refried beans Games is more like it...  Where is Rudolph?","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw this I thought that it would have Santa Clause and his eight reindeer in it.  But what do you know?  Ben Affleck robs us of 8 bucks once again.  If you want to see a great Christmas Special I recommend Black Christmas, Silent Night, Deadly Night or How the Grinch stole Christmas. "},{"Title":"Uncharacteristic stinker from the late John Frankenheimer.","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In the rush to eulogise Scorsese and Coppola several solid American directors have been all but forgotten. Don Siegel is one, Walter Hill another, and the late John Frankenheimer is a third. Frankenheimer quietly produced a very interesting and impressive body of work and didn't get a fraction of the attention he deserved. All I can say is thank God 'Reindeer Games' wasn't his final movie! It would be a tragedy if this garbage would be the film he went out on. It is an absolute stinker, no two ways about it. The basic problem is a third rate script by Hollywood hack Ehren Kruger, who is inexplicably taken seriously by many. This movie should have never been made. There's no way to salvage it. Not even with first rate supporting heavies like Gary Sinise, Danny Trejo, and Frankenheimer regular Clarence Williams III. Compare the latters scary performance in Frankenheimer's tough 80s thriller '52 Pick-Up' with this, and it's obvious that it is the script here that lets the actors down. Ben Affleck is a likeable performer and Charlize Theron is obviously extremely beautiful, but both are miscast, and basically unbelievable as the characters in the story presented. This is an awful movie with nothing to recommend it, and the ridiculous, sentimental ending is just one misguided moment in a movie chock full of them. Watch this at your peril. "}{"Title":"Flawed but entertaining","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an entertaining movie, even if it has some flaws. Good acting, crafty directorship and a fine sense of pace and build-up saves the movie, even if the plot is dumb. I don't mind bland and forgettable thrillers, if they entertain. But it's odd that the director could make this after a masterpiece as Ronin. It's an eternal mystery to me when directors go from inspired, ambient art to a bland sleepwalk of craftmanship. But they do it all the time. Maybe it is a kind of revenge on the industry for not letting them to the movies they really want to do. "},{"Title":"good cast  that isn't worth caring about","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Laughable crime caper stars Ben Affleck as an imprisoned car thief who&#x97;just days away from his release&#x97;has no real plans for his future. Feeling he has nothing to lose, he assumes the identity of his former cellmate so he can attend a rendezvous with his mate's beautiful pen-pal (Theron). What begins as a good idea quickly goes awry when he's coerced by her sadistic brother (Sinise) to instigate a daring crime scheme. With the cast and crew involved you'd think this would be one to remember, but unfortunately it's all set in the midst of a ridiculous story that adds one silly plot twist after another and fails to make you care about any of its characters; a waste of time. *½ "},{"Title":"Reindeer Crap","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Then one foggy Christmas eve, Frankenheimer came to say, Affleck with your eyes so bright, won't you star in this turd tonight?  Then how the plot holes followed, as critics shouted out with glee, Everybody in this movie your career is hissssstooooooryyyy!!!! "},{"Title":"Bring on Boxing Day!","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, I've been a John Frankenheimer fan for years, a master director who pays attention to detail, perhaps not the pedantic touch of a Kubrick or Scott, but a director up there with the greats. His previous film RONIN was right over the top of 75% of viewers' heads and was absolutely great stuff - this, sadly is not!  A wannabe in so many ways, almost as is it were a Frankenheimer understudy attempting to copy the master. Character development, facial close-ups...all the right stuff, even a more-than-competent list of actors, but hey, WHERE'S the film????Its just straight-up BORING stuff for the most part and so far beyond the credible as to be plain stupid...indeed, at times the film sends itself up. Unsure as to whether it wants to be an action movie (well hey, the lack of action reduces that likelihood) or a black comedy, the film lurches ever onwards as Affleck, an ex-con who's cracked on to his best mate's pen-pal (as if??), is roped into a casino heist with not a little coercion from slimy Gary Sinise (seeming brother of curvy pen-pal Theron)It's just all too much and leading up to a double twist at the end whose greatest contribution is that its the end of the movie. I suspect the average film-goer would find this as enthralling as a bout of flu'. A film that ultimately is way less than the sum of its parts. "},{"Title":"For AFTER you've viewed this film...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Mail does not run on Christmas day.  I want the route that runs near the Tomahawk and I only want to be a postman ONE day. It's a good film.  I give it 7 out of 10.  I didn't find myself riveted to the tube though and got up to make a sandwich without missing a bunch.  The story is clever enough and there are a few good surprises; but I'd rather watch a good episode of CSI instead.  "},{"Title":"Extremely silly action movie...","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the worst action movies I`ve ever seen.The story is so bad and unbelievable that you may believe this movie is a joke! Bad acting from all involved.Affleck don`t fit to be an action hero.Gary Sinise;shame on you! You should have known better than being a part of this junk. Charlize Theron is nice looking and a very sexy woman. But that`s all...The person who needs most to blame is of course director John Frankenheimer.He isn`t exactly a bad director,but sometimes his directing is really bad.I might rank this aside The island of Dr. Moreau(1996).Ronin was much better. Don`t rent this junk! And for Charlize Theron,watch her in another movie...Rating-2/10. "},{"Title":"Talking about bad endings...","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well let see... This film had a nice story... for a start. Ben Afflek was good... for a start. Gary Sinise was convincing... for a start. Charlize Theron was good looking... for a... Hey that doesent work!! She was good looking the whole way!! Anyway this was a disappointing film. If you really want to see something good from Frankenheimer you should check Ronin. It isnt great but much much better than this one. Well now comes the most terrible thing in this one. It´s DA thing that can make any movie bad. A BAD ENDING!! OH YES BABY!! Reindeer Games had absolutely DUM ending. Last 20 minutes are like OH DEAR... That´s really bad... REALLY BAD!! Reindeer Games might be nice entertainment for some rainy Sunday afternoon but nothing else. The story works nicely the first 30 minutes but then starts the downhill... 4/10   "},{"Title":"Ok, if you like that sort of thing","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected a lot more out of Reindeer Games than I got. After all John Frankenheimer directed the one of the best movies I have ever seen--The Manchurian Candidate. Over all, it was clumsy, with awkward plot twists, and not a single character who sounded like a yooper (that is, a person from the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. "},{"Title":"Slick, fast paced crime thriller","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sinise stole the show as the crazy trucker Monster. One more thrill ride all the way with a nice twist two thirds of the way through and a razzle dazzle gasper of an ending where the real twist in inserted. Edge of the seat all the way.  "},{"Title":"What the heck kind of name is that?","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was actually better than I thought it would be, but with a name like Reindeer Games I thought it would be a complete flop.  Before I saw the poster I thought it was something like Babes in Toyland or something. Affleck was so-so, Sinise didn't fit, and Theron, talent and beauty notwithstanding, didn't seem to be up to the task.  As far as action thrillers go, its passable, but it gives you too much time to think about how ridiculous it is. "}{"Title":"...and if you ever saw it, you could never say it glows.","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games was released in the UK as Deception, even though the original title is a lot better, plus Gary Sinise actually says it in the movie - Don't go playing any reindeer games with me, he warns Ben Affleck on their first meeting. Under either title, however, it doesn't match up to Lethal Weapon or Die Hard in the actioner-set-at-Christmas stakes... it's not even as suspenseful as The Night The Reindeer Died (the spoof TV movie trailed at the beginning of Scrooged).John Frankenheimer's direction and some good performers (Affleck, Sinise, Charlize Theron, Dennis Farina) are all at the mercy of Ehren Kruger's screenplay, which suffers from the need to not so much suspend disbelief as tie it to the end of the fishing line that kid in the DreamWorks logo drops and watch him haul it up to the moon. To be precise, apart from Affleck playing the beast with two backs with Theron at the first opportunity the movie has NO credible moments. It's supposed to be twisty, but it just gets more ridiculous as it unfolds; from the casting of Affleck as the least likely hard-bitten convict since Tom Selleck in An Innocent Man (which, interestingly enough, also came from a Disney division - in this case Touchstone as opposed to Miramax), through the disguises used to first case the casino that's the robbery target and later to rob it, to the climax which plays one card too many... as my older sister said, Affleck's Huh? look in the finale was probably on the faces of many people who saw this in cinemas.Yet Reindeer Games is still fun precisely because it's so wildly overcomplicated and idiotic; you wonder how on Earth they manage to get through it with a straight face. Admittedly Sinise (who perhaps should avoid making Disney-associated movies after Touchstone's Mission To Mars, Snake Eyes (co-produced by Paramount and Touchstone) and this) is wasted in a hammy role, and Theron - who usually manages to add a touch of decency to her projects (even The Astronaut's Wife) - is more reliant on her considerable sexiness than usual for most of the movie, and it's not overflowing with action, but it's certainly never boring. And let's face it, the line Santa Claus is kicking the s--- out of your guards isn't one you hear every day. "},{"Title":"One things to say about the performances...","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What was the deal with the acting in this movie?  Ben Affleck was great as Bruce Willis and Gary Sinise was great as Steve Buscemi.  Were we really supposed to believe that the braindead truckers in this movie were supposed to be able to plan a casino heist?  And how many twists and turns were they trying to put in there?  By the time we got to see the last of the surprises, I just didn't care anymore, I was just waiting for everyone to end up dead and the credits to start rolling.  I was definitely disappointed in this one! "},{"Title":"Funny, but not the way intended","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seeing this film made me think the producers wanted to benefit from the interest in stories about incompetent criminals generated by Fargo. This film, just like Fargo, opens with falling snow flakes, and a lot of the narrative drive consists of people being subject to misunderstandings or bad luck. The main character Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) is released from prison just before Christmas, but due to chance (and questionable morals) he is involved in a hopelessly ill-conceived and badly planned robbery masterminded by Gabriel (Gary Sinise), a long-haired Spinal Tap version of the hero from Apollo 13. Sinise is really funny, but seeing it I wasn't sure he was funny the way intended. His character is constantly undermined by ironic comments from his assistants, and some of the humor arises from him being so controlled and uptight, not entirely mastering the bad guy look while reloading his sawed-off shotgun. In spite of several tattoos and convict jargon, Affleck does in my view not escape his tendency to look like mother-in-law's favorite son. It's the same as if Hugh Grant should try to play ex-convict it just wouldn't  work. The film being of the Christmas variety, it seems the producers were almost as badly in need of money as the film's Gabriel, since they went ahead and released it in February, instead of waiting. (4/10)  "},{"Title":"Rudolf didn't miss much.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I understand the value of the suspension of disbelief for the sake of enjoying a work of fiction, but these days, filmmakers seem not to think twice about crossing the line between requiring an audience to suspend disbelief, and outright insulting an audience's intelligence.This movie is dumb.  Really, really, dumb.  The direction alternates between gimmicky and trite; the script is tired and entirely predictable (despite the intended plot twists that are really only added layers of inanity); the acting is on autopilot.One sure sign that you're watching a cookie-cutter action film every time an automobile crashes, it explodes.  Another such sign the hero is armed with some ludicrously unconventional weapon at some point, and uses it to defeat a bad guy who has him hugely out-gunned (a side note on this point when I first saw the old squirt-flammable-liquid-on-the-villain-just-as-he's-lighting-a-tobacco-produ ct trick in Cape Fear, I was amused.  Now, having seen this ridiculous gimmick appear countless times in innumerable bad action flicks, I'm almost ready to curse the day man discovered fire).Now that we're living in the 21st century, I think it would be kind of action- and mystery-movie directors to acknowledge the fact that crime-scene investigators have been checking for fingerprints for the last hundred years or so.  When a convicted felon - whose fingerprints are automatically recorded - puts his hands on the steering wheel of a car that is later found burned out at the bottom of a hill, there's a very good chance that his fingerprints will be found and he will subsequently be identified by them. Likewise, when a convicted felon goes around generously putting stacks of stolen money in people's mailboxes in broad daylight, his fingerprints may very well give him away, if he isn't first spotted by his beneficiaries.Charlize Theron is funnier in this movie than she possibly could have intended to be - the way her eyes get squintier, her voice gets grainier and she takes on that overdone bad girl look and persona once her true motives are revealed; the way she kisses each of the men she kisses in a more lewd fashion than the last, until, ultimately, one could reasonably fear that she may bite James Frain's head off at the jaw.  Her topless scene is the only watchable moment in this film, and that's not worth anyone's rental dollar, since that scene will most certainly be available for free at myriad websites very soon, if it isn't already. "},{"Title":"** 1/2  Has its moments","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Silly little action thriller designed as a vehicle for its sexy boytoy star Ben Affleck. He plays a young man in prison whose lovelorn cellmate James Frain exchanges letters with an equally infatuated young lady (Charlize Theron). When Frain dies in a prison riot, Affleck meets Theron in his cellmate's place and finds himself strongly attracted to her. However, her gangster brother (Gary Sinise) and his cohorts catch up with the two lovebirds and force them to help in ripping off a local casino. Is this the whole story? With conspiracy-theorist John Frankenheimer at the helm, I would think not! Not nearly as good as Frankenheimer's masterpiece The Manchurian Candidate, but not nearly as bad as his rancid The Island of Dr. Moreau.  "},{"Title":"Is it just me? or ...","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've been reading all these good reviews about this movie but the script just doesn't make any sense to me.**contains spoilers******How can Nick be sure that the gang (Rudy + Gabriel + others) could SUCCESSFULLY rob the casino? I mean Rudy didn't know anything about the casino and just made up some BS plan, Gabriel and others had never done any robbery before. And it just worked?  How can he be sure that Rudy would hit on Ashley when he got out of jail?  There are only 4 dead santas found by the police, the fifth one (Rudy) escaped police search, by foot, in heavy snow??there are just too many loopholes in the movie. I like Theron, Sinise, and Affleck.  And I enjoyed the action and explosions.  But the script just plain sucks.5 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe this is Frankenheimer!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  One word bad. Two words incredibly bad.Consider this. You want to make a good action thriller. What do you do? Well, of course you hire a couple of Hollywood's newest and brightest stars - Ben Affleck and Charlize Theron - and add an experienced character actor to portray the ugly-looking bad guy - Gary Sinise. What's missing? Well, a script that shows some kind of promise and a director extraordinaire - why not John Frankenheimer? So now you have a great action thriller? No...The word cliche also comes to mind. The producers probably thought that they were making the action thriller of the decade with all the above mentioned ingredients. Instead they managed to create a real flop that lacks everything needed for a thriller. Suspense, for example. The whole story of robbing the casino with an inside man who is actually not an inside man is so dull and so old.That's the real problem with Reindeer Games. There's nothing new to it and no one seems to care about the outcome. Affleck is sleep-walking and Theron shows some skin with tired eyes. I wonder if Frankenheimer really directed this one... Maybe he slept through it...3/10. Please do not see this one. "},{"Title":"Not That Suprising","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Being very impressed with Kruger's script for ARLINGTON ROAD Iwas hoping to get something smart with this movie. That it wasn't.It was still very enjoyable but unlike ROAD that was so involvingbecause the tone of it was so real, this is a funny movie from thebeginning with Ben Afleck wisecracking all over the place.The acting is good, casting great, writing clever, cameraworkexpensive, editing cool but never was I really surprised, never wasthere a plot twist I didn't think of before it happened. And the finalending is the same as SCREAM 3, a writer's trick and not a logicalconclusion.All in all, a good thriller with some original touches, but notsomething to really remember. "},{"Title":"GOOD!!!!!!!!","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well I wasn't expecting too much and I got a good film, filled with some laughs, gunfire, twists, explosions, breasts, good actors and characters, good directing, a good script. Absolutely everything was good. But mind you just good, not great or groovy or cool it was plain good. Charlize Theron's second good movie after Devil's Advocate (which was SOOOOO much better than this one) and Affleck, well I have liked (almost) everything I've seen from him up &#145;till now except maybe Phantoms. As far as Frankenheimer is concerned, this is much better than Ronin. Plus another good job from Ehren 'Arlington Road' Kruger.8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Best suspense/drama movie of the year---always expect the unexpecting!","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For a suspense/drama movie, just when you thought you had a scene figured out, they throw a twist in it, and you just sit back and say wow!  It definitely held my interest and ranks right along with Primal Fear and Sleeping With The Enemy.  A definite MUST SEE. "}{"Title":"Are you who you claim to be? Get your scorecard out for this one.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Director John Frankenheimer gives us twists and turns and a violent ride. This action/thriller has Ben Affleck as an ex-con being conned by his prison cell mate to help his girlfriend(Charlize Theron)carry out a robbery. Theron's brother(Gary Sinise)needs Affleck to aid in robbing an Indian casino in Michigan. A forced invitation to Hell is more like it. Not only is Affleck pretending to be his cell mate; Theron and Sinse are not who they claim to be either. Confused identities are nothing compared to the manic violence filled finale.Affleck is laid back and very likeable. Theron, rapidly becoming one of my favorite actresses, answered my prayers and then some. She is a natural beauty and very smooth actress. Sinise is a dark hearted, ruthless S.O.B. and wicked villain. Mr. Sinise's talents take the spotlight off of Affleck.Also in the cast are musician turned actor Isaac Hayes, football star Dana Stubblefield, James Frain and Clarence Williams III.High body count. Brutal confrontation. One bloody Christmas. "},{"Title":"exciting action film that deviates from the norm","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this film on video last night and though it was well-done.  It involves a car thief who gets released from jail only to get coereced into robbing a casino of which he has little knowledge of (only through his cell mate who is pressumed dead)  I thought the acting was solid and that Gary Sinise did an especially good job as a tough bad guy who would stop at nothing to get what he wants.  Being a fan of gambling, I enjoyed the casino part of the plot.   "},{"Title":"Man, they got a s*** load of cookies!","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen, but it does contain the best line in cinematic history when the obligatory black guy says, Man, the got a s*** load of cookies! All the other characters ignored him, but it was the funniest thing that anybody has ever said in the history of mankind.  "},{"Title":"Leonard Lite","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Recipe for a successful Elmore Leonard book or movie Quirky characters, shady hero, humor, sudden violence, clever plot twists.  See `Out of Sight.'  Recipe for an Elmore Leonard clone All of the above, without the class. The film ultimately suffers from what Roger Ebert calls the Talking Killer Syndrome.  Instead of simply shooting their victims, the killers take time to explain the plot--obviously for the benefit of the audience.  An explanation of the last plot twist is done rapidly so that its stupidity doesn't have a chance to set in.Ben Affleck works hard as Rudy, the movie's main character, but he's too handsome and articulate to be believable as a car thief.  He spends most of the movie being beaten, kicked, stuck with darts, shot at-and closing his eyes the numerous times he thinks he's about to be executed.  Charlize Theron does better as the complex woman Rudy hitches up with once he gets out of prison.  Gary Sinise and James Frain are fine as Theron's `brother' and prison bunk mate, respectively, but Clarence Williams III, Donal Logue, Danny Trejo and Dennis Farina are wasted in other secondary roles.Veteran actor John Frankenheimer keeps the action moving with his usual straightforward, direction-no special effects but good action sequences.  He's just stuck with a ridiculous plot. Skip this film and rent Out of Sight instead.  "},{"Title":"Best Movie Of 2000","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely the best movie I have seen in 2000.  It really holds your interest, and there's never a dull moment.  Every time you think you have a scenario figured out, they throw something completely different at you.  It really held my interest, and I give it a 10! "},{"Title":"Is it just me?","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have to say I wasn't that impressed. I don't think the cast were at fault, but I can only think of Frankenheimer's other recent films that I've seen Ronin and The Island of Dr Moreau. Despite his films having very talented performers he doesn't seem to be able to get much out of them....there's just no spark, no excitement and the outcome is a bit dull and lifeless. The direction falls flat.This hasn't always been the case as the few of his older films that I've seen I remember enjoyingBirdman of Alcatraz, French Connection 2, Black Sunday. Even The Don Johnson effort 'Dead Bang', the Roy Scheider cold war film 'The Fourth War',  and the made for Tv 'Against the Wall' were above par.Is it that he's getting on a bit and can't put the effort in any more, is it that he's not au fait with modern film-making techniques........ or is it just me? "},{"Title":"A potentially good movie which is undermined by a ridiculous script.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  REINDEER GAMES is a film which ultimately fails because it tries too hard to be clever. It also fails because its talented writer Ehren Kruger apparently forgot the meaning of the word excess.The story, about a convict who assumes the identity of his dead prison cell mate and becomes involved in a dangerous casino heist, seems like an interesting premise at first but never delivers.The movie opens promisingly enough (with the dead bodies of several men dressed in Santa Suits). In fact, the film is tolerable until the ending, at which point it becomes clear the only reason for the unnecessary twists are to keep the audience guessing over and over to the point of redundancy. Which is a shame because this movie certainly deserved better, considering some of the talent involved.The cast tries hard with the material but comes up short. Ben Affleck is certainly charismatic and capable of delivering a good performance but here isn't entirely satisfying. Although he has the smart aleck part down perfectly, he's not always believable as the ex-con. Similarly, Charlie Theron doesn't fare that well in her underdeveloped role. Even though Theron is a very beautiful and talented actress, she is  unfortunately saddled with the script's twists and turns. Gary Sinise's performance is by far the movie's most enjoyable aspect. Sinise, who is also faced with various script problems, manages to breathe some life into the proceedings with his scenery chewing villain. As a result the movie becomes somewhat fun.To the film's credit, director John Frankenheimer keeps the pace moving at a fast clip and there are a few decent action sequences.But the movie's biggest problem (the script)is most clearly seen during the ending, which piles on one ridiculous plot twist after another (with no clues or evidence to back them up, making them all the more ludicrous). Good twist endings force the viewer to carefully examine what has happened before and led up to the end. But the best twist endings are the ones where the viewer can not only examine the film but also discover clues and put them together on additional viewings. Here the twist ending is thrown in simply for the sake of having one. It seems as if writer Ehren Kruger felt the need to explain the character's motivations and actions in just a few sentences instead of allowing the audience to figure it out for themselves (like in RED ROCK WEST and BLOOD SIMPLE - 2 vastly superior thrillers). With REINDEER GAMES, viewers will be left confused and the movie doesn't even bother to explain one of the larger problems (which is surprising since it bothered to explain many other things which didn't really matter).Another problem is that the characters spend an endless amount of time explaining (and re-explaining) their actions to one another. They also aim their guns at each other and do even more talking when they should be shooting. This does nothing but remind the audience of the Talking Villain cliche found in the James Bond movies. At least those films didn't attempt to take themselves seriously at all, whereas this one does and ultimately fails because of it. Had it been played as a self parody, one would be able to enjoy the film far more, because like the Bonds it would be pure escapist fare with a tongue in cheek attitude. But the film's intent to take itself seriously prevents it from succeeding.REINDEER GAMES is at it's best when it's strictly a brainless action movie and doesn't try to be anything more. Because it isn't.Rating ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"WARNING SPOILERS DO NOT READ UNLESS YOU WANT TO KNOW MAJOR STORYLINE OF MOVIE","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Is that a big enuf warning?  Good.  Trust me don't read this unless you wanna cheat like I did. heheAnyway, for a guy who's supposedly dead he makes a wild comeback.  But really, I though this movie sucked up until the middle of the movie.  The trickery reunion between Nick and Ashley  (oh these made up names) was just unwatchable.  Sure Charlize Theron is cute, but she's so cute and loving she doesn't make a very believable villian.  Course neither dose Ben as the action hero but then again it's still better than that idiotic role of his in Mystery Men.   A good villian to me is the bad mother (Angelica Houston) from Ever After.  But that's an obvious one.  Perhaps say Joan Chen in Judge Dredd or the very same in The Last Emperor.  But not Theron.  She was fun in The Devils Advocate, but I can't see her as bad.  She's an angel.  On Gary Sinise  Now him in long hair was fun.  He was better in the role as the bad guy.  Though usually he plays a good guy.  Having first seen him in The Stand, I've grown to like this Actor.  He's fun to watch.  In the trailers at the beginning of the tape (getting a DVD player soon) it shows him in The Impostor.  Another movie of his I'll have to watch. Ho Ho Ho. 6/10   "},{"Title":"Charlize topless is nice indeed","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love Charlize Theron (one of the most gorgeous new actresses to blossom during the nineties) because she's one of those actresses that are cast not because she is a great actress (alas, she is not) but because she's always willing to get naked...and...she looks really really really great naked (otherwise, what's the point?)  Reindeer games is just what you think it is and if you like that type of film you will probably like this (hey, Linc from the original Mod Squad is even in it!)  For me, I just like seeing Charlize Theron topless.      "},{"Title":"Don't Play","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  	This movie is so ludicrous and so awful that it's hard to believe anyone could offer it as entertainment.  There are good people in front of the camera Ben Affleck, Charlize Theron and Gary Sinise in particular.  Legendary John Frankenheimer directed.  What went wrong?  That question has an easy answer Ehren Kruger's script.  The film opens with a shot of a dead body dressed in a Santa Claus suit, crumpled on the hood of a car.  Four more shots, each of a different dead guy -- all Santas -- come next.  Doesn't that grab you?  Then we see the words, Six days before.  Before?  Right there the audience is given a clear warning, about a minute into the movie, that something's gone wrong already.  The story begins when an ex-con (Affleck) gets involved in the robbery of an Indian casino in Michigan.  The countless preposterous plot twists -- actually plot knots -- develop into a parade of implausibilities.  The casino never has many patrons.  Why would anyone want to rob a casino that doesn't do much business?  Because there are absolutely tons of money in the office.  Where did it come from?  The most dishonest proprietor on earth can't amass a mother lode if little cash is coming in.  At one point, the casino manager, beaten to a bloody pulp and clearly near death, abruptly leaps to his feet, grabs a gun and starts shooting in all directions.  On at least 10 occasions, one or another of the movie's slimy psychos aims a gun in Affleck's face and could easily blow him away.  Why doesn't that happen?  Each time Kruger ingeniously comes up with a preposterous way out.  Ben is also subjected to more kicks and beatings than even Sly or Arnold could survive.  Every organ in his body would be ruptured.  His face would be ground meat.  Nothing about him suggests the superhero, yet at the end he has a bruised cheek, a small scratch and a boy-next-door grin.  No aspect of this film makes a trace of sense.  The ultimate shocker -- the revelation of who's behind all this idiocy -- is explained away so lamely that it earns only a contemptuous snicker.  Scream 3 is another Kruger triumph.  Avoid Games and wait for Scream 62.  Maybe he'll have learned the plotting game by then. "}{"Title":"Twist after twist after twist in a really good movie","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Cellmates Nick Cassidy (James Frain) and Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) are 2 days from being released, and Nick is planning to meet Pen Pal Ashley (Charlize Theron). When Nick is killed in a prison riot, Rudy decides to take his place, theres only one problem, Ashleys brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise actually looking mean). He wants Nick to help them rob a casino that Nick used to work in, just one problem, he's really Rudy.Thats were things get complicated and in the final 25 minutes it plays like Wild Things where there are more and more twists and turns. The best star of the movie is Definatelly Sinise, but Danny Trejo makes a few good jokes. Theron is absolutely stunning as Ashley, the Pen Pal that is too good to be true.From Arlington Road and Scream 3 writer Ehren Kruger, who supprised us at the ending of both movies, he does so again in this one.9/10 "},{"Title":"Good Action, Humor Takes Away the Suspense","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie could have been a lot better if they didn't insert goofy humor into the action just as it gets really scary. Ben Affleck wasn't all that convincing as an ex-con. Especially when up against Gary Sinise who REALLY knows how to play a bad guy. Charlize Theron is as gorgeous and sexy as ever. The ending is worth the wait. "},{"Title":"TV Pliot Desguised as Motion Picture","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games(2000) had the makings of a great film except for the weaknesses in the acting, directing, and writing.  Ronin(1998) in favor to that film was propelled by its acting and intellegence.  Reindeer Games(2000) is a MTVish reworking of The Lady from Shanghai(1948).  Ben Affleck seems wrong for the part of the protagonist.  Frankenheimer's earlier film, 52 Pick Up(1986) covered the same territory and is a much better film then this.  Gary Sinise is average in a role that I wished was played by actor, David Hess. "},{"Title":"Why straight-to-video was invented","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the first movie I have ever rented that I have not bothered to watch to the end. I ditched at the point where Ben Affleck is running through the snow from the casino-- perhaps 40 minutes in. More plot holes, unlikely premises, asinine and forced twists, and wooden dialogue than I could stomach.Pointless, mediocre drivel. Get yourself a hamburger instead. It would be more nourishing.Rating 5  "},{"Title":"an ok thriller","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I rented this movie on video, I didn't expect much because it was a huge flop at the box office and got very bad reviews. However, I enjoyed the movie.  The most exciting fact about this movie is Charlize Theron.  She plays the femme fatale that has two sides wonderfully.  I think she should definitely be in the next basic instict instead of old, wrinkly Sharone Stone. Other actors were good and the plot also was decent except for the last scene. It seems to me the movie tried to emphasize that Ben Affleck is a hero with a good heart who's completely not greedy.  I think it was very unrealistic. "},{"Title":"At least it was free for me.....","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay... everyone confess. Almost all of us have one or two or maybe a handful of actors and actresses that are our favorites. Anytime they come out with a project we're curious, sometimes to the extent that we go forth, as though in a trance, to the theater and to see what they've done, even if the critics, previews, and even friends and family try repeatedly to warn us away. I was likewise curious about Reindeer Games. Charlize Theron has been one of my favorites since I saw The Devil's Advocate, and when Reindeer Games opened early this year I figured that if Gary Sinise is in it, how bad could it be?I didn't have time to see it in theaters, but when my college offered it for free this semester on cable, I decided to tune in. Fortunately, about an hour and a half of my life were all it cost me. The above critics are all correct on their observations about plot holes, unlikely premise, silly twists, and 2nd rate dialogue. There are some bright spots. Fans of Charlize Theron (read males aged 13 through dead) are treated to watching her character change gears more often then a NASCAR driver trying to weave though lower Manhattan. Her character of Ashley goes from warm and inviting to helpless looking and frightened to ice hearted and displaying a mean streak. And yes she has one or two scenes without wardrobe.Also, fans of Ben Affleck (read females aged 13 through dead) get a right mix of fear, sarcasm, and looks of I- can't- believe- this- is- happening- to- me throughout the film.Unfortunately, we can't believe it's happening either. Gary Sinise's character tried so hard to be menacing, but he always seemed to be more clownish then anything else. Also the bad guys seem to hit the jackpot too many times in a row when they predict the hero's next tow or three or fifteen moves. With a crystal ball like that, they could have just dumped the whole casino heist and played Power-Ball for the rest of their days. It's usually not a good sign when the audience mumbles, Oh, come on! too many times during the flick. Still, for every oh, come on! there was a clever moment of ah-ha! and the twists, while contrived, had me grinning from ear to ear.I'd call Reindeer Games enjoyable so long as you don't take it as seriously as the movie takes itself.  "},{"Title":"The reindeer should have done a rewrite...","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  As an aspiring screenwriter myself, there is no element of a screenplay that bugs me more than a plot twist that exists for the sole purpose of being a twist. Ehren Kruger is a screenwriter who is currently one of the hottest commodities on the market right now, but his work seems to rely on an approach that may have been successful in his initial efforts, but nearly leads to the self-destruction of Reindeer Games. His Arlington Road was a solid, underrated little thriller and contained a twist ending so jarring and effective that one could easily overlook how contrived it really was due to its reliance on one character predicting EXACTLY what another character would do. Scream 3 was another Kruger-penned script that contained a villain whose master plan hinged on their ability to predict the characters' actions. Alas, Kruger takes this approach to ludicrous lengths in Reindeer Games. The story may revolve around the robbery of a casino, but it soon becomes apparent that the villains would be better off just abandoning their task and making twice as much money by starting up their own psychic network.Not that the script's deficiencies make Reindeer Games unwatchable. Overall, the film is a fairly passable way to kill 100 minutes and would probably have come across better as a direct-to-video quickie. The entire project just seems rather lackluster, considering the talent involved, as the first-rate cast fails to rise above the material and John Frankenheimer's direction is unspectacular at best. The action fails to generate much in the way of excitement, due mainly to the contrived fashion through which much of it is set up (Ben Affleck's hero pours alcohol into a water pistol because he just KNOWS that the bad guy will stop to light up a cigarette before shooting him). Indeed, most of the fun comes from trying to pick apart the absurdities in Kruger's script.One of the liabilities of loading a story with many surprise twists is that they have to be adequately explained in order for them to make sense. Unfortunately, this has a negative effect on the film's pacing as the characters are constantly forced to stop and talk about the twist that has just occurred so that everything will hold together. Its reminiscent of the classic James Bond moment where the villain explains his grand scheme to the audience, except that it is repeated FIVE OR SIX TIMES throughout Reindeer Games. This all leads us to our twist ending, which like Kruger's previous works, relies on a psychic villain predicting exactly what the hero will do. However, it doesn't take much to realize that the villain's whole scheme is ridiculously convoluted and more trouble than it's worth, especially since the hero's participation is not exactly vital to its success. It does not evolve out of the logic of the plot or the characters. As stated in the opening paragraph, it is twist that exists for the sole purpose of being a twist. However, it is a twist that succeeds at giving yours truly a rather twisted viewpoint. While Reindeer Games is strictly a mediocre piece of work, it can still be fun viewing for those of us who love sitting back and poking fun at the lunacy of screenplays such as this. You know that's an activity that I find that hard to resist... "},{"Title":"Underated","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games **** (out of 4)I usually try to watch National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation every Christmas as tradition. Although it seems that recently I seem to forget and watch it every other year.  Now this movie has come along and will fill the empty void of the years in between Christmas Vacation. And for those years when I'm feeling adventurous they'll make a good double feature.The movie starts out with our hero Rudy (Ben Affleck) finishing out his prison sentence for stealing cars. It's all very reminiscent to the Jerry Bruckheimer classic Con Air. His last two days of prison consist of him working out and hearing all about his cellmate Nick's (James Frain) girlfriend Ashley (Charlize Theron). At the last minute Nick ends up not getting released when Rudy does. Rudy sees Ashley waiting for Nick outside of the prison and decides to pretend to be Nick since she doesn't know what he looks like. Since he had read her letters he knows what to say giving Ashley no reason to doubt him. Setting up a what looks to be a romantic drama about mistaken identity.Just as we get used to that idea, it takes a big u-turn. As Rudy walks into their motel room he is surprised by Ashley's brother (Gary Sinise) and his gang of gunrunners who also think that he is really Nick and force him into robbing a casino with them. Good holiday fun.I suppose the character Rudy could have been played by a lot of people but Ben Affleck plays it perfectly. He has just the right amount of charisma, comic timing, sarcasm and fear. Gary Sinise is very good as usual playing his usual bad guy role. I especially liked the scene when he did his impression of Ben Affleck. The ending can be criticized as over the top and stupid. But if you enjoy a good twist ending as much as I do, it's sure to please. It was also nice after this gritty dark crime story to be able to walk away with a smile on your face.  "},{"Title":"In the top ten worst movie I've seen.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand why a great movie director in the person of John Frankeinheimer would make a film with such a bad script. After you'll watch this (hopefully not) you'll spend the rest of the evening enumerating all the illogical and simply impossible twists and turns of it.In brief, a movie that will stay in your mind for a long time for it's stupidity and senseless story. "},{"Title":"A nifty thriller","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ben Affleck takes another jump into the world of the actionmovie in the fast-paced action thriller Reindeer Games. Thepretty-boy actor who once starred in nothing but Kevin Smithindependent movies stars as Rudy Duncan, a jailed car thief whois paroled for the holidays. But in prison, Rudy finds pen palletters of his fellow cellmate and sees that his buddy's pen palis this hot girl named Ashley (the sizzling Charlize Theron).But when Rudy's cellmate is killed during a prison riot, Rudyuses his death as a chance to get the girl. Once out, Rudy makessweet love to Ashley, not knowing that she might have set him upas a pawn for her older brother, the sinister Gabriel (GarySinise). Gabriel and his cronies force Rudy into a casino heist,but not if our hero Rudy can help it!It's pretty amusing to see Ben Affleck in another action film,like 1998's Armageddon. Usually, an actor like Affleck can befound in those profanity-ridden independent love stories made byKevin Smith. It's going to take a lot of time to get used toseeing Affleck in an action flick that could have easily castedSly Stallone, but good old Ben pulls it off successfully here.Reindeer Games would pack quite a punch for action fansbecause of the eye-popping stunts and the macho performances,but for those discriminating critics who don't believe inviolence as the movie's most popular points won't find anythingspe "}{"Title":"okay","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is not a bad film, it's not that great either.  It seems to fall into that category of films that doesn't make you feel cheated for spending your matinee bucks on it but it also will not leave a lasting impression either. I'm not really sure where the lacklustre film could have improved but I just know it could have.Charlize Theron was pretty good as the vacilating female that makes herself palpable to almost every male character in the film.  She is a beautiful woman and to make her femme fatale like in here was a good move by the producers.The direction is quite nice with many chase scenes that are handled well by veteran director Frankenhiemer.  Especially intriguing is the Santa Clause break in at the casino.  It is quite the sight and pretty original to see a robbery attempt with five or six Santas firing uzis and such.The script is okay as well but it lacks something and this brings me to the two most recognizable faces in the film.Gary Sinise and Ben Affleck are good.  They do what they can with what they are given but again, they are lacking something.  Sinise just doesn't come across as that menacing and his gang of thugs are given some sporadic dialogue that attempts humour with lines about marketing and such.  But it doesn't work completely.  I think someone like Shane Black or even Jim and John Thomas could have been asked to come in do some re-writes.  With films like Lethal Weapon, Predator and Die Hard to their credit, they could have handled this situation better than Krueger.And now we get to Affleck.  I admire him very much.  People think that him and Damon are overnight successes in Hollywood and that is just not true. Both guys were in many films with smaller roles and only after Good Will Hunting came out did they hit stardom.  But think of films like Chasing Amy, Mall Rats, School Ties, Courage Under Fire and Dazed and Confused.  These are films that have been released over the last decade and had bit roles for these guys.  And now that Affleck has arrived on the scene he seems as though he wants to do as many films as he can.  He has appeared in big budget films like Armageddon and this one and had bit roles in films like Shakespeare In Love and Boiler Room.  The man loves to act.  Reindeer Games is a good role for him but it is also one that doesn't utilize his assets completely.  Here is a guy that is quite tall and in pretty good shape.  I would like to see him take action a little more seriously.  Why not give him a role that has him as a bad-ass tough guy.  I would like to see him beat the snot out of somebody.  Reindeer Games scratches the surface of this premise but it leaves much to be desired.This is worth a rental one night.  It certainly isn't a bad film but it is one that perhaps could have been better with a few rewrites and with Affleck being able to play a tougher role.  Again, just my humble opinion of course.6 out of 10  Affleck has shown that he can do action, now let's see him explode and try a more simple role with him as the takenocrapfromanyone character!  Then watch his stock rise. "},{"Title":"pretty good, but...","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My girlfriend and I enjoyed it. Gary Sinise is by far the best of the cast as a great and unpredictable villain. But the movie isn't all that believable. the story is a bit far fetched, and credibility is thrown to the wind when the casino manager, being shot at and about to die, still manages to shoot away the five robbers while doing some acrobatic stunts. Still, if you don't stop and think about it for more than a second, it is a good movie, which should be watched with lots of popcorn. "},{"Title":"its amazing how bad action is","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  don't even bother with this pile of trash.  this is one horrible movie, and its bad that affleck did it because he has done very good movies in the past.  this script is weak, the acting is weak, the story is weak, everything is horrible, I couldn't stand it, nothing about it stood out as a good movie.  I really don't understand how ANYONE could like this movie, it wasn't even bad to the point that it was funny. seriously, don't even rent this movie, its a waste of time and money.  i give it a 1.  "},{"Title":"Quite Good","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie last night on big screen.And It was really a good time pass action-thriller. Don't listen to critics and watch this movie for yourself. Ben Affleck might be the next action hero!! However other actors also have done justice to thier roles. I give this movie **1/2 out of **** , see it! it is worth your money!! "},{"Title":"Oh grow up","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games is one of those films that probably was at its most exciting at the pitch stage. During the first fifteen minutes I sat there and thought, I really like this set up. I knew where the story was headed and was giddy with anticipation. I pictured, say, the writer sitting in the producer's office...Writer  It's like Die Hard, except in a casino! But it's got a heart. In the right place. Producer  Wow, that sounds interesting. I'm listening. Writer  I see Bruce Willis in the role-I think I can get him-see, there's this car thief who's about ready to get paroled. His best friend and cellmate, also due to be released, has this beautiful woman he's been writing to and bragging about. Our guy ribs him about his fantasy girl but the whole time is falling for her himself. Producer  They get out, she's just as beautiful as her pictures, but her boyfriend or brother or something is a criminal and she's set him up. Writer  Oh, you are good! Producer  They want their help to knock over this casino one of them worked at. Writer  You are amazing! ...and so on and so forth. From here the pitch leads to Who's gonna direct? Amazingly, on the 'available' list is John Frankenheimer! The writer is going balistic. John Frankenheimer? French Connection John Frankenheimer? Manchurian Candidate John Frankenheimer? Birdman of Alcatraz John Frankenheimer? The writer is given a mild sedative and told that Frankenheimer's luster has since worn off a bit and he'd now like to direct Con Air-like action movies. This takes the wind out of writer's sails, but he's still happy to have a legend's name on his movie.Mr. Frankenheimer's presence notwithstanding, you could do worse for a Saturday night video rental or second-run theater matinee than Reindeer Games. After all, it's got Gary Sinise (looking way too much like he just stepped off the set of the new 'Jesus' TV miniseries than I was comfortable with) doing his standard jittery overacting as the cuckoo leader of a bunch of gun runners who decide to start making some real money. It's got Charlize Theron, who I have to admit was perfectly cast here, though I've seen better work from her. Oh yeah, and there's Ben Affleck as Bruce Willis.The writer also attempts to give the characters, mainly Sinise's crew of thugs, a refreshing array of personalities. Nice try. This is one of many ways Reindeer Games is trying to be a different kind of action movie. There is precious little innovation here, though, and it all fizzles and amounts to not much at all.This is why I thought, as I watched a bunch of Santa suit-clad gunmen blow apart a casino on Christmas Eve (or maybe I should have prayed), let this be the end of it. Let's bury these kinds of action movies. They did their business, had their glory days. People want something different now. Mr. Frankenheimer, you were on the right track (sort of) with Ronin. We're willing to forgive and forget Reindeer Games if you promise to grow up.Grade C-  "},{"Title":"S-N-O-W as in J-O-B","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Incongruous - not consistent with what is logical, usual, or correct.  In Reindeer Games, for starters,  a prisoner receives over 100 letters and photographs from a female admirer yet she doesn't know what the convict looks like or how about an Indian Reservation casino on its last legs with more money stashed away than gold in Ft. Knox.  How about Ben Affleck as James Cagney with biceps and tattoos?  How about a hostage who escapes, not to run away, but to find a weapon that he can use to defend himself as he goes back to his captors?  If this is sounding like a bad 'B' movie, wait till you see the plot or rather, plots, because they are mutually exclusive.  The real incongruity of Reindeer Games is how the actors can explain their credibility after associating themselves with this horrible movie.  Established actors in their twilight could be excused for cheapening themselves, as in The Towering Inferno or Airplane 1975.  But in Reindeer Games, we are talking about rising stars having done honorable work - Ben Affleck of Good Will Hunting, Charlize Theron of Cider House Rules, and Gary Sinise of Of Mice and Men and Truman.  What a surprise to know they can prostitute their talents as well as anyone.  As for director John Frankenheimer, the retirement home would be a better venue than the soundstage.    "},{"Title":"I expected more from the actors involved.","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know exactly what I was expecting, but I know what I saw wasn't it.   Ben Affleck and Gary Sinise are way above this material.   What were they thinking?   I don't think they needed the money that bad.   I think somebody needed an action flick for this off time of year and said, hey! what about this?    Anyway,  save your money.   Video if you must see it. 5 out of 10 just for Charlize. "},{"Title":".. Yea, I am talking about asuspense.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was a good action movie. I would probably give 7 out of 10. The movie is about casino robbing and takes about 6 days and it would be hard to make 6 days story in 2 hours movie package. So there are some tippo here and there. It is unrealstic the end of the movie.  The more unrealistic part was these people who never robbed in their whole life and then they become so fully committed.But then there were some good part in the movie. Enough violence and mysteries. I think the best part about this movie, you would never guess what would happen next.. Yea, I am talking about asuspense. "},{"Title":"Don't Join In These Games","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected a piece of fluff, a tiny bit of brain candy to munch on and enjoy.  Sadly, my very minor expectations were not met.  There is nothing visually wrong with this film, the direction is fine as are the actors, but there is nothing either of them (or an editor) can do with the absolute lack of plot.  Too many flip-flops that often don't make sense and it doesn't help that the few times the plot might have been surprising, the trailers have already ingrained the next scene into your conscious.  Although enjoyable in the beginning, especially once you can let go of the utter stupidity of Gary Sinise constantly threatening to kill Ben Affleck (either shoot him or let him help you, but quit pulling the gun!) the film disintegrates into the Kingdom of the Dumb and never manages to find redemption.  Don't waste your gray matter.  There are better pieces of brain candy out there. "},{"Title":"Interesting multi-twists, what next(?) kind of film.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Really liked the tongue-in-cheek names of two of the central characters 'Nick' and 'Rudy' for this Xmas-themed thriller. Many scenes reminded me of some of Alfred Hitchcock's not really what you expected thrillers.Ben Affleck was able to carry off his ex-con character after a while and Gary Sinese plays a great villain.  Charlize Theron has done better (Devil's Advocate), but she's a delight to look at and couldn't do much more with her part.Never a dull moment, though, and would recommend Reindeer Games for a super 'roller coaster ride' of a movie.  "}{"Title":"Almost worth it just to see Charlize Theron, but...","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I may be in the minority, but John Frankenheimer's Ronin was better than this film. Reindeer Games was not much fun to watch. Every little action sequence was seen many places before. The ice scene seemed similar to The Long Kiss Goodnight, and it was better. So in summary, if you just want to see Charlize Theron looking as good as ever, watch it, otherwise spend your time on something else. "},{"Title":"Ho-Ho-Ho and a very Merry & Dangerous Christmas!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A real Ho-Ho-Ho movie that should have been out before Christmas.  Kids who see this may never feel the same about Santa.  Fast paced, lots of action, kinda Steamy with Ben and Charlize.  Ben was the imposter and he was the only character you felt you could trust. Gary was an awesome bad guy with long hard and a bad temper.  Looks like he's been working out too. Good to see Linc back in more movies.  He can add a real mean touch to a Bad guy part.Several twists and turns.  Hard to believe a Casino would be run this way and easy to take down but an interesting story.Great ending.  Robin Hood in a Santa Suit! "},{"Title":"An old fashioned thriller","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games is exactly what I was looking for -- film that takes us back to the time when thrillers had you thinking about every scene while it put you on the edge of your seat. I thought this movie was really good. Ben Affleck and Gary Sinise were in character. Before I saw it I didn't know what to expect. I'm glad because I liked the way the pieces fell together after the suspense of wondering what was going to happen next. At least I didn't leave the theater confused like I do with some other movies. It was one of the better movies I have seen in the last year (I see a lot of movies). It had a little bit of everything drama, action, suspense, and humor. I really enjoyed it.   "},{"Title":"From some reason I don't really think this movie is going to get much acclaim in the way of awards or in the box office, but it's a good film anyway","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well, Ben Affleck's newest film comes in third on opening weekend with around eight million dollars.  This guy already is beginning to have cult-like fan following and it seems that he's just getting started.  He's starred in 12 movies in the past 3 years and has 3 more slated for release this year alone.  Not only does he act, but he's one of those Hollywood, actors, producers, director's, etc.  With and Oscar and Golden Globe for writing Good Will Hunting and directing a movie called I Killed My Lesbian Wife, Hung Her on a Meat Hook, and Now I Have a Three-Picture Deal at Disney a couple of years earlier he is poising himself to become one the next film legends. Reindeer Games is one of those movies that no matter how good you think you are at figuring movies out, if you get the ending right you're just plain lucky.  It is also the kind where if you know the ending before you see it, a good part of the movie is ruined. Affleck adds another great performance to his resume.  It's kind of hard to see him in an die-hard honest-to-God action movie.  Typically these are left to likes of Arnold, Sly, and Bruce Willis.  John Frankenheimer helps out a little in this area, because unlike many action movies of late there isn't an exploding vehicle or AK-47 firing of every 40 seconds.  Don't get me wrong, there are explosions and automatic gunfire, but it's used more sparingly and adds to the story.  The effects, nudity, and macho-ness are not present just for the sake of being there. I think Affleck and Charlize Theron made a great duo.  Her career skyrocketed with The Devil's Advocate in 1997.  She plays her part superbly as well. Many will disagree with me on this part, but I think Gary Sinise is who mad this film good.  He  plays Gabriel, the moronic villain.  This guy is mean enough to shoot an ice fisherman while in his hut, but dumb enough to believe Rudy's lies.  Dumb and mean not the best combination.  Sinise pulls it off nicely.  I think he just one of those guys that can play a multitude of parts well. Reindeer Games is a great guy movie, and a good action-comedy.  It's not a chick-flick, but I don't see any reason everyone can't get some enjoyment from it.  From some reason I don't really think this movie is going to get much acclaim in the way of awards or in the box office, but it's a good film anyway.  Grade B+  "},{"Title":"It would have ruined Christmas two months ago!","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thanks goodness this monstrosity came out AFTER Christmas; it would have dampened the holiday a few  months ago. You watch this flick and don't know whether to laugh or take it seriously. It starts out okay but  then one look at Gary Sinese in that silly looking hippie wig and he looks like an ugly store mannequin and you  laugh. Then the blood makes you cringe. The lines are silly; Ben Affleck is miscast; Cherize Theron's chest a is  flat as the story line and you still don't know whether to laugh or cry or cringe or go to the restroom. Santa  Clauses holding up a casino-can you imagine? And the only Santa left after the mayhem ends stuffs the loot  into mailboxes as Christmas presents. Wow is this baby a royal stinker? Either save your money or stick it in a  stranger's mailbox next December 25t "},{"Title":"Reindeer Games This Film Can Really Sleigh You ****","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Great action packed film with the best of the ironic twists in it.Ben Affleck gets more than what he bargained for when he assumes the identity of a dead inmate in jail. He meets up with a lovingly Charlize Theron, who satisfies him immensely until he finds out who her supposed brother is.Affleck is beaten and tortured by brother Gary Sinise and his crew. Thinking that he is the dead inmate, they want him to help them rob a casino.Theron was great here. She is a real catty type, with innocence first appearing, only to later reveal a shrewd, vicious operator. Sinise, with his hippie-like long hair, is as usual terrific in this 2000 film. Always the masterful director, John Frankenheimer does a great job once again. "},{"Title":"Just shoot Rudi already!!","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Movies like Reindeer Games really annoy me... There is so much truth to Seth Green's character Scott from the Austin Powers movies, when he gives his advice to Dr. Evil to just shoot him now! The main reason I hate movies like this is because the bad guys have so many opportunities to kill the main character and then they all end up dead in the end. I just can't believe any character can be this fortunate, especially one played by Ben Affleck. And that scene with the Pow-wow safe?? What rubbish!No wonder Matt Parker and Trey Stone rip on actors like Affleck. His acting was very ordinary in this movie and it's no surprise that his good mate Matt Damon is the more accomplished actor today.And how else do I know this is a bad film? Even Matt Damon rights it off to Ben's face in the movie Jay & Silent Bob Strike Back. Nuff said...The only performance I enjoyed was that of Gary Sinise's. He definitely is a convincing baddie. The clincher would have been if he had of capped Rudi before the end. Don't punish yourself by giving it a second viewing, or even a first if you haven't seen it. "},{"Title":"Silly and Annoying !","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not a fan of (Ben Affleck). In fact this is a polite way to say that I can't stand the guy. This time let me tell you; in other movies sure he was less worse! Here he's the human interpretation of blank. This movie is the conclusive proof for how he's having such a one of a kind DULL face and performance. The other factors were between this dull and even duller. Not much encouraged me to care about the movie. To tell you the truth it took me one half and 2 quarters of previous viewings before actually completing the whole thing. And when I did, I felt bad. (John Frankenheimer) didn't bring much to the story. Although there is a certain character for many shoots but slight, superficial and not interesting. (Affleck) himself said, in Inside The Actors Studio, that (Frankenheimer) left the cast do the scenes in the rehearsals the way they wanted to do, then he built the set and selected the angles of shooting according to it (!!). Most probably the man got desperate with a lead like this, so he did the least efforts to handle him (HENCE THAT WAS BECAUSE OF YOU MISTER !). (Gary Sinise) delivered nasty performance with nasty make-up. The sex was cheap. The action wasn't that available or done attractively. And I didn't buy entirely the end's twist. It gets so violent at the end's heist. So violent to an extent that convinces you how they wanted to compensate the shortcomings by increasing the gallons of blood. Hardly I'll tell you what I liked  it's the beauty of (Charlize Theron), some of the soundtrack (accurately the oldies, and the piece of music when the lead meets the girl for the first time), the last explosion, and the outrageously happy ending; it's something this movie got to be remembered by (but NOT re-watched for !). (Reindeer Games) is a B-crime movie with C-entertainment. It oozes silliness and annoyance. Maybe with another cast, things would have been more tolerable. In any case I don't think that (Frankenheimer) in his grave is fond of the idea that this movie was his swan song. Finally, 2 things of it nearly scarred me for life; the first is the way (Affleck) did some of the supposedly funny moments (OH MY GOD !), and secondly the way his face looked after exploding the car at the climax; check on the word blank in any encyclopedia, and you'll find a photo of his reaction from that scene beside it ! "},{"Title":"Don't watch this movie twice!","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time I saw Reindeer Games was on a regular TV broadcast and I must admit it had me spellbound. The pace was such with ample twists and turns, even if I could see a lot of things coming in the distance, and yet the storyline kept catching me off guard and kept me wondering. At least, that is, until the implausible twists at the end arrived. The direction however was skillful enough that this did not happen until the moment before the credits and my brain did not have time enough to process the erroneous data until the several seconds it took my chin to hit the floor and I was left feeling stunned. Unsure of exactly how, but with a definite feeling that I'd been tricked.This movie seemed to be made by a magician somehow and I wished I'd recorded it to watch at leisure as I do with all movies I plan to watch. But there's the rub you see I hadn't 'planned' to watch this movie, it simply came on one night and caught me off guard. And too it's credit and all those involved in it from the writer to the director to the ample acting talent this story had at it's disposal during all it's amazing twits, turns and machinations, it kept me glued to my seat in that wonderful 'late night' kinda way. Almost, dare I say, in a Hitchcockian embrace.So when the opportunity presented itself again years later I decided to record the beast and take a closer look at its claws, teeth and fleas. All I can say is I wish I hadn't because the slight of hand in the proverbial light of day wasn't so slight. I can only describe it like that moment in The Wizard of Oz when you get to see the impotent Wizard behind the curtain, or walking the overly sun bleached streets of Las Vegas the morning after the neon nights before or hearing those awful rumours about Santa, the Easter Bunny and all their friends. It was a sad sad moment, bitterly disappointing and something some part of me deeply wished I hadn't done. But there it was... the holes and cheap tricks lay exposed, the magicians hand had somehow slapped my face... the spell was broken! Alas, to watch this movie once in full flow as it would have been originally experienced by theatre goers is probably a six out of ten star pleasure. But dare to scratch the gilding anywhere at all a second time, especially the credibility of the plot, and the dream simply vanishes like a mirage before your very eyes.Suddenly those six stars turn into one or two. The writers can be seen to be taking extraordinary liberties, the direction now seems highly proficient but hurried and heavy handed, and the acting could keep a lumberjack busy for many years. What a great shame and to my regret I found I'd been watching a 'disposable' movie. Just like a tissue or a paper plate, used only once so to speak, its flimsy nature was exposed, ready to be thrown away, gone... never to be seen again! "},{"Title":"Top-Flight Frankenheimer Fare","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Anybody that enjoyed Reservoir Dogs (1992) Quentin Tarantino's bloody, bullet-riddled heist caper, should have no qualms about watching veteran director John Frankenheimer's hard-boiled crime thriller Reindeer Games with Ben Affleck, Charlize Theron, and Gary Sinise.This outlandish but entertaining Tarantinoesque slay ride about mistaken identities, double-crosses galore, machine-gun toting Santa Clauses, and a botched casino robbery at Christmas flaunts a quality cast, an audacious script, and some riveting, white-knuckled suspense scenes.Affleck makes a strong, charismatic hero in his first tough guy actioneer as he matches wits, fists, and guns with sinister Gary Sinise. While heavily-armed, trash-talking, macho males dominate this testosterone-soaked saga, Charlize Theron takes top acting honors as a manipulative, man-eating temptress.Scenarist Ehren Kruger, who penned Arlington Road and Scream 3, has written a lively but literate, tongue-in-check melodrama with about as many endings as the 1998 Denise Richards romp Wild Things with Matt Dillon.Auto thief Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck of Chasing Amy) and his cellmate, Nick (James Frain), have 48-hours left to serve in Michigan's austere Iron Mountain Prison. Rudy has grown weary of listening to Nick read him letters from a woman who has become his pen pal. No matter how often Rudy warns him about strange women, Nick plans to hook up with this dame after he gets out.Everything is going swell for them when a riot erupts in the prison cafeteria over a roach-infested gelatin dessert. A vengeful inmate, just out-of-solitary packing a grudge and a shiv for Rudy, tries to carve up our protagonist during the chaos, but Nick takes the knife for his friend and appears to die in his arms.As Rudy leave prison, he spots Ashley Mercer (sexy Charlize Theron of Monster), the girl Nick had worshipped in his letters, and decides to take advantage of her ignorance. Nick never sent her his photo, so Ashley believes Rudy when he takes over Nick's identity. Rudy enjoys a bang-up, one-night orgy until Ashley's low-life brother, Gabriel (Gary Sinise of Mission to Mars), a violent, unhinged, trucker who sells contraband guns, spoils their fun.No matter how much he protests that he isn't Nick, Rudy cannot convince Gabriel and his trigger-happy thugs that they have made a mistake. Ashley warns Rudy that her brother won't hesitate to kill him if he suspects treachery.Reluctantly, Rudy assures Gabriel that he is really Nick, only to learn that Gabriel wants to knock over the casino where Nick worked before he went up to serve time. Meanwhile, former Las Vegas casino operator Jack Bangs (Dennis Farina of Manhunter) is having trouble attracting gamblers to the Tomahawk, a casino owned by an Indian tribe. Gabriel plans the robbery for Christmas day, with Rudy providing crucial details about the guards, alarms, and security precautions.Legendary director John Frankenheimer, who helmed Ronin, Seconds, and The Manchurian Candidate, never lets the action bog down in this nimble-minded thriller. Great action movies paint their heroes into a corner and try to bring the house down on them. Reindeer Games, a first-rate, four-star action opus, piles on the pressure and never gives its wily protagonist a break until fade-out. Outside of his work with Kevin Smith, this ranks as Ben Affleck's best work. "}{"Title":"Scandalous Mess","Date":"10 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Whether you have been waiting for this one, or not, you have been wasting your time. You have either been wasting your time waiting for it, or watching it. Pathetic is not the word try disgusting, disgraceful, and any other synonyms you might like to extract from your thesaurus, if you have ever gone to the bother of getting one. However much Ben Affleck might get female hearts throbbing and masculine genitals doing something else because of Charlize Theron, is not important. The afore-named might have done something more decent in his career - I haven't yet seen it - or the latter-named likewise - which she has, though not by much - I can assure you that this indigestible panache aimed at the screen, be it big or small is meaningless, and a thorough waste of time for anyone whose mental capacities climb out of the foaming pool of senselessness left behind by anybody worth mentioning, be it Rousseau or Richard I.The story (is there any?), the acting (is there any?) is hopeless, helpless, useless, and is aimed at half-wits. Even in its parts, this film adds up to very little - or even worse - and in its whole is left in the same category. A few dollars here, a few dollars there, and everyone is happy except the intelligent viewer who has paid his bucks/yen/euros/pounds or whatever seeing this or hiring this ridiculous charade.I cannot help thinking that there are too many bamboozlers and tricksters embezzled into the ingenuous and senseless Hollywood razzmatazz, such that if Ms. Theron goes back to South Africa, nobody will miss her, and if she comes to Europe she might just make a name for herself - worthy or not depends on her and her luck.In this case, luck ran out, as much for Ms. Theron as for Affleck and Frankenheimer, as well as practically anybody else connected with this mess of a film that had nothing to say.It is one of the best films representing Hollywood's brainless, mindless, twaddle.Ah, now I understand why Bush is still president..........how silly of me. Excuse me. Beg your pardon. Please forgive me - but better still - forget this apology of a film. Definitely aimed at 15 year-olds with not much inside their bonces.Definitely worth a miss; definitely worth a beer on the couch with your friends, or snuggling up with your girl-friend with the volume switched off so as not to invade on your privacy or intimacy, and you will certainly get the better of things, or - anyway - your girl-friend will. "},{"Title":"One of the better action movies.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had no high expectations about this movie when a friend of mine had me watch it, but turned out this was one of the better movies in the action film genre. The plot has a few twists, the characters are somewhat believable (not supermen here) and the set is on a winter setting, snow and ice.And Gary Sinise does one of his best roles as the villain of this story. "},{"Title":"why did I see this ????????","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really don't know what I expected to see in this film. I guess I just wanted to see some great action and lots of senseless killings. Well there sure was the senseless killings but as for the great action............it wasn't that good. I'm sorry, I may not be Rambo, or G.I. Joe, but I do have enough sense that when you have an fully automatic weapon and you don't let up on the trigger it will empty itself in under 5 seconds at that extreme rate of fire unlike here they could fire for a full 30 seconds and still have more in the magazine. For those who are now thinking I should take this movie for what it is.....  I AM !!!!!!! It's an action flick that is trying to tell me that hey this is cool. Well if there is no decent acting, no decent action, and no sense of realism,,,, what's the point of trying to take it for anything else? The point is, that it's not.If you want to spend your money on this film go ahead, but I would rather spend it on a larger bucket of popcorn. "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie.  I thought it was a great movie.  I'm happy to see Ben Affleck doing an action movie.  There was a lot of cool little twists in this film.  I give it a 9 out of 10.  I hope you enjoy it and thanks for reading.-Cortex "},{"Title":"a mixed bag of goods!","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is not one of the director's finest works despite it's all star cast with enough twists and turns for a roller coaster ride at an amusement park. Ben Affleck plays an ex-convict whose cell mate gets killed in a prison fight. Ben's character, Rudy, meets up with Ashley played by Charlize Theron. Just remember, nobody is truly what they appear to be in this film. Ashley's brother, Gabriel, is played by the under-rated Gary Sinise who is far more deadly than any of Rudy's prison pals. First, they think Rudy is truly Nick Cassidy, a former casino worker. The mixed-up identity allows Rudy to spend some quality time with Ashley. By the time of revelations, nobody is truly what they seem to be and relationships are revealed that are not always proper. I think Rudy/Nick learns the truth about Ashley's life. By the end of the film, you're actually cheering for Rudy because he turns out to be the hero but I won't say how he does it or what happens. I don't want to spoil the film's ending. "},{"Title":"Like so much tasteless junk food with a lousy dessert.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  See Ben get beat up. See Ben run. See Ben get shot at. See Ben run some more. Etc..Etc..Etc.Reindeer Games isn't funny enough to be a comedy; doesn't have enough stunts or pyro to be an action flick; doesn't have sufficient substance to be a drama; etc. The film fails on just about every level. The video should come with a warning Turn off brain before viewing.  "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"      I don't like action movies, they seem to be formulated and done by the numbers to often.  Big ending, evil bad guy attractive girl and ends with hero has girl, bad guy dies etc.  This movie has the girl, the bad guy, but is done a little differently; there is many twists in the plot and its not to stright forward to insult the viewers intelligences. I keep thinking to myself the hero should have just stayed on the bus and the stir of trouble would not be.  The tention steams at a hard pace, and he should of listen to himself when he talked to himself. "},{"Title":"Mind numbing, awful cliché ridden hack job.","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The pacing of this film was absolutely horrendous - as action movies go, it was mind numbingly misplayed. The dialogue is endless and meaningless - filmmakers double back on themselves 2/3 of the way through to justify their hodge podge mess by conjuring up an absolutely implausible and ludicrously acted out scenario involving a double-double-double cross. This should be in the bottom 100, it was that bad.Ben Affleck is horrendous as usual. Charlize Theron simply cannot act. Sinise screams like an annoying banshee, gritting his teeth repetitively with his three grizzled role playing veteran actor buddies.Avoid this film at all costs - it's boring, soulless "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every character in this film is excruciatingly stupid.  The script, by the writer of Arlington Road (loved it) is painfully bad.  If you are a bunch of would be robbers, would you stand in a parking lot in the middle of the day shouting your head off and passing big guns around?  The plot twists don't work.  When you get to a big surprise plot twist, think about stuff that the characters involved did earlier, and try to make sense of it.  You won't succeed.The acting is lackluster.  Sinise is good, but not given much to work with.  Affleck is bland, flat, and just plain poor.  Avoid this movie as if your life depended on it.  If you must see it, do it drunk, or stoned, or something.  Just make sure that your brain is not working when you see it.  It's that stupid. "},{"Title":"It starts well but it does not continue too good","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ehren Krugher is a good screenwriter and John Frankenheimer(1930-2002)has been the king of action in the 70s.These guys working together made me to create good expectations.I thought that this movie was going to be an intelligent thriller film where the script is so important as the action and the character's personality gives points to the story.During the first 45 minutes,it seems the movie would follow like that.That's the best moment of the movie and,like I said before,it starts pretty well.But,in the second half everything goes down and it finishes in a typical happy ending.The story is interesting and,on some way,original.During the first 45 minutes,the film has unexpected twists which do not fall in the cliché.Frankenheimer made a good work as a director and he put some tension to that moment of the movie.But,like I said before,all the good things the first 45 minutes have go down and the film is clichéd and predictable after that good beginning.The script,which started well,makes everything very fast and the intelligent villain transforms,without a reason,in a stupid guy.Ben Affleck is a bad choice as the main actor.Gary Sinise is a pleasure as a bad guy.Reindeer games is one of that movies which start promising and they go down trying to look for a happy ending.It's a fun movie but you do not loose anything if you do not see it. "}{"Title":"Divertingly entertaining Die Hard wannabe","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" REINDEER GAMES (2000) *** Ben Affleck, Charlize Theron, Gary Sinise, Dennis Farina, Clarence Williams III, Donal Logue, Danny Trejo, James Frain, Isaac Hayes. Slam bang actioner with Affleck as a recently paroled con during Christmas season who assumes the identity of his cellmate when he hooks up with his pen pal/lover-to-be Theron and winds up neck deep in trouble with her psychotic brother Sinise who wrangles him unwittingly into a scheme to rob a casino. Brimming with a sardonic screenplay jerry rigged by Ehren Kruger with shades of 'Die Hard' with his ingenuity and fast-paced action sequences expertly realized by veteran helmsman John Frankenheimer and a sprinkling of much needed humor amidst the ensuing carnage. A crowd pleaser for sure. "},{"Title":"Wonderful holiday fare","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Santa Clauses come to the Indian Casino in an exciting, playful, bloody romp -- featuring Rudolph in a case of mistaken identity.  The entire plot of the movie revolves around a triple cross; it may even be a quadruple cross, but it is much too complicated to be a double cross. No idea why the term reindeer games is relevant to the title other than the presence of Rudolph and Santas. Movie contains much violence and stupid jokes. This is family fare -- for the Manson family.  Exhibit one Gary Sinise as Charley reincarnated, or is he supposed to be JC? Exhibit two Isaac Hayes finding a cockroach in his jello. (Really) Exhibit 3 Clarence Williams III (he's grown as an actor and a human being since Mod Squad, must be upwards of 250 pounds at this point).  Did any viewers wonder why the first three fourths of the movie involved Ben Affleck being captured and escaping and being recaptured by a gang of multi-ethnic trucking thugs? Took up at least an hour.Dennis Farina had kind of an interesting performance, but the movie is rather disjointed and several important scenes appear to be missing. Brief nudity.                  "},{"Title":"Doomed From The Start By A Questionable Premise","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Most action films are based on a somewhat implausible concept. At some point during any given action movie, the audience will be asked to accept that the meek, mild-mannered accountant trapped in an elevator is really a former Green Beret demolitions specialist . . . or that a blonde stripper is fluent in six languages and can crack government computer codes . . . or that no matter how complicated a nuclear device may be, cutting the red wire will always successfully disarm such a weapon. It's part of the action movie territory. In most cases, the action movie rises above its implausibilities and moves forward into a realm of snappy one-liners and wicked, cool-looking violence that serves to entertain.Unfortunately, `Reindeer Games' is not one of those action films. Without wandering over into spoiler territory . . . let's just say that `Reindeer Games' is crippled from the very start by a vastly implausible concept that is so utterly massive, it nearly boggles the human mind. This concept is not only wildly unbelievable (and stupid), but it unfortunately also happens to be the lynchpin of the film. Each and every decision made by each and every character in `Reindeer Games' is based in some way, shape, or form upon this fatally flawed concept. As such, it's hard to believe anything that the characters do in the film, simply because their decisions are based entirely on some seriously bad ideas.  No normal or sane person would accept the things that all the characters in the movie so blindly accept at face value. . . so it's hard to even remotely connect with the events of the film. Even worse &#150; about halfway during `Reindeer Games', a glimmer of hope can be seen, as if some of the characters have some hidden motives that may help explain their idiotic acceptance of the main, flawed premise of the film . .. wrong.  The first flawed premise, in a supposedly surprising twist, is replaced by an equally awful and flawed premise, making the film no better than it was before.  Accepting flawed and often ludicrous ideas in an action movie is part of the action movie experience, but when the audience is not only asked to accept these hideously bad ideas throughout the entire film, but are bludgeoned over the head with them, as they most certainly are with `Reindeer Games' . . . it adds up to a bad, bad movie.For those of you still vaguely interested in seeing `Reindeer Games', here's the supposed plot Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck), a former car thief just released from prison, decides to impersonate his former cellmate Nick (James Frain) so that he can meet a beautiful woman named Ashley (Charlize Theron), whom Nick had been communicating with via a `prison pen pal' program. `Nick' and Ashley hit everything off just fine, until Ashley's brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) shows up &#150; turns out he's a gun smuggler looking to pull a heist at a nearby casino that he knows `Nick' used to work at as a security guard.  Unable to successfully convince either Gabriel or Ashley that he's not really `Nick', Rudy is forced to become part of a major robbery &#150; and has to find a way out for himself and his new love Ashley before big brother Gabriel decides to `take care' of `Nick' with his semi-automatic assault rifle . . . .The cast of `Reindeer Games' is pretty good, but even an outstanding cast wouldn't have been able to save this heavily flawed film.  Ben Affleck is very good as the reluctant hero Rudy; Gary Sinise is a lot of fun as the scenery-chewing Gabriel; and the lovely Charlize Theron, who seems to be sleepwalking through the first half of the film, actually seems to wake up and redeem herself with some nice stuff in the second half.  The actors provide some neat little moments &#150; watch for Affleck's `Pecan Pie Diner' scene, it's excellent &#150; but none of these moments even come close to overcoming the film's very significant flaws.  What might've been able to save the film from its flaws is some heavy-duty, jaw-dropping action . . . and that action never materializes.  Not once.  Oh sure, there's action, but it's very bland and generic, nothing that hasn't already been done in a thousand other action films.  Even without the implausible concepts that mortally wound `Reindeer Games' from the very start . . . the film would've been average at best.  Throw the amazingly dumb and implausible concepts on top of this average film, and what's left is a disappointing, frustrating, and bland excuse for an action film.Decent characters, very weak action, and an incredibly stupid plot &#150; that's the best way to sum up `Reindeer Games'.  This is the sort of action film that should be collecting a lot of dust on the shelf of your local video store.  It provides one or two brief, decent moments . . . but that's it. Overall, not a very good action film at all.  Grade D+ "},{"Title":"what a ridiculous ending!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i'm not going to spoil the ending, but let me just say this- extremely far-fetched, absolutely implausible, impossible, ridiculous...get the point? the bad guy (i won't mention his name) had plotted this for years, down to the smallest detail. and it all turned out perfectly? with all the different people involved, nothing went wrong? c'mon, don't insult me!i actually enjoyed the majority of the movie. it was entertaining anyway & you get to see charlize naked. but the ending p***ed me off so bad that it took away anything good the movie had to offer. want a laugh? see this movie & laugh at how stupid it is... "},{"Title":"Reindeer Games attempts to run with the likes of such classics as Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction, but unfortunately it falls significantly short.","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Reindeer Games is a good thriller. It is fun to watch, it has a good story, it's entertaining, and even most of the acting is respectable enough. However, as a whole, the film is pretty weak. Ben Affleck is a car thief who is serving a six year sentence in prison. His cell-mate is a man named Nick Cassidy (James Frain), who seems to have met a beautiful woman named Ashley (Charlize Therun) in some sort of prison pen pal system. Rudy and Nick are scheduled to be released on the same day, but Nick has a run-in with a convict and winds up getting killed. Upon his release, Rudy has the bright idea to pose as Nick Cassidy so that he can get, uh, better acquainted with this Ashley girl that he has been hearing about for so long. Unfortunately, her truck driver/amatuer criminal older brother has found out from his letters to her that he previously worked in a casino, and he and his gang want Nick's help (whether he's willing to help or not) to rob that casino. Unable to prove that he's not Nick Cassidy and unaware of the design of the inside of the casino, Rudy is then faced with the challenge of successfully robbing this place so that the gang doesn't kill him, while at the same time avoiding getting caught so that he doesn't go back to jail for the rest of his life.The story is good. The huge holes (why would someone as beautiful as Ashley turn to a prison pen pal system to look for dates?!) are covered up pretty well by the time the film ends, and luckily the acting, for the most part, makes up for the crudeness of the script. The plot is derived from Quentin Tarantino's trademark of showing the end of the story at the beginning of the film. This is always an interesting thing to see, especially in a film like this. However, probably the most disturbing thing about Reindeer Games is the extensive and inexplicable use of blue screens and deep focus photography. There were a lot of shots that showed a face or a gun or something close to the camera, and everything else in the shot, everything that is far away from the camera, is also in focus. There is nothing inherently wrong with this, but it is unnatural, and it calls attention to the fact that there is a movie camera right there. Filmmaking is one of the few professions where invisibility is a goal for success, and while this deliberate violation of that rule is not necessarily prohibited, it should only be committed with good reason. There were scenes in Reindeer Games where I couldn't figure out why deep focus photography and especially blue screens were needed. Despite all of that, however, it did give the film a very distinctive look.Despite the film's numerous shortcomings, Reindeer Games is a fairly well-made crime thriller. I've seen Gary Sinise look better in other films (see every other film he's ever been in except Mission to Mars), and Charlize is not entirely convincing at times, although she did deliver a satisfactory performance, all told. And most of all, if you like plot twists, check this one out, because there are plenty. "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Even though I think this film is not really one of the best of the year, I actually saw this film back in 1999 (private screening), so it might be mis-placed. But, I'm sure that this film is well placed, and paced, and oddly fun. Very electrifying (especially the first time around) story involves a prison inmate named Rudy (played good by Ben Affleck) who leaves after a fellow inmate dies. But he also takes his place and meets a girl (Charlize Theron who shows skin for the first time in 3 years) who unfortunately has a brother (so called) who needs Rudy to break into a Indian casino. Very twisting plot (more spoilers here than in The Empire Strikes Back) and great action make this a must see.Very cool, sometimes funny, with cameos by Isaac Hayes and Ron Jeremy as inmates. "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  John Frakenhiemer is a wonderful action director, but this was a cheap looking and poorly acted film.   Ben and Charlize are awful at acting and they really dragged this film through the mud. Keep on trying guys, since it seems there is a big audience for bad movies.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely wretched!","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For the amount of money and promotion spent on this film, it is definitely at the bottom of the barrel. It could be excusable as a low-budget independent or a made-for-tv flick, but not a multi-million dollar production.A writer could have taken the initial premise of an ex-con assuming his cellmate's identity on the outside and run in a thousand different (and more interesting) directions. Instead we get a cheesy good guy/bad guy storyline and cardboard characters.I'm at the 1 hour mark and I won't bother with the rest of the movie. I stopped caring after 5 minutes.Horrible script, acting and production values. What else is left?The DVD cover is real nice -- end of story. Another waste of money!1 out of 10 only because there isn't a zero. "},{"Title":"Solid script.","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I know many people crap on this movie, but I find it to be very good. I do not like movies for nudity, violence, or swearing. I watch them for the story and acting. Do not get me wrong, I WOULD take an action movie any day. But the fact is I don't sit through silly movies to see that. Reindeer Games starts off with a great setting in a prison. I recall seeing the ending, and it was so powerful I HAD to see it again. Some would call it corny, but you know. This movie gives the viewers a hell of a ride. Ben's best role, and my favorite Frankenheimer movie. Solid.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Ben Affleck is an All American Trademark","Date":"21 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ben Affleck is an All American Trademark. Any film with a big box-office and critically acclaimed star as him can never go wrong. I have seen all his films and all were some of the best I have ever seen. Reindeer Game was no exception. Director Frankenheimer shot this film in the heartlands where people treat each other with respect and keep their eye on the ball. Great scenery, great action, great cast and a plot to twist your head around, but what makes this action, who don it? Cat and mouse thriller such a great film is Hollywood No.1 super mega star Ben Affleck with his stunning good looks, charisma and acting abilities beyond any Hollywood actor. With this film I would consider Affleck to be a far greater actor them Sir Anthony Hopkins or Tom Cruise.Affleck's real love for pecan pie is also presented in this film witch I would consider a master mind play form Affleck/ Frankenheimer &#150; giving Affleck's character, Rudy, something real form Ben's life making the character more believable. "}{"Title":"what a disaster!","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  J. Frankneimer, old director, risks the death. C. Theron & B. Affleck ,borning stars, risk the abortion. Who could really pay 12 million $ an actor like this. B.A. is nice and i'm sure that he is very professional, but the acting? Same background and results of Guynneth Paltrow. Maybe on the next year he could catch an Oscar. Any case this movie is ridicule. Unwatcheble.  "},{"Title":"Reindeer Games (Deception)","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I used to have mixed opinions about the leading actor, probably because of Pearl Harbor, I used to give him the nickname Assface (based on a joke from South Park), I first really liked him in this film, and he has gone on to do fantastic films like Argo and Gone Girl, directed by John Frankenheimer (Birdman of Alcatraz, The Manchurian Candidate, Ronin). Basically Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) is in prison serving a six year charge for grand theft auto, his cell mate is Nick Cassidy (True Blood's James Frain) who has served a two year sentence on a separate charge. Rudy and Nick are six days away from release, Nick has been corresponding with a young gorgeous woman named Ashley Mercer (Charlize Theron), he has her photographs all over his wall, he has never met her but cannot wait to meet her upon release, when she will be waiting for him, Rudy plans to reunite with his family when he gets out. However when a fight breaks out in the prison canteen, Nick is stabbed by another prisoner and dies, Rudy is released the following day, he sees Ashley waiting for Nick outside, he decides to take Nick's identity, and they end getting romantically close. Then gang leader and Ashley's brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) storms in, he and his gang want Nick to help them pull off a robbery at the Indian casino he used to work in as a security guard, Rudy initially tries to convince the gang that he is not Nick Cassidy, but Ashley urges him to go with the ruse, or they'll both be killed. Rudy is furious with Ashley, he tries at first anything he can to escape the gang and their scheme, but remembering all the stories that Nick told him while they were in the cell together, he is able to devise a robbery. On the night of the robbery, Christmas Eve, Rudy breaks out of his holding to attempt arm himself and get away, but he stumbles on Gabriel and Ashley in conversation, they are not brother and sister, in fact they are lovers and partners in crime. The group enter the casino, dressed in Santa Claus outfits, Rudy hides the fact that he knows Ashley's secret and becomes part of the robbery, the large amounts of money are found, but when Gabriel takes Rudy to the manager, Jack Bangs (Dennis Farina), he confirms that he is not Nick Cassidy, Rudy confesses. Gabriel is furious by Rudy's deception, the manager opens a safe hidden behind the drinks cabinet that is supposed to be full of further fortune, but Bangs takes out guns from inside, killing a gang member, while the others flee, Rudy kills another of the robbers, before being grabbed by Gabriel and Ashley. They plan to drive Rudy off the cliff in a burning car, with some of the cash for the officials to see, during the argument Ashley accidentally reveals too much information, she shoots the suspicious Gabriel, shortly after, Nick appears! He reveals he faked his death, Ashley's real name is Millie Bobeck, and they had collaborated to rob the casino with Rudy and Gabriel's gang, Nick knew Rudy would go along with the ruse because of his secret feelings for Ashley, who had known all along of his true identity, it was all a set-up. Rudy cuts his bindings with a knife he got earlier, hot wires the car, crushes Nick reversing, he rams the fiery car into Ashley and jumps out before it goes over the cliff, Nick still alive tries to convince Rudy to share the money, but Rudy locks him in the truck and sends it over the cliff, in the end Rudy takes the bags of stolen cash, dispensing piles of money in mailboxes, and he returns to his family for Christmas dinner. Also starring The Butler's Clarence Williams III as Merlin, Gotham's Donal Logue as Pug, Danny Trejo as Jumpy, Isaac Hayes as Zook, Dana Stubblefield as The Alamo, Ashton Kutcher as College Kid and porn star Ron Jeremy as Prisoner. Affleck is likable playing the ex-con forced into a robbery, Theron is good as the beauty with a hidden agenda, Sinise always manages to pull off being sinister and menacing, and it is cool to see other recognisable faces in amongst the supporting cast. The film is full of standard but effective twists and turns, what starts as a simple case of mistaken identity turns into an essentially improvised heist, but then you find out it is not just the ex-con who is lying, the con becomes the conned, with the right amount of humour, tense moments and violence this is overall a fun and entertaining thriller. Good! "}]