[{"Title":"O soars high","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"56 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Critics have accused Tim Blake Nelson's cinematic version of Shakespeare's Othello,of 'glorifying' violence in a school setting,but i strongly disagree,and believe that this somewhat controversial film should be viewed by teenagers.It explores the origins of school violence and how teen angst can lead to tragedy.The film communicates a powerful message that no teenager is incapable of taking their jealousy to extremes,and O's superb cast of young actors effectively demonstrate how treachery and envy can lead to tragedy.Quite correctly,the film is aimed at a teenage audience,with a smorgasboard of hot young talent.Mehki Phifer,portrays Odin,the star basketball player who has everything going for him,until his 'friend' Hugo (Josh Hartnett) is overcome with his emotions and envy for Odin that he devotes his time and effort to destroying his life,which he ultimately succeeds in doing.Phifer is remarkable in his role,but Hartnett steals the show in a performance that he's never outdone.Hartnett was perfectly cast as the dark,manipulative and evil character,and its hard to pick a flaw in his performance.Julia Stiles also performs well as Desi Brable,the sweet,smart and pretty girlfriend of Odin.O is a gripping tale based on love,friendship,betrayal and deceit,issues which are effectively explored and given the importance they need in the film.It is hard-hitting and confronting,and not easily forgotten.Excessive explicit language,graphic violence and a very disturbing sex scene are most memorable.What hits hardest is how the characters treat each other,and there are scenes that are difficult to sit through,but its important that you do.O leaves you drained,but its nothing less than a masterpiece.Don't expect any sugar coating either;there isn't any.Finally,a teen film which is raw and real. "},{"Title":"Disturbing but fascinating","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"39 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Retelling of Shakespeare's Othello set in the year 2000 with high school kids.  I've never read Othello so I don't know how faithful this is.  An alienated high school kid (Josh Hartnett) ignored by his basketball coach father (Martin Sheen chewing the scenery), plots to destroy Odin (Mekhi Phifer) a star player his father adores.  Tragedy follows.  Fast-paced, somber and disturbing.  The characters talk and act like real kids--you get to know and understand them so the violence that erupts at the end is very upsetting.  Excellent acting, especially by Julia Stiles (as Odin's girlfriend Desi), Phifer and Hartnett (who's absolutely chilling).  The only bad acting is by Sheen--way too over the top.  This is an extreme film--lots of swearing, a disturbing sex scene and the killings at the end.  Worth seeing but depressing.  Sat on the shelf for 2 years because Miramax was afraid of it.  Good thing Lions Gate bought it and released it. "},{"Title":"Strong and chilling.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  In these dark times when it seems like at least 95 % of all the teen-movies that are made are trying to copy American Pie, this is the kick in the butt that the genre needs. Shakespeare's classical play Othello has been somewhat rewritten to fit the silverscreen and the 21st century better. The theme of revenge, love and jealousy remains intact but the settings have been changed. Great actors in the three leading roles (Stiles, Phifer, Hartnett) makes this movie feel alive, and the cursing and violence makes it feel even more real. The ending is scary and sad, and it makes you think for a long time after you've seen it.Along with Donnie Darko and Ghost World, this is one of the best movies aimed at teens I've seen.***/****  "},{"Title":"One of the better retellings of Shakespeare to date. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O / (2001) ***1/2 (out of four)After the disastrous attempts the last decade has made at updating Shakespeare, I eventually thought that it was nearly impossible to successfully modernize anything of the genre. Shakespeare's themes and ideas can still relate with many aspects of society today, but seldom do filmmakers incorporate modern culture with the timeless stories told so long ago. O is like a slap in the face that proves my theory wrong. Based on Shakespeare's play Othello, this isn't the first time Hollywood has tried to translate the tragic masterpiece onto film. In 1995, Laurence Fishburne starred in Oliver Parker's unsuccessful adaptation of the play. This time around, director Tim Blake Nelson has finally completed a victorious version of the story.and it's takes the form of a high school drama.The film takes place in an elite private school located in the American South. Mekhi Phifer (I Still Know What You Did Last Summer) stars as the title character, named Odin James, the only African American student at the school. That doesn't interfere with his reputation or image, however, because he's the school's defining figure. Rewarded MVP by the school's basketball team, he's a virtual celebrity with the student body, the basketball coach (Martin Sheen), as well as his beautiful girlfriend, Desi Brable (Julia Stiles of  Save the Last Dance), the daughter of the Dean of Palmetto Grove Academy (John Heard).Hugo Goulding (Josh Hartnett of Pearl Harbor), the son of the basketball coach, is Odin's best friend. He's asked by his father to look out for Odin because of the straining pressures of Palmetto Grove Academy. Little does anyone know, however, Hugo is dangerously envious of Odin and the attention he receives. On the outside, Hugo is friendly to all of his basketball teammates, including Odin, but on the inside, he's concocting a bitterly evil plan that will render more than just the social status of his classmates.This tale of treachery, jealousy, and mistrust will introduce a new audience to the genius of William Shakespeare and some of his most intriguing and intelligent characters. In this version, the film changes the original metaphor of war into that of high school sports. It's startling how the themes of the classic story translate so well to the lives of modern young people. The film thoroughly examine the emotions of its characters. Through jealousy, favoritism, trust, and envy, to popularity, conformity, and the extreme measure some will take to fulfill their feelings, O looks into the heart of darkness, not through a sadistic serial killer or demonic monster, but through one of the most dangerous figures of all, a friend with ulterior motives.Working against an inconsistent editing style and an uneven soundtrack, the actors do an exceedingly well job with their difficult characters. Josh Hartnett delivers a performance that isn't excessive or physically violent, but instead internal and intelligent. He gives his character a face for the complex emotions. He doesn't seek satisfaction through random temper tantrums, but through developing a full scale plan. Julia Stiles projects a charming, passionate chemistry with her supporting characters. Mekhi Phifer also furnishes a strong, convincing image of Odin.Perhaps O doesn't fully exceed it's potential. It doesn't develop such possible themes as racism or one-sidedness. While creating a strong message on keeping friends close, but enemies closer, the film fails to examine a handful of themes that would have made the powerful, tragic conclusion even more effective.O was originally completed in 1998, but because of the recent violence in real life high schools, the studios were uncertain about it's content and rescheduled its release date numerous times. Maybe these actions say something about the movie's impact and how influential it may become. In that case, why wait to release O if the message is something today's teens need to witness, both to inform them on Shakespeare and to demonstrate the dangerous results of envy and jealousy.  "},{"Title":"Likeable remake of Shakespeare's Othello.","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This was generally a good film, well above average but no where near great. It definitely highlights the theme of 'Everything comes full Circle,' which the Title 'O,' implies. It also concentrates on minor themes such as racism and exploits the human emotions of jealousy and love and how it is such a tender thing which can be easily manipulated. It also portrays how dangerous love is ... as we understand that if Odin didn't really love Desi he wouldn't have gone to such extremes when he discovered her 'betrayal.'Most of the acting was mediocre at best. I am surprised that Julia Stiles (playing Desi Brable) played an important character but had little screen time, her character Desi was also a little nondescript (compared to Shakespeare's version of her character, Desdemona, who is much more interesting and expresses the virtues of goodness and honesty much more effectively). Elden Henson, Andrew Keegan and Rain Phoenix (Roger Rodriguez, Michael Cassio and Emily respectively), playing supporting roles also gave mediocre performances, I found Rain Phoenix especially poor in parts. Mekhi Phifer (Odin James) and Josh Hartnett (Hugo Goulding) give superb performances, both expressing their characters effectively with great skill.Of course adapting the script from Shakespeare's play would've been difficult but for a better version of Shakespeares' Othello the pace of the film should've been slower and should have concentrated more on the character's and their feelings...this film actually seemed to focus more screentime on action more than it should've...or needed to.However the tragic tale was efficiently portrayed and extremely well delivered, it's an enjoyable film. The ending was also quite sad and was worthy of the build-up during the film. The tragedy of how Odin was twisted by Hugo into destroying the one thing he truly loved was sickeningly realised. Overall a nice film in its own way.Watch it! You won't regret it, but in my opinion, some parts of the film could've been much better.- Milla.  "},{"Title":"Modernized Shakespeare at its best","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The high point of O is that its probably the best modern adaptation of Shakespeare to date.  However, given competition such as 10 Things I Hate About You, its not much of a compliment.  Baz Luhrman's Romeo and Juliet was a wonderfully artistic movie, but keeping the original dialogue, a risky premise from the outset in a modern background, harmed the flow of the movie, making it seem incongruous.  O gets it right, adapting modern language to emphatically convey emotion.  For those who haven't picked up on it by now, O is a modernization of Shakespeare's Othello.O is Odin James(Mekhai Phifer), the protagonist, whose good intentions and tragic flaws work against him when provoked.  James' fame comes from his incredible prowess on the basketball court.  Odin is a knockout NBA prospect and the center of attention wherever he goes, and seems to have everything, including the dean's daughter as his girlfriend, Desi(Julia Stiles).  The glory bestowed upon Odin draws ferocious envy one of his friends, Hugo(Josh Hartnett), who plots a scheme playing on Odin's jealous nature to break Odin and Desi up and, in the process, give him some sense of satisfaction.  The story that ensues is stellar (naturally, as it is based off of one of Shakespeare's best works).  But, as Othello is a tragedy, O can only come to a tragic end...I felt the emotional prescence in this movie much more than I expected to, much more than I would have had had the movie toned its violence and sexual imagery down to snag a more desirable PG-13 rating.  Phifer is very convincing in his role as Odin, especially in the dunk contest and the sex scene with Julia Stiles, breathing a murderous rage into a character tragically bound to demise despite his better efforts and honesty.  His presence drives the movie, his raging jealousy a brash contrast with Hugo's cool and ruthless methods of deception.I was very pleased that the issue of race wasn't expounded upon in the movie (as I expecting when I saw the first preview).  It holds true to Shakespeare's original intention, which pictures Othello as a Moor, a person with a strange fasion of dress and appearance.  I don't believe Shakespeare meant to make an issue or a statement on race in Othello, and, despite what I'm sure was a juicy temptation, the writers hold true to this, except for one comment Odin makes, which makes sense.  To ignore the issue would be foolish if making a true modernization of the play, but it never becomes a main focus of the film.  The only thing I would change is to not make Hugo such a sympathetic character.  Iago (Hugo's counterpart in Othello) was an insanely evil character, with little reason to feel a bit of pity or sympathy for his deeds and his motives.  Hugo's father clearly neglects his own son's well-being in deferrence to Odin, an important plot element in O that is absent from Othello, making Hugo much more pitious than Iago.  Also, some of the scenes felt a bit rushed.  Other than this, I highly recommend this movie to anyone who can handle it; some of the scenes are very intense.  I gave it an 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Very true to the original","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Many have commented on what a remarkable performance the young actors give in this riveting movie. I would like to add that it is stunning how closely the director follows the original Othello. Except for updating the language a bit and moving the action to a South Carolina prep school, the story is virtually unchanged. Even some of the dialog mimics the original. Take special note of what Hugo and Odin say as the movie's climax progresses It is nearly identical to what Shakespeare wrote.It's such a great introduction to the Bard that I'm using O in my humanities class. "},{"Title":"Othello in South Carolina","Date":"25 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Tim Blake Nelson trying his hand at directing decided to tackle a classic Shakespeare play, Othello. With the help of his adapter, Brad Kaaya, they transferred Venice to South Carolina with mixed results. Mr. Nelson, being an actor himself, got great readings from his mostly young cast.Bringing Shakespeare to locations other than where the plays were set, presents an unusual challenge for whoever undertakes the risk. In this case, the action occurs in a small prep school in South Carolina where the emphasis is thrown to the basketball team and its star. Odin James, the role based on Othello, the Moor of Venice, is the main attraction at the basket ball court. Odin, who is black has fallen in love with Desi, or Desdemona, the fair young woman who loves him in return. When Odin selects Michael to be his right hand man at the court, Hugo, the envious son of Coach Goulding, resents being bypassed and begins to plot what to do to get back at O. The film follows the machinations of Hugo who succeeds in creating a doubt in O by poisoning his mind with tales of deceit and betrayal from both Michael and Desi. That makes Hugo scheme a plan to get rid of his rival, but he can't see what his lies have done to O's soul and the ultimate tragedy this careless young man will bring to his family and to the school.Mikhi Phifer is good as the tormented Odin, the star of the game who is going to go far because of his natural talent for the game. Julia Stiles, an intelligent presence in anything she does, is effective as the young Desi, whose only fault is having fallen in love with Odin. Josh Harnett, on the other hand, seems to be miscast as Hugo, who is the Iago of the real play. Andrew Keegan is good as Michael. Martin Sheen, John Heard, Rain Phoenix and Elden Henson, are the most prominent figures in the cast.Tim Blake Nelson shows an affinity for directing. Maybe his new projects will give him an opportunity in which to shine better. "},{"Title":"Uhh... was that supposed to be sad at the ending? Or were we allowed to laugh? Because I did.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"12 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A little advice to the director, STOP WITH THE SOAP OPERA!!! I know that Shakespeare stories are very sad and depressing but for God's sake! It was so over dramatic. You don't feel for the characters. You think that two of the main characters are asses. And you think that the girl is very insincere. The ending isn't sad, because (I hate to say this about Josh Hartnett, sorry Josh!) but BAD ACTING!!! Even though I'm a fan of Josh Hartnett and saw this movie because he was in it, I just thought this was a bad pick. And maybe O should of concentrated on getting things straight with his girl then getting even. Especially when he hasn't asked other friends and seeing if she was cheating or suspected of it. So, I believe that Shakespeare is not going to be proud. Good luck to Mekhi, Josh, and Julia. Because I know you could do better.4/10 "},{"Title":"Trust. Seduction. Betrayal. Everything comes full circle. Oh what a bad film this is!","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a good film, although heaven only knows it wanted to be. There are so many aspects that are just not up to scratch here, the acting, the characters, the script (especially the plot) and direction, which is as bad as I have seen in a movie in a longtime. O is based on Shakespeare's play called &#145;Othello', but after seeing this film and not liking it, I would rather read Shakespeare or see this story on Broadway, because at least then I would know I might be seeing something better than this garbage.In the elite private school of Palmetto Grove, Odin &#145;O' James is the only black student. He is a NBA hopeful, possessing the talent to go straight from high school to the pros. O is also dating the prettiest girl in the school, Desi Brable. They are the envy of all their friends &#150; having found a love that is deep, honest and pure. O's best friend, Hugo, is on the same basketball team and the son of Coach Duke Goulding. Hugo has been asked by his father to look out for O but, in reality, Hugo is seeking to destroy the very person he pretends to befriend. As his jealousy of O increases, so does Hugo's determination to bring him down. He has a plan, a dark scheme to destroy O and using every conceivable, wicked ploy, he may just do it.The makers of this film cannot avoid getting a spray from me in this review. Director Tim Blake Nelson, did what I would say was an ordinary job in directing &#145;O'. Some of his choices as camera shots are not at all clever or convincing, and the movie has a very &#145;stop/start' flow that makes it difficult to watch. Nelson needed to look at how Roger Kumble delicately put together Cruel Intentions, because that movie was cleverly directed.However Blake is not the only one who will be getting a serve from me about this film. The screenplay for this film was written by Brad Kaaya and was not as good as it could have been. I like how movies try to use legendary stories from many generations ago, such as Shakespeare, but for some reason this screenplay was just not up to the mark. The plot to the film is just not good enough, as it does not make much sense at many stages, especially at the end. Another bad side to it was the characters developed for the story, such as O and Hugo, who are characters I did not like.Which leads me to the acting in this film. O (Mekhi Phifer) is a guy at the start of the movie that we can see is a huge basketball talent and has a great girlfriend, Desi. Then halfway through the movie this guy turns nasty and from where I viewed it, for no apparent reason, other then listening to the evil plans of Hugo. I do not want to give the whole film away, but there is a scene with O that could have been ok if the film did not over do it. O is going through an NBA trial, which he shows to be a breeze, then after it, he decides to do something that was not very creative, destroying the scene for me. Desi (Julia Stiles) is a very nice girl placed in a situation that is not very good. But for some reason even her character is hard to understand, as some of her lines are just down right silly and/or corny. From my sources, I heard Stiles did this movie, because of her love for Shakespeare, which is fine. But how blind can this girl be? I mean the script for this film was not up to the standard of some of her other work she has done (like 10 things I hate about you and Save the last dance), a great shame.   Then there is Hugo, played by my best mate (Josh Hartnett). His role once again is not very good. What do people see in this guy? The way he looks is not very convincing, as he continues to look like a little boy in over his head. I have seen him in a few roles where he is the good guy, and I have not liked him. Seeing him as a bad guy here, would you believe, I think is even worse. Another criticism of Hartnett from me is the way he speaks in both his acting and in voice-overs (that were disgraceful!) in this film. To me, Josh sounds like he is &#145;whispering', just not good enough.There are some very distressing scenes in this film, like I have never seen before. O and Desi have a very strange sex scene that I did not find the least bit arousing. You have the sequence at a basketball match where Roger (Elden Henson) is totally harassed and ridiculed, by Michael (Andrew Keegan) and a friend, which is very hard to watch. I know what that guy felt like. Then to top it all of, Hugo's crazy plan is one of the worst parts of a film that I have ever seen. It is unusual, awkward and gut wrenching, especially what we see O do to poor Desi, not pleasant at all.    I am the least bit sorry for being harsh towards this film, as it deserves every bit of criticism it gets. I was hesitant to watch the film and in a way I am glad I did, as I now know how bad it is. I recommend people stay away from &#145;O', instead watch &#145;Cruel Intentions' or &#145;10 things I hate about you', which are much classier movies. Finally this movie has left me with a somewhat bitter taste in my mouth, when it comes to friends and relationships. I know I will be careful choosing both sorts of people in the future. CMRS gives &#145;O' 0   "}{"Title":"Pure garbage.","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie had potential to be good. Instead of Othello being the military captain of Venice, he's the star player on a basketball team named Odin. Okay, acceptable, and a sweet name. Michael (Cassio) is invited to share in Odin's VIP award instead of Hugo (Iago), which makes him angry, and he plans to break Odin and Dessy (Dezzy? Desi? Whatever, Desdemona) with Roger (Roderigo). This is typical, this is what I expected not creative whatsoever, but still acceptable. Unfortunately, they ruined it by trying very hard to make it edgy. If you are like me and hated 10 Things I Hate About You, you will hate this movie more. The insufferable Julia Stiles is back as Desi and ruins yet another perfectly good Shakespearian character. Desdemona is supposed to be sweet and innocent, not another Godforsaken feminist nuisance. Hugo is boring, typical my parents don't pay attention to me at home cut cut cut r-tard who does drugs and swears. Michael is an incredibly unlikable wimp. Emily is weirdly ugly and looks about forty years old and has negative personality. The only, and I repeat ONLY, good thing in this entire movie is Odin. His acting is pretty decent, he is very emotional, and his facial expressions are excellent. At least there was one good actor in this movie. The problem is the horrible jumping from scene to scene every ten seconds, which is more annoying than it sounds, and all the characters' initial charm in the play is completely gone. I find myself looking forward to everyone getting murdered because they are all so unlikable. ESPECIALLY Desi. Stiles is probably the worst actress to ever exist, and the fact that she is constantly given the same stupid roles to play only emphasize that fact. However, when Desdemona is supposed to tell her father that she loves Othello, she simply says We've been dating for four months daaaad GAWD it's none of your business even though I'm sleeping with him and greet him by taking my clothes off ever since we started dating. She doesn't even LOOK at Odin in the movie, it makes the audience feel like their relationship is purely physical. In short, all the characters were ruined except Odin/Othello, the acting is atrocious, they screwed up the story, and almost ruined the entire play for me like The Taming of the Shrew was prior to this. Avoid this garbage at all costs. "},{"Title":"impressive    ****1/2(out of five)","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Oh I loved O!!!! when i bought this movie on DVD i was so afraid that it wont be amusing as expected, but after i finished it i repeated it from the beginning and i started watching it again! i thought it would be a regular coll cruel teen-movie when i saw the trailer just like the classic CRUEL INTENTIONS but i found that its so dark so tragic and v.well directed. this movie gives a new meaning for teen-movies, it shows that teen-movies doesnt have to be stupid and simple like the flops SHE'S ALL THAT, BOYS AND GIRLS nor 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU. the performances were more than appealing specially for Josh Harnett although i know the Othello story quite well and certainly the ending i was so touched by the ending. i am impressed "},{"Title":"Career-Making Performances Make O A Winner","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  	Jealousy can drive someone to extreme lengths.  A constant theme in literature and in film, no matter how extreme it is, it always hits close to home because everyone is jealous of someone or something.  Such extreme jealousy is the subject of O, a suspenseful high school drama based on Shakespeare's Othello (which I'm not familiar with, so I'm uncertain how faithful O is to its source) and was held back from release for over a year following the Columbine shootings, at a time when everything that involved teenagers and violence was censored in the paranoid American media.  Thankfully, the film was not shelved permanently, as such would be a great loss to the art of film.	Any drama relies heavily on the cast to make it believable, and O sports what was easily the best teen cast as well as one of the best casts overall in 2001.  Mekhai Phifer is one to watch (though he isn't as typecast in teen roles as the other leads) as Odin, the betrayed, and the most real character in the movie.  Unsure of who to trust, and played for a fool by his devious jealous friend Hugo (Josh Hartnett), one feels his disparity and paranoia.  Less than a week after seeing (and trashing) him in the horrid 40 Days and 40 Nights, Josh Hartnett redeems himself and shows that, given the right character, his relative coldness and stoic nature can work well; O is without a doubt his best performance, and hopefully this has opened an opportunity for him away from awful bubble gum romance flicks.  The final lead liberated from teen-movie hell is Julia Stiles' Desi, who is just as confused and angry as Phifer's Odin.  The pair has some chemistry at the beginning, but when the lies and allegations arrive the two ignite.	The film's setting in a prep school in the Carolinas adds much to the character's conflicts, particularly Odin's.  As the only African-American in a Southern private school, another layer to his character is that he still has to contend with proving himself against racism, and his interracial relationship with Desi may still cause controversy in some viewing circles.  As a spoiled rich teen, Hugo is that much more angry when he doesn't get what he wants and is overshadowed by Odin, particularly in his father (the coach of the team)'s eyes.  The sense of privacy and secrecy that a prep school instills in an audience (at least an audience that doesn't attend one) adds even more to the suspense and the complicatedness of Hugo's elaborate plan.	The plan is elaborate, complex, and cold-hearted is relatively easy to follow and unexpected at the same time.  It all fits together perfectly, with only one minor plot hole (what happens to the school mascot?) and one unnecessary detracting character (the drug dealer who appears in a couple scenes without connection to any of the characters).  As it steadily and seamlessly unfolds and the plot thickens, it becomes more amazing that someone like Hugo could even exist and feel so strongly as to commit such despicable acts.  Yet the whole time, Hugo is cool and collected, and his plan never leaves the bounds of realism.  It's powerful, and a terrible vision of the most intimate relationships forced apart in the name of jealousy.	O is one of those rare movies that can take a cast of hot teen faces and really make them shine in a well-written, well-acted film that they can be proud of when they outgrow teen idolatry.  It may turn off their prime audiences, but it shows the rest of us what they are truly capable of if given the opportunity, and with this cast, it is hoped they can be paired with such an excellent, challenging film again. "},{"Title":"Very Good Modern Version of Othello!!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Okay I'm going to make this short and clear something up.  Before I went to see this movie I read ALL the comments on this page for it.  I don't know what half of you were thinking.  'O' was a very good movie with a strong cast and a good plot.  All I have to say is if you see the commercial/trailer and you think it looks good then go see it.  DON'T listen to the people who say it's a horrible move because it isn't inappropriate and disturbing like those other people said it was. "},{"Title":"crap","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Delmar from O brother directs this takeoff on Othello, perhaps the 1000th movie remake of this story. Newer directors are always trying to make this story into a movie about contemporary suburban white high schools because they can work some soft core scenes of a black kid and a white girl in erotic situations, some rap music, and present the concept of the 'noble black savage' as a modern hero. If you missed this derivative piece of garbage, wait about ten minutes and some other new movie director will make another 'Othello' ripoff. Let this concept die. This whole concept of translating Shakespeare into contemporary themes degrades Shakespeare and doesn't do anything for the literacy of most public high school youth who cannot read and are more interested in hip hop, drugs, guns and short pants wide enough to stuff a bicycle into. "},{"Title":"To modern","Date":"22 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I really disliked this movie...even though this movie was targeted for my generation( i am 15) I was really disappointed. Compared to the movie Othello starring Lawrence Fishburne, Irene Jacobs and Kenneth Branagh, O was the all to popular basketball tale of rivalry. If you know Skakespeare's powerful play Othello, you will know that this move only implied basic concepts such as jealousy...THATS IT!! Even though it was created to draw young readers to Shakespeare's work, i fell that it didn't because it barely stuck to Shakespeare's Main idea. All that cursing was extremely unnecessary and that sex scene was bordering NC 17. I'm not a goody two shoe..but i believe that if it isn't necessary..KEEP IT OUT!! If you want to see Shakespeare's Othello in film, see the 1995 version with Lawrence Fishburne, and leave this film for unrefined movie viewers "},{"Title":"A few flaws don't destroy the film.","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  `When devils will the blackest sins put on,/They do suggest at first with heavenly shows,/As I do now.'I'll get right to the point here `Othello' is my favorite Shakespeare play.  Trying not to compare `O' with `Othello' is almost impossible.  I would hazard to guess, though, that the majority of the people in the audience who saw this film with me have not read the play, from their gasps of shock at the `surprise' twists.  I think they enjoyed the film quite a lot, and good for them, because there is quite a lot to like about the film.  Here I am mostly thinking of Mekhi Phifer (Odin), Julia Styles (Desi), and Josh Hartnett (Hugo), who turn in astonishingly good performances.  I will get to those nice things in a moment, however, because there are a couple of things I want to point out that made the film difficult for me to enjoy.Firstly, I would like to address the poster for the film.  The poster is, essentially, Josh Hartnett's beautiful face in the top left quadrant, Julia Styles' beautiful face in the top right quadrant, and a tiny little Mekhi Phifer at the bottom, holding a basketball and framed in a large &#145;O'.  This may not be important to the overall enjoyment of the film, but to me, it left a bad taste in my mouth.  Hugo and Desi are not linked romantically in the film (rather, it's Desi and Odin), but they take up about half the poster.  Meanwhile, Odin (the title character) is small and greatly overshadowed.  Now, I thought long and hard about why the poster designers and producers would have done this, and I came to the conclusion that it's because Phifer is black and Styles and Hartnett are white, and, naturally the studio can't put a handsome black man and a beautiful white girl together on the poster.  This kind of attitude is extremely upsetting, and if anyone could clear this matter up for me, it'd be greatly appreciated.  Otherwise, I stand by my diagnosis.Another minor problem that I have with the film centers around the character of Hugo.  Now, Josh Hartnett did an extremely good job portraying the character, and I was very impressed with his acting skills.  I repeat I am NOT putting down Hartnett's performance.  Having said that, I thought that Hugo was a little too sympathetic for my liking.  Iago hates Othello simply  because he chose Cassio instead of him as lieutenant, and this small slight sets him on the quest to ruin the lives of both men.  Hugo, however, is a kid who's underappreciated by his basketball coach dad (Martin Sheen, an actor's actor), and overlooked by his buddy Odin at the MVP ceremony for a mere sophomore.  He's jealous of anyone with more talent than him, which fits Odin to a T.  This basically puts him in the `teenager who's so hard done by' category, and this makes him too sympathetic, especially to teenagers.  After all, what teenager isn't underappreciated by their parents?  What teenager doesn't feel like no-one's paying attention to them?  Instead of being a twisted, Machiavellian villain, Hugo is the High School kid pushed too far and out for revenge.  I would prefer the near-perfect evil of Iago to the misunderstood Hugo any day.Having made these two points, I did quite enjoy the film (even though it may not have appeared so in my previous two paragraphs).  The three main young actors (Phifer, Styles, and Hartnett) put out terrific performances, and there is great screen chemistry between both Phifer & Styles and Phifer & Hartnett.  Martin Sheen is great to watch as a basketball coach on his way to a coronary, Rain Phoenix nails the character of Emily, and even the underused John Heard (as the Dean) adds a few subtle touches.  Tim Blake Nelson's direction is quite commendable, and there are a couple of very creative cinematography tricks; I especially liked the scene where Hugo and his father talk in his office and the camera slowly pans forward in through the window.The film addresses many themes (racism, jealousy, distrust, pride), and although it doesn't take a stand on any of them, the film moved at a good pace and kept the plot as convincingly twisted as it needed to be.  All in all, it was a good movie, exciting if you haven't read the play, and an interesting interpretation of the story if you have.  7/10  "},{"Title":"low-quality modernization","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" First of all, the makers of O were a little overzealous in being true to the original story Othello (as even the title will attest). I'm a purist by nature, but making the story totally identical yet throwing in so many modernisms to it made it confusing. The acting wasn't great at all (how they got Martin Sheen...it's only to his folly, I guess), the sex was ridiculous (were they even trying to convince the audience it was more than simulated?), and well, such a dismal story is not at all worth retelling in the first place. Don't see it -- if you must see something then catch Fishburne and Branagh in the film version of the original Shakespearean story. "},{"Title":"A poor and stereotyped conversion","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" 'O' is a terrible conversion of 'Othello'. It attempts to update the classic tragedy of jealousy with modern high school drama, but comes off as sensationalist and overblown instead of gripping and traumatic (well, traumatic to watch, maybe).Basically, it is predicated off the notion of a failed romance between a black high school basketball star and a white blonde girl (Christina Ricci) who the Iago-figure likes too. From there, it degenerates into every newspaper headline about violent teens toting pistols, ready to kill at the drop of a hat. The whole movie feels ridiculous and contrived. The best part? In the trailer, there's a great song (The Cult's Painted on my Heart), but it's not in the movie. Oh, well! 3/10. Don't see it. Go out and see 'Othello' instead. "},{"Title":"One of 2001's best teen movies, very good","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O did it- it made a modern Othello without sucking.  The hip hop theme makes it seem more realistic, too.  The acting is good, but some of the dialogue  was cheesy.  Though when the drama and suspense hits, it hits hard (the sex scene!).  I almost gave this movie an A-; it's a gem that all teens should see (unless they cant stand rap). B+, 8/10 "}{"Title":"Dry Welles","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This was eagerly awaited by this Shakespeare-in-film buff--Julia was a remarkable Ophelia in a very impressive recent Hamlet. That Hamlet translated very cleverly and appropriately to modern teen culture. Hamlet and his friends as film students! The Ghost behind the play within the play as senior playwright Sam Shepard (while his wife was triumphing in Titus)! Her box of remembrances is an image I will possibly take to my grave.--She was also in a tolerable, but uninspired teen `Shrew.' That makes three teen Shakespeare films in three years. This is no accident, and possibly the sign of that rare species an intelligent young actress. (Really, name one.) And that she was picked by Mamet for a role says a lot.--In her `Save the Last Dance' where she played opposite a black, she completely out hiphopped him. More black than black; I wondered what we would see here, where it could matter.--T B Nelson was in `O Brother,' and with Turturro played just the type of self-reference that Shakespeare uses in Othello, and Turturro did in his own `Illuminati.' These two were so sympatico and intelligent, I just knew he'd do something amazing given this and his past directorial ambitions.--Everyone in the film world knows Welles' Othello, one of the greatest films of all time. With that frame, surely something interesting would result.But we have a miss here. The conception is all wrong. The core idea in the play is an honest man destabilized by treachery. Its important to know how easily destabilized one can be with words, while at the same time Shakespeare pummels us with his own words intent on scaring the bejeesus out of us by tweaking our own souls.Alas, no words here worth listening to. No risk to our own beings. Without risk, there's no Shakespeare, no greatness.Othello was in an honored position because he met the Venetians on their own terms and excelled. Odin excels at the black man's game, a completely trivial part of life. He was sought out by the authorities to win games. We are led to believe he is a poor student and not intrinsically charismatic.So when he is destabilized, we have no reason to think it's not just a case of lowclass dumb jock who's been dissed. The Moor in Elizabethan context was well before the modern notion of `rascism.' The bigotry would have been anti-Catholic. some anti-Jew, and in this study making more fun of the effete Italians than anyone African. He would have been exotic, puzzling. Casting the Moor as Shakespeare's most human character is the equivalent of modern science fiction, shifting the center enough away from the familiar to exaggerate the point. Placing the Moor in the racist US deliberately runs the risk of reducing him to a stereotype, washing all the humanity away. The incessant rap track and the basketball context drive that home. Othello is noble but Odin is a nonentity.Maybe it would have worked if that racist Strom Thurmond was more explicitly cited. Ms. Rain Joan of Arc Phoenix (Bonanza Jellybean) is the best part. Hated to see her shot. "},{"Title":"This movie stole two hours of my life","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I hate Julia Styles, I hate Josh Hartnett, I hated the acting, I hated the soundtrack, I hated the adaptation (I'm sure Shakespeare would have as well)...and I got into the theatre for free.  Othello was not written as a vehicle for teen pop idols and therefore should not be used that way. "},{"Title":"Some things are best left un-adapted","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Shakespeare's works have been updated for the big screen numerous times. From MacBeth to Ten Things I Hate About You, filmmakers have tried to turn his masterpieces of stage writing into great films.  Some succeed.  Some others, however, turn out like O. If my girlfriend hadn't held my arm as I tried to stand up, I would have left the theater about 40 minutes into this unbearable adaptation.  Okay, fine, the filmmaker tried to stay as true to Shakespeare's original plot and characters as possible.  That alone is admirable.  But when you realize that staying true to the original play prevents you from making a decent movie, wouldn't you just move on to a different project?  Say, one that doesn't seem contrived and trite the entire time? I know we live in an age of teen angst and insecurity (heck, every age is probably such) but how are we supposed to believe that a jealous teenager (Hugo) would embark on such a manipulative mission of sneakiness, and find the willing help of a conveniently placed red-headed geek who is willing to do his bidding?  He launches his plot by manipulating people to do things to upset other people.  Hugo tells his friend Michael that Michael can get back in good favor with their friend Odin by getting closer to Odin's girl.  Um, okay.  That makes sense to me.  If I hang out with his girl more, Odin will understand that I really want to be his friend.  A character that dumb deserves to be shot. Again, maybe in Shakespeare's original play, this kind of plotting and scheming didn't seem so far fetched.  Maybe it sounds better when it's soldiers and dukes and princesses and slaves that are battling for affection and speaking their lines in Shakespeare's eloquent dialect.  But it transferred poorly to this modern adaptation. And I got the feeling that not one of the actors was ever doing more than reciting lines.  I never felt they were acting.  I never thought Julia Stiles was anybody but Julia Stiles.  Odin was just Mekhi Pfifer.  And Josh Hartnett was just horrible.  And it felt like the director slept through the whole process. I can proudly say that this is the worst movie I've seen all summer (and that's a summer that includes debacles like Planet of the Apes and Pearl Harbor).  It should have been left alone in its classic setting, with its classic dialogue, and its classic characters.  I believe there is such a version out there somewhere, starring Laurence Fishburne.  That must be a much better experience, but I wouldn't expect all you MTV junkies to watch anything with stars that are over 28 years  old. "},{"Title":"Superfluous","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Well, what is the point of this movie ?This attempt to translate Orthello into modern times completely failed, because they didn't even tried.Unlike in DeCaprio's 'Romeo and Julia', the texts are modern, and the whole environment is completely modern. But all the original motives and actions remained the same, which was very absurd.For example, which modern father would get angry if his daughter gets a boyfriend ?This made the experience of watching the movie a very strange experience free of any real surprises. "},{"Title":"Pathetically stupid","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is one of the worst I have ever seen.  I consider it a waste of money and time.  The story itself had really little point, and the 10 minute sex-scene made it a stomach turning, revolting nightmare.  I suggest to anyone that is considering seeing this, to spend their money elsewhere--a spare toilet seat would be more useful.   "},{"Title":"Just Plain Disturbing and Horrible","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  No offense to director Nelson whom I loved in his performance in O Brother, Where Art Thou, but this film is absolutely horrible.  As a modern day version of Othello, it disturbingly depicts teenagers as selfish, drunken, drugged out morons who fight and become terribly obsessed with frivolity. The film starts extremely slow and only begins to pick up once all the killing and backstabbing comes around.  Though I can appreciate the attempt at making it an artist, modern day version, what is depressing most of all about this idiotic display is how it just craps upon the beauty and tragedy that was the original. As a 23 year veteran of stage and a writer, I am personally offended for all my fellow thespians who will be duped into seeing this menagerie of empty characters, beyond reality situations, and dumbed down and hopeless look at today's teenagers.  Believe me, I once was a teacher and have seen how bad, not all, but a lot of teens can be. But this film takes it to a whole new level.  I understand what the writer was attempting to do, but there cannot possibly be any way that the young generation today that will see this film will understand it.  Most will be going to see it's leads Josh Hartnett and Julia Stiles.  The writer, however, seems to fantasize with the idea that anyone who sees this will see it's parallel and meaning.  All I could see was drawn out, unnecessary violence, drug abuse, alcohol abuse, and sexuality that I found myself cringing at the thought people will be spending their hard earned money to see this filth.  Don't get me wrong, I am no stiff or goody-two-shoes to say the least.  It's just that film makers today have to draw the line somewhere and it's clear that the film makers with O missed the line completely and practically mocked it.  And to make sure you know I can validate my thoughts and opinions, I spent an hour after the film ended in a Q & A session with the director.  His intentions were clear and sincere.  But I highly doubt anyone who was involved in the creative aspects of this film took more than 5 seconds to step back and look at it as a whole nor did they spend much more time trying to empathize with how ALL the individuals who will see this will take it or feel about it.  I DO NOT recommend this film.  If you are a parent, don't take your kids to see it just because you think you are being responsible chaperones.  Go see it for yourself, if that is what it takes.  I say just leave it to die at the box office where it should leave the heartless investors in debt and regretting their ridiculous attempts at having a piece of the proverbial Hollywood pie.  No one should benefit from this disgusting picture and I hope those who waste their money finding out for themselves will finally realize that Shakespeare + modern day + teenagers is a miserable combination.These are the things most specifically disturbing  A long, drawn out sex scene that eludes to rape; blatant and unnecessary drug use; the lack of rounding out or providing reason to become passionate about the characters, and the horrible adaptation of a timeless masterpiece.SAVE YOUR MONEY AND TIME! "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Wow, that was one crap-tastic movie.  The script was trite, the actors were not entertaining, and I just had a bad feeling sitting through this movie. That was 8 bucks I could of spent on a piece of rope to hang myself... I'm sure it would of been more entertaining.  It's a good thing Shakespeare is dead because if he wasn't he'd be p***ed off right now.  "},{"Title":"A Stimulating and Fast Paced Film","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O was a good teen film that comes out fast and ends up out in excitement. The story is about a frustrated teen (Josh Hartnett) who plays basketball with a star athlete,O (Mehki Phieffer) who's got everything, his entering in college basketball and the most popular girl in highschool, starts a plan to ruin O's life. Everything suddenly starts happening bad for O's life and everything then crumbles. The movie was very fascinating and everything in the film didn't make you bored because everything was stimulating and fast paced. There was some flaws in acting but it was still alright. The film is good and I highly recommend it.Hedeen's outlook 8/10 *** B  "},{"Title":"Odin","Date":"3 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" 2001 saw yet another Shakespeare adaptation starring Julia Stiles. Tim Blake Nelson directed Stiles, Mekhi Phifer, and Josh Hartnett in the prep school version of Othello. Tough coaching and the emergence of star Odin James has lead the Hawks to a winning season and led to a season of disappointment for the coaches overshadowed son, Hugo. Isolation takes center stage in this modern-day adaptation of a Shakespeare classic.Odin James (Mekhi Phifer), star basketball player of the Hawks, is a standout as a black athlete in his predominately white prep school. The world is his oyster as the Hawks keep winning, he is dating the most popular girl in school, Desi (Julia Stiles), the headmaster's daughter, and is being scouted to play professional basketball. to top it all off, Odin is then named M.V.P. of the basketball team. Odin decides to share this honor with Michael (Andrew Keegan). Feeling overshadowed on the honor he feels deserving of; driven by envy at the declaration of love his basketball coach father Coach Duke Goulding (Martin Sheen) expresses for Odin, Hugo (Josh Hartnett) Stages an elaborate scheme to bring about the demise of the star. Creating an elaborate scheme involving the manipulation of everyone around him, Hugo sets out to bring Odin's life crashing down.The music was a central actor in this film. Playing on the racial divide within the school, the lyrics of the songs used highlight the critical racial issues playing out on-screen. As always, my favorite part of any Shakespeare adaptation is the allusions to the original, or other Shakespeare works in the film. In O, Shakespeare was being taught in literature class, and Hugo was often seen playing chess, as referenced in the play. The acting was pretty well-done considering the young cast, and I found the story engaging and exciting. Overall, I thought this was a great modern-day adaptation of Shakespeare's work. "},{"Title":"solid modern take on Othello","Date":"21 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Coach Duke Goulding (Martin Sheen) intends to win the championship for the mostly white boarding school Palmetto Grove Hawks. Odin James (Mekhi Phifer) is the hero while coach's own son Hugo Goulding (Josh Hartnett) is put down. Duke tells the school that he love Odin like his own son and gives him the MVP award. Odin calls out wealthy Michael Cassio (Andrew Keegan) as his go to guy. Odin is dating Dean Bob Brable (John Heard)'s daughter Desi (Julia Stiles). Jealous Hugo sets up Odin with the help of weak-minded Roger Calhoun who is in love with Desi.This is a modern day adaptation of the Shakespeare play Othello. The adaptation is not entirely smooth. There is a sense of unreality but the young cast maintains the believability. They are all quite solid in their roles. Josh Hartnett is actually good in an underhanded role which is different than his usual mind-mannered good guy roles. Phifer is brash which is appropriate. It's a solid adaptation. "}{"Title":"O Really?","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" O (2001) Dir Tim Blake Nelson / Cast Mikhi Phifer, Julia Stiles, Josh Hartnett, Andrew Keegan, Elden Henson Hits dead centre on message but flawed with its presentation as entertainment. Title is pathetically non vocal but it stands for Odin, top basketball player in high school. The coach claims to love him like a son. This doesn't impress his real son Hugo who devises a plan to derail Odin's success, with horrid results. It is a very detailed plan involving deceit and jealousy. Directed by Tim Blake Nelson who builds tension despite the many contrived moments where information is heard by just the right people. Mikhi Phifer plays Odin as a success story slowly destroyed through manipulation and eventually his own rage. Josh Hartnett plays the manipulating Hugo who will stop at nothing to prove himself superior. Julia Stiles plays Odin's girlfriend who becomes the victim of manipulation and eventually she too suffers for the crimes of others. Andrew Keegan plays a suspended player whom Hugo manipulates into hanging out with Stiles in an attempt to get Odin suspicious. Elden Henson plays a kid who is the victim of bullying until he eventually snaps. Based on the Shakespeare play Othello where the biggest strength comes from fine casting and the capitalization of hard hitting themes. The production isn't fancy but it shows how jealousy can destroy lives. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"22 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Not a good adaptation of Othello or a good movie, period. It's short at 90 minutes, but probably 30 mins is footage of mediocre high school basketball. Boring. The script is bad, although it is pretty funny to see a bunch of privileged white characters at a stuffy and prestigious prep school deliver their lines in awkward street slang. Worse, someone made the poor choice to explain away Iago's (renamed Hugo in this adaptation) motive for persecuting Othello (renamed Odin) as simple jealously due to Hugo's father's preferential treatment of Odin. This is a major deviation from the spirit of the play, where Iago is certainly jealous of Othello but also has a deeper animus that he explicitly refuses to explain, arguably making him one of Shakespeare's most evil and enigmatic villains. The portrayals of O and Desdemona are OK, but they don't rescue this movie. Also, there is a very disturbing sex scene. "},{"Title":"Great adaptation of Shakespere for Teens","Date":"11 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'd always heard that this movie is supposed to be really bad. I heard it was cheesy and simplified a more complex story. However I disagree. While some of the dialogue is cheesy,most ninety's teen movies had the same type. However I don't feel they simplified the story. If they had stayed true to the source material most people would be totally lost if they hadn't seen or read the play. Making it center around basketball instead of an army so that teens could understand the character dynamics better was a smart move. I'm 25 years old and, I don't think I know but maybe 10 people my age who could tell you what a moor is, so the overt racism in the film was as necessary. The saving grace of this film though is Josh Hartnett. While is his character could have used more development, his acting from start to finish is superb. The way his jealousy slowly creeps its way into everyone's life is a little chilling. Well that's my first ever review.... Of O lol. I nervous writing it since i hadn't don't it before and didn't wanna sound pretentious or dumb but i hope its help for some of you. "},{"Title":"Poor adaptation","Date":"15 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" How sparkling this was, to claim it as an adaptation of Shakespeare's Othello, but turns out to be a banal movie with no nuances and full of preposterous, idiotic, teenage revenge plagued with unprofessional acting and choppy dialogues. There are no depth to each character. Either they are evil beyond belief or frustratingly naive. Quit halfway of movie. If in the end all these teenagers die, I had to admit that they deserve it for their stupidity. Very, very, poor acting. So basically, the main character just become frustrated with his girl because she lost some stupid handkerchief. Then the main protagonist says he can't live without a girl. Clich indeed. How many times have we witness a movie where dumb teenagers only talk about relationship and how popular you are, and being all jealousy about each other... ha ha, and kill each other because of hackneyed matter. Tired indeed. "},{"Title":"Wow.. Has Rating Movies Gotten This Bad?","Date":"5 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I can't judge what others, and some So Called critics, use as their sole rating of movies etc.. however, for this movie to receive less than a 6 is absolute ridiculous in my opinion.This has been a great movies collection for me for a number of years. I think it is drama at it's best with an modern re-script that wasn't all that bad. As the movie really had a heart felt ending that many movies as of post 2000 fail to do. This is exactly how Shakespeare wanted viewers to feel in regards to Othello.I'm no pro on how well he or she should act in a movie, but I would say Mekhi, Josh, and Julia Stiles did a quite a dam good job on their roles with this movie.Anyhow, each to their own as to how they rate a movie. Believe it or not there are probably over 70% of movie viewers who don't give much a flick about how well a actor/actress acted but how well the movie made them felt and was the plot and ending worth the watch.There really need to be a double standard on movie ratings.. Judgement on the Acting and Judgement on the overall movie plot and ending. You must agree there have been some quite poor acting in movies that however grossed well and many watch over and over. Just my opinion. "},{"Title":"A pretty heavy film","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie a few months ago and it made quite an impact on me. This isn't your usual teenage fodder, believe me. It has it's flaws, but it's a pretty good movie with a heavy subject going for it. This movie reminded me of how malicious and cruel people can be. Odin is the focal point of this movie and Meki Phifer did an excellent job, providing the right amount of cockiness and likability. Josh Hartnett takes his acting to the next level with his manipulative and sinister performance. Martin Sheen is dependable as ever in his role. This movie disturbed me a little bit, especially the ending. It stuck with me for a while afterwords7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Update to Shakespeare?","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I guess if this was a Shakespeare interpretation then I understand why everyone in the film was stupid. Of course this is a normal plot device for Shakespeare, but speaking as a person who did not make that Shakespeare connection, I hated this movie. If you are going to update Shakespeare you have to change it so it doesn't frustrate the heck out of the audience. Everyone in this film except the deceiver was stupid, aloof, and easily deceived. So as a critique of Shakespeare, his productions cannot be updated without insulting every character in the film. It cannot be updated without asking the audience to believe that people are very easy to deceive even today. At the end of this movie I had disdain for every character. The whole movie made no sense at all, I would have turned it off about 1/4 way through it, because it was insulting. I say, update Shakespeare in a creative way, but do not insult the audience with a modern interpretation without modern sensibilities. This movie sucked, but OK, it was just Shakespeare. "},{"Title":"ridiculous","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Unfortunately, the authors of Othello were not aware of the vast differences between races, black and white. To say that a high school student would be aware of these differences is absolutely ridiculous, regardless of whether or not the kids are jealous. Blacks score, on average about 84 on IQ tests, whites 100, but are better athletes and football players. Blacks have different social norms, backgrounds, families, DNA, crime rates, you name it. The kids would become aware of this, later on. How many can say that the way they were in high school, i.e. friends, dates, was the same as when they were 21 or 31, is not true. To say that the reason Negroes do not mate with whites is jealousy is absurd. There is good reason for segregation. "},{"Title":"Depressing tragic - just like Shakespeare","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The only reason I don't give this a zero out of 10 is the fact that Julia Stiles is excellent in her role, as is Josh Hartnett. But as to being a brilliant reworking of Othello that adapts to show the dangers of teen-age violence, envy, jealousy and lust? I think not. Virtually everyone in this melodramatic update is an overdone caricature of who they play in the movie. While the bullying scenes and picking on the dweeb are accurate enough, they are followed by a succession of stupid decisions by everyone involved in the plot. Even Julia Stiles' attraction to O and his monstrous ego is annoyingly dumb, but then hey... that's the story. The interracial aspect adds nothing to the story either. As a lesson depicting the evils of teen violence, it doesn't work. There's far too much cunning for a teen ager by Hartnett's character, and far, far too much gullible idiocy by O. The only thing I took away from this movie is bad feeling in the pit of my stomach, and the thought that I am SO glad Martin Sheen was as good as he was on West Wing and won't be remembered for this disaster. "},{"Title":"O my- another stab at modernizing Shakespeare","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" After starring in 10 Things I Hate About You (1999), Julia Stiles does another movie adapting Shakespeare into a modern high school setting. This one is called O, and is based on Othello. Stiles plays a white girl named Desi who is in a relationship with Odin, a black student who wins basketball games for the school again and again. Another player, Hugo, becomes jealous and plots to tear Odin and Desi apart.A possible problem in making a movie like O is that it might be interpreted as a racist warning for white women- Ladies, if you're going to date a black guy, be prepared to accept some rape and strangling. (Odin does both to Desi; although she later denies being raped, she technically was because she told Odin to stop and he didn't). But the movie almost certainly isn't trying to promote that kind of message. Perhaps a better view is that race is a secondary issue in O and the real issues are teen jealousy, angst and violence. And that's good subject matter- after the 1999 Columbine high school shootings, teen violence becomes a more relevant issue- there should be more stories trying to tackle it. I found the concept of high school tragedy interesting, and this movie had some solid moments.Still, there are flaws. First off I'll note some of the songs used in this movie just don't fit a tragedy- it's just music that Odin might like. The song Painted On My Heart was used in this movie's brilliant trailer; it should have been used in the movie, too. Turning now to the plot, it's arguable that Odin is too easily manipulated, too quick to deteriorate. We probably don't have enough time to sympathize with him before he goes crazy- like in the rape scene. Beyond that, there are some examples of second-rate acting, like from the girl angry about getting the scarf. Sill, O is entertaining, worth seeing at least. "}{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"22 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a great example of what many movies should be about.Jelousy and Revenge were the key elements that made this movie so great and it worked to perfection. The actors were great and they performed spectacularly, especially the scene when Oden kills himself, his suicide speech was very moving and very passionate, I really did feel for him. The drug scenes were a bit too much in my opinion, I don't know what else they could have had instead of that but that is probably the only thing I did not like about the whole movie.In my opinion this would be an ideal movie for anyone to watch. It pretty much contains everything that you'd want in a movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"o","Date":"7 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The only other modern interpretation of a William Shakespeare play I know is Leo DiCaprio version of Romeo + Juliet, and then there's this one themed like a teen movie. This revamp of Othello uses all the same themes, concepts and most events, but it brings it all into the modern day and uses regular speaking language. Basically Odin 'O' James (Mekhi Phifer) is the black star of the boarding school basketball team, the Hawks, and the son of Coach Duke Goulding (Martin Sheen), Hugo (Josh Hartnett) is very jealous. He decides to make Odin doubt his girlfriend Desi Brable (Julia Stiles), the most popular girl in school, truly loves him and is going off with another guy. Hugo is willing to do absolutely anything to make his concerns look real and cause much more stress for Odin, including on the basketball court. In the end of course all the truths are revealed, at the wrong moment, after all the tragic events and all characters involved are killed, apart from Hugo who got arrested. Also starring Elden Henson as Roger Rodriguez, Andrew Keegan as Michael Cassio, Rain Phoenix (River and Joaquin's sister) as Emily, John Heard as Dean Bob Brable and Anthony 'A.J.' Johnson as Dell. The performances are all very well done, the modernisation of the story is just as good as the regular play, I've seen the Kenneth Branagh/Laurence Fishburne version, a very good teen drama. Very good! "},{"Title":"Knavery's Plain Face Is Never Seen","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" 'O' is Odin James (Mekhi Phifer), the school's star basketball player and future NBA hopeful. He has the adoration of all, including the team's coach (Martin Sheen) and Dean's beautiful daughter, Desi (Julia Stiles). Odin's troubled friend Hugo (Josh Hartnett), the coach's son is deeply resentful of his father's preference of Odin on and off the court. When Hugo plots a diabolical scheme to sow the seeds of mistrust between 'O' and Desi, it sets in motion a disturbing chain of events which erupts into a firestorm of breathtaking intensity. 'O' is a stunning tale that will stay with you long after its final, powerful frame, according to the promotional synopsis.And, like it promises O features, Hot young stars, a hip, driving soundtrack, plus a provocative tale of jealousy and betrayal combine to create this controversial modern-day version of Shakespeare's classic, 'Othello.' The Shakespearian plot is still good, after all these centuries. But, the transference of these events to a high school setting doesn't work. As a whole, the actors do not look or act between 14-18 years old; at one point, Mr. James says they're eighteen (a wise age to pick, from range available). Granted, with retention and steroids, many athletes look much older, presently - still, O doesn't balance this with age appropriate casting (or behavior).Making the age matter worse is a script which really doesn't really ring true. This story, with its controversy likely related to violent real-life teenage mass murderers, doesn't possess the degree of teen angst and alienation necessary to bring that slant to the tale. And, it doesn't fit the Othello plot.The cast and direction are very good, though&#x85; why didn't somebody suggest a college setting? ***** O (5/26/01) Tim Blake Nelson ~ Mekhi Phifer, Josh Hartnett, Julia Stiles "},{"Title":"Summary of O and How It Can Be Useful To Journalists","Date":"28 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The movie, O was directed by Tim Blake Nelson and released in 2001. O follows closely to the play, Othello, written by William Shakespeare. The movie plot is that Odin James, representing Othello, is the star of the high school basketball team and his best friend, Hugo, envies his popularity and all the attention he receives; therefore Hugo devotes his time to destroying Odin. Throughout the movie, Hugo represents the clever and sneaky antagonist from Shakespeare's play, Iago. Hugo begins to destroy Odin by first convincing him that his girlfriend, Desi is having an affair with Michael Cassio. Hugo then makes it appear true by convincing Michael to spend more time with Desi and by obtaining the scarf, an important symbol of Odin's love for Desi, and giving it to Michael. Odin is hurt and angry and follows Hugo's plan to have both Desi and Michael killed. Odin is devastated to discover he's been deceived and manipulated by his best friend and he commits suicide. In the end Odin's tragic flaws were his trust in Hugo, his assumptions and his jealousy, which all led to his downfall and demise.The major theme of O is the same as the theme in Othello appearance and reality. Throughout the movie, the audience is a witness to all reality aside to what appeared to be.Knowing the story of Othello could help a journalist by showing how important it is never to assume. Odin assumed based on what appeared to be true. Rather than checking into rumors and finding the truth, he assumed that his best friend was telling the truth. This is a good lesson to journalists because it teaches that presumptions are a substitute for researching and demonstrates that assuming leads to misfortune. "},{"Title":"Effective film of one of Shakespeare's tragedies","Date":"8 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Strange, how effective O is, despite being somewhat of a mess. Taking one of Shakespeare's plays and updating it to a contemporary high school has been done before (10 Things I Hate About You, for example, which also features Julia Stiles). But those were comedies, or if they were tragedies (like Baz Luhrmann's interpretation of Romeo and Juliet), they were made with some sort of gimmick, if you will, to distance them from reality (I guess). Here Tim Blake Nelson puts Shakespeare's tragedy Othello in a contemporary high school setting, but he leaves out any of the flair or flourishes that accompany the other attempts of doing the same. The result is a gritty, and at times highly disturbing, film.Odin James (aka O, played by Mekhi Phifer) is the star basketball player of an exclusive prep school. Resentful of O's fame, and the thankless spot that it leaves him, Hugo (Josh Hartnett) plots to ruin O's career by sowing the seeds of doubt in O regarding his relationship with Desi (Julia Stiles), the dean's daughter.The acting is solid all around. While the actors get off to a rocky start, they eventually come through. Mekhi Phifer is adequate as the jealous O, but he's outshined by Hartnett and Stiles.If you're looking for a chance to ogle Josh Hartnett, rent another one of his movies. He's too creepy here. He's rather quiet and standoffish, which is an effective way of portraying Hugo, because it makes him more frightening than if he was foaming at the mouth, or, God forbid, cackling with maniacal glee. Ditto for Stiles; while she's not creepy, this isn't an opportunity for her to play a sexy character (although she does have a steamy sex scene). Martin Sheen is too over-the-top as the coach (who is Hugo's father), but as the movie goes on, he begins to fit in with the rest of the cast.If there's any problem, it's with director Tim Blake Nelson. He broadens everything so much that it all threatens to blend together into one big soup. There's no crispness in his directing, where one would normally isolate each scene and bring it out individually (to a point). That said, the film's climax is so disturbing that it will leave a sick feeling in many people's stomachs. This is not a teen soap opera; O is as real and affecting as it gets.Nelson's directing isn't a hackjob, though. He may have over-broadened everything, but he knows what he's doing. His choice of camera angles is great, though it threatens to go overboard at some points. He uses shots of the characters at key moments where they don't speak. Because they are so expertly done, they are the most telling moments of the film.Despite its shortcomings, O is a worthwhile film, and one that needs to be seen (though it was perhaps wise that they pushed the release date back after the Columbine tragedy). "},{"Title":"The Bard's story, but not his words","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" One of the wave of teen-Shakespeare adaptations of the late 1990s/early 2000s, O resets the story of Othello among basketball players at an elite South Carolina prep school. It follows the original story very closely, changing only a few incidents in order to fit with the idea that the characters are now teenagers. For instance, now Hugo (the Iago figure, played by Josh Hartnett) is jealous of Odin (the Othello figure, Mekhi Phifer) because Hugo's dad, the basketball coach (Martin Sheen) favors Odin and ignores his own son.Unfortunately, making the characters teenagers just points up the implausibility of the story. While you could say that the amount of bloodshed and death at the end of Shakespeare's play is also hard to believe, at least those characters are military men living in a violent and patriarchal culture. It's much less credible that a modern-day prep school student could be coaxed into killing his supposedly unfaithful girlfriend.Phifer has some good moments when he depicts Odin's anguish, but isn't able to convince us that his character would so quickly resort to murder. Julia Stiles, as girlfriend Desi, is mostly weak and whiny. Hartnett overuses his furrowed eyebrows and whisper-voice to signal Hugo's dark intentions--and while handsome, he lacks the diabolical charisma necessary for this role. Indeed, the movie makes him almost sympathetic, which is problematic because then Odin seems more like a villain, the stereotypical angry black kid. The worst things about O are its heavy-handed symbolism involving birds (hawks and doves) and its laughably bad dialogue. Its strings of clichs and swear words, supposedly representing teen-speak, would be irritating in any movie, but it feels even worse since we know that O was adapted from Shakespeare. When the movie tries to rewrite Shakespeare's memorable lines, it's even more painful. Iago's famous speech denouncing the idea of reputation becomes Hugo saying Reputation, who gives a f***? So, while it was a worthy idea to try to adapt the Othello story to a contemporary setting, I doubt that the reputations of the actors, director and screenwriter have been enhanced by their participation in O. "},{"Title":"Flawed but effective re-imagining of Othello","Date":"21 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Odin James (Mekhi Phifer) is the only black student at Palmetto Grove, a private school in the Deep South. He is the star of the basketball team, is dating Desi (Julia Stiles) daughter of the school's dean, and is loved by teachers, coaches, and students. All that is, except Hugo (Josh Hartnett), the insanely jealous son of the basketball coach (Martin Sheen). Enlisting the help of hopeless outcast Rodger (Elden Hanson) and his girlfriend Emily (Rain Phoenix), Hugo launches a convoluted scheme to destroy Odin's life, convincing him that Desi is cheating on him and also turning him against best friend Mike Cassio (Andrew Keegan). Odin's jealousy eventually gets the better of him, and a tragic conclusion becomes inevitable.Adapting Shakespeare for teens is a process that generally strikes me as intellectual masturbation or pompous self-importance. The themes of Shakespeare's plays are so universal and more importantly oft-copied that claiming descent from Shakespeare seems like a desperate attempt to add class to an otherwise typical film. Luhrman's Romeo+Juliet was a loud, flashy mess, redeemed only by its lead actors. Ten Things I Hate About You and She's the Man were disposable fun but more or less interchangeable with any number of other teen flicks, and in any case bearing only tertiary relation with their source material. I'm not impressed with She's the Man claiming descent from Twelfth Night because its basic story has been done five million times since.However, O stands above these films, despite a few notable flaws, namely the ending. Tim Blake Nelson adapts what is (in my opinion) Shakespeare's greatest tragedy Othello into a modern setting with surprising skill, keeping the spirit and themes of the play intact and even adding additional layers to it.Shakespeare's play is as much about the villainous Iago as it Othello. Despite his wickedness, Iago is a sympathetic character; he is clearly a tormented man with inner demons he doesn't know how to face. In this film, Hugo has additional motivation beyond merely being passed over for promotion (or acknowledgment as MVP). His father barely acknowledges his existence, while embracing Odin as the son I never had. As despicable as Hugo's actions are, it's easy to see what would drive him to such extremes.Also added is an exploration high school caste system. Usually dealt with in a truncated and comic fashion, it is devastatingly portrayed here. Rodger, Hugo's accomplice, is the son of one of the school's contributors, but also a geek who is beat up and picked on by pretty much everyone. There is a painful scene where Cassio torments him at a basketball game until he leaves. Hugo's alienation from his team mates is also a major factor, and it's easy to see why many people thought of Columbine when the film was released. People cast out by society are likely to their revenge, and this film shows that with devastating effect.Perhaps inevitably, the movie gives more weight to Odin's race than the source material did. The film features several sex scenes, including a disturbing one at mid-point where Odin's jealous begins to take hold in the middle of coitus - a scene that is both disturbing and effective. Odin is a model student, a great player, and liked by almost everyone in spite of his race, and yet as Hugo's scheme begins he begins reverting to stereotypes - he does drugs, is violent and moody, and at the end is driven to murderous rage. Odin is a victim as much of his own demons as Hugo, and the movie does an excellent job showing that.The biggest problem with the film is the end. Although abbreviated, the movie does a good job following the original text, and the film is perfectly paced. Until the climax. The decision to reduce the last two acts into a brief montage scene was a mistake, and ruined the pacing of the film. Odin's monologue at the end justifying his actions would have been more powerful if the movie hadn't just leaped into it.The cast is uniformly solid. Mekhi Phifer is powerful as Odin; his portrayal of Odin as a victim of his own insecurities is spot-on, and he is a thoroughly believable character throughout. Josh Hartnett, whom I've never rated as much of an actor, surprised me with a powerful performance as the treacherous Hugo. Julia Stiles' part as Desi is underwritten but Stiles cannot be faulted for that, and as always her performance is top-notch. Andrew Keegan, Rain Phoenix, and Elden Hanson also create memorable characters. Martin Sheen and John Heard are effective as the two most prominent adult cast members.Despite the ending, O is definitely the best of the teen adaptations of Shakespeare. The spirit of the original play is kept intact, and the characters are adapted well into a modern context. Definitely worth a look.7/10 "},{"Title":"brilliantly played out","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A superb movie showing humans with all key emotions in life love, jealously, betrayal, trust, and envy.As a beautifully crafted modernized version of Shakespeare's Othello this movie showcases the effects of jealously and suspicion in its truest form (although taken to a much higher level). It tells the story of a promising young basketball player named Odin (Mekhai Phifer) and it is his jealousy and putting his trust in the wrong friend that is his downfall. While living the dream with his girlfriend, Desi (Julia Stiles), his close friend Hugo (Josh Hartnett) is engulfed in powerful envy and comes up with a plot to ruin Odin's plans.It is such a powerful movie and I can't help but feel sorry for all of the characters, even the twisted, heartless Hugo. The performances were stunning and I don't think a modernized version of Shakespeare's Othello could be any better. This modernized take on Shakespeare by far surpasses Romeo and Juilet. It is definitely worth the 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"Trust is the key of a great relationship","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Wow...I have never seen Josh Harnett in this role... actually he isn't so good, whatever... wanna say only, that actually I didn't enjoy the film,because there was too much violence and actually it was'nt what I have expected, but Im voting 6 because after all it was fascinated with the advice you could have after watching it.The trust is the very important thing in every relationship... people should have trust when they're in love, and the person who they love...otherwise there is no point of being in love... I actually cant imagine this in the movie to happening the real life because the people have minds, and usually they think with it...but however, I didn't sorry after watching it. "},{"Title":"Gotta see it!","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Love this movie. It does not have a happy ending, but guess what... that is the point. Often times remakes of classics go too far from the original material. O did it right. Stick to the story. Regardless of time and place, Othello and O both make for great drama. The lies and deception spun by Hugo (Iago) are amazingly crafted in any time period. I would like to see a sequel of this movie. What happens to the other characters. Or maybe a prequel. Wouldn't it be great to know how they got there. Does anyone know the writer. Tell him to get with it and write another. Oh yeah, it was Shakespeare. Well, the write who adapted it, Kaaya, tell him to do it. I'd watch any move with these characters. Good job, guys. "}{"Title":"Shakespeare's Othello set to 20th century teenage life...","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It was a quite good take on the novel, I enjoyed it. Josh Hartnett, Mekhi Pfeiffer and Julia Stiles all team up and star in the tale of Othello set to high school and modern times. I guess this was someone's idea of trying to get us younger masses into this type of literature and to make it interesting for us as well as making it make sense. I guess when we can relate to it, then it would make more sense to us? I don't necessarily agree with that theory although it did work for this movie, it didn't work for the recently 20th century juxtaposition of Hamlet in which I believe Julia Stiles also starred as Ophelia. Pfeiffer is the star athlete of his high school basketball team, and the character of Othello (duh!) and Julia Stiles plays Desdemona with such rare decent vulnerability. A must see. "},{"Title":"A bit disappointing","Date":"1 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I must admit I was a bit disappointed with this film. I had such high expectations given that it is based on the masterful Othello. I seldom feel that films are too short, but this one certainly is. The main problem is that the emotional roller-coaster that Odin experiences is not given enough time to develop. As a result, Odins change towards jealousy and rage feels a bit unrealistic. I would have liked more emphasis to be put on this part of the story so that the viewer understands more about Odin and his motives.However, on the upside, the film has some bright moments. Martin Sheen is always worth watching, Mekhi Phifer and Josh Hartnett deliver some inspiring work. The change of setting from the original play to the American south also works surprisingly well. This is worth a watch if you are a fan of modern Shakespeare adaptations, if you like to stick more to the original Shakespeare plays, you might find Al Pacino in The Merchant of Venice a more pleasant watch. "},{"Title":"A hip new way to get to know the world of Shakesphere!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I am a 14 year old girl.  I don't know of any 14 year old that enjoys listening or watching anything Shakespherian.  What drew me to the movie is of course, Josh Hartnett.  Who I must add is a wonderful actor who makes you believe that the movie is real.  Of course...how much more brilliant could a director be to make a boring old Shakesphere movie of Othello and turn it around just right to make a teen drama flick out of it.  This movie not only is good for children and teaches them a lesson, but was watched by my parents as well.  They were highly impressed with the teenagers acting throughout the film.  It gives everybody a message to stick with in your heads as you watch the film...that friendship...is the answer and to never let that die. "},{"Title":"A hip new way to get to know the world of Shakesphere!","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I am a 14 year old girl.  I don't know of any 14 year old that enjoys listening or watching anything Shakespherian.  What drew me to the movie is of course, Josh Hartnett.  Who I must add is a wonderful actor who makes you believe that the movie is real.  Of course...how much more brilliant could a director be to make a boring old Shakesphere movie of Othello and turn it around just right to make a teen drama flick out of it.  This movie not only is good for children and teaches them a lesson, but was watched by my parents as well.  They were highly impressed with the teenagers acting throughout the film.  It gives everybody a message to stick with in your heads as you watch the film...that friendship...is the answer and to never let that die. "},{"Title":"a surprisingly good film","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Engrossing, well-acted, effective modern day retelling of Shakespeare's Othello is the story of talented but bitter, jaded prep school basketball player Hugo (brilliantly played by Hartnett) who plots the destruction of popular black teammate Odin James (a commanding Phifer), by sowing the seeds to ruin the idyllic relationship between Odin and his loving, sincere girlfriend Desi (a riveting Stiles). What could easily be a familiar teen romance flick is elevated into a powerful tale of love, vengeance, and betrayal thanks to a top-notch cast and superb storytelling. The essence of Shakespeare is clearly present, especially at the finale. *** "},{"Title":"O No!","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  If you are looking to see this adaptation of Othello in an attempt toavoid reading the cliffnotes to the original play you've been sadlymisinformed. I barely recognized Shakespeare's original story inthis awful remake. The character of Odin (Othello) is reduced to anannoying stereotype, Hugo (Iago) becomes a whiney rich brat(though it isn't Josh Hartnett's fault), and Desi (Desdemona) couldhave easily been replaced with a cardboard cutout. I found myselflaughing during the 'emotionally charged' climax.  Odin's finalmonologue is embarrassing. The once interesting themesbecome cartoonish. It made me really appreciate what CruelIntentions managed to achieve. I think there is an opportunity tolearn a very valuable lesson in watching this movie - and it hasnothing to do with jealousy, envy or trust - The Lesson  Do not castJulia Stiles in anymore Shakespeare adaptations (see 10 Things IHate About You -or better yet DON'T) "},{"Title":"* * * out of 4.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  High school student (Josh Hartnett) sets off a chain of violence over his rage towards a fellow student (Mekhi Phifer) whom his father loves more and is also dating the most popular girl (Julia Stiles) in school. Josh Hartnett turns in a haunting performance while Julia Stiles is bland. Mekhi Phifer however is very commanding though. Sad finale caused plenty of uproar and long delays, but this film proved to be worth the wait. Fascinating and never boring.Rated R; Profanity, Violence, Sexual Content. "},{"Title":"A classic story...","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  but a so-so movie.  The characters are too underdeveloped. I didn't even realize Hugo was the basketball coach's son until 20 minutes into the film.  And I would like to have learned more about Desi and O's relationship and the type of trouble O had been in before he went to this school. I really liked Josh Hartnett as the evil Hugo. Hugo is just a terrible person in this.  FINAL VERDICT I liked this movie just because I liked the overall story.  But other movies tell Shakespeare's Othello better.  It's worth watching if nothing else is on.  "},{"Title":"oh come on","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  this movie wasnt great, but it is based on a shakespeare play, known as Othello.  Any shakespeare play, as appropriate and fitting as it may be, is very difficult to put into modern day terms.  Josh Hartnett did not display his best work here (believe me, hes my cousin, and he screwed up P ).  his role was not a role he can play as well as if he were another character in this movie.  what I can say is that his voice and appearance as an actor WAS fitting for this role, but not his actual acting skills...anyhoo, i think it was done decently for a shakespearean peice transformed.  Julia Stiles did alright, but than again, shes done a movie before based on a shakespearean play (see 10 things i hate about you) which wasnt that good either.  I dont feel like writing anymore. "},{"Title":"Wow..all I can say is Wow..","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ok..so I watched this movie 3 times after renting it. The first--alone and late at night--so I basically just drooled over Josh. The second--with my mom and more awake--i paid attention..and wow...Josh Hartnett (usually the hero)..plays such an evil character..it really shows his talent. With not that much of a part, he made the most convincing villian i have seen. Now, this movie is a teen movie...because teenagers star in it. And yes, it was postponed for highschool violence. But, the tale of othello could only be potrayed so well in a highschool enviorment. I attend highschool, so I know. Highschool is a violent place...full of jealousy and betrayal. Which are two major themes of this movie. Overall, each and every actor did a worthy and compelling job. I was amazed by how good it was. Because, I really don't like Sheakespeare...as classic as he is...so, therefore...I think you should really see this movie, if you haven't already...by yourself..it's one of those movies you think about for hours afterwards..plus, the ending is disturbing..I cried at the end..(probably b/c Josh's character is so evil)..but also, because this kind of thing happens in real life, and in fact, could happen in my own school.--Natalie-- "}{"Title":"Very Good movie. Very enjoyable. very shocking","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O is an amazing retelling of a Willam Shakesphere story. Set in a private high school the movie revolves around three charecters. Hugo Goulding (Josh Hartnett. Great Job), Odin James (Meki Phiefer), and Desi Brable (Julia Stiles). Extremely jealous Hugo tricks Odin that Desi is haveing an affair with fellow basketball star Michael (Andrew Keegan). Everything from that point on goes into a series of dark displays. With an extremely shocking ending Tim Blake Nelsons O will shock you and make you understand how far some people will go to get what they want. "},{"Title":"A movie for a saturday night","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was surprised when i hesitantly ordered this movie on pay per view to find that it was not as bad as i preconceived. The content is compelling and explosive, the issues and the twists, although they did not come as a surprise to me having previosly read Othello , were also surprising and have a precise way of being marvel. I was also very impressed by Julia Stiles performance although it lacked in length, she is now the queen of shakespeare adaptations as she has starred in movies such as 10 things i hate about you and hamlet. The cinemetography was very dark and captivating, creating the mood for a great tragedy, so were the characters. Mehki Phiffer did a great job of playing Odin, and Josh Hartnett, who ussually plays a heartthrob, did a great job as the villain. He exudes veangefullness in every direction. All in all, i would definatley recommend this movie as a stay home and rent or order on pay per view film.  "},{"Title":"Ambitious but flawed update of Shakespeare's Othello","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film, all an updated-for-the-times remake of Shakespeare's Othello, surprised me in that it does not fall into the Teen Movie genre that it appeared it easily could from the trailers I had seen for it.  The movie is about high school students, but aside from a few stereotypes (the popular star athlete, the nerdy bitter kid, etc.) it has more substance than style. In that way, I found it to be a very ambitious film.  What it is trying to accomplish; a well-done Shakespeare update, is a weighty task.  It succeeds in some ways and fails in others, but overall is a movie worth seeing.Josh Hartnett turns in a good performance as Hugo, who is very jealous of the star basketball player preferred by his own father as well as the rest of the school's population, Odin (played well by Mekhi Phifer).  Hugo goes on to easily manipulate others on his way to destroying Odin's world altogether.  The ending is tragic and leaves no main character untouched as it all comes to a climax.The main flaws are the script itself and the length of the film.  Julia Stiles' character (Desi Brable, Odin's girlfriend) is not well-defined, nor is her and Odin's relationship.  We don't get an idea that these two would have such strong feelings for each other.  The movie could have done with more length in this area.  It runs at a paltry 90 minutes, a little extra time building the relationship between Odin and Desi, as well as showing more of Odin's close relationship with the coach (Hugo's father) wouldn't have hurt at all.  Especially considering those two relationships are the basis for the entire story.That said, given that Hugo's whole reason for flipping out like he does is jealousy, much of it over his father's preference for Odin over him, we don't see enough evidence of his father and Odin even having a close relationship to actually make this seem viable.  And when Hugo says later that much of his anger is over him not winning the team's MVP award, it seems ridiculous.  After all, Hugo doesn't come across as crazy, just disturbed and jealous.  And only a crazy person would want to screw up someone's life that badly over a stupid MVP award.The manipulations and the film's stunning conclusion are very well done; but unfortunately they lose weight because we aren't allowed to learn enough about the characters to care, and we don't see exactly why Hugo was so hell-bent on destroying Odin anyway.  Overall it's a film that should be respected for what it tries to do, even though it doesn't totally accomplish it.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Not as good as expected, but not bad.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was expecting to see a fun, light movie like 10 Things I Hate About You. This is not the case here.  The movie still held my interest.  The characters were very realistic and the actors did a great job portraying them.  My biggest complaint would be the soundtrack.  The intrusive rap and hip-hop music overpowered many of the scenes. "},{"Title":"The hawk.  HAHAHA!","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  the movie stopped becoming terrible long before Josh Hartnett stroked a hawk perched on his hand.waste of talent, terribly self conscious... wants to overachieve... no nuances.one of the worst movies i've seen more recently. "},{"Title":"Surprising","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'll say this right now, I can't stand Josh Hartnett, therefore, every movie I have seen of his, I have completely disliked it because of him.  There, I got it out.  But, just recently in English class, we watched the movie, O, and although I still dislike the man, I'll have to say I enjoyed the movie.  Since we always have to read Shakespeare in school, I wasn't looking forward to reading Othello, I don't understand him or his language, and that makes me very uninterested (I know, I should give him a chance).  So, after we read the book, I was clueless and then we watched the Laurence Fishburne Othello (1995).  IT was almost word for word (once again, not understanding it).  Then came O.  I was surprised that it was so close to the story (of what I got out of it), yet it sort of reached out to teenagers like me who don't understand what those darn shakesperean guys were talking about in their day.  It was quite, well, interesting.  Mekhi Pheifer did a very good job, as well as poor, poor Julia Stiles (geez, Josh, why'd ya have to butt into those peoples business?!)  Overall, I now understand what the whole deceit jealousy thing is about!!  Dost thou ears deceive me??  I think I'll give this movie *** outta ***** stars for its good retelling, and Josh....keep your shirt on. "},{"Title":"A Stellar Translation","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  First of all, you must read Othello before watching this movie, and especially before commenting on it.  It is the only way you will truly be able to appreciate this movie for what it is.Also, I used the term translation for a reason.  This isn't Shakespeare, it's just one of his stories.  You shouldn't expect going into this that the script will read like poetry, because that isn't how teenagers in America today speak.The performances turned in by all the actors - none of whom are known for their strong performances - were outstanding.  Hartnett does a wonderful job showing exactly what Hugo is thinking without having to turn to the audience and give an aside (which would seem quite unnatural and would break the intensity of this film).There were only two things I didn't like about this film.  First, the ten minute sex scene did seem a little over the top.  However, you can make an argument that it shows Odin's darker side.Second, I abhored the fact that Odin used drugs in this movie.  Hugo's drug use is understandable.  However, the use of drugs by the Othello character ruins one of the greatest themes in this movie.  After reading Shakespeare's play, one can't help but ask himself, Is Othello to blame, or was he simply a pawn in the hands of the evil mastermind?  By having Odin use drugs, it takes a small piece of the blame off Hugo, and it portrays Shakespeare's Othello as just a punk who's out of control, as opposed to a man overcome by jealousy, and destroyed by betrayal.In all however, I loved this movie.  I would recommend it to anyone with the mental capacity to understand Shakespeare, and I encourage all who didn't like this movie, to read the play and watch it again.  I give it a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant and Dramatic Movie.","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"    To start off, this movie had a really sad ending, and was very dramatic. Mekhi Phifer, Julia Stiles, and Josh Hartnett were really  great. Julia Stiles has been in a few Shakespeare movies including 10 Things I Hate About You, which was a modern version of The Taming of the Shrew. I don't know if I would have liked to see this movie in theaters, but I'm glad I considered renting it. This was a really great drama that I recommend. I give O a 10 out of 10!!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Hard to swallow -- entertaining nonetheless 6/10","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Josh Hartnett is a revelation in this modern update of Othello.  All of the actors shine in this film, but Hartnett comes off as being undeniably cool and memorable.When you think about it though, the film gets very convoluted.  Since this is Shakespeare, we are not expected for the story elements to transcend into real life; unfortunately the film does try, and ultimately fails in making the story realistic.For example, Iago's (Hugo?) master plan seems only possible in a fictitious world, and the plan seems to rely too much on luck and the film's script for it to really work.  This is very distracting to the audience, cause you never buy a minute of it.The acting is superb though, and it is refreshing to see a teen movie pushed in a different direction for a change.Mild recommendation. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought it would be...","Date":"25 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  My first instinct when one of Shakespeare's plays is updated is to run for the hills.  The genius of Shakespeare is in his dialogue, not his storylines.  Without that dialogue, the plays lose their power.  Although Kurosawa did a good job of turning King Lear into Ran, no other director has been able to really bring anything to this kind of project.  O falls victim to many of the problems that haunt most modernized versions of Shakespeare, most notably the tendency to make cute little adjustments.  But on some level, the movie works.  Mekhi Phifer and Josh Hartnett turn in excellent performances, and some scenes reach a kind of poetic intensity holds the scent of Shakespeare at his best.  Those moments make O what it is, a surprisingly good movie. "}{"Title":"Starts off a little slow but ends with a bang! Overall a Kick-Ass Movie","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I just watched this movie and I was really surprised. I really had no idea what the movie was gonna be about. I just saw Julia Stiles on the cover and decided to rent it becuase shes so hot, but I ended up really liking it. I just loved all the twists and I couldn't get over how evil Hugo (Josh Hartnett) was. He was so unrelenting and just plain mean! I also loved how fast paced it was towards the end. It was a pure thrill ride for me. Anyone who likes a good crime movie with teens will love this. It is so entertaining to watch such a madman go about his evil and violent ways! So, Yes as i said in the title this is a very kick ass movie. See it, Please! "},{"Title":"O is a poor take on Shakespearean drama.","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The character of Iago has always filled me with a strange glee.  There's something delicious about an intelligent, witty and utterly heartless villain.  I've found myself more times than not applauding for the really cool villains, the handsome, quick and together ones who plot such evil acts more for the fun of manipulation than of any real cause.  Characters such as these deserve as slick a dramatic presentation as their words and deeds resonate. What I love best about Iago, as well as many of Shakespeare's characters, is the hawk-like way he would perch above all others on the scene and proclaim his insidious masterminding as an aside to himself or his audience, imaginary or not&#133;. `Make the Moor thank me, love me and reward me for making him egregiously an ass and practising upon his peace and quiet even to madness'.Unfortunately, O is a poorly directed film and really wastes the talents of its actors, especially Josh Harnett, whose performance as it is maybe worth seeing the movie for but ultimately leaves you disappointed for what could have been. So boldly deeming itself a modern retelling of Othello, the director Tim Blake Nelson's work simply lacks the appropriate mood and style.  Othello and Iago are grand and mysterious characters and this movie needed darker elements like that of a thriller.  I kept hoping for an intriguing soundtrack to underscore the evil intentions being set into motion.  I kept hoping for at least one cool moment where Josh Harnett stares into the camera, donning a chilling smirk and declares his hatred.  Yet, what we get is rap music and lighting so bright with the vibrant colors you might find in Kiss Me Kate.  Not to mention, of course, the countless basketball sequences which all seem so staged and Martin Sheen wailing at the top of his lungs like his life is as stake. Plus, the old smashing of the backboard scene, which recalls the ferociousness of Jim Carrey's cable guy.  I think maybe this film's biggest flaw is it's bowdlerizing of a famous Shakespearean work.  The movie's true agenda is pointing out how few values are youth have today allowing themselves to be engulfed in one sinful temptation after another. All of its contemporary notions of high school competitiveness, drug use and racial tensions alone could have inspired a powerful film.  However, using Shakespeare as its calling card, this film is without poetry and dramatic flair and is undeserving to even be called an adaptation.    "},{"Title":"The best Shakesphere film set in a high school","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O is clearly the best telling of a Shakesphere tale set in a high school to ever hit the big screen. The cast also shine their roles. Mehki Pfefier in the lead proves his leading man status. While Josh Hartnett makes a wonderful villain and does the best acting in the movie. Juila Stiles plays the female lead very well and Andrew Keegan has a great supporting role. The script is true to life and the direction by Tim Blake Nelson is top notch. I highhly recommned this to everyone. I give it **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"This script is insufficient and does Shakespeare no justice.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERS...NOT THAT IT'S A BIG DEAL IF YOU'VE READ THE PLAYTo put it nicely, this script is absolutely horrible.Which lines are more poetic, soulful, and passionate  Will you, I pray, demand that demi-devil/Why he hath thus ensnared my soul and body? or Man, why'd you hafta play me like dat?The limited character development centers only around Iago/Hugo, which is not particularly a bad thing since Iago/Hugo is a far more interesting character.  However, Othello/Odin and Desdemona/Desi are so incredibly underdeveloped that I really didn't care when Othello/Odin strangles Desdemona/Desi.  And that's a bad thing because the reader/viewer is supposed to feel a connection and caring towards the protagonists, and not towards the antagonist(in this case).It's a pity because it had such potential, but with such a heinous script, I find it to be but a sad mockery of Shakespeare's genius. "},{"Title":"Cool MovieSex,Drugs and BasketBall!!","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I just finished watching O and let me tell you its cooler than i though it would be,Josh Harnett who i personally hated on Pearl Harbor did a great job,Julia stiles who i personally hated on Save the last Dance did a very sexy and cool sex scene and it was o.k,(althought it makes you think on how she always ends up being the black guy girl?) Anyway...the movie was great and youll never guess the ending, Its so depressing and it takes you through the whole adventure,I just loved it. "},{"Title":"Nice Movie !!","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I had to read Othello for a Gr 11 English course. The reviews on this site don't show a teenagers point of view on this book . Basically, the beginning was hard to relate to the book, but as the movie went on we saw the modernizations Nelson did. I really liked the part where Hugo and Roger call the Dean to tell him about his daughter's relationship. In the book we see roderigo and iago do the same, but refer to racist words. The racism in this book was toned down in the movie, in the book we saw a lot of racism. Josh Hartnett's performance in this movie was incredible, before I saw O I watched Pearl Harbor, and his performance in this was much better than in Pearl Harbor. Overall I enjoyed the movie, and I'd recommend to anyone who liked the play. 8/10  "},{"Title":"A solid adaptation of Othello with an unsolid ending","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O *** out of ****Tim Blake Nelson (of Oh Brother Where Art Thou of all things) has fashioned the newest Shakespearean adaptation Othello with solid results. This time, the action is set in high school, where all sorts of jealousies take place.  The actors are good, especially Julia Stiles and Mekhi Phifer. The dialogue is modernized in a believable way.  But everything spins out of control at the end, when the outcome is too extreme to be believable and emotional.  Nelson seems to be trying to tackle too many controversial topics, and should have focused on ADAPTING strong themes from the play instead of being too literal. MG "},{"Title":"Go for the real thing","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The movie `O' was a modern-day portrayal of Shakespeare'sinfamous play `Othello'.   Although the actors in the movie brought a wide array of talent, the movie lacked the ability to continuouslycapture the audience's attention.  Instead the viewers becomedistracted by the cruel and copious scenes of violence strewnthroughout the film.  One tends to forget about the main issue athand, Hugo's deception and  betrayal is fueled by his attempt toearn the love an respect that his father has displaced onto theschools recruited basketball star Odin.  Although Josh Hartnett'sperformance as Hugo was brilliant and extremely convincing, Iwould not recommend the film to viewers that are seeking a newapproach of Shakespeare, I would recommend that instead ofseeing Hollywood's high school version of `Othello', go for the realthing. "},{"Title":"What are you talking about?","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I do not understand what any of you people calling this a great adaptation and a must see movie are talking about! The movie was too long, too plastic, and I felt very predictable(although I've never read the play!) Never once while watching this movie did I understand any of the emotions that the characters were supposed to be experiencing. Most of the time it was laughable at best. The general opinion in the theater was this was the worst movie ever. Even by portraying Hugo as a kid that everyone could relate to did not help the plot in any manner. It seemed completely unrealistic and I for one like movies that I could be convinced could happen. (Heck I'm more convinced a movie like Planet of the Apes could really happen) Never once did any of the actions seem to be justified by the emotions presented. Its been like a month since I've seen this movie so I can't remember everything that i felt was bad about it. But I saw it with 4 friends who all usually like all the actors in this movie and we all felt that these were lackluster performances that would have been better for their careers if this movie had never been released. "},{"Title":"O'h!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Intense modernized retelling of Shakespeare's controversial Othello with slick direction and a standout cast, especially Hartnett as the conniving villain and Sheen in a strong supporting role.  The film gets a high commendation for not sugar-coating and not holding back!  Grade B+  "}{"Title":"Good, but disturbing","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw O, and it was such a good movie. However, the storyline as a whole was slightly disturbing, and it kind of freaked me out. All of the actors did a fantastic job, especially Josh Hartnett. He made you see more than just a psycho in his character - he made you see that although his actions were no where near justified and were psychotic, you almost felt sorry for him. "},{"Title":"- Worth a Try -","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Being a stage actress, I am one to know of the many differences in a play when compared to a movie.  Shakespeare quite possibly the greatest playwright of all time... or rather, his time, so how could one of his stories be taken into consideration for a movie in the year 2001?Easy.  Make the screenplay into a teen melodrama, cast some of the biggest names in teen actors, and open it at the box office in a weekend where not much else is willing to score big. I was going to see Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back (again), but I saw that O was playing.  After hearing Julia Stiles and Carson Daly talk about a specific scene on MTV's TRL that caught my intrigue.  When I saw the scene that Julia mentioned, I realized it is true that teens exaggerate. As far as character development goes, all were very, very well portrayed, especially Josh Hartnett's character of Hugo (Iago).  I thought it impossible to hate such a big ball of hotness, but portraying this character definitely did it for me. The whole storyline is a bit blurry for those not familiar with the story of Othello - the screenwriter didn't have in mind that some people are may have not been exposed to the play. However, substitute that with Josh Hartnett, Mekhi Pfeifer, and Andrew Keegan, and you've got your audience of teenage girls hooked. "},{"Title":"Not to be missed!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The film O has come at a perfect time. The wonderful storyline and acting combined with an awesome adaptation of Shakepeare's Othello make O a movie not to be missed. I was at the edge of my seat the entire time and walked out of the theatre with many thoughts going through my mind. This movie brings about issues one would not normally encounter in an average day. It exercises the mind and is sure to be one of the greatest films of the year.  "},{"Title":"Miramax was right. Keep it in the vault.","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Julia Stiles digs in her heels in every scene she plays in every movie. She's like a college kid who insists on contradicting the professor every time she's called on. There may be no  commercially successful young actress with less vulgarity, humor or warmth. Is this an explanation for her success? Do  teenyboppers feel they have to respect her good posture and firm, crisp voice? Is she the pint-sized Joan Allen? As the Desdemona in this poorly thought-through update of OTHELLO, she seems to have done a ton of really hard homework for every beat of every scene. Mekhi Phifer, playing O, the movie's contemporary variant on Othello (a high-school basketball star), seems puzzled by her--and not just because his character is drawn as a none-too-bright fountain of eternal earnestness. Phifer is all sweet smiles and transparency; Stiles is like a musty hardcover book slamming shut in your face. From the get-go, you want to fast-forward to the tragic conclusion.  The surprise here is that Josh Hartnett, who elsewhere seems like a pretty boy phoning it in, gives a steely, respectable performance as Hugo, the movie's Iago. There's a ton of moronic xplanation given for Hugo's seemingly baseless evil (including my favorite contrivance he's a cocaine and steroid freak!) but it's Hartnett's still-waters-run-deep silence that makes it work. A strange mixture of beauty, no-nonsense and quiet longing, Hartnett here seems like a movie star--or at least a bright latter-day variant on Jan-Michael Vincent. The movie pulls it together in the last five minutes...but then, the playwright did a pretty good job with those five minutes. O, so sure not to offend in its description of the place of race in teen culture, winds up offending in its special pleading for the O character--did he have to be so pure of heart? When O smashes a glass backboard in a free-throw contest, the movie dabbles unpleasantly with the black-man-as-untamed-beast iconography of yesteryear. Maybe if the movie had brazenly broken taboos in the James Toback tradition, the filmmakers could have gotten somewhere. As is, the movie is like a self-serious version of CRUEL INTENTIONS; and the director, Tim Blake Nelson, seems never to know the right place to put the camera. "},{"Title":"As tragic and disturbing as Shakespeare's Othello.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This modern day adaptation of Shakespeare's Othello was well done. Beautifully put together, the scenes flowed together without any seeming disjointed.  Othello is a story which contains many themes and deals with multiple issues.  All of the characters are important to the plot and the person responsible for this film should be commended for displaying each character's individual drama in a very human (not contrived) way.  This film was disturbing, but, any fan of William Shakespeare should not be disappointed with this fresh look at the classic tragedy.  More importantly, within the context of present day school violence, this film reminds us that there are real people behind such tragedies.  The story transcends time because it deals with everpresent concepts, such as jealousy, bigotry, love, and family loyalty.  O is thought-provoking and stands on its own as an important work that relates heavily to contemporary social dilemmas. "},{"Title":"Othello meets High School.  O Brother.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O is a retelling of Shakespeare's classic play with high-schoolers as our heroes and villains... and I have to say that it actually works.  High school, a source of much drama and angst seems like the perfect place to set a story about mistrust and jealousy and gossip.  The writer also sets the tale in the world of high school basketball.  This works well for the story too.  Things that wouldn't seem important to most people become incredibly important to high school jocks suspensions, MVP trophies, etc.The violence is another thing altogether.  The story must be violent if it is to follow the path of Shakespeare.  Does the director convince us that these teenagers are capable of such violence?  He does.  Too easily.  All of the violence in the story is easily believed. O has a few problems, though.  A) The acting is not really that great, with the exception of Mekhi Phifer and Josh Hartnett.  Martin Sheen's performance is downright laughable.  B) Some of the high school type drama is mostly laughable as well. The rest of it works, in my opinion.  The relationship between Duke and Hugo becomes one of real interest.  The relationships between the boys are especially interesting.  Tim Blake Nelson does an excellent job of exploring the Upper class white family and the detachment that exists there.  The teenagers at this prep school have too much money and too little parental involvement.  The director also continually reminds us of O's race, with startling results.  Phifer's Odin is the only Black student in the school. Race is an issue, and Nelson makes it one. The driving force in the movie is Josh Hartnett's Hugo character, though. Why does he do what he does?  He never tells.If you can stomach all of the high school angst, O is worth seeing for what it says about the White middle class youth.  Shakespeare still can sell a screenplay even though he's been gone 400 years.  6/10 "},{"Title":"The Story in _O_ as Anti-Kid Propaganda","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  OTHELLO and _O_  CLOCKWORK ORANGE, Kid-Bashing, and the Generational StruggleGENERATIONAL WAR CONTEXT 	In _The Scapegoat Generation America's War on Adolescents_ (1996), Mike A. Males cites the film KIDS (1995) as a cinematic embodiment of the generational war of US adults against teens.   One could cite also CRUEL INTENTIONS in _Dangerous Liaisons_, the horrible people are aging grownups; retelling the story with teens suggests that contemporary US teens can be-or are-as nasty as corrupt French aristocrats of the bad old days just before the French Revolution. 	I've suggested and am looking for a student or two to do a literature search and write up for publication the thesis that Antony Burgess's full, 21-chapter _A Clockwork Orange_ is a kid-bashing book in its concluding, non-sequitur assertion that ultraviolence and such = just a stage boys go through and outgrow.  (As Males notes, guys don't outgrow violence so much as take it indoors; in any event, the adults in the first 20 chapters of _Orange_ have not aged out of ultra-nastiness.)OTHELLO VS. _O_ 	In Shakespeare's _Othello_, Othello is significantly older than Desdemona, and this is one of the reasons he concludes that she is cheating on him.  In America of the 1980s and 1990s, one popular idea had oversexed teenage boys knocking up promiscuous teenage girls for an epidemic of teen pregnancy.  That was not the reality.  In terms of the statistics Males presents, at least half of the raging hormones involved in teenage pregnancy belonged to men in their 20's and older.   	A realistic,  modernized _Othello_ would have an 18-year old Desdemona hooking up with an Other man who was Black, important, noble, and at least in his late 20s (maybe a younger, darker, Collin-Powell figure). 	_O_ AND THE GENERATIONAL BATTLE 	Setting _O_ in a prep-school/high school is additional evidence for what at least two over-30 film producers have noted as the dominance of relative youngsters as the consumers and makers of recent movies.   That far it is a legitimate example of Kid Power.  _O_ is also an esthetically respectable look at kids both good and pathological, well-written and directed, and very well acted by its young stars.   	At the same time, _O_ functions in its cultural context as anti-kid propaganda.   	If you know _Othello_ well, _O_ can say, truthfully, Kids can be as messed up as grownups.  Most film-goers hardly know _Othello_ at all, and part of the message of _O_ for them will be that US kids are screwed up drug-abusing punks, with some psychos loose among the boys, and deceiving victims among the girls.   	In Odin James in _O_ do we have the noble Moor whom the full Senate of the United States could Call all in all sufficient?  No, we don't.  Nor in Desi Brable do we have the poetic force and ideological significance of Desdemona's perfect love.   For most viewers, _O_ is another example of messed-up kids one more fictional justification for US adults' hostility toward US kids.   "},{"Title":"Better than I thought","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O, a now-a-day remake of the Shakespeare classic Othello, comes to the high school scene where basketball MVP Odin (Mekhi Pfiefer) and Desi (Julia Stiles, finally in a R teen movie) are lovers, however this isnt to the liking of Hugo (Josh Hartnett), who plays on the same team as the MVP does, but always feels downtrodden by his father (Martin Sheen in one of his better roles) who might seem to like O better than him.  Then the plot unfolds with Hugo being the devious one in trying to create tragedy where it isn't needed.  All this comes together in one really nice package of a movie.If only one thing I should give O (and Lions Gate) credit for is this- at least they didn't back down into PG-13 territory.  An R rating was definately needed for a movie like this (sex, drugs, and not really rock and roll, and guns) and if the movie studios and film people backed down and made this more markettable to anyone, it would've been a pretty lame attempt at modern day Shakespeare.  But thankfully, the stars come together and make a pretty powerful movie throughout with some really good performances and tightly made scenes of anger, betrayal and conclusion.  A couple of flaws (one being the unbelievability of Hugo being able to mastermind a whole big cherang like the one presented and still being able to be himself), otherwise, it's worth the time and price of admission.  Directed (suprisingly and surprisingly well) by Tim Blake Nelson, who last year played Delmar in O Brother, Where Art Thou.  A- "},{"Title":"Real human emotion","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing this movie on opening today, thought the theatre had a total of 7 people to see this movie, I felt this was the best version of all made of Shakespeare's Othello.As it does stay basically true to the original play, if you have never seen the other versions nor read the play, some parts may be confusing.  Seeing the ending was very tradgic but it got right to the point.  Josh Hartnett's performance was beyond amazing, he was just so sly and such a weasel.I was touch by the ending because of the real human emotion that derived from it, it shows how far people will go for love as well as hate and jealousy which are themes to this movie.I think there should be many more of Shakespeare play's put into modern day, even though the original are good, it makes more sense to see it without Shakespearean language or older actors.  A Must See movie, don't miss out! "},{"Title":"Not that Impressive!","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this on Tuesday, August 28th at a screening and I had never read the play it was based on but how predicable can one movie get!  The reason for the bumping of the release dates has nothing to do with Columbine, the studios were smart not to take this movie.  It really isn't that good, the story was too simple and you don't get to know much about the characters.  I am sure there are some things in the play that would make my argument sound bad, but this movie was only 93 minutes long.  It didn't look like it cost much money to make, so it might make a profit, but when a movie that was supposed to come out 2 years ago now gets released, something is wrong and this movie is lousy! "}{"Title":"Chillingly Effective","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Every old story, these days, seems to get some type of modern update. Either it is a story that gets new twists or new action (the upcoming The Musketeer), or it has been put into a modern setting. O is of the latter type of story--yet it is as effective set in the modern era as it is set in days of old. Based on Othello by William Shakespeare, this tale of emotions driven to their breaking point has been masterfully directed by Tim Blake Nelson. There could have been many ways for him to tell this story; it could have spiraled down to a typical teen movie (i.e., cool characters who say smart and sassy things, or the love story proves triumphant), or it could have been turned into an extremely violent tale, which would fade into the background of American cinema as just yet another bloody fable and something for which parents might blame real-life tragedy (which, sadly, might be the case with this film). The R rating is well deserved--there is rough language and violence, including one disturbing image of a self-inflicted gunshot and a romantic night gone wrong. Yet, when viewed in context of the movie, it's a wonder that director Nelson didn't choose to show anything more graphic than necessary. There were many points where he was given the opportunity, and the violence that is in the film is definitely severe, but he didn't go that route. Instead, he focused more on the story and the characters, which I greatly appreciated. This film was apparently the target of a lot of controversy over its supposed Columbine-esque violence; however, this is more of a calculated, focused rage that has its place in the story. This is not carried out by kids who saw this as the ultimate revenge against bullies--it is overprivileged children who see that whatever they want in the world, they should have. These killings are not the random, point and let the bullets fly kind; each has its own meaning and purpose, however sad it may be.(NOTE I'm not belittling the tragedy that was Columbine. Violence of any kind has no place in our schools.)It's hard to try to put Othello into a modern setting, much less a high school setting, where you're just finding out who you are and what you're capable of. The characters are extremely adult, yet childish with their selfish wants and actions. The actors give terrifically brooding and often scary portrayals of their characters. As the boy who is driven mad with jealousy, Mekhi Pfifer (as Odin, or O) draws you in and makes you see the wheels spinning in his head and what they're doing to him. Josh Hartnett gives a chilling performance as Hugo, a kid devoid of emotion and conscience. And as the innocent, Julia Stiles gives her character a soulful depth and strength that few actresses could have possibly brought to this role. Finally, Martin Sheen is perfect as the coach of the basketball team who is constantly overlooking his son, Hugo, in favor of the bright star that is Odin. The update itself is stunning. As far as technical aspects, the cinematography really draws you in to the characters and their surroundings, as good films should. Also, the screenwriting made sense for today's audiences. The predicaments these kids are put in, sadly, wouldn't seem out of the ordinary in this day and age. No matter who you are, you can identify with being alienated by your parents, or perhaps wanting the girl you could never have, or trying your best and getting spit on instead.The outcomes and actions these kids take, however, are purely Shakespearean, which may not make it seem as realistic as you would want it to be. But this is a Shakespearean tragedy, which means that, of course, there will be no happy ending. Tim Blake Nelson and company had been given the daunting task to bring this story to a modern audience. Hats off to them for succeeding beautifully. "},{"Title":"Tarnished Honor?","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Tim Blake Nelson's `O' is as dark and tragic as Shakespeare's Othello!  Undeniably, it unfolds several recognizable themes and motifs of Shakespeare's play self-esteem and tarnished honor, love and jealousy, appearance and reality, reputation and honor, order and chaos, proof and judgment, black and white.  Odin's scarf replaces Othello's handkerchief. Yep, it plays out well with this modern version, serving as the visual reminder to the viewers that blindness can be the outcome of passion... symbolizing Desi's love, her alleged betrayal, Odin's so-called evidence of her dishonesty and his final reference to the truth. Yo, watching Josh Harnett's Hugo battle against Odin and Michael is enough to make me cringe.  Watch his eyes; listen to his invented misrepresentations.  Harnett has well portrayed himself as a character who is as complex and ambiguous as his motives! But Mekhi Phifer's Odin lacks the boldness, charisma and eloquence expected of Shakespeare's Othello.  He's simply not too convincing in expressing his grief and fury at Desi's alleged infidelity.  While Julia Stile's Desi advocates a strong and charming personality, her performance lacks the persuasion of warranting Odin's jealousy, hatred and anger.  Martin Sheen fits his `coach' role but his actions throughout the movie are too predictable.  And the gangsta-rap music?  Like the pigeons (does the writer really need to adopt Shakespeare's bird image?), it creates a disruptive effect on the changing mood of the characters. Verde's Othello would have been more appropriate to sustain the audience's suspense.  Overall, this is an interesting film.  It has not failed to muster up the thought that the devil exists amongst the characters, tempting them to sin and punishing them for their sins. Powerful! And it subtly conjures up racial consciousness with a black Odin in a high school with an all white student body.  The core of the characters' dialogue certainly singles out the stereotypical misconceptions and lies about Odin's heritage.  A compelling timeless drama! And it held my fascination. My rating B- "},{"Title":"critical and provocative work","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O is exactly the kind of movie teens will love but critics, parents, and most other adults will hate.  The film pulls no punches in its treatment of race or portrayal of sex and sexuality and refrains from taking any sort of position or stance on the jealousy, rage, and violence that frame and move the story.  Before the film was even over, I found myself wishing, praying even, that parents would see this film--this way, they could actually talk to their kids, and even their kid's friends, about the complex and compelling issues O touches.The film is extremely intense many characters are filled with deep anger, or other emotions, such as distrust, fear, and envy, which are potrayed in extremes by the director and actors.  It's not necessarily a bad thing, but rather a very important thing to know about the film.The cast is very strong and contains quite a few faces teen audiences will not only know but be able to relate to Mekhi Pfieffer as the lead, Odin, or O, Julia Stiles as Desi, his paramour; and Josh Hartnett as Hugo, the malevolent mastermind behind whose jealousy drives the tragedy.  If anything, the actors are too good Hartnett's evocative performance is sure to set off debate on whether and how O might contribute to acts of teen violence, similar to Columbine.  I think the potential value in the work is that it allows audiences to see, and potentially discuss, the relationships between gender, violence, and perceptions of power and how these elements relate to, influence, and are influenced by high school violence.It would be a shame to dismiss O as being too violent, or as too dangerous because it may lead to copy-cat crimes--if screened and effectively discussed, O can potentially be a great tool in understanding our students' real experiences. It would be a shame to dismiss O as being a fluffy teen pic, because it's certainly not that either.  It would be a shame to dismiss O as being just a bad adaption of a Shakespeare classic--Tim Blake Nelson and an excellent ensemble of young actors bring timeless material alive in a fresh, bold way.Mekhi Pfieffer anchors the cast with a truly phenomenal performance.  His star should shine brightly as a result of his passionate, compelling work here.  Hartnett, as stated before, is also outstanding.  Both men should be extremely proud of their work in this film. "},{"Title":"An insightful retelling of Shakespeare's Othello.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O sets the tragedy of Othello in a modern high school where Odin James, the only black kid in a high school full of rich white kids, has been brought to the school for his skill on the basketball court.  He is about to lead his team through the play-offs, and he has recently won the love of a dean's daughter, Desi.  However, the coach's angry son Hugo is also on the team.  Neglected by his father and overshadowed by Odin, Hugo forms a vicious plan, resulting in a bloody and all too familiar disaster.The filmmakers pull no punches and opt for a fairly straight adaptation, doing an admirable job of staying true to the Shakespeare's plot and characters while avoiding his language in favor of an entirely original script. Though rap music, guns, drugs, cars, and the basketball court do figure into the story, these modern trappings never overshadow the human drama. Director Tim Blake Nelson lets his camera tell the story in a refreshingly simple manner, refusing the typical gimmickry of modern cinema; and a very solid cast carries the story well. Josh Hartnett as Hugo is perhaps the most outstanding--his angsty Ivy League face, reminiscent of Ethan Hawke and Robert Sean Leonard, always captures the bitter essence of his character.Though the film was completed in 1998, the release of 0 was repeatedly delayed due to the rash of high school shootings in the late 1990s. While it is understandable that such incidents of youth violence should make film studios cautious, this is one film which stands apart with a mature and timeless message about hate and the seeds of tragedy. "},{"Title":"Nothing comes between two people's love, like one person's jealously.","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a wonderful interpretation of Shakespeare's Othello I am impressed. Josh Hartnett would have deserved an Oscar nominee for Hugo's role, he did a very impressive job. As an actor, I believe he is very capable and talented. Mekhi Phifer is to me an unknown actor, but I think he was right casted in his role as Odin. On the other hand, Julia Stiles seemed to me just playing like she always does, she doesn't seem to be a very popular girl in that school, as it was supposed to be, she just seems to be this geeky lovesick girl with a basketball star boyfriend. Then it is Andrew Keegan and his decent acting, not to good, but not bad also.Not just the cast was good, but the crew also. O has a way of showing you that these are problems that even teenagers might have, like jealousy. But also it has a way of reminding that it's a movie based on a Shakespearian tragedy. In the end you have that feeling that only a Shakespeare work can bring... I give this movie a 10 with all my heart. "},{"Title":"O is Excellent.","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this movie very much. I am not a fan of remakes but this one was super good. I enjoyed it because Tim Nelson formed a classic.....but modern and it is something that the world can see and enjoy. I watch this plentifully and I think it is romantic, thrilling, and chilling all at the same time. It was a good movie keep ya busy and everything it was an overall ten because of the cast J.H., and J.S. it was WORTH watching in theaters believe me, for a person that hates Julia Stilies I enjoyed this one movie of hers. So please watch it I liked it very much so and I think that most people will be astounded with this movie because of Shakespears make and this one it was awesome. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant and Stunning Retelling of Shakespeare's Othello","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Hugo All my life I always wanted to fly. I always wanted to live like a hawk. I know you're not supposed to be jealous of anything, but...to take flight, to soar above everything and everyone, now that's living. But a hawk is no good around normal birds. It can't fit in. Even though all the other birds probably wanna be hawks; they hate him for what they can't be. Proud. Powerful. Determined. Dark. Odin is a hawk. He soars above us. He can fly. One of these days, everyone's gonna pay attention to me. Because I'm gonna fly too.Josh Hartnett leads a cast of rising stars in this disturbing and amazing film. Mekhi Phifer (Dawn of the Dead), Julia Stiles (10 things I hate about you), and Andrew Keegan (Cruel World) also star in this film directed by Tim Blake Nelson. Its a story of Trust, Seduction and Betrayal.Summary written by Simi monkey_warrior13@msn.com Modern day version of Shakespere's Othello taking place in a white prep boarding school in the south. The only black student Odin (Mekhi Phfifer), is the star basketball player. He's got everything; the love of the most popular girl Desi (Julia Stiles), who also happens to be the daughter of the school's dean. On the other side, there's Hugo (Josh Hartnett) and Roger. Hugo is Odin's best friend and Odin confides in him, not knowing that Hugo has always been insanely jealous of him. Roger is madly in love with Desi who doesn't give him any time of day. The other important characters are Michael and Emily. Michael is also on the basketball team but Hugo gets him kicked off by forcing him to drink and he got in a fight. Then there's Emily, not an incredibly huge role but very important, Emily is Desi's best friend and Hugo's girlfriend. Hugo doesn't even like her too much, he just uses her for his plan to work. All of that information is important to understand Hugo's plot. "},{"Title":"Good Flick","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I like to see Shakespeare brought to cinema in more modern forms.  And this film does so well.  Sure, they swear every other word.  But Grandma doesn't have to watch with you.  Since I'm a Julia Stiles whore, this film gives me my fix of her and the rest is pretty darn good as well.  Word to Hollywood get Julia more serious roles.Final Grade a What light through yonder window breaks, b*tch? 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"by the end you be thinking NO!!! i don't believe it","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Josh Hartnett (blow dry) julia stiles (wicked) Mekhi Phifer (8 mile) good Role for Josh out of the romance and in to the Drama but this is a shocker for Josh. its about this basketball player (Phifer) who as a nice girlfriend (Stiles) that this other guy has to have and will do anything to get her. "},{"Title":"Overlooked new version of Othello deserves mention","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Memorable modern adaption of Othello sets the story in a ritzy prep school where Odin (Phifer) is the star basketball player, one of the school's only black students, and also one of its most popular.  His sexy white girlfriend (Stiles) is the headmaster's daughter.A good showcase for the young actors, as well as the veterans who fill out the cast.  Follows O's tragedy to all of its brutal conclusions. This film's success was hurt when it was held back for 2 years following the Columbine High School murders, to which its events bear little resemblance.  As a consequence, its once cutting-edge soundtrack was yesterday's news, and its stars had in some cases already broken through.  It was not very successful, but hopefully will have a long life on video. "}{"Title":"Amazing, i loved it","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really good. Usually I enjoy tragic movies and this one is deffinitely tragic. This is Josh Hartnett best performance to date. He's a villain and he does great job at it. This is definitely not best performance of Julia Stiles. I wished that relationship between Desi and O could have been more described with more beautiful moments. But after all this movie is good, entertaining and its not for everyone.  ratings 9/10 "},{"Title":"A wonderful retelling of Shakespeare's tragic tale","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O is what Baz Luhrman's rendition of Romeo and Juliet set out to be, but miserably failed  a modernization of a Shakespeare tragedy.  In this case, the actors don't look foolish, quoting Shakesperean dialogue in a modern setting.  In O the dialogue is completely modernized, but the characters and plot of Othello still remain intact, updated to a high school setting.  Of course, Mekhi Pfieffer and Josh Hartnett look way too old for high school students, but this film is so wonderfully done that I was able to overlook that flaw.Tim Blake Nelson (who some may remember from the Coen Brothers' O Brother Where Art Thou) did an excellent job at directing, avoiding all teen movie cliches.  Along with Ghost World I would hate for this film to classified in the same genre as teen fluff flicks like Drive Me Crazy and She's All That.  There's no gross-out sight gags or Dawson's Creek melodrama. The acting is excellent.  Underrated actor Mekhi Pfieffer is perfect in the title role, delivering an extraordinarily powerful performance.  Julia Stiles is also great--and insanely beautiful, as always--as his lover Desi.  Josh Hartnett is perfectly cast as Hugo, a modern version of the conniving Iago character in Shakespeare's play.  Unlike some shallow teen actors, I think Hartnett has a good career ahead of him and is more than just another Hollywood pretty boy.  It's nice to see his career flourish with hits like Black Hawk Down.  Anthony A.J. Johnson shows he can pull off a serious role quite well.  John Heard is great as Desi's father and Martin Sheen is a scene-stealer as the loudmouthed basketball coach/father of Hugo. The soundtrack is wonderful, contrasting beautiful Operatic Arias (with the help of Elizabethan instruments) with modern day rap music.  The film contains certain themes, commonly used in edgy high school dramas  drug use, violence.  But these themes are never presented in a heavy-handed fashion, never overshadowing its main themes of jealousy, greed and envy. O is a wonderful piece of cinema that shows what a modern version of a Shakespeare tragedy should look like.  Definitely worth seeing!My score  9 (out of 10)           "},{"Title":"Finally a remake that stays true!","Date":"14 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I strongly recommend O to anybody who has been disappointed mis-uses of great liturature. All of the transitions fit perfectly, such as they take war to the basketball court, and Desdemona and Othella, become Desi and Odin, two of the most popular students in an all white prep boarding school. The only switch that bothered me was that of  Dell. I mean come on, a gangster drug dealer?. I feel that is wasn't so much that they made him a drug dealer, more so that they cut a lot out of his part. But all in all, this movie was a very pleasant suprise, with a ending that will blow you away, you should without a doubt go rent it right now!!!!!!!!!!I give it a 9.999 out of 10. that .001 was taken out just for Dell. But I would definetly put this on my top 10 of 2001. GO SEE IT! "},{"Title":"Unbelievable, Pretentious","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This modern retelling of Shakespeare's Othello, set in an elite boarding school, has some promising moments but ultimately falls apart.First of all, the setting and characters of O simply aren't equal to the film's high-minded intent. In the original play, Othello was a general. The Odin of the film is a high school basketball star. In today's society, it may not seem incredible to consider school athletics of earth-shattering importance, but to me it's a bit  of a stretch. No one in O has any sense of perspective, the notion that maybe basketball isn't the most important thing in the world. This is made worse by Martin Sheen as the sterotypically fanatical coach.    The racial element of O doesn't work either, and I'm sure some black viewers were offended by the ease with which the psychotically envious Hugo fools the naive Odin. To me Hugo seemed like a surly underachiever, not likely to have the intelligence or ambition to pull off such elaborate schemes. Speaking of which, the plot of O is overly complex. The way Hugo plots Odin's downfall is simply too elaborate and makes us aware that the script is trying too hard to fit a model (the original Othello).   Finally, the film collapses completely during the final fifteen mintutes. Apparently, O was delayed due to the events at Columbine. They needn't have worried, as the violence at the conclusion of O is so overblown it seems amateurish. I seriously doubt if this film has the power to motivate real-life violence (at least one thing in its favor). At the very end, Odin gives a speech that sounds like a monologue in a drama class. Then we're subjected to opera in the background and further portentous musings on the part of Hugo.  "},{"Title":"A Step Up In Shakespeare Film Making","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  After watching this, I realized how important this film will be. For one reason, the demograph on the failed attempt of 1995's Othello (Lawrence Fishburne)is not directed towards teenagers. This movie has the cast of teenflick stars such as, Josh Harnett and Julia Stiles. Teens will be interested in watching this film. And it is a good thing also, this was a great movie.Though it isn't a masterpiece or brilliantly shot, it still got the tragic story of Othello very well depicted. If you are a fan of Shakespeare, you cannot miss watching this movie. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A true tale well told ( well, not true like non-fiction)","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This powerful movie transcends the teen genres. I was especially struck by how Shakespeare foretold the despair of today's lost youth 400 years ago. The transposition to the modern setting is flawlessly done. unlike many updates , which transfers the play in modern dress, creating artificiality( think Branagh's awful version of Love's Labour Lost), O truly redoes the dialogue, but retains the essence of story, mood and message.The pace seldom lags ( only twice by my count). The score drives with a modern beat, using operatic tones just enough.The performances are universally excellent. Even modest roles are well cast with people that really can act. My only complaint here is that Martin Sheen as the coach/father is so strong as always that he almost overtakes the story. But not quite. At the end, his performance is essential to understanding Hugo and Odin's fate.Do not see this movie alone. Its insights into human spirit's dark recesses will leave you chilled more than any horror film this side of Hitchcock. Then go home and hug your kids , if you have them. If not, make some.But love them well truly and always. "},{"Title":"Some may disagree but i think this is one of the best films of the YEAR!!!","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The StoryI remember when i first heard of this movie back in 98 my interest in it was pretty high. I'm always interested to see how Shakespeare can be modernized. Sometimes it works(10 Things I Hate About You=The Taming of the Shrew and 96 version of Romeo and Juliet)While others aren't so great(Get Over It=A Midsummers Nights Dream). In both cases it's still really exciting to see how they bring the essence of shakespeare to the screen. In my opinion when you modernize the language, the setting, and the characters it presents more of a challenge to make it truly work.So when i heard more about O and its cast i knew i just had to see this movie. I heard about its release date and i was all ready to go see it. However, due to the tragedy at Columbine the films release date was changed due to controversial themes in the movie that related too closely to the tragedy. This peaked my interest in the film even more because i love to see films with strong subject matter because it shows that the filmmaker wnats to hold nothing back and films that are more realistic in that aspect always work better for me.However Miramax could never give O a solid release date. It would be set for release and changed and so on and so forth. In the end O received about 7 different release dates. Finally a studio named Lions Gate picked the film up and gave it a Aug.31, 2001 release date. A whole 2 years after the initial release date. Now it was my time to see it and i'm happy to say i was not disappointed.This update is by far the best modernized retelling of shakespeare ever made. It stayed true to the essence of othello while adding a few little modern twist to the story. To update it for highschool certain things had to be changed for it to fit with story. First there are name changes Othello is now Odin James(O.J., did anyone else get that), Desimonda is now Desi and Iago is now Hugo. Also instead of being a member in high society, O is the msot popular person at his school(The only black student) and a star basketball player. He's dating the most popular girl in school and all these things are what fuel Hugo's jealously. Soon he slowy begins to manipulate all involved in the story untill his plans lead to a pretty tragic conclusion.What i like about the play and this version or lets jsut say this story in general is the way certain things are presented. Everyone has been jealous of someone at some point in there lives so in that aspect you can relate with the villian of the story. I did at some points. Now, don't get me wrong this guy is pretty ruthless but when you look at how he's treated by his dad, who is also his basketball coach, you begin to see what fuels his rage. He's frustrated because he feels he has a right to shine. There are several references to the Hawk in the film. Odin is a hawk because he soars above everyone else and everyone pays attention to him. He's not like everyone else thus he can't fit in with normal birds. Hugo wants to be like this an d he feels that it's his due time to soar above everyone else. I also like how it shows how easily people can be manipulated. Manipulation can truly twist someone's mind up and in this case it truly does.There are many scenes int he film that i felt worked very well in the film and these scenes stand out in my mind as the best in the film. The first one is the slam dunk contest. I coul honestly feel his rage at that point and the instrumental score in that scence was truly magnificent. The next scene is the first confrontation between desi and Odin over the scarf he gave her. the performers are so intense during this scene that it just really pulled me in. Lastly is the last 15 or 20 minutes are truly intense. The things that take place during this time frame really got to me and that's how i knew i was seeing a  good movie. It gave me that feeling in my stomach and the realism that the last 15 minutes or so presents is gripping.The ActingBy far the best aspect of this film is the acting by all involved. Every performer gives a compelling performance.Mekhi Phifer(Odin) he gives a powerful performance. He really captured all the various modes of the character. He played the sensitivity and exuberrance of the character well in the beginning of the film but when the rage and frustration of Odin begins to show this is when Mekhi is in top form. A blistering performance that could very well be the best of his career.Julia Stiles(Desi) Julia Stiles is officially the spokeswoman for william shakespeare. This i her third shakespeare update after 10 things I hate about you and Hamlet. Once again she's proving that she is one of th best actresses of her generation. She conveys the strength but also the innocence of Desi really well. She's a very capable performer and her chemistry with Mekhi Phifer is what makes certain events in the film work.Josh Hartnet(Hugo) I'm a sucker for peopel that paly villains. it jsut seems like an awesome role to play because it cna truly show your range as an actor and Josh hartnet does an admirable job. Nto only through his lines but his manuerisms. He's truly menancing in some scenes but he also has to make you understand his plight. why he's jealous, and why he does what he does. Josh Hartnett is able to pull us into his world and show us why he's so angry. This is by far the best performance of his career.Andrew Keegan(Michael) I don't understand why he's left out of most of the promotion for this film. his character plays an important role in these proceedings. Nonetheless he plays the role of the impressionable teenager quite well. I hope to see him in more roles like this that challenge his range.Rain Phoenix(Emily) i have nothing to compare her performance to but she is quite good in this film. She hits all the right notes and she is really good in the last few scenes of the film. Hope to see her in more movies.Martin Sheen(Coach Goulding) Martin Sheen gives an intense performance as the basketball coach and father of hugo. Some may think he's a little over the top but since i know coaches like this i think he hits all the right notes.Elden HensonSorry i forgot his characters name but he's also very good in the film. He plays the insecure, nerd role pretty well and his character is also very important in the films proceedings.ConclusionAs you cna see i really enjoyed this film and i encourage everyoen to go see it. This film doesn't encourage violents inf act as a 16 year old boy woh is currently in highschool it showed me that actions like this jsut aren't worth it. i tihnk there is a lesson to be learned while you're viewing this film. just go in with an open mind and i'm sure you'll enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare hit every emotion, again","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I came out of the theater last Saturday night, in awe of Shakespeare's work. His stories of deceit, betrayal, revenge are completely timeless, and just amaze me.  I completely understand why the movie was not released until now, although disaster has struck our nation once again.  I know I will be reading, watching, and involving myself in Shakespeare's work the rest of my life, and can't wait until I see my next production. "},{"Title":"Yeah, whatever...","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  It's funny how pretty much every single review of this movie had a reference to Othello within it. Anybody who takes this movie for what its worth isn't even going to consider the Shakespearean play.  As far as I'm concerned, it was a well crafted movie and no matter what the pretentious pseudo critics here have to say, I think that many would enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Best Shakespeare adaptation","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see O having already read Othello and I was not expecting much more than a fun teen version.  I was pleased to see that the mood of Shakespeare's original work was not compromised in the process of rewriting the play.  This movie is every bit as complex, engrossing and tragic as the play.  All of the actors played their parts very well, but Josh Hartnett stood out as the best among the young cast.  He was everything that Hugo (Iago) was supposed to be cunning in his ability to manipulate others and get them to trust him completely while maintaining a facade so that no one suspected his true intentions.  If this is the only way that teens will get to know the story of Othello, then it is a worthy substitute.  I highly recommend this movie and give it a 10. "}{"Title":"Exceptional high school shakespeare","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  With solid performances, a true to the text story, and no holds barred drama and violence ,O is an excellent film.  The three leads all enter into their respective characters and raise the level of the film.  Ms. Stlies shows good understanding of Desdemona, she potrays her as a strong woman, who at the same time is naive enough to stay with O and not question his actions.  Mr.  Hartnett delivers a good performance as Iago, making him subtle and manipulative in his ways.   A little more could have been done to bring out his motivation, but other then that he was awesome.  Meki Phifer was amazing.  One could see the self indulgence that he was a man full of himself and was ripe for manipulation.  His transition from being the school's star to its isolated outcast was very well done.  The supporting cast did a fine job as well, Emily was reserved and withdrawn much like Emilia.  Mike was as blind as O and fell into Iago's trap much like Cassio. Overall a strong movie, that hopefully will gain some added recognition for its stars. "},{"Title":"The Bard would be proud.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Wonderfully cast and thoroughly engrossing, this re-telling of the Othello story works amazingly well -- thanks to a canny script that knows that the power of this story is in the details of the characters' relationships, and to exciting, unfussy direction by Tim Blake Nelson.  Martin Sheen's character of Duke (the coach) is the most expanded from the original and it is a masterful invention.  I hope the delayed release of this film and the press's insistence on a Columbine connection doesn't keep people from seeing it.  I found O far more interesting than the wan, abridged 1995 version of the original with Fishburne and Branagh. "},{"Title":"Hands down the best movie ever made.","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Othello has to be the best movie ive ever seen.  The movie has a great plot great actors and a superb director.  I dont know what all the scuffle with the movie was all about.  I wouldnt even classify what happend in the movie a school shooting.  A school shooting for me is more along the lines of Higher Learning.  *Spoiler alert*.  The most memorable scene in the movie was when hugo was arrested and put into the police car and he says  i always wanted to be a hawk and now one day i will. i will fly above every one else. The best movie ive ever seen. 10\10 for me its more like 20\10. Only the best from your movie guy what i reccomend dont turn off until the very end. "},{"Title":"Awsome movie worth the wait","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  'O' has been the movie I have been waiting for since I found Julia Stiles was in it. Not even American Pie 2 excited me as much. The movie was awsome and the acting was great. Mekhi Phifer was awsome considering he had to cry so much. Josh Hartnett played an awsome villian. He made you hate his character. Julia Stiles did great acting as the innocent Desi. This movie is a must see and is worth buying when it leaves theaters. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Update of A Sad, Sad Shakespearian Play","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O is a movie unlike anyother I have even been given the privalidge of seeing.  It doesn't let the modern concern of trying to make it happy get in the way of it point.  The acting and cinematography are wonderful and the best I have seen in a long time.  This film truly encompasses the feeling of Shakespeare, yet places it into modern society.  You feel for the characters as you witness thier lives.  It is a wonderful movie that leaves you with a lasting impression.  I reccomend this movie to anyone who can understand a serious film.  Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"O yeah(pun intended) i remember him","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  OK so i had plans to see this movie for almost a year before it came out so yesterday i went and saw it. It was amazing both critically and aesthetically great (the actors were very easy on the eyes and the symbolism was subtle and stunning) a little depressing but overall very pleasing.Now it is time for the actors performances i am not a big Josh Harnett fan but his portrayal of the maniacal Hugo (an interesting twist on the actual name in the play being Iago) was incredibly believable and impressive (after Pearl Harbor I thought he was through) but i was distracted by his terrible haircut (i was assuming that is they wanted him as charismatic as he was supposed to be he could have looked the part he looked like a cheap beetles impersonation) but his performance was great and powerful. Mekhi Phifer heartbreaking Odin exemplified great acting i cannot wait to see him in more movies this guy has the makings of a huge star. His character Odin's moving fall from grace due to his `tragic flaw,' jealousy, is one of the better i have seen even on stage. Julia Stiles once again demonstrates her longevity as one of the foremost actresses under the age of 30 not just because i am bias as she is one of my favorite actresses. Her interpretation of Desi as not just the girlfriend of this guy but as his `better half' (and without her he cannot live) was the most believable teenage relationship i have ever seen on screen. Julia's Desi brought out Desdemona's playful side and she is seen as more than just a woman as Shakespeare intended. A little surprise in this movie was Rain Phoenix (one of the many siblings of the late but great River Phoenix and Gladiator star Joaquin Phoenix you remember him he was the king guy) as Desi's best friend, Emily and Hugo's girlfriend i did not expect her bring anything to the often drab role of Emilia but it looks like the Phoenix genes still rein (no pun intended) in Rain at the movies. I have neither the time nor the space to comment on everyone's performance but i was impressed by them all. Nothing i have ever seen them do.Now for the script and themes Familiarity with the play is not a necessity but helps in that you are not as put through the ringer in the end. I was shocked at the caliber of the script, although, not award winning, it was not stupefied up for the viewing audience. The guy who wrote the screen play tried to be as real as he could (and did not puss out like some movies we have see his year cough cough Crazy/Beautiful cough cough) being careful to demonstrate the fact that not everyone lives happily ever after and that there is always someone just around the corner that will go to the extreme to get what they want. I did miss the Shakespearean dialogue and the puzzled look on people's faces when watching (it is truly the best part of Shakespeare re-makes). The themes; jealousy is bad, (umm Kay) proves true and always will, one can never underestimate the power of envy, which also proves true, like life, trust is a fragile and volatile thing, and in a effort not to sound like an after school special be careful with matters of the heart oh yeah and school sucks no matter how wealthy you are.Over all with the rash of crappy teen movies based on Shakespeare and classics cough get over it cough i expected a crappy teen movie and i got much more. I will put this next to my classics right next to its predecessor, Othello (made in 1996), starring Lawrence Fishborne. So if you are 17 and you want to see a well done drama this is a not to miss but if you are not they are checking ID, rabidly. Why you ask? Long story... "},{"Title":"Is it O-thello the Moor or O-J (as in OJ Simpson of Brentwood, CA)?","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Upon seeing this film along with a mostly young audience of Julia Stiles fans, I will offer it praise as far as its memorable updating of the William Shakespeare's tragedy OTHELLO goes.  This latter-day Othello the Moor is an isolated Hawk in the mostly lily-white Venice of Charleston, NC (he is admired by everyone as a BB Court general and warrior).   This title character cannot truly be understood as an OJ-stand-in whose marital abuse of his white trophy paramour has generally been acknowledged as the key to both her murder and that of a bystander, Ron Goldman.  We're dealing here with a classic play and not social commentary about that unsolved murder! The screenwriter and director of O took some edgy chances but in my opinion, this was hardly the film to hold back from theaters and video distribution in 1998/1999.  Dare I remind anyone of two teen-flicks with a lot more Columbine H.S. shootings' haunting/prefiguring moments   THE BASKETBALL DIARIES and HEATHERS.            The plot of O literally hangs in the balance over the believability of the passion shared by the lead actor and actress. That on-screen chemistry works rather effectively in my opinion.  They're no Academy Award shoo-ins but still do well with their acting.  The actor who carries the IAGO part is given too much of the storyline but some of the modernization has to be believable as to motive and scheme.   As I have expressed in other IMDB.com reviews (see SNAKE EYES), however, if I had a vote on the MPAA board, this provocative film would have gotten an NC-17 rating.  Unless ticket buyers have parental accompaniment and full permission to take in this disturbing portrayal of youth violence and sexuality, too many bad behaviors are lifted up as being ramification-free and part of growing up.  My recommendation of this film comes with a condition that the attracted teen audience for this kind of tragic tale consider whether championship BB players do win it all and have no limits on their behavior!  If we asked for reality checks on High School Senior sports stars, such hard-working students could see the hard-to-believe parts of the film's plot for what they are  silly exaggeration.  As Shakespeare knew from killing off so many characters in HAMLET & ROMEO AND JULIET, young people are suicidal and extremist at all the wrong moments; they are also vengeful and short-sighted; they are hyper-sexual and oblivious to consequences of casual sex; they can mouth profanities and politically-incorrect racial epithets to ape adults with such limited vocabularies.  Don't become the people in this movie -- especially the coach who regards winning as the only thing -- learn from their tragic endings and wasted potentials and fly to heights that come with plenty of safety nets!  Rating 9 *'s out of 10 *'s. "},{"Title":"Nice try","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed by two things 1) the very shallow script, which often left these inexperienced actors reaching for something to do/say.  Notice that the most experienced actor of all--Martin Sheen--was the only one able to fill the phrase.  2) The music was all wrong for a white prep school. Black rap just ain't it for the preppy rich kid crowd.The story was good; it better be, based as it is on Othello, but it was too often contrived to be really gripping.  And it should have been gripping.Too bad Rain Phoenix looks like Joaquin and not River.  River got all the looks in that family, it seems. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare and Modern Violence","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this modernized teen version of OTHELLO, my favorite Shakespearian play. The setting of a preppy high school basketball team allows the movie-makers to comment on teen violence, sports mania, and drugs as catalysts for obsessive victory and senseless school shootings.The hawk and doves pick up from Shakespearian imagery and translate well into a school setting. Like a twisting spiral staircase, the trap of deceit and jealously is built. The cast is strong and has good chemistry, even allowing some humor as a tragic foil. Instead of blank verse, we get updated paraphrases spoken in whispers that emphasize the sense of darkness within the human soul.Ironically, the film's release date was delayed numerous times because of American school violence. But instead of glorifying guns and shootings, the film takes us deep inside the motivation of people who resort to tragic means for solving their problems. Pride and the desire for attention are the classic tragic flaws we see played out here. There may even be a grim bit of sarcasm in the name of the teen Othello -- Odin Jones (O.J.).I think this is a worthy, and I recommend it. "},{"Title":"a modern mishmash of Shakespeare's Othello","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O, a modern mishmash of Shakespeare's Othello, takes place in a South Carolina high school and has a basketball theme.  Watch for  mostly amateurish performances (including veteran actors); an odd mix of (1) operatic, (2) loud vulgar rap, and (3) traditional movie music; and birds.  In this tale of tragedy, Othello is Odin Jones (OJ?), Desdemona is Desi, and Iago is Hugo.  There is drug and alcohol use, profanity, and simulated sexual activity (some of it forced).  The finale is a series of brutal murders and a suicide.  There are a bunch of white pigeons and a kidnapped hawk who keep appearing for no apparent reason.  This movie is for the birds.  "}{"Title":"interesting","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I felt this movie was rather disturbing but i thought the acting was great for that young cast the movie was slow paced and i expected it a little better it was depressing it's not a movie u can say u love but it's not a movie u can say u hate this movie reminded me of The virgin suicides as a dark drama it portrayed rich kids as idiots who can only find there way out by violence rather then talking out issues they just fought though it did have it's strong parts i didn't mind the film.  "},{"Title":"Satisfying Re-telling of a classic drama.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  For those who gasped at the potent yet disappointing Hamlet starring Ethan Hawke along side a promising cast including Shakespeare's prodigal daughter, Julia Stiles.... O offers a fresh look at Othello, set in a prep school in modern day America.The cast is charismatic, with Julia Stiles and Josh Hartnett leading the way with Mekhi Phifer also. Hartnett, my personal favorite actor since the days of Cracker, plays Hugo Goulding, a young man fuelled by the jealousy of his team mate Odin, or O. Stiles improves on her Hamlet performance starring as Odin's girlfriend Desi.Despite the controversy surrounding this film (school killings etc), O looks to be a hit at the box office, with the controversy acting more as an advertsing aid than a burden. The acting is good, though perhaps patchy in places, the script is well written, and despite a few criticisms of the film, I found it thoroughly enjoyable.O will be a hit, but don't expect any Oscar Nominations. "},{"Title":"The story of O","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" 'O' is a modern day adaptation of Shakespeare's 'Othello'. But unlike Baz Luhrmann with his dazzling 'Romeo + Juliet', director Tim Blake Nelson has not dared to retain Shakespeare's language. But it's the language that is the main appeal of the works listening to the contemporary high-school dialogue of this film, with it's incessant swearing (Shakespeare, of course, was himself often rude) and utter lack of wit (something which the bard could never be accused of), something's definitely missing. What's not missing is the plot, but again, the film lacks Luhrnann's ingenious touches, and the problem here is that fundamentally, most of Shakespeare's plots were pretty ridiculous, and also curtailed to fit a theatrical performance. So we're introduced to the lead character, supposedly from the wrong side of the tracks but already living a life of privilege because we haven't seem him fight his way up, we have no particular reason to care for him. While those out to get him do so from motives of unambiguous jealousy, there's no attempt to get the audience to share their motivations. While the plan they contrive to bring the hero down is contorted in the extreme, and fails to work in the contemporary environment it's based on the idea that, if you could trick someone into believing that their girlfriend was unfaithful, they would respond by killing her, and that such a death would be acceptable collateral damage in your eyes if thereby you could destroy him. Without a more convincing portrait of mental disintegration on the part of O himself, this doesn't hold up; and the villain also fails to convince as someone who could hatch such a dastardly scheme. Swearing aside, it's a very mild story until suddenly people start dying it seems inconceivable that such a plot would have been written from scratch had it not already existed.The acting is OK but not brilliant Julia Stiles stands out, but more for the fact that her facial features seem to fit exactly the current Hollywood definition of teenage beauty. And one is left (as a Brition) pondering the strange world of American educational establishments which run what are almost professional sports teams. But there's not too much else that engages the mind; and the racial dimension is, surprisingly for what might seem to be the most topical of the play's themes, almost ignored throughout most of the film. "},{"Title":"Well I thought it was GREAT.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very powerful.I thought it was a superb teen-based take of Othello. The Mekhi Phifer was captivating, very amazing and totally believable. Then there was Josh Hartnett (who was even better dude!) was so good with the evil tension, voice and the facial expressions. This was definently both of their best acting ever in a movie.Hope you agree.Julia Stiles was bad. I'm not saying she sucked but I know she could've put a bit more into O. Rain Phoenix did an OK job at playing Emily, while Andrew Keegan was stupid. I don't know if he has tried to act in a movie but yeah. Martin Sheen was great at playing Hugo's father.As much as Tim Blake Nelson (the director) is best known for his acting, he is better at directing and should stick with that! Please!And yes I have read Othello, before I watched O too. It is a great play, maybe even Shakespeare's best in my eyes. But you can't say this is a bad film because it isn't exactly like how he wrote it. O is a teen movie- basketball is easier to understand than war. But it is very depressing for a teen movie. Really dramatic and confusing too.And I'm not even a teen yet!  "},{"Title":"The most dark and disturbing movie I ever watched! But still really really good!","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This a great adaptation of 'Othello'. My mother read me the play when I was 8  and I enjoyed it. They are good with modernizing the names Othello is Odin nicknamed O;Iago is Hugo; Desdemona is Desi; Emilia is Emily; Cassio is Casio but he isreferred to as Michael which is his first name, Michael is actually his first name  in 'Othello', but it is only mentioned a few times; Roderigo is Roger, he has the  last name Rodriguez; Bianca is Brandy; Then there is the duke of Cyprus who's  name is Duke but they call him Coach because that's what he is, but he has asecond role in the story for the Duke of Cyprus is a small roleThe movie features the very talented lead performances of Mekhi Phifer, whoplays Odin the black high school basketball player, and Josh Hartnett who plays  Hugo the wicked deceiver. But there is a real difference between Hugo's andIago's wickedness. Hugo's is more realistic, more like a typical teenager who  has been severely neglected and misguided by his father, the Coach(MartinSheenA Great Performance) Julia Stilles plays Desi, Andrew Keegan playsMichael Casio, Rain Phoenix plays Emily, she is the sister of Joaquin Phoenix  and the deceased River Phoenix. Elden Hensen plays Roger Rodriguez, he isgood and he was great as opposite Kieran Culkin in 'The Mighty',This movie may be hard to watch! The idea that teenagers would do such things  to each other is pretty awful! It was held back two years due to the event in  Colorado with these teens killing each other with machine guns! Hugo putsOdin on drugs, which is not in 'Othello' and there is a scene where Odin gets  rough with Desi while they are having sex. Odin becomes very disturbed andyou really got to feel sorry for him. The violence is in a rather low tone which  kind of makes it even more rough going. But despite all that this is a very good  movie.  "},{"Title":"good adaptation","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Shakespeare is not easy to bring to screen, what the hell Shakespeare is not easy to understand most of the time. So a play that bring the story about Othello the Moor to our era, and is so strong and easy top understand for all audience, even the youngsters and teenagers, is really a very good job, I enjoyed, and believe is such a fine job, like the version of Romeo and Juliet in William Shakespeare's Romeo+Juliet I'll give it an 8/10. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly effective transformation.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A surprisingly effective transformation in changing the scenery (and times) while using William Shakespeare's story (Othello) as the main source.  The tale closely follows Odin James (Mekhi Phifer), who is the lone African-American student that attends a well-known prep school and the most popular student after earning MVP honors in boys' basketball, is slowly urged by Hugo (Josh Hartnett), the coach's lowly son into understanding that Odin's girlfriend, Desi (Julia Stiles), the dean's lovely daughter is cheating on him.I hate to think that the story does a by-the-numbers routine, which actor/director Tim Blake Nelson and his screenwriter, Brad Kaaya carefully avoids.  The positive side is Nelson appears to know how to handle every scene very delicately.And the events that occur during the movie aren't absolutely shocking, just eerie and the tension is boiling.  The surprises that pop-up are well-placed and doesn't miss a single beat.Phifer is good here in handling the emotions of his character while Stiles is also excellent here.  And Hartnett, he's seems to be new at being the dishonest and double-crossing friend and he doesn't play it like Dennis Hopper, Christopher Walken, or Gary Oldman would handle it.  Hartnett simply adapts to the character quite well, which is good for the movie and shows that he can play someone who is deceiving.The trio is backed up by an impressive supporting cast (Martin Sheen, John Heard, Rain Phoenix, Elden Hensen, and Andrew Keegan).  Out of the bunch, Sheen emerges from the pack and he certainly makes his presence felt very early as the coach.  Sheen's performance here isn't completely identical to the one he gave in David Cronenberg's chilling version of Stephen King's The Dead Zone as the off-the-wall third party candidate.Before I end this review, I can't help to think why O has been of the few films that was targeted because it stirs up those god-awful images of what happened at Columbine a few years ago.  I find it appalling that some people (ones who didn't lose any loved ones there) still make a big fuss over the issue and don't let it go away.  I remember that day all too well, watching the horror unfold on t.v., and it was a sight that no one ever wants to see.  The message that O tries to show that violence isn't the answer to solving a private issue and it works very well.  "},{"Title":"Better than a lot of movies","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Mekhi plays the only black basketball player in an all-white high school. Julia Stiles portrays his (dumb) white girlfriend, Desi. Josh Hartnett is Hugo, and he is obsessed with Odin, who his coach dad likes better than him. I watched the one with Lawrence Fishburne, and read the cliff notes last year for class (I'm busy, not stupid!), and the one big difference between this movie and the play is how the characters are written. In the play, Iago (Hugo) is not very emotional or weak. He hates Othello for unknown reasons, and vows to destroy him. In O, Josh Hartnett plays him as somewhat vulnerable and confused. He is motivated mostly by his father's indifference, but a lot of his actions are left ambiguous. He hates and loves Odin, instead of just hating him. The last lines are about him. The story is told mostly from Hugo's oint of view, and compared to the original, Othello is insecure and not very noble. He's really just a normal kid, but obviously had some kind of complex, and the drugs Hugo gave him made it worse. "},{"Title":"Solid but lacks the depth and complexity in the characters that their actions demand but the script doesn't provide","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Spurned by his friend and team-mate Odin James, Hugo Goulding conspires to bring about the fall of the popular basketball MVP. Using Odin's girlfriend as the lynch-pin in his plan, Hugo manoeuvres other pupils into position before sowing the seeds of doubt about his relationship with Odin. With Hugo's words eating away at him personally and on the court, Odin starts to show the outward signs of the pressure on him as Hugo continues to play the game from the inside using others.It is easy to be protective of Shakespeare and automatically dismiss any updating &#150; particularly where the dialogue is shunned and the target audience is a teenage one, however I was determined to give O a chance because if nothing else, at least it wasn't a comedy. The narrative is simplified at the same time as being updated and as a result the characters are not as complex as the ultimate conclusion needs them to be. This results in a mostly good flow as the pieces are moved into position by the manipulative Hugo but too sudden a jump into murder and betrayal without the depth behind it to make it convincing. By being pretty superficial in regards the characters, it asks too much of us to buy into the students killing one another over cheating and ruined friendships.The end of the film is quite strong though and I can understand why it sat waiting for someone to release it but it was not enough for me because I simply didn't believe the characters would go to such extremes on the basis of what I had seen. The actors try their best but without the material to support their directions they cannot do enough to carry it. Hartnett is the lead but his performance lacks grounding; spurned for MVP is not enough motivation to start him and he does not have the desire and cunning of the better Iago's. Conversely he is a bit too flat and lacking a rage that pushes against his cold logic to drive him to his fall. Phifer is better as he wears his fall better, bringing out a convincing confusion in his actions even if again the extremity of his actions are not totally founded in his character. Stiles is OK but very much a device in the film as much as in the narrative and she doesn't have a lot to do in a film that is about the two male leads. Sheen adds star value but is restricted to an obvious coach caricature while the support cast are mostly just the standard high school types.Overall then, an OK modern version in regards the basic narrative flow, however the lack of depth and complexity in the characters prevents it being as convincing as it really should have been. The cast try to work with what they have but at the end of the day, like them, I found myself wishing that more work had gone in early in the writing process. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of Othello for a modern high school setting.","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Shakespeare wrote Othello for early 16th century Venice. This movie, O, updates the story to a 21st century high school in Charleston, SC. The characters all have slightly different names, but it is very clear which characters here match with Shakespeare's. The story is the same, one of jealousy and how it can destroy one's sanity and one's life.Mekhi Phifer has the starring role as Odin James, accomplished athlete lured to this high school to help win the state basketball championship. He is the only black in the school. Josh Hartnett is Odin's close friend Hugo, son of coach Goulding (Martin Sheen), and also a starter on the basketball team. Andrew Keegan is Michael Cassio, another of the starters. The tension begins when during a school assembly coach Goulding presents O the MVP award, but O calls up Cassio, publicly announcing him as his right hand man, an equal MVP contributor. Coach then hugs O and states that he loves him just like a son. All of this makes Hugo jealous, Hugo of many basketball talents and the coach's son, so he begins his plot to take revenge. Julia Stiles is the young, pretty and lily-white Desi, who has secretly been O's girlfriend for 4 months. Hugo is also jealous over that. Rain Phoenix is Emily, Desi's room mate. The choices of music are interesting and add to the flavor of the story. It is a mix of classical and street rap, and punctuate the story lines very well. MAJOR SPOILERS. It will be no surprise to anyone who knows Othello well, but Hugo hatches a plot to convince O (falsely) that his girl Desi is sleeping with his buddy Cassio, such that when everything is done both Cassio and Desi will be dead, and O will be banished to jail. The plan matches the story in Othello very closely. Things don't go quite as planned, but O does sneak into Desi's room and overtaken with jealously chokes Desi and kills her on her bed. By this time nearly insane with grief, O wanders out onto the porch of the dorm and, with police holding guns on him, he shoots and kills himself. Hugo is taken away in a police car after his role is revealed by Emily. "}{"Title":"horrible","Date":"13 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" i know it's hard to make Shakespeare easy to understand for teenagers, but must you turn it into Ebonics? maybe it's because i performed in the play Othello that i am completely disgusted with this version. unlike the actual Othello, this entire thing did not start over whether Iago got a promotion or not. no, it had to do with O asking michael (cassio) to share the VIP award from basketball with him! yes, a crazed killing spree was all started because of a VIP award in basketball! you have got to be kidding me. the script in this movie was absolutely terrible. many of the worst lines were given to josh hartnett, like saying he knew more about white chicks or telling O that he's being played, dawg. there is a reason why Shakespeare's plays are famous. they have wonderful plots and the language that he used was amazing. reducing his language to yo and dawg ruins it! keeping the basic plot does not make it good! any black person who saw this movie was probably very offended. they basically tell the audience that the only reason why O is in this rich school is because of basketball. they successfully fulfilled the stereotype that black people are only good at basketball. also, throughout the movie they played this intense rap music, but when O dies (the one black guy) they switched the music to opera! did they just think to themselves oh, now that the black guy's dead we can play white music now absolutely ridiculous! "},{"Title":"I never read Othello. So this' based on just the movie.","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  O Mekhi Phifer, Josh Hartnett, Julia Stiles(maybe some spoilers)Odin(O), Hugo and Michael are all friends on a high school basketball team. Hugo's dad is the coach and becomes extremely jealous of O being the star player who everyone loves (I didn't, but thats not the point). He comes up with a first class idea to rid of his rival by using everyone around him, which have drastic consequences. First he uses Roger, A rich loser kid who has a crush on Desi, O's girlfriend. He uses him to wind up Michael, he gets into a fight, which result in Roger getting hurt and Michael not being allowed to play basketball. Then he uses Michael, desperate to play basketball again, he tells him Desi could put in a good word for him and maybe get back on the team, He and Desi become friendly, making O jealous. The plot unfolds. Hugo then stirs things up by telling O false rumors about Michael and Desi. He also uses Emily later on.Characters The whole movie just revolved around Odin (Phifer - the ONLY black guy in an entire school, yeah right). I didn't like him at all. I just kept hoping and wishing he would go away. But seem as the movie was named after him my hope was running low. I was so happy at the end though.Hugo (Hartnett) and Emily (Phoenix) didn't seem to say much through the movie, the longest convo's Hugo had was when he was trying to fill Odin's head with rage, which he did wonderfully. He used the same facial expressions and I couldn't really figure out what his problem was. I felt sorry for Emily through the whole film because she was such a mug and couldn't see she was being used by Hugo, who was, believe it or not, her boyfriend.It was a pity Julia Stiles (Desi) was in this movie, I dislike her the best of times when shes not trying to be this dazzling outstanding floozy.. My mistake, she always tries to do that, because she plays the SAME role in practically every film shes in, and O is no exception. She was great in 10 things I hate about you, I even like her in Wicked, but I hate watching movies where actors play roles that are so similar to those they've done before.Andrew Keegan (Michael) I'd hate to coin a phase but he seemed really.. gay. Not much to really say about him, he was boring and unappealing. At least in 10 things about you he was a character worth hating.There were some great scenes in the movie and some where you couldn't help but have sympathy for the characters. Like at the basketball game where Roger (Henson) was being tormented by 2 other guys. And that O wouldn't believe Desi (yes even her) when she was telling the truth.The movie doesn't flow, I kept thinking, does this movie have a point? Then when something interesting did finally happen, it was taking forever to go anywhere. As I said, some scenes were good (if alittle overdone) but that doesn't make up for the bad acting, and even worse screenplay. "},{"Title":"Solidified Stance","Date":"26 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  As I have said many times, Shakespeare and cinema do not mix.  There is a profound difference between acting a stage play, making an original script, and having someone competent enough behind the camera.  O is yet another failure to try and bring a modern appeal to Shakespeare's work.  Unfortunately, it is no better than William Shakespeare's Romeo+Juliet.  There is no Hollywood or Bollywood film yet that matches my imagination of how these plays look and only Kurosawa has shown he can adapt yet remain original.O suffers first in the script department.  If it wants to be 'another teen movie' then they did a good job.  The dialog is worthless and insults the mastery of words that Shakespeare published.  If only the had contracted John Hughes to pen the script instead.  At least there would have been some fluency to it.  Even Better Off Dead and Fast Times at Ridgemont High were better than this!Second, the cast is terrible.  Josh Hartnett proves he can't act, only stand around with one expression on his face and one tone in his voice.  Even Arnold Schwarzenegger has more versatility than that!  What a waste!  I pity Martin Sheen that he got stuck on this movie, talk about 'how the mighty have fallen.'  Mekhi Phifer demonstrates, in a very painful way, that he can't carry a movie with a large supporting cast.  Bummer.  As for Julia Stiles, nope, she's no better.Overall, an absurdly lame attempt at translating the Bard to the next generation.  While they're at it, why don't they try Sophocles?  Don't even waste your time on this because even the soundtrack is stereotypical for a film like this.  Enough of the hip-hop.  1.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"You can run for a long time until you hit the dead end.","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Tim Blake Nelson directs this drama based on Shakespeare's 'Othello'. Be warned this is not an easy movie to like. It has dead on intrigue and keeps the viewer busy with the twisting plot. Odin James(Mekhi Phifer)is a black basketball player on an all-white school team and while trying to earn a college scholarship he must face jealousies and betrayals. Martin Sheen plays the two faced basketball coach that seems to think of his own glory over his teams. His son Hugo(Josh Hartnett)feels his basketball talent is being over looked. So he connives a wicked scheme to bust up the black super star and his girlfriend Desi(Julia Stiles). Desi's best friend Michael(Andrew Keegan)is also involved in the round robin of wicked webs woven. Be ready for a gut wrenching finale. Also in the cast are John Heard and Rain Phoenix. Maybe a second look at this one will bring appreciation. "},{"Title":"I will go where Hugo","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie twice in three days.  The first time I didn't like it at all, but knew I had to see it again to make sure it wasn't just my mood.  The second time I liked it much more, but I still don't think its a very good movie.  These comments openly discuss major plot points, so stop here unless you want it all ruined for you.Hugo (Josh Hartnett) is the son of the basketball coach (Martin Sheen) and not a particularly nice person beneath it all, although its said at one point that 'everyone likes Hugo.'Odin James (Mekhi Phifer), called 'O' for short, is the star of that basketball team and the preferred son to the coach.  Coach openly states his love for O, in front of Hugo, constantly. Michael (Andrew Keegan) is also on the team.  He's best friends with O and Hugo. Roger (Elden Henson) fulfills the nerd quotient, as he appears to have a crush on Desi, which is unnerving Hugo more than it is Roger.Desi (Julia Stiles) is girlfriend to O, best friend to Michael, and Hugo's only enemy.  Other than Desi's roommate, a girl known best for her sexual availability, this is pretty much the players.Hugo has trouble in mind.  He and Roger have formed a coalition.  Hugo needs a dummy to do his bidding is more to the point, and Roger is not exactly burdened with many friendships.  You don't see Hugo with very many people, either, but I guess you have to presume that 'everyone likes Hugo' but maybe Hugo doesn't realize that.  Dad does not like Hugo; at least, he doesn't like him the most.  This seems to be the major bug up Hugo, and it would have been easier for him if he just bad-mouthed O to Dad and gotten him taken off the team someway, but he first tries to get O charged with forcing himself on Desi, and when that does not work, he gets Roger to start a fight with Michael, thus getting Michael kicked off the team.  Hugo plans to get Michael back on the team by going through Desi - if Michael tries to convince Desi to get O to talk to Coach, perhaps he will be allowed back on the team.   Hugo is convinced that Michael must hang out with Desi a lot in order to achieve his goal. In the meantime, Hugo is feeding O a lot of nonsense about Michael and Desi's friendship taking a new, closer aspect, and O gets jealous fairly quickly.  This is where it all really starts, but Hugo keeps teaming one side against the other so that everyone will get all worked up over one thing or another.  This is also where my problems with the movie kicked in - if Michael and O had just one conversation, and compared notes on what Hugo was saying to each of them, they would have figured him out, and we'd be without this movie. Its totally illogical, especially since both guys are friends, possibly more so because of their mutual fondness for Desi. You just have to believe Hugo is that convincing, that O and Michael are unable to talk and solve anything, and that Desi is unable to arbitrate their differences.  Suffice to say, it does not end well for anyone.  Hugo's final plan has flaws a mile wide and more people get hurt than he and O originally plan.   It seems like a stupid reason for violence, but I guess that might be the point - that there is never really a good reason..Hartnett is completely convincing.  His eyes darkened, he looks like a POW, and it works, cause he is in some ways.  He does not fall victim to any of the 'psycho' trappings of the character and overdo any of it.  Mekhi is less successful, especially in some of his speeches, but I can't imagine anyone else in his part.  Keegan does not get to make much of an impression, since he's aboard just to make the plot move along.  He's a device and plays it that way.  Stiles is good but seems to lack the fire she displayed in '10 Things I Hate About You'.  Her love scenes with Mekhi are when the both of them are at their best.  I enjoyed Henson in 'The Mighty' but his character here is extremely sketchy at best.  As mentioned, I could 'solve' this movie with a couple of moves.  I will probably see it again since I do like it.  Just don't think its that good.  5/10.  "},{"Title":"Rather flat when compared to the material","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Even though I value and to some extent appreciate the work of Shakespeare, I do not know it in detail.  Therefore I cannot compare the film with Othello and will judge the film as a separate unit.  The story, of course, has a lot of material to work from but somehow I feel that all the characters were set without reason or background.  Like we came at a story half way through, seeing how it all ended.  There were surprisingly few well laid out, challenging conversation, and all motives or drivers behind any actions very unreal or vague.  To top it, I was unsure as to what sort of a film it was meant to be.  A love story, a thriller, action or what ever.  There is simply not enough focus on any one part of the story to get you interested in the dreams and lives of one or more characters.   The actors did OK as such, nothing remarkably good or bad.  I think one of the downfall was the lack of suspense and/or speed.  The film being rather flat and sometimes bordering on boring.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Crazy thrill ride but not quite what expected","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Sitting down for this movie I was a bit skeptical.  After the opening scenes and characters were developed I really got into the story.  As the movie progressed I found myself wanting to jump into the screen and tell everyone what was wrong and wanted to help them as to not get hurt.  The ending was great and kept me on edge the whole time. "},{"Title":"Then must you speak of one that wrote not wisely!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A poorly adapted screenplay, a storyline with several missing links, and a terribly miscast Emily are the nicest things I can say about this film.  I wonder if the key scribe on this new and improved Othello, Brad Kaaya, read the play before he hacked it to pieces, or simply opted for the Cliff's Notes version?  Because the film moves in a similar hackneyed way, fast slow, fast slow, throwing major plot points into a jumbled mix with slow drawn out dramatic scenes.As for the direction and the acting, it seems to be very strong at times while hesitant at others.  Certainly the actors seem to know what they're saying, seem to be well acquainted with their motivation, they even convey their anger/lust/jealousy with remarkable depth and skill.  Yet the storyline betrays them, as their motives are never made blunt, never fully explained, and leave the viewer in a quandary as to their well acted (but half baked) antics.On a final note the soundtrack was superbly selected with a strange mixture of Hip-Hop, Rap, and soulful R&B, but even this became perverted by the inclusion of an aria during the aftermath of the climatic moment.  Opera had no place in this modern movie and seemed pretentious and ill-advised-not unlike the casting of Rain Phoenix as Emily. Phoenix spent the better part of the film looking sullen and pouty, the complete opposite of Shakespeare's feisty and devious supporting female role.A complete disappointment-wait for it on video.  "},{"Title":"A complete, well acted adaption of Othello","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I am very glad O finally made it to theaters. After about tweleve release dates and a two year delay O was worth it. O the modern adaption of Shakespeare's Othello transformed the characters into rich snobs in a boarding school. Odin James(Othello) is the star of the basketball team who has brought fame to the school. Odin is also the only African-American at the school. This fits the play because Othello was the only Moore in Venice who brought it great fame. Odin was wonderfully plaid in a subtle performance by Mekhi Phifer. Josh Hartnett gives an incredible performance as Hugo(Iago) Odin's good friend who tries to bring him down. Harnett's Hugo was chilling and satanic he seemed best almost when he didn't speak but you can see it all through the eyes. Julia Stiles, in her third modern Shakespeare film,is (Desdimona) is Odin's white love interest. The story revolves around Hugo's envy towards Odin because Hugo's father, the basketball coach(Martin Sheen) seems to pay more attention to Odin than Hugo (In the play Iago has no motivation but that would make him to evil). Hugo plays to drive Odin and Desi apart by making it appear she is cheating on him. The film is incredibly realistic, especially the dialogue. The film is never improbable and the climax is incredibly intense. The three leads as well as Rain Phoniex as Hugo's confused girlfriend. The direction(Tim Blake Nelson) and the cinematography are wonderful. One of the few worthwhile films of the summer of 2001. Great for any Shakespeare fans or fans of tense drama.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing and uneven","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting something good.  I spent the week out in Seattle and seeing that O was debuting in the Seattle International Film Festival, I didn't want to miss it.  The theatre was packed and there was a buzz about the place.It didn't last too long, however.  The directing and acting was, at best, uneven.  At times there were great moments, only to lose their power by long, boring, and pointless sections.  The film lacked a consistent edge.  Josh Hartnetts character could, and should have been explored more deeply to emphasize his pain at being the neglected son.  There were flashes, but they disappeared in whispered monotones.All in all, it was choppy and uneven, but showed some signs of being a good film.  However, the direction and the performances left much to be desired. "}{"Title":"Well crafted movie, too violent for me","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ok.This movie, while being very well crafted and extremely attention-grabbing, was very, very disturbing.If you haven't seen this movie, but want to, make sure that you watch it on an empty stomach, and that there's someone around for emotional support.Maybe I'm just a softy, being a person who NEVER watches violent films. Still, this movie had me physically ill, crying, and emotionally wrecked for a couple of days.If you like violence, GREAT movie. If not, think twice. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, all things considered","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  All right, my dear directors, if you feel you simply MUST move Shakespeare from his original setting into the modern era to make his work more `accessible,' this is the way to do it.  You go the whole hog.  You ditch the beautiful, archaic language and picturesque names and make an honest effort to make the people look and act like real inhabitants of the 20th century.  Well done.  I'll take this movie over a thousand Loncraine RICHARD IIIs.OTHELLO is one of Shakespeare's most famous plots, and it's just as powerful today as it was when he wrote it.  Iago, called Hugo here, is one of the most terrifying villains ever written his subtlety and patience infinite, his eye for human weakness razor-sharp, his malice and capacity to abuse friendship unlimited.  You'd have to pity anyone caught in his web of deceit, but it's all the worse when the victim is as genuinely likeable a guy as Odin James (standing in for Othello).  His warmth and passion are wonderful, expressed not only in his love for Desi but also toward his friends on the court, and Mekhi Phifer delivers by far the best performance in the movie.  Isn't it odd how unusual it has become for the star of the movie also to do the best job?(Hereinafter are spoilers).Unfortunately, everybody except Phifer and screenwriter Brad Kaaya seems to be coasting on the strength of the source material.  Tim Blake Nelson's direction is  completely lacking in flair, except for the ending, all the shots gave me the feeling that Nelson had thought, `OK, now we shoot this scene,' never `OK, now what's the best way to shoot this scene?'  Josh Hartnett's Hugo is flat and wooden, not even capable of expressing sadistic joy at the success of his evil plots.  Julia Stiles as Desi cannot match Phifer's warmth of feeling; it's hard to escape the notion that Odin is just a trophy for her and that next year she'll be dating the new team MVP.  When Odin comes to her room with murder on his mind, I was silently screaming at him, `Don't do it!  For God's sake, man, no!'  But that was not so much because I felt sorry for Desi, but because I felt sorry for Odin and desperately wanted him not to screw up his life forever.Well, he does screw up his life forever; the movie is at least that faithful to Shakespeare.  And then comes the only serious objection I have with the adaptation.  Shakespeare's Othello realizes, in the last moments of his life, that the disaster which has befallen him is partly his own fault.  It is mostly Iago's fault, of course, for deceiving Othello, but without Othello's tragic flaw, his unbridled jealousy, he need not have lost his love forever.  He recognizes that he has loved not wisely, but too well.  This movie does not allow Odin to achieve that self-insight.  Instead, Odin dies blaming everything on Hugo, without recognizing that his own act in murdering Desi was wrong, and would still have been wrong even if every word Hugo had told him had been true.Rating *** out of ****.Recommendation Well worth your while on video or DVD; Shakespeare fans should buy it.  "},{"Title":"Nice try, but not quite what I had hoped for.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler Alert Although I appreciate Shakespeare's works, both in the original form, with the intricate dialogue used by the master, and the later adaptations, placing the same issues into a modern scenario (although I think that they are less 'adaptations' and more 'based on a play by', as they do diverge from the original story line by a good deal on occasion), I was not satisfied by this particular movie.Although Hugo's manipulation of the other members of the cast was both skilled in it's design and in it's portrayal by Hartnett, the movie appeared, in places, to rely upon the viewer's previous reading of the original play. Although it is obvious that Hugo bears a great deal of jealousy towards Odin, due to the fact that his father cares more for Odin than for his own son, this is not adequately shown in the early parts of the film, nor is the actual moment or event which causes Hugo to decide to embark upon the chain of events which leads to the death of his five friends.Having not read the play myself (but I will do so now), I cannot say which parts were in the original play and which were constructed by the screenwriters, however, the movie appeared to me to flounder towards the end. It almost appeared to become so confused with itself and began flooding the viewer with details faster than they could be digested, and without anywhere near as much skill as the story had been told earlier. At the end, I think a more profound climax would have been to have Odin killed by the police (as he was brandishing a handgun at a group of scared students), and to have Hugo return home to his father grieving so much for Odin's loss that Hugo once again faded into the background - showing that for all the manipulation, murder, deceit and death, Hugo ended up right back where he began, the invisible son of the basketball coach. "},{"Title":"Not a great adaptation","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I found myself spending more time looking at my watch then watching the movie itself.  There were parts of it that were great and other parts that just bored me into a coma.  Josh Hartnett was great playing the evil Hugo and I loved watching him play a character different then anything he has ever done.  All in all I would not even see this movie again until it is one of the cheaper movies in the video stores. "},{"Title":"O brother, where art thou?","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" In one of many adaptations of Shakespeare plays (in this case Othello), high school student Odin James (Mekhi Phifer) has everything that he wants, including hot girlfriend Desi Brable (Julia Stiles), but Hugo Goulding (Josh Hartnett) seeks to undermine everything. I actually like this Shakespeare adaptation better than the recent adaptations of Romeo and Juliet or Hamlet, as this one uses modern language. I mean, Shakespearean talk sounds nice, but it just doesn't seem to fit in a world of iPods and such.So, I recommend O, even if the cast members sometimes try a little to hard to emote. Also starring Andrew Keegan, Rain Phoenix, Martin Sheen and John Heard.Not that this is really related, but Tim Blake Nelson has now been involved in two updated versions of classic literature he directed this one and starred in O Brother, Where Art Thou? (adapted from The Odyssey). And both begin with O. Hmm... "},{"Title":"Shakespeare must cry in his coffin.","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":" One of the most trendy mainstream seems to consist in updating classics. Romeo and Juliet became Romeo + Juliet, cyrano de bergerac became whatever it takes, dangerous liaisons became cruel intentions etc. I must say it is a quite encouraging will to show this tragedy's modern relevance, but, by the time I heard the first lines (I love Odin as if he were my son says Hugo's father, as his son calls Odin a negro), I got worry. I think shakespearian feelings require more... balance and I daresay they are much more subtle. The stake of this undertaking quickly goes shady and turns Hartnett's so-called Machiavellian schemes into the sort of gossip you can hear in a Wal-Mart supermarket. As an evidence for his defence, I shall recall that in his latest movie someone checked his bed with a semen detector. How posh. May we understand this poor boy's trauma and therefore the one of his costars, Julia Stiles and Mekhi Phifer, a very cute couple but who remains helpless. However a quite funny use of the images of birds is to be noticed, and so is our wish, once out, to read the play again. "},{"Title":"Forget Shakespeare","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Unless a matter of idle curiosity, films have to stand alone, separate and apart from books and other creative writings including those of the Bard. As a flick, O is a so-so product with many flaws including poor chemistry between Stiles and Phifer, acting mechanical in spots, the hoop stuff by rote, the infusion of high drama too obvious, characters speak in hushed tones and behave in other unnatural ways, bird stuff is silly, soundtrack from opera to rap and back is difficult to swallow,  etc..blaa, blaa. In spite of all that, O does manage a dramatic crescendo of some magnitude. Not for the jaded, O will be most appreciated by the younger and less analytical audiences. "},{"Title":"Fantasy Land","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The premise of the film is completely dated.  Kids in the suburbs like hip hop and idolize minority athletes.   He would have been a hero in most American schools.He would have been the most popular student there.  This is a fantasy land in which it pretends to be more like 1950 Birmingham.  It was very polarizing. "},{"Title":"A pathetic rendition of O, quite the worst ever made.","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  First I am laughing my head off, that a so called educator (lol. whaterver) recommended this version of O. It's just poor, violent, has no actual words from the play, and just a pathetic attempt by another stupid American, Tim Blake Nelson trying to cash in on Shakespeare's work.I think the educator got  her degree from Elementary School. lol. Even an idiot who has mildy read O and has this film can see how poorly made the film is.The film itself takes place in a basketball gym (gee it looks like the film was made on a budget of $10). The acting is equally as terrible, basically like Josh Hartnett and the rest are reading cue cards.Then the film itself instead of using the original words from the script is full of vulgar language like Bitch, Fuc*** You and other lovely expletives.What a pathetic film, and Shakespeare laughing from the grave at this film and anyone who recommends it. "},{"Title":"very demented","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was altogether alright but very demented.  Expect it to be demented obviously since it was based off of Shakespeare.  The thought that basically everyone died was pretty sad.  You never really have anytime to get emotional though because people just start dying right and left.  Very Weird!! "}{"Title":"awful","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  After the success of a modern romeo and julliet, this film tries to update othello. The middleage battle field becomes an 21st century basketball field. At first sight, that is ok. But, this meens that our protoganist now will try to destroy O only because he is the mvp off the schoolteam. And there you lost me. I' didn't believe one second of this film. Our protagonist is a young modern guy, acting like an old king in 13th century England. Awful "},{"Title":"Disappointing.","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I liked Shakespearean plays. I particularly like Othello. But 'O' was seemingly average at best. It really didn't deliver and reinvent itself properly the way 'Romeo & Juliet' was. The acting was SUB-PAR. I cared for none of the characters and enjoyed the movie simply because of the modern upgrade Othello received.Odin is the star basketball player of his high school and coach Duke treats him as if he were his only son. The Duke's real son, Hugo, knows of this and doesn't respond well in kind, plotting to turn Odin's life inside out.The best role here was played by Josh Hartnett. Acting like he learned something from Keanu in 'Much Ado About Nothing,' he played the perfect villain and Phifer sells that perfectly as well. Unfortunately that is all that can be said for Phifer and especially for Ms. Stiles who adds no dimension to Desi (or does the script let her?). I can't recommend 'O,' even if it's OK enough for Shakespeare lovers. Something uninteresting came out of watching it. "},{"Title":"Personal O experience","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  My first reaction after seeing this movie was that I felt severely disturbed. Now that I think about it, this movie was an excellent retelling of Shakespeare's Othello, and Shakespeare would not have wanted anything less.  As a word of warning, some people in the theater I saw it in left crying or feeling more disturbed than I did, so take into consideration how badly you really want to see this.  I completely understand the delay of the movie's release and am grateful Hollywood took into consideration the current events. It's not an easy film to watch, but in the end is an amazing experience. "}]