[{"Title":"A VERY PRIVATE UNIVERSE","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"85 out of 117 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Very few directors, since Bunuel, Fassbinder, Lindsay Anderson and Roman Polanski, have been able to translate their own, very private universes, to the screen. That is why, it divides audiences in such a radical way.You love it or you hate it. I think, that is the final objective of an artist, to express their view, to give us their own version of the world we live in. It enriches us, it makes us more aware of the million faces of human nature. Thanks to Almodovar we're allowed to feel identified with, what we may consider, marginal characters.  What a different experience is to sit through an Almodovar film and a Ron Howard film for instance. Almodovar remains, becomes part of us, Ron Howard's vanishes as we're leaving the movie theater. "},{"Title":"What a sensational study of the women universe!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"63 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This time of the year, when we talk about movies, we have to talk about Oscar. The nominees will be announced this Tuesday, but there are already favorites in some categories. Some people still doubt that American Beauty will win as best picture- which I don't, because I think it was the best film of the decade- but almost everyone agrees that this wonderful movie Todo sobre mi madre/ All About My Mother will win as best foreign language film. And it really deserves that.I've always recognized Pedro Almodóvar's talent. Most of his films are very weird and quite surreal, but sometimes I don't understand him. So I couldn't decide if I would see All About My Mother on the movies, or if I would wait for it to come out on video. It was released in Brazil last October, and only yesterday I went to see it at a local cinema. And... What did I think about it? Well... A true, true masterpiece!The story of the film is about Manuela (wonderfully played by Cecilia Roth), a nurse who works at a hospital in Madrid, Spain, and has a 17 year old son, Esteban, who doesn't know the identity of his father. On the day of his birthday, he dies in an accident and Manuela gets desperate. She reads his notes and finds out that he wanted to know at least the name of his father. So she goes back to Barcelona, where she got pregnant, trying to search for her ex-husband, but some surprises will change her life.What Almodóvar makes to this movie is just incredible. He makes us cry and laugh- specially in the scenes where the transvestite Agrado is. But, in fact, the film is a deep drama, studying carefully the female universe with strength and realism, and also explaining the importance of a mother. All the main characters are very well developed and each of them has some importance in the plot. It's really amazing how Almodóvar knows women so well, and how he loves and cares about them. His film is a very complex masterpiece, with some important messages and a wonderful story, and should be seen by everyone, even for the American people who don't like subtitles. But pay attention- the dialogues are fabulous!All About My Mother is surely on my Top 10 of 1999. And... let's wait for the Oscar nominees on Tuesday, but I'm sure it will be nominated, and certainly win. It's much better than last year's winner as a foreign language film, Life is Beautiful, and is a serious must-see. Just do me a favor DON'T MISS IT!Rating 10/10 "},{"Title":"One of the most compelling movies I've ever seen.","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"60 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've watched this masterpiece by Almodovar four times.  Each time I unearth new sequences of pure unadulterated truth, beauty, and genius.  It is just a totally compelling and amazingly insightful comedy-tragedy that works on so many levels.  Cecilia Roth is an Almodovar favorite, and there's no mystery as to why this is the case.  She can express tragedy, wisdom, and an appreciation of dark humor only with her eyes and facial positioning, and express all three vividly at the same time. Her voice also is as commanding of respect as it is sexy and fragile.  Almodovar eye for visual poems of incongruity reaches a new pinnacle in this masterpiece.  First, there is the haunting by-play of darkness and light preceding Roth coming to the rescue of El Agreado.  Much later, we are treated to the brightness of the upscale restaurant Roth where Roth waits for her ex-husband Lola juxtaposed with a merciless exploration of the vast dark despair of Lola's eyes. Between these bookend-style frames, the profound dualities abound.If you see one foreign language film per year, make this your next one. "},{"Title":"Superb Acting make for Absorbing Drama","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"63 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As this was my first Almodovar movie I didn't quite expect that much,was I ever going to be surprised.Almodovar is widely seen as the greatest Spanish cineast since Luis Bunuel,which I really like,and I must say that I concur with that.The resemblances between the two directors are also there,both use intense drama and comedy in one scene to great effect and both attack the church in a big way.TODO SOBRE MI MADRE is simply one of the best drama's I've ever seen because of it's superb acting and difficult but inventive storyline.The characters are also very well worked out. Leading lady Cecilia Roth is sensational as the mourning mother and the rest of the cast isn't any worse.The supporting roles by Penelope Cruz,Marise Paredes and especially Antonia San Juan are great.San Juan is a real time transvestite which makes it even more realistic. Almodovar caused quite a commotion with this provocative film although it never goes over the line(at least not in my taste)but you should not be old fashioned or truly religious because then it will offend you.The humor that is put in the film makes it an even better experience.The mixture of intense drama and comedy is perfect.Another brilliant addition is the great soundtrack.The mixture between harmonic classical pieces and jazzy compositions is magnificent.I can't wait to see more of Almodovar's work. 9/10 (currently number 39 in my all time top 100 list)  "},{"Title":"Almodovar's Poignant Study of Women.","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"44 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Departing more and more from his more usual farcical style while retaining many of the elements that have made him the kind of storyteller he is today, Pedro Almodovar ended the year 2000 with a striking, passionate film that unless you had a rock for a heart you would never grasp its ultimate, compassionate essence.Manuela (Cecilia Roth) is at the center of this story, and through her unimaginable tragedy -- her son Esteban (Eloy Azorin) is killed in a freak accident while trying to get the autograph of his favorite theatre actress, Huma Rojo (played with great dignity by Spanish legend Marisa Paredes) -- she is able to reassemble the pieces of her life even though the people she encounters within her future bring her right back to her past.Almodovar films this in a completely non-exploitative way though there may be times when it feels as though it is, but being a Spanish film maker, I can see and appreciate where the growing passion reflected in many of its emotional scenes is coming from. The tragedies of these women, and of one of the more gender-confused men, all lead to that last gesture of maternal compassion, and the fact that Manuela decides to let her ex-lover Esteban, now a trans-gendered female, learn that not only did he have a son who died and loved him blindly but has another infant son borne from a nun (Penelope Cruz) is the core of what human relations are about love which transcends errors, sex, character, even the absence of a father. A fascinating movie experience that resonates and brings the real Almodovar into the spotlight. "},{"Title":"Todo sobre mi madre, all about you and me","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"37 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What I like most about Almodovar's films, this one in particular, is the way he will grab you and pull you into a world you would not normally know and then, confront you with people's lives, emotions, relationships. Manuela, the mother who at the beginning seems so in control and clinical, earnest in her love and with the best intentions for her son, is shown to be much like you and me... full of doubts, questions, a need for answers and trying to understand how her life course has brought her to the present day and made her who she is. Barcelona in winter is richly filmed and serves as a backdrop for the renewing of old satisfying friendships and the budding of new ones, happening simultaneously and somewhat unexpectedly. It rings so true. The slow realisation that we are never really complete, that it's the people we love and live with, or avoid and later regret having done so, that makes us who we are. Almodovar sees the human condition and paints it carefully in this film.  "},{"Title":"Dignity","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What a genius Almodovar is! Who else could take such esoteric material and make it not only enjoyable, but relatable. It takes a lot of chutzpah for a male director to swan dive into the gulf of womanhood (I can't believe I just wrote that) and emerge with such truth, HUMAN truth. While the characters of this film seem to represent certain female archetypes, they still flow organically through the ingenious plot. Almodovar shows us that any taboo subject can be tackled without it being exploited when it is done with a compassionate heart. The sheer WARMTH of this movie is what makes it a stunning success. The performances in this film are unforgettable. Cecilia Roth is so dazzling and real, and heartbreaking. But only a genius like Almodovar can break our hearts but still give us hope. "},{"Title":"An exquisite masterpiece","Date":"22 December 1999","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodovar is masterful he has created a film that seeps into you and rips apart your insides. Each moment is flawlessly crafted- the cinematography and light are lush, the writing is heart-wrenching. Loaded with irony and paradox, the story deals sensitively with a plotline that could have been sensationalistic. The strongest feature is perhaps the acting here, which is consistently superb, particularly in the case of Cecilia Roth, the lead actress. This may be the best film I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"A Streetcar named Manuela...","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Todo Sobre mi Madre seemly starts off as a portrait of devoted mother Manuela and her ambitious son, Esteban. They have an unusually close relationship and share everything with each other. The happiness abruptly turns into heart-breaking melodrama when Esteban dies in a car-accident while trying to obtain an autograph from his favorite stage-performer. Emotionally devastated, Manuela returns to Barcelona, the city she fled from 17 years ago when she was pregnant with her son. Slowly and one step at the time, our heroine regains her will to live again and she's doing this by helping others. She watches over the confused Rosa during her pregnancy, becomes the personal assistant of the depressed actress Huma (and even fills in for the part of Stella in the 'Streetcar Named Desire'-play) and rejoins her old transvestite friend Agrado. This film is about human beings and their thoughts, emotions and feelings. So don't expect an adrenalin-filled action movie that'll blow you out of your seat. More specifically, Almódovar puts the slightly more eccentric (prostitutes, transvestites and lesbians) members of society in the spotlights and succeeds in informing the masses that these are ordinary people, capable of hurting&#133;loving&#133;and feeling. Through the clever and sophisticated use of absolute film classics like All about Eve and - of course - Streetcar, this film reflects the depth and maturity of the substance. Todo Sobre Mi Madre contains several colorful characters worth analyzing, but it's Manuela's main storyline that impresses the most. Not in the least thanks to the outstanding performance by Celicia Roth! The tears she cries are real and the agony she feels contaminates you, the viewer. Roth is a very charismatic actress who amazingly represents every mother in this world. This is the best recent Spanish film I've seen recently (aside from Tésis, which is a completely different genre) and warmly recommended to everyone interested in character-driven cinema. You better watch it repeatedly to make sure you don't miss any aspect of the player's personalities. This review is dedicated to my Iberian Queen, Nisa. I probably never would have seen this film if it weren't for her "},{"Title":"This is what I call a masterpiece!","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A movie by Almodovar, and no surprise it's marvellous. I decided to watch this one after seeing Hable Con Ella and being stunned by it. I don't know which one's better, but both are worth seeing for sure.Penelope Cruz, who's usually in the role of charming woman, is an average girl on this movie. Perhaps below average, as she gets pregnant from a transvestite and has a fairly crappy life in general. And the head character, Cecilia Roth as Manuela, is simply a delight to watch. Absolutely no mistakes and flaws throughout the movie, no weird scenes, and everything linked perfectly. The plot not only tells a sad story perfectly articulately, but it also puts a mirror on the lives of people from extraordinary walks of life. Not to mention it feels European to the bone, the movie is completely different from any other European, American, or Latin movie I've seen.By all means, WATCH IT! Absolutely a piece to be added to your DVD collection. 10/10 from me.  "}{"Title":"Harsh world thru the eyes of a mother.","Date":"26 November 2004","Score":"26 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being a greenhorn to Almodovar's film, All About My Mother is the 1st   movie from Almodovar i watched.     Overall, All About My Mother is one of the finest film that i've   watched, where it is hard for me to find any flaws in it. With Cecilia   Roth playing Manuela, the nurse who lost her only son,Estaban, to an   road accident, Manuela decided to fulfill her son's wish by looking for   her son's father, which turns out to be Lola, who has become a   transsexual. The whole movie is not only her journey of getting back a   piece of memory of Estaban, but at the same time, it also looks into   the world of transsexuals and lesbians. Not forgetting Penelope Cruz's   role of Sister Rosa, a pregnant nun who contracted HIV from Lola.     With conflicts between Huma, a theatre actress and Nina, her assistant   come lover, Agardo's monologue on being a transsexual and unstable   relationship between Sister Rosa and her mother, Almodovar presented us   the dark side of human being, apart from a mother who wants to fulfill   her dead son's wishes. Somehow, Almodovar hints us a message in most of   his films, that even homosexuals and transsexuals are human beings,   even though they are totally different from the rest.     In all, All About My Mother is one of the few remarkable films that is   worth watching. "},{"Title":"At last, an Almodovar Masterpiece!","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At last, an Almodovar Masterpiece! Now we have the final proof and can say without any doubt Spain has a new true genius. From MUJERES AL BORDE DE UN ATAQUE DE NERVIOS, Almodovar had shown that in his mind rounded an ace, and now several years after and with an irregular filmography, brings us his perfect masterpiece TODO SOBRE MI MADRE, a homage to all women beginning with Bette Davis, Gena Rowlands, Romy Schneider&#133; and ending with his own mother.Here we see not just a delicious plot, perfectly narrated, but a camera that fixes everything as if it was the last time, our last chance to watch the indescribable feminine nature in a whole panorama where tenderness and courage rule life.A puzzle of transitions, a delicate picture of characters and, as ever, a set design that remarks each scene with a touch of simplicity and sophistication. Cecilia Roth is great, superb, unforgettable&#133; but she's not alone Penelope Cruz, beautiful, vulnerable as a `rose'; Marisa Paredes, an actress in her perfect role, without forget to Antonia San Juan, `La Agrado' and Mr. Fernando Fernan Gomez.Please, don't wait until someone tells you more about a film that puts melodrama, drama, comedy and&#133; how not tragedy, in a eternal stream of harmony. It's a pity cinema is more pretty than life.  "},{"Title":"One of the best films ever made","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"21 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie at the Seattle Film Festival and was really blown away by it. What a adventurous story this is. Almodovar has been consistently making one great film after another. He is one of the most prolific directors alive today. He never shies away from interesting material. And he is always pursuing new things stylistically. The acting in this film is superb also. High calliber actors everywhere doing the best work of their lives. I especially liked Cecilia Rath's performance - simple and no-nonsense stuff. How do we get more films like this made? I wander if Almodovar can sustain work on this scale in the future. I really hope he does and I plan to see every one of his films.  "},{"Title":"All about what?","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodolovar is certainly an accomplished film-maker, in many respects his movies look good and invariably contain interesting elements of plot. Yet for such an acclaimed director, I'm often surprised that when I see his movies, I see elements that I might consider amateurish, with stories that often feel like hastily assembled collections of scenes rather than an integrated whole. 'All About My Mother' displays this fault strikingly. Probably intentionally (because the film is in part a homage to the theatre), the story consists of separate acts, each one filling us in on what has happened since we last met the characters and while drama occurring off-stage is a staple necessity of the live play, it seems weird in a film. Also, we are introduced to a long succession of characters, and it's hard to care about each, especially as certain key details are never explained (a nun is seduced by a transvestite, for example, but no-one seems to regard this is particularly odd). While I enjoyed the beginning of the movie (when I still had hope of a dramatic resolution), it seemed to lose focus as it went on, and it's final cut - to a rather strange, melodramatic dedicated presumably expressed by Amoldovar himself - leaves everything unresolved (although on reflection, the resolution has probably already happened, it's just that it does so undramatically so you don't even identify the pivotal scenes as you watch them). This film won plaudits, but it left me flat - and not knowing exactly what I was supposed to feel. "},{"Title":"Life is an x-rated Spanish soap opera.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Heavy spoilers.Think of Pedro Almodovar's All About My Mother as a John Irving adaptation, but minus the usual Hollywood cojones-removal surgery. Viewers who recall the transsexual Roberta in The World According to Garp might understand that I mean this statement literally as well as figuratively, but the figurative meaning is by far the more important. Like Irving - indeed like Dickens before him - Almodovar unapologetically mixes social commentary, humor, artifice, and sentimentality in equal measures. Yet Almodovar's artistic vision seems a lot less trivialized by its didactic and tear-jerking elements than does his American counterpart's.Although some might call it imbalanced, the film's integrity stems from its uncompromising feminine viewpoint and its exhaustive and exclusive portrayal of female roles and relationships. As Almodovar's epilogue tribute to actresses and his own mother make clear, males and masculinity take an intentional back seat in All About My Mother. Of the two fathers we meet in the film, one has such a strong feminine side that he has undergone breast implants and lives as a transsexual - even though his masculine, lower half still exerts enough force for him to have impregnated (over a span of 18 years) the film's two heroines, Manuela (played with extraordinary power and subtlety by Cecilia Roth) and the young Sister Rosa (played winningly by Penelope Cruz in her pre-Tom notoriety days). Rosa's father meanwhile has succumbed to Alzheimer's disease and no longer remembers his daughter (or, thus, his paternity) and has helplessly abandoned her and himself to the control of the film's least sympathetic - because most controlling and masculine - female, Rosa's mother. The other two significant males in the cast include a second transsexual, Agrado, who is Manuela's best friend and although still possessed of his nether member is exaggeratedly female in her/his responses (I live to please others.) The remaining male, Manuela's 17 year old son Esteban, is the only one whose masculinity is physically uncompromised, but his feminine side is nevertheless evident in his journal writing, in his devotion to the stage - particularly the works of Tennessee Williams, and in his chummy confidant relationship with his mother. Nevertheless, Esteban does provide the film's strongest testimony of the need for gender balance, as he longs to connect to the father he has never known and who exists for him ironically as lack - the missing half of all his mother's old photographs.Unfortunately, Esteban's death marks the end of Act 1. He is run down by an automobile while chasing after an autograph from his idol, the famous stage star Huma, another key female figure in the film. Huma is an aging actress who specializes in victim/heroines - William's Blanche DuBois and Lorca's Bernarda Alba. She is also experiencing a troubled lesbian love affair with her co-star in Streetcar, a much younger, self-destructive drug addict named Nina. Following Esteban's death, Manuela's attempts to recover from the emotional trauma include working for and befriending Huma as well as a stand-in performance as Stella during one of Nina's drug flame-outs.Manuela's recovery is punctuated by her occasional dips into Esteban's writing journal where he had begun a work poignantly entitled Todo Sobre Mi Madre in honor of still another American work famously centered on female characters, All About Eve. The mother Esteban idealizes in his journal is the mother we see Manuela struggling to become in the film. That process accelerates when she agrees to shelter and nurture Rosa, who is pregnant, HIV-infected, and unable to face the censure of her mother or her religious order.Quite in keeping with Garp's claim that Life is an x-rated soap opera, All About My Mother resolves itself in a rush of soap opera-ish complications, coincidences, and confrontations. Rosa dies after naming her unborn son Esteban; Manuela becomes the child's surrogate mother and reconciles herself with his dying father, thus redeeming the masculine lack that the first Esteban painfully articulated in his journal; and the child himself makes a miraculous recovery from his HIV birth legacy. It's a mush feast, but it works. Dickens would have loved it. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous vastly over-rated National Enquirer-fed tragedy","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Although this movie was well acted, the story is simply far too incredible to promote any sort of sympathy for the characters. Every character has a trait more common to outlandish soap operas than to dramatic films; a half-man, half-woman cross-dressing heroin-addicted AIDS-infested prostitute, an aging lesbian diva in love with a heroin-addicted actress young enough to be her granddaughter, a suffering wife of a completely addled husband with Alzeimer's estranged from her daughter, a tragic mother of a recently deceased 17-year old son, another half-man half-woman prostitute who spends the better part of the film speaking of his/her job-related exploits, and a preposterous nun who sleeps with the most unlikely of men to not only get pregnant but to also contract HIV. The cast of characters is just so ridiculous as to only be found in a very unrealistic episode of Days of Our Lives.It is obvious that Aldomovar was just going for the Cannes Film Festival storyline, whose prize recipients always includes such improbable relationships and destructive character flaws. Why can't the story simply be about a woman trying to deal with the death of her son? No, that would not have won any accolades, so the entire cast of very left of mainstream characters had to be thrown in so that every reviewer in our Politically Correct times could not possibly pan it for fear of being labeled a bigot. How can the audience possibly accept that a nun presumably devoted enough to her order as to accept a dangerous humanitarian mission to war-torn El Salvador, would sleep with a known man/woman prostitute who has been a heroin addict for 15 years? What happened to her vows? What happened to her common sense? What in the world was the attraction????? The sighting of Lola at the nun's funeral near the end of the movie was more pathetic than tragic, no woman on the planet would possibly consider such a mate (nor would they even likely consider that person a man). It was simply so impossible to conceive that it was ridiculous.Finely acted but preposterous tripe.R. "},{"Title":"Its all about love...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's the kind of picture i could watch over and over again even concecutively. To some this film may seem sad, but for me its about joy of life and HOPE. After seeing it for the first time, i liked it but i wasn't really impressed, it was only after having seen it some years later when i was really touched to the bottom of my soul. I guess i just got older and more women... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"26 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to say I was very disappointed in ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER. The story is the most contrived thing I've ever seen on screen - sophomoric really. I understand it's trying to uncover the humanity in these people and make a statement about the alienation that women may feel in modern society, but I have a really hard time connecting with it because I don't believe in one single aspect of this world. It's all so implausible that it hurts. Okay, I get that it's a movie and that the notion of realism is not of the utmost importance, but this film is a muddled mess that confuses shocking and ridiculous with edgy and interesting.TALK TO HER (HABLE CON ELLA) is a far far better film. It takes an initial leap of faith with the audience and then trusts itself. "},{"Title":"Gaudiless","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.One of the most exciting promises of film is the ability to transport us to different worlds. Because a film carries information about the viewer, a skilled filmmaker can literally turn us into someone different for a while. So one would think that being transported to the rather alien world of Spanish film would be a welcome adventure. But this - at least - disappoints.Latins differ from Northern Europeans and nearly all North Americans in how they deal with abstraction. For Northerners, there is a notion of pure, higher values, apart from life. Stories illustrate great ideas, conflicts, questions, and no matter how realistic the situation shown, we know it is merely representative. This is a cultural convention found even in comedies and `date' movies. Check it out.Latins instead have a notion of a world centered in real people and real events where small acts aggregate. When common themes emerge, they grow out of life, so in art we have abstractions from life rather than life illustrating some invisible clockworks. Consequently, when Pedro tells a story, he becomes obsessed with a culturally rooted notion of honesty. The primary value we are supposed to appreciate here is his honesty, then the honesty of his actresses (the nonwomen men are just buffoons and poltroons), and finally, the honesty of the `real' characters.Then he takes all the self-referential tricks of his northern brethren and grafts them on. So here we have the film portraying a life, portrayed in a play, which references a film. The actors play characters playing actors. Some roles are transplanted from one to another - and just so we will not miss this, our heroine is a transplant facilitator who leaves her job to follow her son's heart.Actually, in another context, this could work well. And in fact there are several even recent films which successfully use much the same devices. But here, the notions of abstraction clash. Pedro wants to pander to Spanish notions of Olympian soap opera, and at the same time be considered a `serious' filmmaker by global viewers (well, forget the viewers to judge from his interviews, it is the critics who are targeted). Sorry, just doesn't mix - doesn't work in either venue.An unrelated complaint is Barcelona. What a wonderful place this city was built for films. Some filmmakers would truly use this opportunity to exploit Gaudi's notions of motion in space what else is film? But here, we have a lost opportunity, save some colored tiles. Worse, Pedro presents the place as if it were a Spanish city. It is no such thing. It is half African; it considers itself a separate nation; it speaks a different language; it hosts a cosmopolitan notion of modernity. It is to the world now what Paris was to the 30s but in three dimensions rather than two. It is ripe for exploitation for just this type of film, especially considering the sexual mores, the escape, the Alice-like entrance tunnel. How could he miss this?    "},{"Title":"Well done.","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having never seen Almodóvar's films before, I decided to go with this one based one a lot of praise and for the Oscar. After having seen this, I will certainly watch all of his other films that I am able to get a hold of, for this was a great film. The best part was the leading performance by Cecilia Roth, whom I had never seen in a film before, but now I'm also curious about her work as well. She plays a nurse who's son seems to be an aspiring scribe for either the stage or screen. On an outing to the theater one night, her son is struck down by a car chasing an autograph of a stage star. It is a shocking scene, and is basically the backbone to the film. This is a film about motherhood, and what it means to be a mother, both in a masculine and feminine manner. This film is somewhat of ensemble film, but I would label it more of a tragic-comedy with solid characters. An ensemble film to me has a lot of interweaving characters, but this film's characters seemed to be pretty tight. Suggested for fans of foreign film, Almodóvar's All About My Mother is an homage and an open letter to silver screen legends and mothers abroad. "}{"Title":"A Truly Great Film of the '90s","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodovar's finest film takes the raw material of melodrama and fashions it into something so fresh and free of contrived histrionics that the end experience feels like a revelation a window into a rarely glimpsed world of truly adult film-making that is anything but boring or well meaning. This film celebrates various incarnations of womanhood without the slightest patina of political correctness or falsely ingratiating gestures. It is warm, sad, funny and human - expressing true tenderness for it subjects. Yet it is also an intellectual film a knowing (though never merely clever) homage to some of the great women and feminine rolls of film history - such as those played by Bette Davies (the title recalls that of All About Eve) and Gena Rowlands. The performances are beautiful and subtle and in the end Todo sobre mi madre satisfies in a way that even few great films can.  "},{"Title":"Almodóvar has of the heart to be resold","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A history so deeply moving as it is difficult to believe that it is not true. With lucidity and humor Amoldovar proves us again its capacity to move the spectator. His persons are unique, lost, moved, they belong in current Spain. Spain which keeps its traditions and her colours but which suffer troubles of the current society. His film ambisex belongs to those who refuse romancées histories and accept without judging the routes of the persons. One likes this tragedy because it is painted by the paintbrush of the Grand Master Almodóvar ! "},{"Title":"A fascinating and fabulous study of everything!","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER (1999) Rating 10/10An exploration of women and life as a whole, All About My Mother succeeds admirably in everything it tries to achieve. The drama is fascinating, displaying a real sense of emotion in the characters. There is some comic relief from very sad parts of the film that comes from the transsexual Agrada. The film also fulfils many other genres quietly &#150; romance, adventure etc, and it makes all of them seem real. In fact, that is the word I would describe this movie the most with real. The film is so fabulously right and I and many other viewers can relate to the characters and the situations, for some people it'd be like someone was following you around you're entire life and written a script just about you and it is, I repeat, real. The acting is brilliant, Cecelia Roth totally stealing the show as the mother of a dead son, Penelope Cruz giving great support in her best role as the HIV positive and pregnant sister Rosa. This is a film that you won't want to end, a simply magnificent movie that is not only one of the best films of 1999, but one of the best non-English films ever. "},{"Title":"Only Almodovar can make a film like this","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think that Pedro Almodovar is the only person that can put together having a conversation a pregnant nun, a whore transsexual, a lesbian and a woman abandoned by a man that later was a transsexual, and the conversation has sense.Bravo Pedro, and excuse my bad english. "},{"Title":"Does this emperor have any clothes?","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One thing is for certain you sure can't accuse Pedro Almodovar's `All About My Mother' of narrative timidity.  In its relatively brief 102-minute running time, it provides a literal smorgasbord of sensational plot elements a fatal car accident, a dead teenaged son, organ transplantation, transvestite prostitutes, lesbianism, pregnant nuns, drug addiction, AIDS, Alzheimer's, and death by childbirth &#150; more than enough juicy elements to warm the heart of any lover of classic melodrama or daytime soap operas. Even if the film had dealt with only half of these issues, it would still be a challenge to maintain some sort of overall focus.  As it is, we spend most of the movie staring in head-scratching amazement at the sheer audacity of the enterprise.Certainly, the critics have not been stingy in heaping effusive praise on the work and both the Motion Picture Academy and the Foreign Press Golden Globe committee have echoed that praise by bestowing on the film their coveted awards for Best Foreign Language Film of 1999.  But does the film really merit all these critical hosannas and kudos?  Not by a long shot! Jaded as we may be by the deadening predictability and lack of originality that, sadly, define the majority of films released each year, it is, nevertheless, still incumbent upon us not to be bowled over by a film that takes the alternate path of undisciplined bizarreness.  `All About My Mother' cries desperately to be a moving and important study of women's roles in society, but, by trying to compress so many of the eccentricities of life into one story, the film leaves us more incredulous and perplexed than stimulated and touched.One element does succeed brilliantly, however, and that is the outstanding performance of Cecilia Roth in the leading role of Manuela, an attractive 38-year old mother who, upon the sudden death of her child, is compelled to return to the dark past she long ago fled and to seek some sort of redemption.  She provides us with the warm center of human compassion this film so desperately needs to keep it from becoming a completely clinical exercise in absurdity.  Streamlined perhaps, her story might have made for a fascinating and incisive film.  But Almodovar is so busy loading up his film with rather obviously drawn parallels that we really never believe a minute of it.  The film is rife with ineffectual and pretentious allusions to `All About Eve' and `A Streetcar Named Desire,' as the movie characters' lives take vaguely similar paths to those of the characters found in those works.   And the finale, in which Manuela's maternal affections find a new object to latch on to, seems coy and artificial &#150; an attempt to leave the audience on an emotional high after all the misery and heartbreak it has witnessed in the course of the film. The whole enterprise, ultimately, seems hopelessly artificial.That artificiality at least justifies the gorgeous look of the film. Almodovar has, as always, splashed across the screen his usual array of brightly colored walls, furniture and clothing that makes the film seem to exist in a world located somewhere between realism and surrealism.  This bold visual palette is always one of the joyous fringe benefits that accompanies the watching of an Almodovar film.Unfortunately, in this case at least, he hasn't created a film with a story, cast of characters or theme to match in quality or intensity the glorious, many-hued background he provides.  Despite all its many awards and its extraordinary critical acclaim, `All About My Mother' doesn't hold a candle to Almodovar's truly wonderful previous film, `Live Flesh.'  Check that one out instead and see the difference. "},{"Title":"Really bad movie","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I cannot understand why this movie is considered the best foreign film of 1999.  It seemed to me that it was just a sloppy, 2 hour soap opera.  By the end of the film, nothing had really changed.  This film could have just kept going and going.  It was way too melodramatic.  At first, the film seems promising.  But then Estaban dies and the whole movie goes to hell.  It jumps around from little thing to little thing and never really focuses on anything at all.  It gets onto a subject that seems really interesting if the film-maker would take the time to really look at it but instead it immediately jumps to the next thing that could cause potential tears.  Furthermore, the main character, Manuela, was too perfect, even for a movie.  It got to the point where I would not be surprised by any outrageous thing that was part of her past.  I think a lot of people are going to go see this movie with high expectations thanks to the Oscar and leave very disappointed. "},{"Title":"Best of the best!!!!","Date":"20 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodóvar has been my favorite director for some years now. I have always been very positively surprised by his work, but nevertheless Todo sobre mi madre overwhelmed me more than any film ever had. I almost cried when watching it!!! The direction and the photography are tremendous, and the performances by Cecilia Roth (Manuela) and Antonia San Juan (La Agrado)are the best I've seen in a long while. "},{"Title":"Strong well performed drama","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After a tragic family crisis Manuela (Roth) escapes her current life by fleeing to Barcelona where she hopes to find her former lover and her son's father.Having been a big fan of Volver I decided to check out another Pedro Almodovar classic and was not to be disappointed as I was brought into another strong family drama that adds the deftest of comedy touches that never overshadow the dark and dramatic lives of the characters.Cecilia Roth stars as central protagonist Manuela who looks for some escapism after seeing one too many troubles at home and when disaster strikes she flees to Barcelona where she hopes to discover where her son's father and her former lover is. Lola, a transvestite is not aware of Esteban which as the film progresses delivers numerous dramatic consequences and tear threatening montages.As writer and director Almodovar seems to be able to cement the right dramatic input at the right time, delivering a supposed expectancy only to strive to shock the audience with a powerful emotional twist or an unthinkable idea. To say what the unthinkable idea is in this 1999 release would be to spoil a well worked powerfully controlled heartbreaker, which would cost the true value of a picture purposefully identified with its drama.We have underage pregnancies, traumatic and unexpected death, family rivalry, former lovers, drug abuse and fiery working relationships that juxtaposed, all cement this in the drama genre and given the context they are used in add to a great sense of realism. The way everything threads together is nicely worked with only a few hitches.Roth's character a former actress is conveniently placed in a theatre to see what will follow to recapture the past, the absence of the father for such a long time distances some emotional connection for the audience and no matter how hard the plot works to convey its powerful message it never feels as compassionate and as emotionally connected as Volver.This film does boast some tremendous performances. A young Penelope Cruz would go on and generate her international stardom with this performance as the young worker who is pregnant. Cecilia Roth carries the picture with her constant driven attitude to not look back and thrives on living in the moment. The supporting cast all lend a strong array of drama and some good comedy from Antonio San Juan as Agrado, especially her scene on stage.The cinematography and usage of various places keeps the feisty drama alive. The dreadful scene with the prostitutes, the stage for the replica of A Streetcar named desire and the terrible incident in Madrid all combine to make this a wonderful drama.Strong well performed and written drama 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Almodovar's greatness","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It was almost the fifth time I saw this film. I had to watch it again because there were also the Spanish cinema Oscars the goyas, and Talk to her had 6 o 7 nominations. Almodovar only won one Goya. Why? Because at the end, filming industring is disgusting. His film Talk to her was not selected as representative of Spain in the the next ceremony of Oscars, they gave their votes to another excellent film Los lunes al sol. While Los lunes al sol has all approval from cinema critics in Spain, they just regret Almodovar's new film because he is having international support. This is my country. Once someone has achieved importance and recognition, let´s gonna let him/her down within the frontiers of our country. Incredible. To those who have forgotten the greatness of Pedro, I pray him to watch again All about my mother. "},{"Title":"skewed passion play","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  **spoilers**Almodovar's film is to be lauded for its technical brilliance, consistently moving performances, and a generous dose of the old in-your-face perversion for which Pedro has been celebrated and reviled.But All About My Mother has an insidious inverse morality--it could have a subtitle The Opposite of Misogyny.  I cannot recall a film with such a negative view of the male of the species, the obvious exceptions to this view being the two characters who want to BE women.Of these, Agrado (the Agreeable One) is as funny, tragic, and compassionate as all the other well-drawn female characters.  Lola, when s/he finally appears, is shown in both aspects, as a mother weeping over the death of the son s/he never knew, and as a man responsible not only for victimizing Manuela and Agrado, but also, horrifically, for impregnating and willfully infecting the angelic Sister Rosa.  We chuckle almost amiably, along with Almodovar, at their pride over their precious store-bought breasts, while at the same time unconsciously registering the havoc and destruction, the evil that their (our) maleness can and has wrought.The rest of the masculine gender is represented by 1) Rosa's father, a beyond-doddering fool whose conversational skill consists of asking a woman's age and height, 2) the actor playing Stanley Kowalski, who effectively reinforces Tennessee Williams' archetypal brute offstage, and 3) the lost son, who is morally neutral, but must serve as a sacrificial lamb to this skewed passion play.Well, Pedro is nothing if not a brave and lonely voice crying out in the wilderness of transgender impulse.  And his reflection of feminine ideals and realities has always been deep and true.  Not having grown up gay in such a machismo world makes it hard for one to devalue his passion--he is what he is and has his own stories to tell and axes to grind--but one non-exploitive or non-robotic male in this script wouldn't have shattered the solidarity of feminine suffering too much.  The omission really tells, just as eloquently, All About His Father. "}{"Title":"a moving film about life","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  ever since secretly watching almodovar's strange and wonderful films on late night tv growing up, i wanted to see his films in the cinema. all about my mother gave me this opportunity. i don't remember having felt so moved by a film before, so involved in its characters and so swept up in its compassion and beauty. although there are typically melodramatic and tragic events involved in this film, it is ultimately an uplifting work which stays with you much longer than you would expect. with its mix of humour, friendship, passion, tragedy and strength this is a truly great film not only about women, but about life in general. for a film to make me cry, it has to be powerful and unique. i had tears streaming down my face as this film just really touched me. it is a generous, warm film with much to recommend it by. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the wonderful world of Almodovar","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All About My Mother is one of the most enigmatic films I have seen in years; and this is precisely what makes it one of the best contemporary films and this is also why I dare say that time will give this film a place in history. The story is a sad and somber one five female characters, each one involved in her own drama, Manuela has lost her only child and takes a journey back into her past to look for the child's father, Agrado is a struggling prostitute in need of a friend, Nina a neurotic actress addicted to heroine, Huma Rojo is a desperate woman in search of love, and Sister Rosa is a young nun with two big problems, she is pregnant and is HIV positive. Such a display of human dramas seems demoralizing, but the truth is Almodovar gives the audience the story in a fresh way; never evading the drama, the film itself is not somber, but radiant with hope, faith and friendship. Almodovar has always been very good in depicting the female world; but this is his most outstanding creation, a beautiful mixture of a superb screenplay which I think every persona that sees it can relate to, a story which fills us with tears and smiles at the same time. Cinema is truly a way of communication, and what Almodovar achieves with this film is an undeniable connection with the spectator, almost every watcher was deeply touched by it. A coincidence? I don't think so, it's the work of a master contemporary (and sometimes underrated) director. We can't say that only Almodovar shone with this movie, for every element in it is outstanding, every performance is riveting. The performance of Cecilia Roth (Manuela) should have been an Academy Award nomination at least. The entire supporting cast was incredible, specially Antonia San Juan (Agrado, the prostitute). The cinematography is beautiful and the tango influenced score was a hit. I will also venture to say that this is the best film I have seen in my life, one the same lines as Casablanca, Psycho and A Clockwork Orange. Thank you Pedro Almodovar for this film! My verdict Evidently a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Todo sobre mi padre","Date":"7 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before I start talking too much, let me first say GO SEE THAT MOVIE !not only it has a wonderful plot, touching acting and unique incidents, but also it is made aesthetically, with great shots, and amazing ideas. for example, at the beginning of the movie, when the boy is writing in his diary, the director chose to show the paper's point of view, and so you see a pencil's tip pointed at the viewers. moreover, some specific shots, of barcelona from above, was breathtaking. now about the plot, i must say that the repeating indications of the boy's searches for his father... and the facts that we know and that the mother didn't have the chance to tell her son... about lola, it has a very strong emotional effect, and when lola reads esteban's diary (at the end of the movie), i must say it made me cry. the good thing, after watching such a tragic film is the happy ending... to sum this up - go see the movie !!! now ! "},{"Title":"*****SPOILERS AHEAD*****","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All About My Mother is an breathtaking Spanish tragedy from the same director as Women On The Verge Of A Nervous Breakdown. It follows the intertwining lives of four women (well, three women and a drag queen) living in Barcelona as they go through tragedy after tragedy.Manuela's son Esteban is killed on his birthday while chasing after a cab containing his favourite stage actress, trying to get her autograph. He is run over by a car, and Manuela decides it is time for her to return to Barcelona and confront Esteban's father, who has no idea he has a son, after almost eighteen years. The first person she meets when she arrives is her old friend Agrado, a drag queen prostitute, who introduces Manuela to Sister Rosa at the local Nunnery in the hope of them finding work. They talk of someone named Lola who has mysteriously disappeared after looting the flat of Agrado, who she was staying with. Manuela actually gets a job as the assistant to Huma Roja, the actress his son was chasing after when he was killed. She soon quits to look after Sister Rosa, who is pregnant and HIV positive, both by Lola, and Agrado takes over as Huma's assistant.Months later, Sister Rosa gives birth to the child she only told her mother about weeks earlier, names it Esteban, and promptly dies from her disease, leaving Manuela and Rosa's mother to look after the baby. At the funeral, Lola - the father of Rosa and Manuela's children - arrives. He is dying of AIDS, and wants to see his child just once before he dies. Manuela obliges him, and tells him about the other son he never knew he had. She soon leaves Barcelona with the baby, to take him somewhere less hostile. She returns two years later to attend a HIV conference - the baby has negativised the virus in record time. She meets up with Huma and Agrado again, and the three women are reunited.If the above description sounds complicated, it's not. It easily fits in to the hour-and-a-half running time without ever feeling rushed. If the ending sounds like sentimental twaddle, well maybe it is, but it's handled so expertly that you won't be worrying about that when you watch it. If the fact that it's full of HIV and drag queens bothers you, don't let it. It's also full of incredible acting, particularly Cecilia Roth as Manuela. The film manages to make you feel sympathetic to some people who, frankly, have ruined their own lives.The first twenty minutes, concerning Esteban's death, in particular are excellent, playing like the most disturbing comedy of repetition and irony ever. Manuela, a nurse, rings up another hospital to arrange a liver transplant after her patient dies; within a day, another nurse rings the hospital to arrange a heart transplant after Esteban dies. Manuela acts as a bereaved woman for demonstration purposes during a seminar; within a day, the same scene is played out for real. Esteban almost gets run over as he crosses the road to meet Manuela before they go to see A Streetcar Named Desire; within a matter of hours he is dead after being run over. At the end of the film, Huma is starring in a play about a woman whose son is run over.A Streetcar Named Desire plays a central role in this movie. Manuel and Esteban go and see it on the night he is killed, and when Manuela moves to Madrid, so does the production of the play. She goes to see it on the first night to exorcise the ghosts of her sons death, and when she goes backstage to meet Huma Roja, who plays Blanche, they become friends. When Huma finds out what happened she is as plagued by memories and guilt as Manuela is. Also, Manuela first met Lola through an amateur production of Streetcar, and when the actress playing Stella has to pull out for a night, Manuela takes over. Later on, when the two lead actresses hospitalise each other through misplaced affection, Agrado announces the cancellation but offers to tell her life story for anyone who stays. She finishes on the line `...you are more authentic the more you resemble what you've dreamed you are.'All of this is seems very apt, as All About My Mother seems to me like a modern day update of Streetcar. Both have high levels of artistic quality, both are about the effects that the death of a young boy has on a woman, both feature women receiving bad treatment from men, both include the idea of running away, both are undeniably sad. Sure, this time round, some of the men are dressed as women, but the effect is the same.Before you think this is an entirely feminine movie, one tragic man infiltrates the drag queens, aging diva actresses and tragic mothers. On her way to labour, Sister Rosa stops the cab in the city square and we see her father. But he's been senile for a long time now, his only pleasure is walking his dog, and in one of the most touching scenes of the movie, he doesn't even recognise his own daughter enough to ask her anymore than her age and height, the same questions he poses to everyone he meets for the first time.I've used the word tragedy a lot in this review. Because it's the only way to really describe the movie. Not just one of the best foreign films, but one of the best films. To sum it up, here's the ending caption`To Bette Davis, Gena Rowlands, Romy Schneider... To all actresses who have played actresses, to all women who act, to men who act and become women, to all the people who want to be mothers. To my mother.'   "},{"Title":"Ah, the tints...","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodóvar's colours are so glowing and rich and gorgeous I found myself forgetting to read the subtitles once or twice.  How does he get colours like that?  It can't just be a matter of film stocks.  I wish I could speak Spanish.  I wouldn't have to look away; I could bask completely, not just intermittently, in the warmth - which is what the film is there for.Only one of the criticisms I've seen levelled at All About My Mother strikes me as more than merely flippant or ridiculous - Mike D'Angelo pointed it out in a short review, and much as I love the film, I must admit he has a point, one I ought to have noticed.  To quote ... the celebratory, groovy-woman-power ethos that permeates the film is somewhat inimical to drama ...  The women of Mother are so unfailingly resilient and benevolent and - there's really no other word but 'fabulous' - that the picture never achieves a real sense of urgency...Ya got me.  It doesn't.  Of course, now that I realise that there's less dramatic tension than their ought to be, I don't love the film any less.  I don't even miss the dramatic tension (which would, nonetheless, help if it were there).  Partly it's because of the colours.  Almodóvar has made a film for us to wallow in; and if that's all we can do with it, at least the luscious colours - along with the music, and truly lovable, rather than merely eccentric and fascinating, characters - allow us to wallow properly.I will say that those who think Almodóvar has wimped out and become politically correct are utterly wrong.  Political correctness has nothing to do with content; it has everything to do with treading gingerly and being stilted.  All About My Mother, stilted?  Rubbish - it's heartfelt, and Almodóvar's direction is as sure-footed and fluent as ever. "},{"Title":"How can a movie be melodramatic and wooden at the same time?","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I certainly will be in the minority with this vote, but I watched this on video with two other people and we all hated it, couldn't understand why it got such great reviews and ratings. I've got to believe that most people who like this movie don't understand Spanish, because the acting is simply not very nuanced or believable - the bottom line seems to have been Play it like a soap opera because it's just so bad in a campy way - corny music that swells & tries to yank the viewer around, corny writing that's not very original, corny camera angles (The Director as Ego - Don't forget it's me, Pedro Almodovar, making this film.) And it has that awful feature some European movies have which take themselves too seriously, the I-am-dead-at-the-center dialogue of the main characters (Feel my pain) who just seem to be (when they're not crying or screaming) moving around like zombies with no intonation to their speech. I really wanted to like this movie - I don't think I've missed any of the small, deliberate things that can make a strange movie better than the sum of its parts. Be forewarned - it's nowhere near as good as most of the people reviewing it here say. I'm not a knuckle-headed Big-Action-Hollywood-Ra-Ra type, I see lots of foreign movies & enjoy them. But this one is wooden and melodramatic at the same time. Strange. Ick.  "},{"Title":"A flamboyant visual treat at its top form","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A flamboyant and immensely colourful story of the lives of a group of socially marginalised women and women-wanna-be and how these women feel bonded to one another and support one another in each of their extraordinary and difficult lives. Very comical and lyrical, and above all, an utmost aesthetic and very visual treat to the eye and sensualities.Throughout the movie, so many shots were done to their respective cinematic and photographic perfection to an extent I for a few occasions could not stop freezing the shots in order just to watch the still pictures for a few more seconds in detail. The excellent use of lightings and colours laid a flamboyantly vivid and energetic and almost surreal backdrop for the director's story-telling. The shots with Manuela holding a colourful umbrella in the rain watching his son run down by a car, Rosa going into the not very furbished yet dream-like flat she recently rented, and Agrado's flat seemingly with Gaudi's architecture in every inch of it&#133;&#133;truly a master of colours You don't have to feel connected to the women and and women-wanna-be in order to enjoy this film. The mere process of watching the colours unfolding, assimilating and crystallising on the screen is already a massive visual treat. "},{"Title":"Full immersion into emotional turmoil and lifestyle alternatives","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It would be hard to have the decision of what the title of this movie should have been. It is an homage to All About Eve, but the speaker did not know as much about his mother as he thought.The story was engrossing, to say the least, as we followed the lead character through her grieving over the untimely death of her young son, her search to tell his long-lost father about his loss, and finding herself getting immersed in a wholly different universe than she lived in while she was raising the deceased son.Every character in the movie was endearing, in one way or another, except maybe for Nina, but, in the end, maybe she found a redeeming life at last.The ease with which different social issues were dealt with, compassionately, allowing the character's humanity show through no matter how depraved you felt their lifestyle to be, made this a throughly enjoyable trip through the seedier side of life. I'd recommend this movie to anyone who is inclined to see how the other side lives. It would be one I would gladly hope some would see so as to maybe understand that no matter what, all of us are human under whatever guises we wear in our day to day lives. "},{"Title":"To mother, with love.","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having children of my own and understanding how close you can be to them helped make this one of my top favorite movies of all time. I saw this movie on opening weekend in NYC's Angelica Theater. Aldomovar touched every part of my heart with his characters. I loved it and proudly own it on DVD. "},{"Title":"perfict","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is the second time I see Almodovar's movie, it is still a very strange style,though not a surreal movie. i really like this kind of strange style and i can not exactly explain my feeling after seeing it, but i know that i can get something fresh in my mind. Almodovar is a genius and the acting is brilliant.i rank this movie a 10.   "}{"Title":"One of the Best Spanish Movies Ever","Date":"17 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodovar deserves two thumbs up for this movie. It's so natural and yet moving. He took the audience deep inside a mother's mind, whose son was killed before knowing who his father was. This movie follows her life after the incident step by step. Cecilia Roth is great in her role as the mother. Eloy Azorín is brilliant as her son (by the way, I think he will be great as teenage Anakin Skywalker, instead of Hayden Christensen). But Antonia San Juan is simply the best in portraying Agrado, the transvestite. All in all, this movie is one of the best Spanish movies ever, alongside of Belle Epoque and Like Water For Chocolate. "},{"Title":"simply one of the best films of the nineties","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gripping, moving, compelling, touching, funny.It's one of Almodovar's best films and easily one of the best films of the nineties, and undoubtedly the best film of 1999.The fact that so many users agree with me here shocks me, and makes me appreciate the film even more, as I don't normally agree with the crowd that thinks Terms of Endearment & The Green Mile is touching (which seems to be the type of people who vote here for the most part). "},{"Title":"Powerful visit to the movies","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is excellent.  It draws you in to the lives of the people.  I was totally involved with the characters and felt for the mother.  The use of Streetcar Desired in the movie was very clever.  A good afternoon at the movies. "},{"Title":"Enchanting black comedy from Spain's underbelly","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Acting, directing and script combine to examine profoundly the truth, beauty, and dignity present in even the lowest strata of Spain's underbelly. It underscores an eternal truth of the universe -- that the only thing in the whole world constant is change.  Cecilia Roth should have won the Oscar for this.  And Antonia San Juan is simply sensational. "},{"Title":"Magical","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just drag yourself along to the subtitled experience of a lifetime.  Do you remember how you felt when you first saw Un Homme et Une Femme?  Well, here is that sensation feast all over again, but with so much more passion and drama.  It is so lovingly made, so enchanting. Swept along the river of living and dying and loving and hating, it is hard to believe it is in a completely unfamiliar language.  Go See It!  Take someone you love.  Mind you, if you hated Central Station, this probably isn't your kind of film.  "},{"Title":"One of Almodovar's best!","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodovar's films continue to be some of the best and most challenging around and All About My Mother is no exception.  Wonderfully written and beautifully filmed, it's no wonder that it seems to be the front runner for the foreign film Oscar this year.  Everyone in the cast is strong yet understated.  Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Pedro Almodovar's Masterpiece","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All About My Mother is not only Almodovar's finest film but also the best film released in 1999.Beautiful camera work, vivid set design, powerful performances and Almodovar's moving and intelligent script! "},{"Title":"Women´s World","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I find this film great. I have always found women´s world complex and hard. Men should take note about all the efforts who have always made women to help and support their families and their contribution to all the society along the history. "},{"Title":"Better get an Oscar nomination!","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As an admirer of the Almodovar films that I've seen (Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!, Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown), I was desperate to see this one on the big screen. Just when I thought I'd blinked and missed it, I found it at the local arthouse last night. Almodovar was already one of my favourite directors, but this moves him closer to the top of my list. As in Tie Me and Women, he focuses on women here, both authentic and authentic (i.e. created) ones. Agrado (the transsexual hooker-with-a-heart-of-gold) seems to be both a critical and an audience favourite. I know I certainly liked her best in a movie of likeably imperfect personalities.Oscar predictions give good odds to the film and its director, and I hope those predictions are correct. "},{"Title":"Amoldovar's best though still not quite mainstream...","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"   All About My Mother is a GREAT film that I recently checked out at the one theater that brings some foreign fare occasionally to town.  I Wouldn't be surprised to see Cecelia Roth get Oscar nomination for lead actress, as she plays a very strong ideal mother in this film.   In Spanish w/ English subtitles, it's a very engaging film that contains a typically most interesting collection of Amoldovar characters-- trans-sexual prostitutes, a grand dame theater matron, an actress who's a junkie, and a fallen nun.  It's a very emotional work as well--if you've lost a close friend or relative, you may want to wait a while before seeing this.  I definitely rank this in my top ten list of 1999.  All About My Mother is not for the kids.  I'm sure it won't be playing in smaller cities either, and don't look for it at the  multiplex. It's unfortunate that more Americans don't take to movies with subtitles.  Seeing this film will convert a few non readers to check out foreign language fare.  "}{"Title":"It's the best movie of the year!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie moved me in a way that no other has been able to in a long time. It made me believe that there is good film still available.  I think this is Almodovar's best film..better than the extraordinary Women on the..... Cecilia Roth (Manuela) and (La Agrado) are beautiful to watch.  Plenty of laughter and tears. "},{"Title":"The Movie","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Seems to be so, that only europeans know,  how to make real movies which are not only entertainment and Almodovar is  one of the best representatives of film directors which have something to tell and show.  "},{"Title":"Excellent story, impeccable mise en scene","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is a must-see.  The whole movie is a pleasure to eyes and ears, with the wonderful views of Barcelona, its streets and squares, and many delightful examples of modernista architecture.  The music (Alberto Iglesias) is also very good, short pieces of New Tango in the spirit of Piazzolla that seamlessly match every scene.  Camera work is also inventive without being annoying.Roth is powerful as an exile from the latest Argentinian dictatorship that tries to start over in Spain.  The story, albeit sad, is compelling.  As a bonus, there are plenty of interesting references to Spanish and Argentine cultures, for those who can interpret them (but that's not required to appreciate this jewel). "},{"Title":"Simply superb!","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of Almavador's best! It's basically a story of a woman looking for her lover after their one son they had together, dies in a car accident. She travels to where they met and falls in with a bunch of eccentric (to say the least) characters. Through them she learns how to mourn and get over the death of her son, and how to deal with the boy's father. Sounds like a Lifetime movie right? Wrong! This movie has more depth dealing with women than any film I know. All the acting is great and all the characters are life-like and three-dimensional. Some people saw the ending as sad--I saw it as life-affirming! It's hard to put into words how strongly this movie affected me. Basically the best art film of 1999 (and possibly of 2000!). "},{"Title":"Highly recommended.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you've liked any of Almodovar's previous work, you'll likely love this one.  His films just get better and better.  From the opening sequence, I was just stunned with how spectacular the cinematography is.  This film is a quantum leap, technically and visually, over his prior efforts.  There is a real growth visible in Almodovar's art and technique.For those who enjoyed the bizarrely-intersecting threads of his earlier films, the story here is much more traditionally structured.  But fear not, the story itself is hardly traditional.  It's another highly-eccentric tale, but told in a more accessible manner.This is Almodovar's best effort yet to penetrate the mainstream, and yet it doesn't sacrifice his voice, his humor, his ironic sense, or his vision. "},{"Title":"Almodovar's best to date, an incredible study of grief and self-awareness.","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although I am a big fan of Almodovar's earlier fun work, focused on neurotic female junkies and other societal outcasts, I like the direction he's taking with All About My Mother (and Live Flesh, which was almost as good). His character development is strong, and as always, the characters are funny, mostly female, deep, and sympathetic. I appreciate seeing multidimensional, strong, female characters in film, and connected with each of the female characters in this film "},{"Title":"A Heartfelt Tribute to Mothers, Actresses, and All Women","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodóvar's ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER is one of those rare films which focuses on character yet never drags or becomes unwound.  The story is a paean to women everywhere, most especially mothers, with the story opening on a tender relationship between Manuela and her son, Esteban.  But tragedy ensues, and Manuela travels to Barcelona to find the first Esteban, her estranged husband who now goes by the name Lola.  The plot is not one which lends itself to description, but the characters are.  Rosa, the pregnant, HIV-positive nun.  Her mother, the art forger who obviously cannot connect with her daughter.  Huma Rojo, the great actress, and her lover, the self-absorbed, self-destructive junkie Nina.  La Agrado, the transsexual who steals the show (and refreshingly does not need to chase acceptance or pity from others).  ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER deftly weaves together love, pain, friendship, death, and birth with Almodóvar's bold, candy-colored visuals. Tragedy has rarely been this enjoyable, and few character films can stir the mind and heart like this - even at twice the length of ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER. Most importantly, motherhood has never seemed so poetic and prosaic at the same time, something both supernatural and as elemental as air. "},{"Title":"Images, life and mystery.","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Todo sobre mi madre is a work of art where you'll find love for images, for life and for mystery.Love for image it should be clear, because we are talking about a movie, aren't we? But I want to say that there is a special quality of vision, a sort of fall in the pleasure of vision, a vertigo. Remember the scene when you suddenly see Barcelona from the airplane a miracle. The same joy can be found in the light, smart touch used by Pedro Almodovar discovering characters being always on the sunny side of the street, when apparently there is nothing but darkness. I think this joy comes from a deep concerning of life, accepted in all its complications, that's another way to say its gifts.Finally, the mystery. For sure this word is quite abused, but we have to accept the simple fact that life is a mystery and, for this reason, unjudgeable. Pedro doesn't judge he shows. Better, he drinks wine and poisons in the same cup, testifying that it works. ( Oh, if it works...)Fantastic Pedro with you we discover again the pleasure of looking at a movie as if they were life, and we go back to life thinking that it's another movie.A good one, too. "},{"Title":"Ten Stars Out of Ten","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodovar is the greatest living Spanish director.  With astounding ease, humor and and uncanny ability to balance tragedy and comedy, he returns in All About My Mother to the tone, characters and themes that have made his movies beloved around the world.  This film glides graciously from scenes of powerful intimacy and pain to others of outrageous humor, each time transitioning so effortlessly as to seem almost improvised or documentary-like.  Undoubtedly, this must be because Almodovar's story lines and characters are often inspired by his own actors, so that fiction and reality seem to blend almost unnoticeably.  But above all, the film is unequivocally orchestrated by a master artist story-teller who knows how to weave several story lines together in such a way that he shows us life from his uniquely personal view while making it seem like it is in fact our own.All About My Mother is, like all of Almodovar's films, filled with splendid female roles, spectacular acting, ravishing colors, meticulous cinematography (his second time utilizing the wide-screen scope format,) editing and music.  The dialogue -- both in Spanish and English subtitles -- sparkles with a crispness that is characteristically Almodovar's (think of the line, Prada is good for nuns.!)Whatever else you miss this year, do not miss this wonderful film.  If this is your first Almodovar film, you'll understand why he can be credited with singlehandedly putting Spanish cinema back on the international map in the mid 1980's.  If it isn't, you will see the master at the peak of his powers, enjoy a dazzling ensemble of veteran actresses play parts like they don't make anymore and understand what all the hoopla is about. "},{"Title":"The best film of Pedro Almodovar","Date":"24 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Todo sobre mi madre is the BEST film of Pedro Almodovar. They are love, humor, tears,...All in the film is PERFECT. Marisa Paredes, Penelope Cruz, and, of course, CECILIA ROTH, one of the best actress of the world.A PERFECT FILM. "}{"Title":"The best film of the year","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am spanish but this hasn't influenced my decission of voting Todo sobre mi madre with 10. For me its not only the best Pedro Almodovar's movie but also one of the best films of this year. In this movie, we can find drama, comedia,...all.Antonia San Juan is perfect in her role, Penelope Cruz is also very well, but Marisa Paredes and Cecilia Roth are wonderfull. It's clear that Pedro Almodovar is the best director of actresses of this time. To finish, I think Todo sobre mi madre is going to win some oscars, at least the oscar for the best film in foreign language.  "},{"Title":"Almodóvar at his best","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the best Almodóvar film ever. The funny parts are the funniest I have ever seen in an Almodovar movie and even so everyone leaves the theatre finding it extremely sad, but in a very cosy way. It is dedicated to the women in general and when seeing this movie they will surely feel very honored with that hommage. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What else can I say? It´s a wonderful movie. It´s funny, sad, and above all it shows us once more that spanish cinema is the best. Thank you Pedro Almodovar! The cast is great, especially Cecilia Roth and Penélope Cruz. The whole plot is spectacular, well, I can´t really go on recomending this movie and saying great stuff about it, cause´ it´s just too much. One of the best movies I´ve seen.. "},{"Title":"An amazing movie","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved Todo sobre mi madre, it´s an wonderful movie about  the meaning of being mother.  All the characters are unforgettable. I cried a lot after I see this movie, it's amazing  and I've been touched by this movie. Strongly recommended "},{"Title":"Extraordinary Almodovar","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you are an Almodovar fan, you will love it. If you are not, its a good film to watch so that you can become one. Great story, great characters, great emotions! All little details, from the plots in Barcelona to the music, are fantastic. Go watch it! "},{"Title":"The best file by Almodovar","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the best film by Almodüvar. It is funny shocking outrageous sensitive..you feel sorry when the film ends because you want more. The performances of the actors are so strong and real. To bad that we don't see these kind of actors being nominated for the Oscar. Maybe Hollywood is not ready yet to appreciate STRONG European films. Almodovar work puts  European cinema on the TOP. Bravo Almodovar "},{"Title":"The best file by Almodovar","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the best film by Almodüvar. It is funny shocking outrageous sensitive..you feel sorry when the film ends because you want more. The performances of the actors are so strong and real. To bad that we don't see these kind of actors being nominated for the Oscar. Maybe Hollywood is not ready yet to appreciate STRONG European films. Almodovar work puts European cinema on the TOP. Bravo Almodovar "},{"Title":"Perhaps Almodovar's richest work","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodovar has played with screwball comedy, melodrama and other film forms, but he's never brought them all together so seamlessly as in this amazing film.  Funny, poignant, outrageous and heartfelt, this one-of-a-kind film combines a top-drawer-as-usual Almodovar cast with the best-yet Almodovar scripts.Fans will note many of his recurrent themes at play here -- organ transplants, acting as part of daily life, transsexuality, mothers and sons, family secrets -- but Todo sobre mi madre always feels fresh and new. "},{"Title":"Almodovar´s best creation","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodovar has made the best film of his career. Todo sobre mi madre is the best Spanish film of the year and it must be recognized. I hope that the Spanish Academy realizes about that and doesn´t forget the film at the next Goya awards. Something more Do you know a better film on this year to win the Oscar for the best foreign film at the next ceremony?  "},{"Title":"Almodóvar is definitely back!","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I left the theater after seeing Todo sobre mi madre (while wiping my tears) I felt really happy. Not only because the film is truly a master piece but also because, finally after some quite dubious films, Pedro Almodóvar has shown what he's capable of making. I would go as far as saying that it's a cathartic experience seeing it. The sorrows, the pains and the joys of the characters go straight into the viewer's eyes and heart. The actors are all superb and the shots are almost painfully beautiful, nothing is left to chance. If you can, please go and see it. You won't see anything that fantastic in a long time. "}{"Title":"If you like an authentic Almodovar, this is a film for you!","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In this film, Almodovar is entering in the female universe, trying to give a deep look into the emotions. He is using his camera to show as how is the women's behavior in the extreme situations, and how the relations could be strong and deep, even though their behavior is not traditional or expected. Great performance of Cecilia Roth as an incredible deep Manuela, enormous work of Marisa Paredes as Huma and a lovable Agrado performed by Antonia SanJuan.  "},{"Title":"a gorgeous movie","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see the movie yesterday night and I found it absolutely great. Almodovar is such a great person and I know that for sure for the fact that we were neighbors when I've been living for awhile in his fantastic city, Madrid. This movie is all together the highest expression of love for life; it is able to make you feel at the same time how life is beautiful and how hard it is to be here. Women are the shadow of every man and without them they couldn't live. Great actors...I loved Cecilia Roth and Penelope Cruz. Thanks, Pedro. "},{"Title":"The future of Spanish cinema starts here...","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodóvar´s latest is beautifully shot by Affonso Beato, and is about the strength of women - and as a homage (as well as an expertly made piece of cinema), it works very well.  The acting is first-class, particularly from Cecilia Roth, whose cries of Hijo mío (My son) as her son Esteban lies dying in her arms is powerful enough to wrench the heart of even the most even the most hardened film watcher.The events that follow provide an interesting vision of women in all situations (and by contrast, the role of men is an interesting one to watch - Padre H. Rosa is unflinching and unforgiving, Esteban is the ideal son is lifted to almost iconic status, and Antonia San Juan is excellent as the prostitute transsexual).  Indeed, the Spanish seem to have encountered a fascination of women in the last couple of years - another notable example is Benito Zembrano´s Solas.As a piece of cinema from which to study Spanish, you could do a lot worse than see this film.  It isn`t as visual as El Milagro de P.Tinto, for example, but it is relatively easy to keep up with the events.  (However, Agrado (the prostitute) speaks with a very strong regional accent which is tough for the novice (like myself) to make head or tail of).Todo Sobre Mi Madre is an honest and powerful film, and one that deserves to be seen.  The future of Spanish cinema starts here. "},{"Title":"Kleenex at hand...","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had prejudices against Almodovar, but this movie really made me change my mind. Almodovar is really a master of the melodrama, and apart from boosting sales of Kleenex (I must confess I wept) he manages to convey his messages about parental love and diversity.   "},{"Title":"To fulfill our life, Almodovar tries to convince us that men should become women","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In this film, more than any other of Almodovar, his ambiguous attitude towards women appears. On one side he shows that all real men are failure, either obsessed by sex or having lost their sense of direction. They are living dead. Their only chance is to become a woman. Women seem to be more adapted to life and seem to live fully their emotions. On the other hand the narrowness of their universe without men is claustrophobic. A dark vision of today's women and men. "},{"Title":"all about Almodovar!","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A really good movie from Pedro Almodovar in which he shows how he loves women (and all mothers). Even if the beginning is quite sad, it's never a tragic and sad movie.All  actresses and actors (and others) are great. Don't even ask if it would have deserved the Palme d'Or. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film!","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An absolutely wonderful film! So much warmth, so much love, so much humour! Cecilia Roth was BRILLIANT as Manuela!BRAVO!  "},{"Title":"Almodóvar's Best","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is without a doubt Pedro Almodóvar's Citizen Kane. Talk to Her is incredible, but doesn't even begin to touch the sheer brilliance of the acting, writing, and emotional intensity that All About My Mother has. It was internationally, critically, and commercially appreciated and arguably the greatest film of 1999.Everything about the film is so exemplary that pointing out the film's strengths seems rather redundant. The film features all its stars at their best, their zeniths. The film was so phenomenal that I wouldn't have been surprised if Almodóvar retired after completing it. Thankfully, though, he didn't and has continued making top quality films with the same heart he had making All About My Mother. "},{"Title":"Me and my mother love this film. E.X.C.E.L.L.E.N.T.","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Todo sobre mi madre is a powerful film. With a great script (like all the Almodovar's film). Great acting and characters Manuela (Cecilia Roth, in my opinion, her best performance), Huma (Marisa Paredes), Rosa (Penélope Cruz, very interesting character), Agrado (Antonia San Juan, strange), Rosa's mother (Rosa Maria Sardà, superb), Rosa's father (Fernando Fernán Gómez, great person, actor, writer, director... In the film, he makes a lovely scene, when he takes the dog to the park and Rosa saw he, but he can't remember who is Rosa. We will never forget Fernando), Esteban, Lola (Toni Cantó), Candela Peña (as an actress) and many more that are brilliant. All in the film is perfect. ALL! Almodóvar gives to us a FILM. Not an action film, not a comedy, not a horror film, not a fiction film... He gives to us A REAL AND SIMPLE FILM. You will laugh, you will cry, you will have emotions in 97 minutes. Buy it, rend it but See this incredible movie. "},{"Title":"exquisite mixture of melodrama and  comedy","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Todo sobre mi madre can provoke tears, laughter and provides reflexion about life and chance. This film doesn't take itself too seriously - it has the appeal of a soap opera, outstanding performances, specially Cecilia Roths. Pedro Almodovars films convey a deep portrayal of the feminine universe. In some ways one can compare him with Antonioni (Le Amiche) and Bergman (Persona). What distinguishes Almodovar from them is his anarchic sense of humor. I don't like Almodovar so much when he tries to do artsy-seriously minded films. Whenever Almodovar lets his sense of humor and improvisation prevail we are in for a treat. Todo sobre mi Madre shows a balance that is not present in, let's say, Entre Tenieblas (that has also the delicious mixture of music, drama and comedy, but lacks the depth of todo sobre mi madre Highly recommended. The whole cast shines - Penelope Cruz, Marisa Paredes,Antonia San Juan etc.., but it is Cecilia Roth that you will fall in love with. "}{"Title":"A story for all the mothers of the universe by Esteban","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A mother is the person that give you the life, a person that loves you, a person that do anything for you ... a mother is the most special woman. A woman... that beautiful genre ... that delicate genre that many of us, the man do for the women. But the women deserves that and much more ...because a woman is maybe the most beautiful prove of the existence of the divine. I mean, we the men have, of course good things too.Todo sobre mi madre is the story of four women that suffers. That cry. That laugh. That lives. Manuela and his son Esteban goes to the new version in Spain of Un Tranvia Llamada Deseo for the birthday of the son. But the horrible weather and an unfortunate accident cause that the life of Manuela change in several ways. If you see some films before Todo sobre mi madre you maybe remember how the Transvestite people is so framed, like Miguel Bose in Tacones Lejanos or La Ley del Deseo (Which i know the topic and some of the plot, but i have not seen yet) you thought that is cliché of Almodóvar that maybe become boring. But here in Todo sobre mi madre (now i notes the relationship with the title All About Eve) the transvestism is more than a sexual election, is meaning. How important could be to a person be the person that wants be, like Agrado says in her monologue of her life. Todo sobre mi madre is an important analysis of the women, the men and the sons and daughters. Esteban, an important character, want write (he want to be a writer) about his mother life. And Esteban write it, in all the movie tell us about her and the other women with his mother has a relation and friendship. More that a drama (yes is a drama of course) is a movie of feelings. Fellings and courage. Besides, i have never seen to Penelope Cruz so beautiful like in this film. At half of the movie, my mother comes from the hospital today, she now is fine. I stop the movie for a while, i down to the door and i gave her a kiss. A mother ... that important character of our lives that much people ignore. Although i have not seen all the movies of Almodóvar, this title is enough to tell you that Almodóvar make movies ... real movies. And Todo sobre mi madre is a real movie ... one hour ago i finish the movie ... and you don't know how happy i am because there is a movie like this in this world of happiness and sorrow. ---And now an SPOILER from Esteban---Manuela and her son, Esteban, begin to see All About Eve, the translation tell to the public in Spanish Eva al desnudo (Eva nude) Esteban- What way to change the title! All About Eve means Todo sobre Eva Manuela- Todo sobre Eva suena raro...Esteban begins to write...Y ahora todo lo que sigue ... es sobre mi madre (And now, all that follows ... is about my mother)ESTEBAN *Sorry for the mistakes ... well, if there any "},{"Title":"The best drama after Gone With The Wind","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Four fantastic women playing four extraordinary lives, a very human delicate contemporary movie that makes you feel better after you've seen it. The experience of Marisa Paredes and Cecilia Roth makes you keep your interest along the movie, adding the humor sparks of Agrado (Antonia San Juan) giving us most of the laughing moments through the film. Young actors like Penelope Cruz and Eloy Azorin playing different roles than before, sacrificing her beauty in the case of Miss Cruz. A particular comment, on my point of view, Uma Rojo remembered me Bette Davis in the famous movie All About Eve, mainly when Manuela take part of the world between Nina and Uma, like Eve Harrington, in the old movie. "},{"Title":"women will do anything to avoid being alone","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I like this movie. One line in the movie impressed me a lot women will do anything to avoid being alone. This is almost always true. Just look around. Diets, make-ups, fashions, still, do you know how to make perfect love? do you know how to be liked by others esp. other guys? do you know how to degrade yourself before men? if not, you are safely in danger. For you can be left alone by men, which is definitely the worst tragedy i have ever heard for a woman. being a woman means too much. However, the worst thing is that we have more emotional needs. we are more eager to attach to or be attached with others. we need sb else to stay away the long night, to have breakfast with, to know what we'r fighting for.if not, i feel sad immediately. this has been true for years, centuries. i don't know whether it is destined,or born into, however, now i find this trait internalized in the deep of my heart. i feel sorry for myself. "},{"Title":"A wonderful emotive film","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I recently began studying this film for a course in A level Film studies and I encorage anyone who can to watch this film. It show in it a bravery of cinematic talent that Almodovar seems to be able to congure time after time in his films. A masterful film with a decadent plot linking each moment of beauty and tenderness with one of pure humor. The lines between genders are blurred as the film continues. As the final triumph of motherhood rages towards its final bow we are remininded of the fragility of life, love and happiness. While some women choose to 'settle down' others seek solace with other women and those who wish to be women. Death, Love,pain sinful pleasure and outrageous humor join to make this ingenious film. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is what film is all about. The visuals tell the story and the dialogue is just a cherry on top, much like a Kurosawa film. Sad and darkly humorous. Not a chick flick but definitely in touch with the feminine. The director keeps the movie exciting and the actors are wonderful.  "},{"Title":"Highly overrated","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The chick flick that was supposed to be viewable for men (it's not) inspired by the very good American classics All About Eve and A Streetcar Named Desire. I can't believe that it's my maleness that's make me wonder what the fuss was all about. The drama is OK but a bit boring, the comedy is embarrassing. Almodovar is not a funny man. If you're a woman above 40, please ignore this review. If you aren't, spend your money on renting All About Eve. "},{"Title":"its good but....","Date":"19 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was so close to thinking that Manuela and Lola were back together after finding each other and learning that their son was killed! However, unfortunately in this sad film, everyone is nearly dropping like flies around Manuela. I was so surprised to have seen Penelope Cruz on this, I have never heard her speak Spanish before so this is the first time I've experienced her speaking Spanish on an actual film! I think if this film was more concentrating on the other characters rather than Manuela and Lola is nothing. That's why I gave this a 7 instead of a 10. It needs kinda a facelift because the story was kinda all over the shop tbh.............. "},{"Title":"A genderless movie dealing with grief and sorrow","Date":"8 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Many themes are mixed in 'All About My mother' and the best part is that it does not care about them at all. Movie has it's own pace, the goal set in start is lost somewhere to pursue important ones. It also clarifies how does a loss changes the point of view and feelings for someone. Reshaping one's own life over one's sorrow. Although set in Spain, it have major south American influence on characters and their lifestyle as well as technical departments. Like most of Pedro Almodovar, woman oriented turns into genderless story of people who are dealing with grief, regret while struggling with life to go on. 'Innocence does know itself' would perfectly describe the movie. "},{"Title":"Intriguing and original plot","Date":"10 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A single mother, Manuela, raises her son Esteban for 17 years. On his 17th birthday, he is hit by a car while trying to get the autograph of a famous theatre actress. In his diary, Manuela finds out that on his birthday, Esteban expressed his wish to know who his father was, regardless of what kind of person he is.And so begins Manuela's journey from Madrid to Barcelona to find the father of her child, a transvestite, who never knew he had a son in the first place. Todos sobre mi madre is a beautiful Spanish language film, that at first glance seems like a completely random and superficial spotlight. But if you look beneath the surface, this movie examines issues about religion, morality, gender identity and even awareness of trans-gender issues. All complex and intricate topics to explore interwoven into the simple story of a woman trying to connect with her past. There are tears, there is laughter but nothing is over-emphasized over the other. You are both happy and sad while watching this film, but there is no imbalance of emotion towards one or the other. Intriguing and original for its time. "},{"Title":"brilliant style and compelling scenes","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Manuela is a single mom who loses her beloved son Esteban when he gets hit by a car while chasing after actress Huma Rojo. Manuela is a nurse in charge of donor coordination. To avoid the temptation to look for Esteban's organs, she quits her job. She decides to return to Barcelona to tell transgender Lola about his son that he never knew he had. She finds her old transgender prostitute friend Agrado. She befriends pregnant nun Rosa along with Huma Rojo and her lover Nina Cruz.I love the first half of the movie. I love Pedro Almodóvar's bright colors and exuberant style. The dirt road where the prostitutes congregate is an amazing scene. I just felt the movie loses focus later on as it deals with the various characters. It's still an amazing movie. "}{"Title":"Not Almodovar's best, but worth watching","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I probably got used to several plot twists in Almodovar movies, but this one do not have that much. If there were, my vote would be a little bit higher. I mean, in many aspects the movie is pretty brilliant. The acting is the highlight. Cecilia Roth, Antonia San Juan and Penelope Cruz shine bright through the story. Specially Cecilia, I'm really impressed.However, at the some point the story becomes evident. You see what is going to happen at each character. When I watched, I hoped for some twist, or something that would make my jaw drop. But eventually, that didn't happen. I don't know if I put lots of high expectation about this (maybe so), but the end could be better in my opinion. Still, it is a movie worth watching. "},{"Title":"Authentic story","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With outstanding character development, excellent direction, deft pacing and a thematically rich, original and always entertaining and involving plot, All About My Mother is a fantastic film which has its minor flaws including a bit too fast paced approach and at times a bit soapy nature, but it is otherwise a terrific movie with its fair share of likable and sympathetic characters, excellent tone ranging from serious to funny, wonderful themes superbly explored, authentic story, great influences and it is all around an engaging, smart and incredibly well acted movie and a standout work from the director. www.simbasible.com "},{"Title":"Sensitive and beautiful","Date":"21 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" After her only son dies in an accident, a single mother (Cecilia Roth) goes searching for the boy's father, a randy transvestite, and falls back into her old group of friends including drag queens, prostitutes and actresses.There isn't a very strong plot in this follow-up to Carne Tremula, but there's tons of atmosphere and fascinating characters, and everybody acts their hearts out, especially Roth and Antonia San Juan. Penelope Cruz is also good as a social worker with AIDS whom Roth takes under her wing. It's a continuation of the themes of grief, helplessness and fate from Almodovar's 1997 masterpiece but it's much less stylized, more sensitive and character-centered. "},{"Title":"Like Almodóvar's films, Life also follows the similar pattern, Most of us just don't notice it.","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Todo Sobre Mi Madre (All About my Mother) is Almodóvar's 1999 film.Before I begin, I want to mention an observation about Almodóvar's films, What makes him one of the most unique filmmaker in the whole crowd is his possessiveness or obsession for the most complex human emotions and socially Unapproved Human relations. And I also must add that for some reason he also likes medical equipments very much and he film it very passionately.Golden Globe winner All About my Mother is the story of Manuela. How she experience the same pattern of her life again when her young son Esteban dies in a car accident on his 17th birthday as he runs to seek an actress's autograph. After this incident her life revolves one more time in the same pattern. She experience the same emotions, and encounter the people in the similar way It happened with her 17 years Ago.Actually in my experience Life always follows a pattern, Most of us just don't notice it. But those who live in the state of awareness can easily experience how the past appears again in the future. It's like going through the same lesson twice, like revising it to make sure that I learn it very well.The way Almodóvar's portray the characters in his films, It demands very high level of emotional and psychological sense of human life to understand its genuineness. Else an Audience might misinterpret it.But What I like most About Almodóvar's film, even after whole complexities in the end EVERYTHING IS FINE and If it's not fine, It's not the end. "},{"Title":"Dazzling Display From Spain","Date":"22 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Young Esteban (Eloy Azurin) wants to become a writer and also to discover the identity of his father, carefully concealed by his mother Manuela (Cecilia Roth). This is very visually striking film, with the bold use of primary colors (blues and reds) for scenery and often in the foreground. The cinematography in general is pretty decent, but it is evident that the director's real goal is to evoke emotion through color and patterns (the wallpaper in this film is outrageous).As a story, it is compelling and intriguing. To say there is one steady narrative is not strictly true. While it follows Manuela over a two month period, we are constantly being introduced to unlikely characters and see how they interact and their lives intertwine. Some twists are predictable, but many are not.The film has a way of making the taboo not so taboo. Prostitutes, transvestism, HIV, drug use and other topics come up and are discussed without seeming out of the ordinary or wrong. But more interestingly, aside from a brief prostitution scene, the film is also very subtle -- there is little nudity and no drugs are ever on-screen.The parallels with Streetcar Named Desire and All About Eve are masterfully interwoven with the film. These two stories are both in the movie and alongside it. The character of Huma Rojo admires Bette Davis, and the film begins with a critique of All About Eve before Manuela begins living it. Streetcar is also a recurring theme... appearing as an actual play, but also more than this.Roger Ebert says the film is sincere and heartfelt; though two of its characters are transvestite hookers, one is a pregnant nun and two more are battling lesbians, this is a film that paradoxically expresses family values. And he is right, echoing what I said above about none of this seeming wrong... it is just another family trying to live, albeit a family structure not normally recognized as family.He further says, Manuela is the heroine of the film and its center, but Agrado is the source of life. This is a difficult assessment to agree with or not. Manuela clearly is the heroine, but is Agrado the source of life? Or is s/he a tragic, yet comic figure? It is difficult to envy or admire her, though she has chosen this way of life on purpose every inch of her body was an intentional act. She has followed her dreams, as misguided and foolhardy as we may think they are.I am not familiar with the director's other work, but giving this film an Oscar seems more than fair. It tells a story that is not strictly one of Spain but is far more universal. And while most of us do not have prostitution and heroin in our daily lives, we do understand the role of motherhood. "},{"Title":"Oscar bait meets Spanish Art-house","Date":"30 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is an extremely well put together film that is an intriguing combination of art-house and Oscar bait. Almodorav has managed to put together a movie with a strong emotional core all the while making some interesting stylistic choices. At the heart of this movie is a story of a mother come to terms with the recent death of her only son on his 17th birthday. We see her give up her life in Madrid as a nurse and return to Barcelona where she had a more tumultuous life before moving to Madrid.The movie does an excellent job establishing the relationship between the mother and the son so when the son dies one can really feel the emotional impact. This is where we first see Cecilia Roth shine in the role of Manuela. We are really able to feel that this is a difficult time in her life and that when she decides to pick up and start her life over we understand. When she gets to Barcelona we are immediately thrust into the underworld and are introduced to Antonia San Juan who does an excellent playing Manuela's old friend a pre-op transvestite. She does come off as being a bit over the top at times, but is never out of character. There is a scene where Agrado was given the opportunity to put on a one women show she seems to drop the ball and a scene with a lot of potential was fairly tame. My biggest problem with the movie is the relationship between Penelope Cruz's character, Rosa, and Manuela. I was confused on how Rosa came to trust Manuela so completely so quickly. I do not think that Cruz did anything special with the character, which was unfortunate because she is such an important part of the story of Manuela. Since this movie is about Manuela as a mother and since she adopts Rosa's baby, when she dies in child birth, it is disappointing that there was not more of a connection between Roth and Cruz on screen. I did love some of the transition shots used and the one at the end with the train going from Barcelona and then back again was neat. These type of shots along with the soundtrack keeps this movie from being too boring and not just a rehashing of the same story. Also I like the almost meta aspect of the theater production of A Streetcar Name Desire. I enjoyed how it was interwoven into the story and how the actress and the story play itself became a part of Manuela's growth. Watching her take care of the principle actresses and Rosa allowed the viewer to never lose track of what made Manuela a mother. Overall this movie was extremely well put together, but there were weaknesses to be had. At times the movie lost focus on Manuela and focused a bit too much on Agrado or Rosa's stories. It was a fresh take on what normally would have been a boring and bland Oscar bait movie. "},{"Title":"Emotional Film","Date":"11 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A film about transversites' is not my cup of tea, but what is engrossing is the acting that is riveting at times even without reading the subtitles. The central character, Lola, even though makes a late appearance like a mystery movie, makes the the story more poignant. It is Manuella (Cecilia Roth) who pulls the most heartstrings. The director who is well known in Spain and was instrumental in putting Penelope Cruz in the movies does a good job juggling the scenes between two cities and four or five characters. Cruz, as sister Rosa, is subtle and impressionable for a short role. The movie is gripping even with subtitles and certainly worth watching but I would not rate it as a Ten. "},{"Title":"The tagline says it all.","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is the greatest foreign language film since 8 1/2, easily Almodovar's crowning achievement. Cecilla Roth headlines an ensemble of woman who weave together this film through their stunning portrayals. Perdo Almodovar fashions a beautiful, in every sense of the word, story and directs it with elegance and grace.From the start it seduces you, draws you in and you are focused on nothing but what is going on on that screen. The story is tough to take, it's dark and heartbreaking at times, but it displays a strong message. Almodovar knows how to et the mood and tone for a picture using his unique storytelling matching it with actors who can handle the work and setting the drama meter high with his score and editing.Cecilla Roth was robbed of an Oscar nomination for her leading role here. She gets a role dripping with juice and she milks it for all it's worth. Roth is natural and subtle as well as heartrending like when she loses her son. From the other five actresses she takes an individual journey with Penelope Cruz is the standout as a pregnant nun who is HVI positive. She's so sweet and innocent, and when people that sweet and innocent end up in those situations you can't help but cry for them.All About My Mother explores many themes from todays modern world. One is transvestites. Almodovar handles it nicely making it so they aren't viewed as monsters or strange. Another is it's femininity. Almost every actor here is female and this film takes a stand as a feminist film. What Almodovar can't do is what Paris Hilton can't buy. There is also a shout-out from him at the end of the film that's heartwarming. The greatest thing about this movie is how compelling it is. You catch yourself thinking about the characters and the ending. It's energy-draining, but very successful. All About My Mother is the good kind of strange. It transports you; 10 "},{"Title":"Very Rich","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is a touching film, and I think it's because it's a film of dedication. As the credits begin, they read that the movie is dedicated to a long list of different sorts of actresses and women similar to the characters in the film, but I think that at its core, it sympathizes with a handful of general people that go unrecognized a lot of the time.One of these groups of people is frankly mothers. The main character of Manuela is a mother who revisits her life before the birth of her son, who has just died at age 17. Most people would revisit this life after the death of a loved one because nostalgia would perhaps soothe their aching emotions, but she instead sacrifices that possibility by searching for her son's father and projecting aspects of motherhood upon the lives of many whom she meets. I love her character because of the natural way she strikes the viewer, thanks to Almodovar's writing and Cecilia Roth's performance, as an emotional but optimistic, freedom-loving, honest and philosophical woman, despite her past and her friends. I believe Almodovar also means to recognize anyone who keeps large portions of themselves hidden, which Manuela does.Really, the film is just entertaining and fulfilling because despite its penchant for tranvestitism and unusual plot strands, it truly is a slice of life, not only because of its realistic sideline happenstances of sexual diseases, but mostly because its characters do what characters are meant to do for us when we go to the movies, which is that they provide us with good company. We enjoy these people, and we care about them greatly. They're realistic and well-played.Almodovar's cinematography is a great highlight, as every background is rich and the colors are bold and thick. It's a good companion piece to the script, both being emotionally stimulating. "},{"Title":"Spanish dramas of Pedro Almodovar at his best","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Definitely one of my favorite Almodovar films along with the extraordinary What did I do to deserve this. Shattered over the death of her teenage son, Manuela drives to find the boy's father, a transsexual named Lola. While brooding the cities less reputable areas, she encounters Agrado, a sassy transvestite prostitute, and Rosa the pregnant nun played by Penelope Cruz on her way to El Salvador. She also becomes the manager for Huma, the actress her son idolized, and helps her through a run of A Streetcar named Desire. Together these great ladies bond through various heartrending crises, enduring the pain and celebrating the beauty of being women, or well, almost. "}{"Title":"Wonderful Almodovar film","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is a magnificent film by Pedro Almodovar about a woman, Manuela (Cecilia Roth) who, after her son's death, goes looking for his father and finds not only her past but her future. Almodovar brilliantly intertwines the story of All About Eve (shown on Spanish television in one of the scenes) with this story. (Due to a clause in her Eve contract, Celeste Holm was able to sue the producers of this movie and win an undisclosed settlement.)The acting is fantastic, and certainly when dealing with Almodovar, no one can say there aren't great roles for older women. Besides a fine performance from Penelope Cruz as a pregnant, HIV-infected nun and a beautiful one from Roth, Marisa Paredes is transcendent as an older actress playing Blanche in Streetcar who is in love with a junkie, Nina (Candela Pena). She combines glamor with desperation and humor. Antonia San Juan as Agrado, a transsexual, has the showy comic role, and she is fabulous. The monologue where she tells an audience waiting to see Streetcar the story of her life is a highlight of the movie. Toni Conto as Lola, the transsexual who is the father of Manuela's late son, gives a poignant performance.There is warmth, humor, tragedy, and sadness in All About My Mother, which presents fully fleshed out characters and tells us that whoever we are - nun, junkie, transsexual, nurse, actress or whore, we're all the same in our hurt, our love, and our desires, and that we can all help one another. A great story written by Almodovar and well executed by him. "},{"Title":"Food for thought","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is one movie that I would not watch if I was given a choice(had to watch it for an assignment). Personally, I felt that this movie lack character development as all of the characters, save Agrado. The way they are developed makes it hard for me to relate to them. They somewhat appear aloof, save Agrado, who brings this dull plot to life. At the end of the movie, I am somewhat disappointed as the movie fail to make an impact on issues such as sexuality and religion are brought fourth. Almodóvar basically touches the surface of the iceberg and I felt that this was a pity as he could have explored these issues deeper. The storyline too, bored me as I felt the movie somewhat senseless with no purpose. I fail to comprehend the message that Almodóvar is trying to convey.However, to be fair, I felt the use of colors in this movie, artistically and brilliantly done. The vibrant hews of red and yellow to me represents the emotions of Manuela. We see passion, love and anger in the color red, which represent Manuela's emotions for Lola, her son, her hurt and her anger. Where else, the color yellow represents the other side of her (her caring and motherly nature) and this can be seen when she forge a warm relationship with Rosa, who is carrying her husband's child. In the beginning we see lots of greens and blues that I think portrays Manuela's security and calmness, which she finds in her son. At the beginning she is reluctant to mention to Estaban of his father but when he dies she goes on a hunt for Lola. When this happens, her sense of security, which is represented by blue and green, diminishes. Her emotions change and we see this by frames mainly dominated by the color red and yellow.One interesting factor to note is that we see glimpses of the play A Streetcar Named Desire throughout the movie. I feel that this play is crucially connected to the movie, as it is central to the film. It not only begins the film but it also brings together the characters of this story. The reason that Manuela goes in search for Lola is because of the death of her son, which is linked to this play. Almodóvar does a brilliant job in showing us Estaban's point of view, as an oncoming car knocks him down. The way the camera pans and moves gives me a sense of realism as Estaban is wretchedly mowed down. This is one scene of the movie that I really loved as the camera work was rather unique. Also, Almodóvar has a rather twisted sense of humor, and this can be seen when he shows Estaban nearly getting knocked down while crossing the street to meet his mother for the show A Streetcar Named Desire. What is ironic is that he does get knocked down &#150; but after the show, while chasing for Huma's autograph. I find all of this rather senseless and it leads me to feel that life is so short and precious &#150; treasure the moments you have, as it may be your last. In this, I feel that the director does a good job in portraying life and how it can just change within a split second.Overall, All About My Mother is a film that I felt could have made more of a statement. It is my view that many issues in the movie was left hanging and although maybe the director did this to let the viewers decide on them, the impact would have been more if he made some kind of statement. I just wish the plot was more realistic as I felt it was a tad unbelievable. Overall, it is not a movie I would recommend to anyone unless they are fans of Almodóvar. "},{"Title":"Review for Todo sobre mi madre","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like the title says, Pedro Almodovar's movie, Todo sobre mi madre, talks about mothers, but not only the ones you would think of at first. In reality he talks about many kinds of mothers and the roles and relationships that they have with their children, biological or not. The movie, that is presented very well, shows all of the women in their anxiety, sadness and laughter. This would be a good movie to watch with girl friends.The movie is based around Manuela (Cecilia Roth), a single mother that lives in Madrid with her son, Esteban (Eloy Azorín). For her son's birthday, the two attend A Streetcar Named Desire. After the play Esteban wants the autograph of lead actress, Huma Rojo (Marisa Paredes). He runs after her to try to obtain it and is hit by a car. Esteban is killed, and ironically Manuela, a coordinator of transplants, has to decide if she wants to donate Esteban's organs. Then she travels to Barcelona to look for the father that her son never knew and tell him what has happened. Manuela discovers an old friend, La Agrado (Antonia San Juan), a transvestite prostitute that is trying to change her life, and she also finds new friends in Huma, who she begins to work for, and Rosa (Penelope Cruz), a pregnant nun that works with prostitutes and was also the last person to see her ex-husband. The movie follows the women through the difficult pregnancy of Rosa, the rough relationship of Huma and her lover, Nina, and Manuela's search for Lola, her transvestite ex-husband.The relationships between all of the women unite the movie. With the exception of Esteban, who dies very early, the movie doesn't have a main male character. Some, like La Agrado, were men, and have the physical parts of a man, but they are actually women. Rosa's father, I believe, is the stereotype of men in the movie, lost with his dog and confused about the lives of the women. The movie shows the roles that women play in the lives of everyone. It is obvious that the independence of the women from men is a principle theme, but more important is the fact that they are all the mothers of each other. Manuela is a mother to Esteban, Rosa, and then Rosa's child, but she cares for everyone, including La Agrado when she is hurt. Huma is a mother to Nina although she is her lover. Everyone cares for each other and they make a 'family.' The movie shows all of the different roles that women have to play in their lives, from actress to mother to nurse.I like the cinematography of the movie. Almodovar uses many colors for the costumes, in the scenes, in all aspects of the movie. They helped to establish and develop the personalities. For example, La Agrado is a very unique person and this is shown in her clothes. Also I like that there are many mosaics, like the ones that are all over Barcelona from Antoni Gaudi. An aspect that I do not like a lot is the music. Much of it reminded me of a murder or mystery movie. I didn't think it fit into the movie well. It fit in some scenes, but other scenes I felt it did not. Also there are some interesting camera angles. I like when Lola looks at the photo of Esteban, and they only show his eyes. My favorite was when Esteban was writing in his notebook, and he wrote on the camera. I thought that it was a very inventive camera angle.In general I liked Todo sobre mi madre. I liked the cinematography more, but the plot was good also. The relationships between the characters were very interesting and all of the actors in the movie played their roles very well. Personally the movie is a little predictable. It was easy to predict the deaths of Rosa and Esteban and also the father of Rosa's baby. Although that was the case, the movie is very fun, and I have already recommended it to my friends. "},{"Title":"One of the better Almodóvar films","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Todo Sobre Mi Madre' is another fine film from Spanish director Pédro Almodóvar. It is a more serious films, less soap opera, than other fine films like 'Mujeres al Borde de un Ataque de Nervios' and 'Tacone Lejanos'. It seems Almodóvar is growing up and it fits him. We still have the bright colors and there still is one (or two) transsexual character, but both are used in a more serious way.Here he tells the story of Manuela (Cecilia Roth), a woman who who loses her son while he is purchasing famous Huma Rojo (Marisa Paredes) to get an autograph. He is hit by a car. Now Manuela wants to find her son's father, transvestite Lola (Toni Cantó), to tell him the bad news. She meets her old friend Agrado (Antonia San Juan), a nun named Rosa (Penélope Cruz) who also knows Lola, and due circumstances she becomes Huma's assistant. As with every Almodóvar film it is hard to explain the plot without revealing too much. His films always inhabit a lot of characters important for the story in one way or another.Although the story on itself is a very good one, there are little things I enjoyed very much. The way he shows us certain things and let them return later in the film. We get to see parts of 'All About Eve' for example, and later the main plot line of that film is mixed into this story. Another example shows Manuela as an actress in an instruction video where people have to decide whether they agree with a heart transplant of their dead relative, which ironically returns when she has to make that kind of choice for her own son.Of course there is the usual amount of comedy, especially when transsexual Agrado is in the picture. The cinematography is good, especially in combination with the colors we always see in an Almodóvar film. Very memorable is the important music. Alberto Iglesias has composed a beautiful score, even used in commercials these days, that fits the film perfectly. Although I like every film of Almodóvar since they are so different from other films, I do think this is one of his best. It is probably better accessible than most of his earlier films with a more familiar story. Fortunately the Almodóvar touch is felt all the way through the film. "},{"Title":"A bit weird from time to time, but also very touching.","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If there is one thing you could accuse Pedro Almodóvar of then it must be the fact that he never makes simple or normal movies and that he certainly likes controversy. Every movie is a challenge and every time you'll find yourself being fascinated by the (sometimes weird) characters and the gripping story.With this movie he has done exactly that, he has made a very touching but sometimes weird movie. It's about a single mother, Manuela, who lives with her only son in Madrid. He dies on his 17th birthday as he runs to seek an actress's autograph and gets hit by a car. The father, a transvestite who works as a prostitute in Barcelona, didn't even know he had a son, let alone that he knows the kid died. The mother decides that she'll pay him a visit and tell him all about his son. Looking for him (her), she meets Rosa, a young nun who is about to leave for El Salvador. A beautiful friendship between the two women starts and as the story goes on, they will help each other through some very hard times (Rosa appears to be pregnant and HIV-positive). In the meantime Manuela has also started working as the personal assistant of the same actress her son wanted an autograph from...What makes this movie so special is the fact that even though the story is very special and certainly not the easiest to follow, it all works very well. You'll get an enormous mix of emotions and you'll see plenty of characters who in one way or another have something to do with each other, but it will all fit right into its place. At the end of the movie you will not be asking yourself questions, at least not when you have been able to pay enough attention all the time. OK, it may look weird from time to time (you certainly wouldn't find these characters in a Hollywood production), but in the end it all seems 'normal'.Pedro Almodóvar doesn't have to prove his talents for story telling and directing anymore, I'm already convinced that he knows all about it, but this movie wouldn't have worked if he hadn't chosen the right actors. And I can only say that all the actors did a very good job. I guess that almost everybody will be able to appreciate this movie, although I guess more conservative and very religious people might be offended by it. Personally I'm none of both, so I can say that I truly liked it. I give it at least an 8/10, perhaps even an 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"One of those rare, great movies","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All About My Mother is a rare treat - a truly great movie.  The more recent works of Almodovar are clearly to my taste, I rated Talk To Me very highly also.  Of course, there is melodrama, but of the highest class.  Reminiscent of the works of Tennessee Williams whose great piece Streetcar Named Desire features so prominently and echos so poignantly in the film.Great acting, great directing, stunning cinematography.  As close to a must see as I can muster. "},{"Title":"Age sure did tune him down","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm a fan of all of Almodovar's films yet I would not rank this one as his best. This is certainly a later film, which one can tell by the almost passified nature of this film compared to his earlier ones. The film is so toned down that it does reach a broader and more international audience and is a very well crafted film but I tend to like his more surreal films. Of course I would recommend the film nonetheless.  "},{"Title":"Unsettling and brilliant","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is my first experience with a film directed by the acclaimed Spanish film maker, Pedro Almodóvar. It is very complex on both a technical and emotional level.It is first and foremost a kind of absurdist parody of contemporary life with Almodóvar simultaneously questioning bourgeois values and celebrating the community of those with alternative life styles. He makes the burghers in the audience feel uneasy in their assumptions, especially about questions of gender and about the lifestyle of cross-dressers and gender-unspecific/variable people, who, he wants us to know, live and breath and love and hate just like anybody else.Cecile Roth stars as Manuela, who is a nurse at a hospital in Madrid where she helps to coordinate the organ donor programs. She is also an amateur actress who plays in the simulations that the hospital makes to educate staff and patients. Her 17-year-old son with whom she is very close tells her she is a great actress, but Manuela is modest. She is also secretive about his father's identity. After seeing a production of Tennessee Williams's A Streetcar Named Desire, the son and the mother await outside the stage door so that he can get an autograph from the actress who plays Blanche Dubois, Marisa Paredes, who is named Huma Rojo in the film. Tragedy ensues as the son is hit and fatally injured. In just one of a number of plot mixings that emphasize the sometimes tragic and often ironic nature of the human experience, the son becomes an organ donor before he dies, and Manuela, who had previously arranged for organ donations, now has to sign the papers to donate the organs of her beloved son.Now she goes to Barcelona to look up the father, who had once played the crude and boorish Stanley Kowalski to her Stella, again from A Streetcar Named Desire. In Barcelona Manuela again sees the play, but this time meets the star, Huma, who is a grande old dame of the Spanish theater, a Lesbian genius who has taken her theatrical cue in life from Bette Davis (and her smoking habits as well). In a salute to Davis and a remembrance of one of her greatest roles, we see posters of Bette Davis from the classic Hollywood film, All About Eve (1950), and then a kind of take off on the action as Manuela becomes in a sense Eve Harrington as she befriends Huma and begins working for her. (Waiting outside the stage door for a autograph is also a scene from All About Eve.) Nina (Candela Peña) Huma's heroin-addicted lover becomes jealous and accuses Manuela of seeking Huma's friendship just so she can become a star herself, a la Eve Harrington. To top it off Manuela is called upon to play Stella when Nina cannot because of an overdose, and miraculously she relives her role from twenty years before, and does a great job, because she is, as her son knew, a gifted actress.Okay, we can see the complexities. I have merely given the premise of the film. Enter now Antonia San Juan as Agrado, an old friend of Manuela's who is a professional transvestite. (San Juan is brilliant in the part as a woman playing a man playing a woman.) Enter also Penélope Cruz as a pregnant nun with AIDs. What evolves is a kind of sisterhood among variously gendered females. There is also a sense of a middle class, soap opera-ish even, action and resolution, but with Almodóvar's tongue firmly in cheek.Men, however, do not come off very well in this film. The grandfather-to-be apparently has Alzheimer's and does not even recognize his daughter. Manuela's son is dead. A theater male is depicted as a kind of stagehand Stanley Kowalski, boorishly insensitive, seeking only his own pleasure; indeed Tennessee Williams's crude, animalistic Kowalski appears as a metaphor for men in this film. Manuela is his long-suffering Stella, and Huma has always, as she actually says, depended on the kindness of strangers. Finally, there is Lola a tall, handsome, gender-modified Kowalski, played inadequately by Toni Cantó, in what may be a bit of purposely bad casting for effect by Almodóvar--or perhaps I should say, played shallowly and unconvincingly on purpose by Toni Cantó. It's hard to tell. Indeed part of Almodóvar's technique is a blurring of distinctions with ironic parallels, showing how some things are the same, but different depending on your point of view, the organ donors, Lola's fatherhood, Manuela as Stella and/or Eve, etc.Bottom line this is an unsettling film, brilliantly acted by Paredes, Roth and San Juan, and cleverly directed in a most original style by Almodóvar. It will not play well with Disney aficionados or with devotees of action cinema--and put the kiddies to bed, please.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"All About a GREAT Movie","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie in a Women in Film class and it was easily my favorite of all the movies we watched. Even with subtitles, I could not take my eyes off of the performers. Cecilia Roth's is stunning both in her subtlety and sheer screen presence. Brilliant film! Now how in the world did Penelope Cruz become a star in US films and not Cecilia Roth?  "},{"Title":"Chicks with dicks, cocks & frocks, knobs & knockers...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, this is a strange movie in that it features transsexuals, AIDS, prostitutes, lesbians and nuns without treating any of them as an issue. And why the hell should it?  The characters in this film are taken for granted as being what they are.  Take it or leave it.  The gorgeous cinematography and witty editing are also vital to the film's success - see the great shot where two years pass in a few seconds a train going one way, and another one coming in the opposite direction.  But in the end I would argue that the film - though enjoyable - fails because it lacks tension and conflict.  Everyone supports everyone else, everyone is so strong and self-sufficient that there is little or no drama. Having only seen one other Almodovar movie (Live Flesh) I feel distinctly unqualified to discuss this in the context of his other work, so I can only discuss it as a film in its own right It's entertaining and enjoyable but curiously lightweight.  Perhaps that is the intention, to show that films about what most movies would class as sexual deviants don't have to be heavy and maudlin and meaningful.  "}{"Title":"Different but good - a strong female movie","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One nice thing when watching a movie like Todo sobre mi madre is knowing that you'd never get to experience something like this from a Hollywood movie. There is not a chance that Hollywood would risk alienating its audience by having them fraternise with people who practice a variety of different sexualities, as we have here.The story is fairly simple. Manuela loses her son Estaban and, as a result, goes back to her roots in an effort to come to terms with her grief. This involves meeting with her trans-sexual prostitute friend Agrado, Estaban's transvestite father Lola, and the lesbian theatre actress Huma. These alternate takes on the idea of feminity are central to the theme of Todo sobre mi madre and what it means to love as a woman. Indeed it's a great credit to writer and director Pedro Almodóvar, that he managed to get inside the women's head so well.The acting is all spot on. The characters breathe dimension. In spite of their relatively abnormal style of living, they come across as real people. I particularly enjoyed the caustic Agrado. As a result their emotional trauma is all the more affecting. However I felt, as I often have before, that Penélope Cruz gave in the weakest performance of the leads, out-matched by her peers. Naturally being the prettiest it was her that eventually clawed into Hollywood. Such is the way of Tinsel Town.Almodóvar lends a thoughtful air to the proceedings. Weeks, and even months go by, in a single second as he chooses to swoop in now and then at central points in Manuela's life as she learn to deal with Esteban's death and move on with her own life - part of which is reconciling with her own life and that of Esteban's estranged father. The constant use of A Streetcar Named Desire, viewed from afar by Manuela and then finally engaged in is suitably symbolic of her own progression towards recovery.Todo sobre mi madre is undoubtedly a well crafted movie in many respects. Based on my own tastes, it will never be a favourite movie of mine, but I can appreciate it for what it is. It deservedly won a Best Foreign Film Oscar (and a slew of other Best Foreign Film awards) and is recommended viewing. 7.3/10. "},{"Title":"Another Success for Almodóvar","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodóvar populates his films with strange characters, and All About My Mother has it share. To read about them in reviews does not do them justice; they come across like cartoons on the written page. To really appreciate them you have to watch as they interact and evolve over the space of Mr. Almodóvar's story. In All About My Mother, the main characters have daunting obstacles placed in their paths; most centering on deep loss; of a child, marital love, faith. Given this, the film is not dark and depressing. Quite the contrary. In an expressive, almost spiritual manner, Almodóvar chronicles how these characters not just cope, but address their problems and rise above them.  I recommend this movie highly; it's a great rental. "},{"Title":"Let's hope that we can return the favor","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The great majority of foreign-language films that are released in America are in French. Two of this year's Golden Globe nominees in that category are from France, and The Red Violin was made by a French-Canadian. The only Spanish-language entertainment most people see are stupid game shows and soap operas (not to mention the soccer announcer who shouts Gooooooal!). At least we have Pedro Almodóvar to remind us that there is somebody in Spain making a positive contribution to the art of film.In Madrid, Manuela (Cecilia Roth) and her son Esteban (Eloy Azorín) attend a performance of A Streetcar Named Desire, a play to which Manuela has a great attachment. She tells her son that she met his father when she played Stella opposite his Stanley Kowalski. After the show, Esteban tries to get the autograph of Huma Rojo (Marisa Paredes), who just played Blanche Dubois. He runs after her cab, but is struck by another car and dies. Manuela decides to go back to Barcelona and start her life over. Now we see that Manuela has a little trouble with the truth. Her past in Barcelona and the story of Esteban's father is clouded. She finds an old friend there a transsexual prostitute who calls himself/herself La Agrado (Antonia San Juan). Agrado introduces Manuela to Sister Rosa (Penélope Cruz), a nun who helps prostitutes look for legitimate work. Instead of working for Rosa's mother (Rosa Maria Sardà), Manuela gets a job as Huma Rojo's personal assistant while Streetcar is playing in Barcelona. This job gets harder to do when Rosa moves in with Manuela because of health problems. One thing is certain for the films of 1999 their premises are getting harder to describe. Almodóvar weaves a masterful story around these women, and several other characters. He takes on a highly unconventional story and makes it work with warth and humor; I'm really quite amazed that he was able to pull it off. His screenplay is also very well written, but I don't think any other director could have filmed it. Even under these circumstances, Roth seems very comfortable in this role. There is a large ensemble of supporting roles, but she has to carry this film. Manuela considers herself an actor, and she is always putting on some sort of character off stage, so Roth has to come up with a very layered performance. She does, and stands out among many actresses this year. If the Academy can award Roberto Benigni for Life Is Beautiful, they could certainly find a nomination for her. Well, it all depends on how Americans respond to this film. What surprises me is that Streetcar is popular in Spain. I must say it was odd to see it performed in Spanish, since it such an inherently American play. There were also a lot of references to All About Eve, which shows that American art is appreciated in Spain. Let's hope that we can return the favor. "},{"Title":"Cabaret Para Intelectuales","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I came to this film wanting to hate it, but I was seduced by it and it affected me deeply.  Why hate?  Because I had just seen a TV documentary about Almodovar.  He talks a good deal of shallow rubbish, and the showbusiness darlings who surround him are vile. However, his film speaks with the sincere voice of artistic talent.  It even has a touch of greatness.It is a film about Woman.  Almodovar is well-known for his preoccupation with feminine sensibility, and here we go through the range of female awarenesses - Madre, Puta, Actriz.  This is not the 'macro' masculine world of war and politics, but the feminine 'micro' universe of caring, loving and suffering.  In a real sense, it is All About Eve.Manuela loves her son Esteban totally and unconditionally.  When he is taken from her, she must forge a new life.  Back in her native Barcelona she finds fulfilment caring for Rosa the pregnant nun and Huma the barren actress.  A new Esteban appears, and the cycle of living and loving begins again.This flimsy summary of the story gives no real idea of the film's symbolic and dramatic richness.  It is a pattern made of other patterns, with stories repeating, reversing and overlapping endlessly.  Names can mean a break with the past (Agrado, Huma) or they can insist on continuity (Rosa, Esteban).  In the guignol tradition, names can also delineate character - Agrado tries to make life agreeable for others, Huma Rojo is red smoke, a hollow illusion, and Nina is an adult with a child's personality.Almodovar deliberately offends against social custom.  Women are fathers, birth means death and drama is more real than life.  It is tempting to think of Almodovar as the new Bunuel, and he takes the same childish pleasure in shocking the 'decent' Spanish bourgeoisie.  When Agrado gives her performance in the theatre, the old folks walk out in disgust while the youngsters stay and are entertained.This play marked my life, says Manuela of 'A Streetcar Named Desire'. It made her a mother (the defining experience of her existence) because it introduced her to Lola.  She explains that she played Stella and Lola played Kowolski, literally and figuratively.  The male symbol is brutal and cruel, the female symbol is the nurturer of life who endures abuse because she loves.  Like Stella, Manuela escaped, pregnant and alone.  The play returns later as Esteban's birthday treat and the cause of his death.  Manuela knows the text by heart, and when she follows the production to Barcelona, fate pulls her into the drama and she triumphs as Stella.  Huma is Blanche, the sad derelict, relying on the kindness of strangers.  (Another link with the play is the title of Almodovar's own production company, Deseo.)Esteban's delight with his new book is shown in the reading of the foreword - es un prefacio maravilloso!  The film, similarly, has a marvellous preface.  A bag of plasma drips purposefully, its valve shaped like a crucifix.  The symbolism is rich and catholic, and prepares us for what will come - here is a figurative mother, giving the blood of life and suffering the cross of sorrow.  Taps, console and graph represent institutionalised care, as opposed to the natural, personal care of a mother.  These things are neat and orderly, but cold and soulless.  This is the organ donation unit of a hospital.  It does excellent work, but we see its effort in fragments rather than a whole.  The files list organs, not people - 'higado', 'corazon'.  Technology can help us, but it can never replace maternal love.  We feel uneasy when we are told that the machine is breathing for him.Manuela works as a nurse (symbol of the nurturing mother) in this unit, and we see her as an actress appearing in a training video, playing a mother whose son is dead.  Two doctors ask for the boy's organs.  New life must be nourished from his body's wreckage.  When the scene is repeated for real, it is almost too painful to watch.  Almodovar takes us to the 'meta' level, with Manuela's anguish setting up cross-rhythms with her professionalism. Love is stronger than systems, and the organ co-ordinator weeps for Manuela.The real Manuela stands tiny before a vast advert for 'Streetcar', showing Huma's face.  Is the image more potent than the individual?  Or is Almodovar saying that superficial impact fades, whereas human empathy endures?  What is the relationship between the true woman and her made-up face?  Esteban dies pursuing the 'red smoke' of an actress's fame.  If he had stayed with his real mother and not chased an illusion, he would have been safe.Esteban will bestow new life.  We go with Manuela as she follows her son's heart to Coruna, where another young man has hope restored.  The mulch of death feeds the roots of life.  Manuela knows two places, Spain's first and second cities, Madrid and Barcelona (importantly for Almodovar, these are the two pre-eminently 'modern' towns).  She moves between them along the tunnel umbilicus, as a pregnant teenager, childless mother and finally as triumphant madonna with the 'new' Esteban.The spectacular vista of Barcelona and sumptuous portal of Gaudi's Sagrada Familia rapidly disappear, and we are soon in an ugly wasteland where prostitutes parade as grotesques in a hell worthy of Goya.  These two Barcelonas recur again and again - the outward city of quirky, appealing architecture and the mean streets of the hopeless, directionless underclass.Almodovar's narrative has been engrossing up to this point.  Now it will expand and deepen as a new cast of characters is woven into the film's fabric.Que raro! "},{"Title":"Very mature for elmodovar","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had a free movie from my local place, and the woman there suggested this. I groaned when I saw Elmodovar, as I found his films mostly lacking in substance, and misogynst as a general rule. I accept gladly that I was proven wrong with this film. It took much from many others, but was all in all a good film.  Not a buyer, perhaps, but well worth the rental.sc "},{"Title":"Great Work","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodóvar has did it again. With All about my Mother, he has given us another great work of film. From Tie my Up, Tie me Down to Women on the Verge..... Pedro continues to keep my interest, and returning to his films.Thanks, "},{"Title":"A great piece of cinema Almodóver has redeemed himself","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My working hours do not let me get to the cinema as much as I would like and I often miss films and have to wait for them to come out in video or on a TV station. Such is the case with Todo Sobre Mi Madre..... and after all the noise it made winning its Oscar, I was somewhat sceptical, as previous films by Almodóver had left me completely unmoved a lot of childish surrealism and rather crazy story lines with what would seem to be a womaniser surrounding himself with all the healthiest young actresses he could find.... Having said that, it is time to correct a few ideas. TODO SOBRE MI MADRE is a great piece of cinema. Almodóvar has at last matured, and has established that he really is an intelligent cinematographer. This film belongs to the theatre genre - which is why we have Cecilia Roth, Marisa Paredes and Rosa María Sardá (please see her in `Las Amargas Lágrimas de Petra von Kant' (TV) (2001) ) in leading rôles, all having theatre experience, and Antonia San Juan as Agrado is worth an Oscar all to herself - brilliant. And.... Penelope Cruz yes, lovely, she reminds me of why I came to Spain to live so many years ago; she played her part excellently. Brilliant directing here by Almodóver he really got his own script to work beautifully. He manages the characteriology to great depths, bringing out the best possible interpretations by everybody. The script amply shows the intelligence, wit and compassion of this latter-day Don Quixote, who, instead of charging windmills, uses his genial charm and astute geniousness to conquer Berlin..Cannes....Hollywood... Far superior to `American Beauty which so captivated audiences world-wide in 1999. It is also a pity that Spain can only send ONE film for nomination each year, as another very worthy competitor got left out, undeservedly `Solas' is also a great piec e of theatre-cinema, well worth seeing if you liked `Todo Sobre mi Madre'. Curiously both these films end with a remarkably similar dedication `A mi madre; a todas las madres' - To my mother; To all mothers. "},{"Title":"All about excellent acting","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this film because I loved Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown.  This, though it has comic moments, is for Drama and acting lovers.  In fact, if I were to compare the two films, I think of the two masks that symbolize the stage -- you know the two masks... One is happy and smiling, the other is frowning and sad.  This is the counterweight to Women on the Verge...It is sad, but not depressing.  This film was so well acted, it is a shame it did not receive more attention in the USA (as in AWARDS).  Perhaps the lead character, Manuela is just too Christlike in her acceptance of the flaws in people, and too ready to help those around her for it to make headway in the US.  True, there is some subject matter that may be a little too difficult for some viewers (transvestite prostitute, drug usage) but for someone looking for a story that is not canned and predictable, and not like anything offered from Hollywood, then this film is for you.  The film does not ask you to accept everyone, it just depicts someone who does.  Enjoy. "},{"Title":"They need more films like this!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a very moving, touching film about a woman's life and the loss of her son.I could see why it was never a mainstream movie (too many sensitive subjects - prostitution, drug abuse, transvestite, homosexuality) but that is a lot of people's loss.Kind of sad in many ways but with enough sense of humor and intelligence to not making seeing this film a drag.I enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"stinky, sticky and dirty","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How could you rate this movie as a comedy? A Tragedy would be more descriptive. But, I suppose there is some sadistic humor in how humans laugh at themselves when suffering.  Life style as some form of art, could be the excuse.This film was disturbing to me.Prostitutes,Lesbians,Transvestites,aids sufferers might rate this movie higher on their list; it may have more relevance to them.The acting, particularly mother/son scenes at start were not convincing.5/10 "}{"Title":"you are all wrong. all of you.","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The fact that this movie has been so celebrated is a real problem for me. and no, i'm not an idiot who doesn't like subtitles or a homophobe or a fan of michael bay movies. i just hate when movies are so acclaimed for no good reason other than that the characters cry a lot. this was one of those movies where by virtue of having the most tear duct activity, it got a lot of people to like it. this is really, really a poor film it's not as well-acted as alamodavor's other stuff, and it's got the stupidest plotline this side of community theatre. i guess i can't begrudge you your enjoyment, but i can't stress enough how bad this movie is. it has everyone fooled, and it makes me sick. go see something good, like Miller's Crossing, or The Varrow Mission instead. "},{"Title":"One of Pedro's best","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All About My Mother is a sad, funny,touching film about characters most conservative or even liberal,straight or even gay might not sympathize with. The film elevates the mysticism of women to levels not treated since silent films. And even the men,few as they are in the film, are not degraded as in Boys Don't Cry.There were womderful connections to Tennessee Williams' Streetcar and Davis' All About Eve with a little Garcia Lorca as a kicker.More movies all about the human beings who need love!! Bravo Pedro. "},{"Title":"the 4th best film of 1999 (in my opinion)","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have yet to see BOYS DON'T CRY, but I was very much at awe by this film. From the irony of it all, and the cinematography especially. It's all such a celebration of women, even men who want to be women. I'm very curious to check out other Almodovar films but I've heard this is his most mature. Apparently there are a few very cynical reviews of it, and I think I'll hit the toilet in salute for those individuals. We could observe every single little crack in this film or we could celebrate it as something far more superior than Hollywood's attempts at melodrama. "},{"Title":"Forgive me but I hate it!","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't understand you people! Don't you see - it's a stupid and empty soap opera - nothing more. At times it starts to resemble a caricature - everyone's crying, everyone's dying, everyone's a drug-addict or HIV-positive. It's a nonsense! I mean - if you'll read screenplay (which i did) and will look at this story without all that tragic music you will find that it IS a subject for great parody on soap-operas. Really - it's very-very funny from start to finish, except one scene - the death of principal character's son (I must admit - it's the only scene in the movie where you may find the traces of genius). Look - where else could you see absolutely serious story with hero like this HIV-positive transvestite (!), adored by beautiful women (!). Almodovar in his prime (when he was one of the greatest European directors) never, i mean - NEVER EVER could tell you such story with such seriousness. NEVER! He would laugh at it! And he could make a great comedy on this subject, but... Where this deadly seriousness came from? One may say that Almodovar becomes mature, but i think he just lost his balls. In fact - Kika was his last true Almodovarian picture (if you receive my meaning). Carne Tremula was a disastrous attempt, proved that he has nothing to say. The only picture, where he could find a balance between seriousness and farce was La Flor de mi Secreto - a really sad and heartfelt picture, unexpected thing for Almodovar fans. And it's a very characteristic of our two-faced society that this weepy rubbish was so high-praised. When Almodovar did really great and really mad and really funny, politically incorrect pictures - he was a kind of outcast in cinema society. And at that time he didn't care about honors and prizes, he just wanted to make unusual and crazy pictures. And now - when he ultimately lost his talent - he becomes a hero of the year! Wow! Oscar, Cannes etc. etc. It's really awful. The King is dead - Long live the king.  "},{"Title":"Very bittersweet comedy.  See it","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is the second movie I have seen from Pedro Almodovar.  The first being Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown, which is utterly hilarious.  This movie is heavy on the bitter, but has some very funny parts in it.  The acting in this movie was very good,and realistic.  The scripting was out there, yet realistic.  The movie had some heartbreaking scenes, and some hilarious scenes.  I highly recommend it.9/10 "},{"Title":"You'll laugh, you'll cry and you'll love every minute","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautifully told story of humanity. The interactions of the characters speak much louder than the dialogue. For those that do not speak Spanish and read the sub-titles something will probably be lost and they will miss the full impact of the story. Each character brings something special to the action and before the final credits roll we feel we know each of them as a friend. There are moments of laugh out loud comedy and scenes where tears will come to your eyes no matter how hard you try to stifle them. This is not a sanitized, Hollywood look at life rather a look at what can happen to real people and better yet told by an incredible cast and directed by the incomparable Pedro Almodovar.  "},{"Title":"What an introduction","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am a lover of movies, but first and foremost I see them for the director. I rented this film last night, my first Aldomar film, and I cannot stop thinking about it.  The story is totally original, yet at the same time it is a mixture of many different influences, mainly All About Eve.  There is a lot of heartfelt feelings here for women, men who want to be women, lesbians, nuns, hiv-positive people, and actresses.  It sounds like a Jerry Springer episode, but it is a beautiful film.  I got teary-eyed at the confrontation between Manuela and the long lost Lola and also at the dedication!  And in a totally different vein, the actor playing the original Estoban was gorgeous!  Anyway, I will certainly seek out other works by this director. "},{"Title":"What a great film!!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rented All About My Mother last night (the first day on video) but I didn't get a chance to watch it. But when I did get to watch it, I was extremely glad I did. I've been waiting to see this movie for awhile, and I finally had a chance. Well deserving of the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, because it is a great film! Very well done acting, story, everything I can think of. This film is not to be missed and is an escape from the usual typical summer movies. Rent this one. You will not be disappointed "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  TODO SOBRE MI MADRE is a touching, warm, funny, sad and all through magnificent movie, without a doubt the best movie of the year (well i haven't seen AMERICAN BEAUTY yet, but i expect it to be a worthy opponent).From the start to the finish I was stunned. And even though this movie is all about women and she-males, doing teatre and the life of Manuela., it captured me.Manuela is a mid-age woman who lives with her teen-son, his father left his mother long before he was born, and he has got high hopes and dreams for the future, wanting to be a writor, when suddenly her entire life gets turned up side down, when her beloved son gets hit by a car, and dies. Now she is in the same position as before, only this time she is facing the hard times alone. But luckily things doesn't turn out that black. Her life goes on, and I think this movie truly proves that life goes on, no matter what.This was an obvious winner for best foreign language film at the Oscars this year, and I'm sorry I never saw it at the cinemas. I wish more films could be like this.9/10 "},{"Title":"Should of been best movie of the year","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this movie won best foreign flick, but I think it's better than what won best domestic movie of the year.  I don't even remember what won best (US) movie.  I know what you're probably thinking, I'm an IMDB user and don't know the movie that won the oscar?  That tells you what an impression it made on me.  I'll tell you what, I haven't forgotten AAMM  Sometimes, when you're not expecting it, it feels good to cry because something in a movie touches you.  In this movie, there's a couple scene right after another that do the trick.  It's a lovely feeling to cry and feel hope at the same time.  It's tears combined with despair that sucks. "}{"Title":"Should of been best movie of the year","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this movie won best foreign flick, but I think it's better than what won best domestic movie of the year.  I don't even remember what won best (US) movie.  I know what you're probably thinking, I'm an IMDB user and don't know the movie that won the oscar?  That tells you what an impression it made on me.  I'll tell you what, I haven't forgotten AAMM  Sometimes, when you're not expecting it, it feels good to cry because something in a movie touches you.  In this movie, there's a couple scene right after another that do the trick.  It's a lovely feeling to cry and feel hope at the same time.  It's tears combined with despair that sucks. "},{"Title":"High-Caloric Eye Candy","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oy vay ! High-strung, hysterical, and over-plotted soap opera you either sit back and submit to the emotional roller-coaster or you leave the theater; there is no in-between.I stayed and enjoyed myself because visually the film has enough sensual body to transcend its own operatic monkeyshines richly saturated with color and resplendent with forms, it offers up images that are often as empassioned as the drama a high-caloric eye candy. It's much too rare these days to find anyone making films with even the slightest cognizance of the fact that film is a plastic medium. Whatever else may be said of him, Almodovar at least has a deep, instinctive, highly imaginative sense of the connection between feelings and images for example, the pedestrian accident, the geography and architecture of Madrid and Barcelona, the choreography of whores and cars in the field, the illusion of the hospital floor level with the sea, and tunneling through time in a train tunnel.The hypercharged emotionalism, a Hispanic and homosexual double whammy, bears no relation to reality, in fact, insults it. Almodovar sexualizes emotions that have nothing to do with gender, inviting politically correct responses such as this one, from that bastion of PC mind-wash, the San Francisco Bay Guardian   All About My Mother is a meticulous examination of the roles women play, in grief, in love, and, literally, on stage. But such are the times we live in, where fallopian tubes and a uterus supposedly determine whether or not one can feel honestly and spontaneously. (Gender capitalistic consumer niches have been personalized ad nauseum.)Quite ironically it is the soulful, even masculine, grounding of the superb acting of Cecilia Roth that anchors this film, keeps it from whizzing up and away in its own excesses and camp. Just about everyone else in the cast also keeps a tight trim, which, I am sure, reflects some degree of directorial circumspection amidst all the frenzy.Intellectually the movie is cotton candy, all sugar and air. Leitmotivs referencing All About Eve and A Streetcar Named Desire frame the film. These references, less than profound, are like a sophomore's highlighting. (Almodovar pulled the same trick in Live Flesh by putting Bunuel's The Exterminating Angel on a TV in the background, only to have it backfire by contrasting its sterling high quality to his own cheesiness.)Would I see Almodovar's next film? Definitely. Why? Because he's fresh, fun, doesn't repeat himself, and, most importantly, he honors the medium he deals in; his films look like films. "},{"Title":"And it's funny, too","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay, it's a girl movie. Those girls may be born or made, but rarely do you find your screen full of so females--so many different, fairly unpredictable types of women. What I don't see in the other reviews is mention of the humour in this movie. Not side-splitting, but it's pivotal. For example, late in the film the main character, Marcella leaves town and returns immediately--the train going one way and then back in the opposite direction (with a voice-over telling us 2 years have lapsed.) The audience giggles en masse, because it's so silly, soap opera-like, and so in keeping with the rest of the story, which is full of tunnels. Very Freudian, those tunnels--always with bright lights and lively scenes of colour at tunnel's end, like most birth canals.You needn't go see this film to be moved, or anything too soul-searching--though it's a very human film, determined to treat every character as an individual. Go have a look just for the gentle humour of it, and the very strong vision of Almodóvar and his cinematographer(s).  "},{"Title":"one of best in years...","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie after reading so many good reviews about it. Well..let me tell you that's not enough to read the reviews, you MUST see IT!!! Not because it got the Oscar for the best foreign movie, but because you'll be amazed what an European director can do. Imagine a Fellini in our modern times and you'll be absolutely right! WARNING this is not a movie for all tastes...you might not like it. Actually I was very surprised that it got the Oscar, the American taste is not mine usually)9 points from 10!!!!  "},{"Title":"All about this film","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is one of Almodovar's best. It has a very strong storyline and strong characters.Manuela is a wonderfully strong character and is played exceptionally well by Cecilia Roth. A simply awe inspiring performance.Although some people would find some of the characters a little hard to understand and accept, but that's part of Almodovar's wonderful ways of filming people from all walks of life.If I had to rate this out of 10, I'd give in 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"the Spanish mother explained","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Writer - Director Pedro Almodovar has a reputation for original and mildly shocking portraits of, shall we say, non-mainstream Spanish sexuality, usually delivered with plenty of cinematographic flair and a fair amount of frivolity. Hence High Heels, Tie me Up, Tie me Down! Live Flesh etc. This film continues the tradition but in rather more serious vein. It touches on acting, transvestism, organ transplants (no, not that organ), senility, HIV, pregnancy, single motherhood, mother-daughter and mother-son relationships and a father-daughter non-relationship. The film is dedicated to all those great actresses who played actresses (Bette Davis for example in All About Eve). Inevitably as with Bette Davis they wind up playing or parodying themselves, though Marisa Paredes puts in a restrained performance here as the great Huma.The central character is Manuela, a nurse and former amateur actress from Barcelona working in an organ transplant unit in Madrid, who has a 17 year old son by a man who disappeared before her son was born. After her son is killed in an accident she goes back to Barcelona to find the father but instead gets involved with a leading actress and her young junkie girlfriend, a truck driver turned transvestite and a pregnant nun with HIV. Yet this is not a comic film. Odd people have problems that are no less real than anyone else's. Almodovar shows us the overwhelming grief of a mother for her son and the way we tolerate dreadful behaviour by our partners in the name of love. Barcelona is in so many scenes it might almost be a character and the whole thing is very prettily done, but not so as to detract from the film's central themes. Personally I find tranvestism (as opposed to transsexuality) difficult to understand - why does one need to dress up as a woman to get off as a man (as opposed to getting it off with a man)? The trannies here are the big brassy sort. In a fairly macho society as Spain apparently is, it seems that sex roles need to be clearly delineated and hence a feminine man needs high heels, big breasts and lots of make-up.Despite the implausible plot and strange characters this is a moving tale adroitly told and lusciously filmed. Almodovar does like to keep us entertained and the film is not a moment too long.  "},{"Title":"it is a great movie...don't miss it!","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The previous comments of viewers sum up very accurately this movie. I hope this movie gets the Oscar so more people will see it. Since many men (and women) are still afraid or nervous of transvestites and other gender differences, I found this film refreshing in its humanizing of people, hetero, homo, etc. etc. and it is a great movie in all areas (acting, music, editing). After watching Wonder Boys and Magnolia, what a relief to see a movie with heart and muscle.  "},{"Title":"As perfect a movie as Almodovar has yet made","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie four times, once in Madrid when it premiered there (saw the red carpet for the stars but missed the stars), once in Seville when I was passing through, once in Boston, to see it with English subtitles to learn the jokes I'd missed, and a fourth time in Washington.I loved it the first time, but at every succeeding viewing, I was more and more impressed with the sheer PERFECTION of it.Almodovar is a director whose growth as an artist and, dare I say, as a person as reflected in his art, I have followed avidly since seeing Women on the Verge more than ten years ago and seeing all his earlier movies on video except Pepi, Luci, Bom.  Perfection is not usually a word I associate with his films, for it is the films' imperfections, somehow so befitting those of the characters themselves, which have endeared me to this director.The imperfections also arise from the experimental, provisional character of much of his oeuvre -- every movie seems quite different from its predecessor and its successor, a world all of its own.  All About My Mother recalls -- and yet is unmistakably distinct from -- his effort two movies back, The Flower of My Secret and six movies back, Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown -- which two also happen to be my favorite of all his films.Almodovar's films fall into to two categories  those of (primarily) desolation and those of (ultimately) hope.  What all Almodovar films share, even such relatively dark ones as What Have I Done to Deserve This and Dark Habits, is the compassion their creator shows for his characters. People are shown taking often hilarious, often extreme, measures to restore meaning to their lives.  All About My Mother recovers reasons for living through the victory of sanity, tolerance, solidarity, and compassion itself.There is so much to recommend this movie.  The characters are compelling, the performances all strong.  My favourites are Agrado who provides with unforgettable comedy the reality check even when she is the one creating her own reality, and Huma, tormented yet so full of grace in every sense of the word, played by my most beloved of Almodovar's actresses, Marisa Paredes, but it would be unjust not to mention the mother Manuela (Cecilia Roth) and son Esteban (Eloy Azarin) whose interrupted dialogue binds the movie together, both interpreters of  exceptional deftness and power.As usual, the lush score and visual design help stylize and elevate the film into the fabular-poetic realm without leaving the earth, everyday life, and the contemporary world's problems.With All About My Mother, Almodovar has fulfilled the promise of Flower of My Secret -- to embark on a new more reflective art, structured not around fantastical melodramatics but around the more ordinary tribulations of the heart (there the estrangement of a husband and a wife, here the opening up of other kinds of distance between loved ones and lovers), but all still lightened and seasoned with his miraculous sense of comedy. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I heard about All About my Mother through a preview I saw before another film I saw. I never knew of the director's other films, but I decided to give it a try.I went in with very low expectations since I didn't know much about the movie besides that I saw in the preview. And I went out being VERY glad that I live near a movie theater that offers foreign films.The actresses were wonderful, each contributed to the wonderful plotline of the movie. I really liked Cecelia Roth, I hope I will have the opportunity to see her in other films.The plot line was great too. Most American directors/writers would not take the risk of having a movie just of a woman cast. As I read, some would think a movie with all women would end up being one of those Lifetime movie of the week Luckily, for most of us, it wasn't. It was a point, yet it made us laugh, cry and get angry on the way.I recommend All About My Mother to those who aren't into foreign films yet. The subtitles were pretty accurate and even without them, the great acting helped me understand the story anyway. "},{"Title":"hymn to mother","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spanish cinema excels.Almodovar masters the study about woman.A mother willing to make every sacrifice for her son.Willing to meet the transvestite father of her son.La Agrado,a transsexual that will give lots of laughter. Nina,her problem with AIDS and the distance from her mother. In the background of a theatrical play like 'A streetcar named desire'.Women trying to survive,get to know each other and give a happy meaning to life.A movie dedicated to every mother. "}{"Title":"What guys should know about women means ALMODOVAR.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spanish director Pedro Almodovar has (again) overcome with his last movie all femenine concepts that existed in cinema. Loyal to his personal style, Todo sobre mi madre takes the viewer into another world, not very common in celluloid. If you are not aware of Pedro Almodovar, means that you know nothing. So don't wait too long. Don't even wait until he receives by the Academy the gold statue for best foreign film (year 2000), because he might even get more than just one. How many Hollywood actress dream of being in a Pedro Almodovar film??? How many want to become Chica Almodovar? If you are a woman, don't you dare miss this movie. If you are a man, educate yourself and just listen to what this women have to say. And then you will become a better man. "},{"Title":"A film for anyone who loves women in all their permutations","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliant! Almodovar who has always kept me on the edge of my seat either with laughter, horror, sexual excitement, or wonder has done it all again. While Almodovar has always created one hell of a female character, in this film he goes even further by creating a cast-full!All about my mother is a definite change for him and not quite the romp many of his previous films are.  All of Almodovar's films deal with the complexity of desire and the myriad complications of life. This film is no exception, however, where his previous films have often satisfied themselves with pat endings and resolved ambiguities, All about my Mother does neither.By the end of the film, I was truly moved and heartbroken.  Almodovar once master of comic and the shocking is now master of the subtle as well. "},{"Title":"An arresting glimpse of Spain's sexual underworld.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All About My Mother is an exhilarating foray into modern Spain's underworld of prostitution and trans-sexual identity. (Even at the end of the film I wasn't sure of Abrego's gender.)  What we see is at times tragic, at times funny, at times sublime.  And the acting is absolutely first rate throughout.   "},{"Title":"He's outdone himself - Almodovar gets better and better at spinning his operatic tales melodramatic and down to earth more than ever","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  He's so good at it - telling stories that keeps evolving and re-encountering chance and fate, and women, he knows how to tell us all about women. Here he's expanded his repertoire of characters - he included transvestites. He is as irreverent as Bunuel about religion; his nun stories can be outrageous. Yet, he is respectful of the women characters he's depicting. Life is full of joy no matter how tragic it may seemingly turn out. His outlook is always on the brighter side of things. The interior sets are full of primary colors. The graphics surrounding the credit rolls are strong and in solid hues and values. It's shouting out Almodovar! He's meticulously serious in leaving out no details. Nothing is superficial but presented with thought. Dialogs are not sloppy - we're lucky to have adequate translation. He has good pacing and great timing - pacing is never a problem even at quiet moments, you can still feel the urgency. The tempo is ever effervescent.Cast is perfect. Lead by Cecilia Roth's central character Manuela, along with Marisa Paredes' stage queen Huma, Penelope Cruz's fragile yet strong young nun Rosa, Antonia San Juan's can't help being delightful Agrado, Rosa Maria Sarda's classic caring yet apprehensive mother of Rosa, and Candela Pena as Huma's bad influence Nina. Thrown into the mix are references to Bette Davis speaking in Spanish in All About Eve, Tennessee Williams' A Streetcar Named Desire in Spanish on stage, and various perspectives into women professions and camaraderie.His is always life affirming with hope, playfulness, laughter and heart - women definitely like his films. He dedicated this one to all actresses who are mothers, and all the mothers in the world, and of course, his mother. He has boldness, brass, and gusto. French veteran writer-director Eric Rohmer's women stories, which also revolve around Fate and Chance, are subtle, calm and poetic, while Almodovar's can very well be bursting into songs and jovial chorale. Seriously he makes fun of life events with such pleasure, unworried of embarrassment, yet sensitivity is integral and never lacking. He is a master soap opera weaver and he delivers it with such aplomb that you cannot but cheer along with him and care, cry, and laugh with his characters. 1988 Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown, 1997 Live Flesh, and now All About My Mother clearly demonstrate only Almodovar can come up and deliver such evolving entanglements and unwind it all. If you like movies at all, this one's for you from Pedro Almodovar.  "},{"Title":"Transvestites, Nurturing, and Lots In Between","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this to be an enjoyable and interesting film.  It got me thinking about transvestites and nurturing and a lot of stuff in between.  The cinematography and music were excellent.  Most of the characters were well intentioned, though many were reckless or vice ridden.  However, the heroine was above that and provided inspiration. "},{"Title":"A superb movie that makes you feel satisfied when you leave the theater.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has all the genre of drama, comedy, and sexuality rolled into one superb demonstration. Although some of the plot can be predicted, the high level of direction, photography, and music keep you intrigued to the very end. This can also be said for the acting produced by every role from small to large. To this moment, I still do not know if the transvestites are played by actors or actresses, but it really does not matter.The language is definitely in the R rated category but done in a hilarious fashion. Please no not destroy the image by having it dubbed in English.I would recommend this movie to anyone over the age of 17, if they can tolerate a few X words. "},{"Title":"Highly Overrated.","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have through the years never really appreciated Almodóvar. When 'Todo Sobre mi Madre' received such huge responses I hoped he had overdone himself. When I went to see this piece, I did so with quite great expectations. But, oh, how I was disappointed. I did enjoy the movie, I did laugh numerous of times. I did not, however, consider this a larger movie than a couple of good laughs. The story was very profound, every actress either had or did live through some huge sadness, so to speak. The fundamental plot of this movie was very demanding, it must thus be very realistic and justifiable according to human behaviour, when thrown in such emotional crisis. Whereas I found this sadness, this depression, this wandering state the most relevant, the most fundamental object to depict I was really, truly disappointed, even quite upset. There was but one scene where a character actually cried, however, she nearly had the chance to even begin until Almodovar threw us into the next scene. In such emotional state we reveal ourselves, our true selves, only when we are alone. We do not act according to our emotions when looked upon, especially not in such a position. How many times, how long was a character alone? Hardly ever, and if so, for an absurd short moment. What this movie gave me what nothing but laughs, beyond that, nothing of positive or poetic, artistic value what so ever. Almodovar himself is, indeed, glad that the European filmmakers differ from the Hollywood stationed, however, this movie had every awful parallel to simple Hollywood productions trying to explore metaphysics. It's an easy, awful attempt to depict grief and sadness, it's more of an insult to the two states rather than an exploration of them, probably why it became so popular as well. Todo sobre mi madre surely, by its plot, demand great vision, great talent, however, Almodovar proved to lack both. "},{"Title":"Almodovar at his best!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The latest effort by Spanish director Pedro Almodovar is definitely one of his best.The screenplay, both funny and dramatic, is intelligent and well structured, and never loses its spin.The whole cast, dominated by women, deserves the highest honors.The soundtrack beautifully underlines every aspect of the movie, never imposing itself and always matching the atmosphere of the moment.Cinematography and costumes are, as usual in Almodovar's movies, warm and joyful, and Mr. Almodovar adds his special touch to the whole scenery with his simple but effective directing style.This is definitely a not-to-miss movie.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Watch this movie was one of the most amazing things in the world. I hated though that just by my side I had someone that gets tired of watch movies, and that doesn't leave you alone!!Giving a 10 out of 10 maybe is a little too much (there is nothing perfect,and a 10 means perfect, but All about my mother (todo sobre mi madre) is close to that) but everything is for the help to Almodóvar get the Oscar for the foreign film 99. This film is amazing, and wonderful. The views of Barcelona are beautiful, and very nice from Almodóvar to make a movie to this wonderful city.Cecilia Roth is playing an extraordinary woman (the world would be much better if everyone would be like Manuela). The film was played by Marisa Paredes, Antonia San Juan and the beautiful Penélope Cruz, in a delicious way. The are Oscar worth (is sad that is a spanish movie for this).Well, the screenplay is a masterpiece, mixes drama, love, doubt, humor, sensibility and human feelings in a coctel that in front of your eyes it transformes to a delicious work that almost everyone can enjoy it.When my dad saw it said that this movie should be one obligatory film to watch! For the themes that treats. Well, for ending. YOU SHOULD, YOU MUST WATCH THIS MOVIE. YOU'LL LIKE IT! "},{"Title":"almodovar learns to write?","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  after years of over-the-top farce, almodovar suddenly decides to direct a movie with a comprehensible plotline and subtle direction.  quite a surprise after the wretched incomprehensibility that was kika.leaving his usual madrid setting for barcelona, almodovar revisits his usual subjects  pregnant nuns, transvestites, and the more troubled denizens of society's underbelly.  the story he spins is moving and compassionate -- a chick flick at heart.  but that isn't a bad thing, especially when most of the chicks carry ...other... equipment.now, perhaps almodovar will figure out that storytelling doesn't necessarily mean you have to foreshadow EVERYTHING....  the one big problem i had with this is that the entire plot is revealed in the first fifteen minutes. but it was fun watching it unravel.(note  this was also one of the best translations i've seen yet.  the subtitles were actually accurate most of the time.) "}{"Title":"One from the heart","Date":"30 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodovar lost me somewhere around TIE ME UP! TIE ME DOWN! His descent into melodrama struck me as more telenovela than Douglas Sirk; and ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER, acclaimed around the world as his masterpiece, seems to make itself up as it goes along--not in a free-booted way, in a half-assed way. But Almodovar's heart is so clearly in every frame of this tribute to maternality real and fictional that it's impossible to come away unmoved. Cecilia Roth plays the mother--an amalgam of Eve Harrington, Stella Kowalski, and a few Gena Rowlands roles--who seems fated to outlive her real and invented children. Almodovar often here seems to be working with scotch tape and rubber cement, but Roth's luminousness, and the almost surgical power of Alfredo Iglesias' score, produce a crashing-tide surfeit of emotion that makes quibbling seem petty. I can't think of another queer director in mainstream movies who made such an unabashed and personal work of tribute to femininity in all its guises--biological, pretend, unconscious. It's Almodovar's naked sincerity that makes the movie work. "},{"Title":"A colourful party!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I gave this movie 9 out of 10... In some ways this film is very original 1. The special use of colours, very powerful when Manuela moves from her colourful apartment in Madrid to the brown, new apartment in Barcelona! 2. The filming, especially the photos of Madrid seen high above the city. 3. Everybody has a dream of being different, this movie showed us this in a beautiful way. A nun is more than a nun - a transvestite is more than a transvestite! The only real is our dreams, if we don't try to reach them, we'll be faking! "},{"Title":"The Three Estebans","Date":"23 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almovodar's films don't fit neatly into nice square pegs. They take what is unconventional and bizarre and try to make it commonplace.  Films like Tie Me Up and Tie Me Down and now All About My Mother are equally adventuresome and frustrating to see because they have that quality of 'you had to have been there' as well as the feeling that something got lost in the translation.  For example, why is there the fascination for Bette Davis, her chain smoking, All About Eve,  the abusive relationship of Stella and Blanche in 'Streetcar Named Desire', and the transforming beauty of men turned into women?  In All About My Mother, a single mother blocks out the memory of her husband from her only son because the circumstances leading to their separation are too painful to discuss.  As coordinator for a Madrid organ transplant center, the film's central character, Manuela,  role plays the survivor of a donor victim for a training program only to reenact the real tragedy later.  Indeed, such revulsion is a recurring theme, from 'Music for Chamelons' by Truman Capote in which the writer and his craft are portrayed in an almost sadomasochistic way, to the manner in which Manuela stalks and confronts the actress Huma about why her son died, to the well-refined mother of a nun who learns her daughter was both impregnated and infected by an HIV positive transvestite, to finally the infant boy and a dead seventeen year old son sired by the same man.  Yet even with barriers to understanding the dialogue and nuances of All About My Mother, the one message that is unmistakably clear about Almovodar's characterizations is their basic humanity - their frailties as well as their strengths and their determination to survive.  La Cage Aux Folles succeeded in making unconventional lives real and meaningful and All About My Mother does so just as well.   "},{"Title":"Almodovar's BEST film about women!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One thing that seems to be consistent in Almodovar films is his fixation on women who have gone/are going through earth shattering experiences.  Even in his most male dominated films (Law of Desire) there was still plenty of screen time devoted to a woman on the edge.  All About My Mother is certainly no exception, but without question, this one is the most compelling.Cecilia Roth plays Manuela.  She's a single mom with a teenage boy, making ends meet.  One night her son is hit by a car.  His death destroys her.Manuela returns to her past in Barcelona, hooking up with old friends and making some new ones.  She reconnects with a transsexual, hooks up with an actress (currently starring as Blanche Dubois in A Streetcar Named Desire) and takes care of a pregnant nun who also happens to be dying of AIDS.  This assortment of people are not there to help her put her sons death behind her, but rather to help her come to terms with her past.Almodovar puts together an odd assortment of tragic figures that are at once arresting, and always symbolic.  Antonia San Juan as La Agrado, the transexual prostitute is typically loud and sassy.  Despite her own obvious issues she is the strong one of the group.  She becomes the matriarch, stepping in when the chips are down for everyone else.Huma (played by Marisa Paredes) is an aging actress who's own daughter is a drug addict.  Playing opposite her daughter in A Streetcar Named Desire, she seems like she has it all together, but she needs Manuela, and later Agrado, to take care of her.  Finally, Penelope Cruz plays Hermana Rosa, a mousy nun.  Pregnant and dying of AIDS, she seems like the last thing Manuela needs, but her pain is what becomes necessary for Manuela to become stronger.  All About My Mother is a tearjerker about unlikely people finding solace in each other.  True to Almodavar's past work, the storyline is not predictable. Situations and scenes just seem to happen and they don't always have to have a specific or meaningful reason behind them. All About My Mother is the years best and most talked about foreign film, without a doubt, and by my estimation, far better than that Life Is Beautiful trash that was thrust upon us last year.  "},{"Title":"Trivia","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you've seen La flor de mi secreto you'll recognize the first scene; two doctors trying to convince a mother who's just lost her son to donate his organs. It turns out that it's a roll play. The doctors are only practising how to act in a situation like that. After the scene the doctors talk casually to the nurse who's acted as the mother. Her real name is Manuela, she's got a son and she used to do some acting in the past. So although she had a really small part in La flor de mi secreto Todo sobre mi madre is her story. "},{"Title":"Pedro strikes again, but not his best one.","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I admit, I'm a fan. Surprisingly though, I didn't put a 10. It was possibly the quite predictable flow of events, although characteristically absurd. To not be misunderstood, it is a very good movie and I strongly suggest it, I just didn't find the magic touch of Mujeres al borde de un ataque de nervios. The atmosphere and the character development are far better than the plot. Pedro Almodovar is a master at handling the women characters, and Cecilia Roth really delivers. Not the defining masterpiece, but surely at Almodovar standards. "},{"Title":"A reminder of the power of cinema","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Todo sobre mi madre is an amazing work of art. I cannot add anything further to the comments already posted except to remark that if AMPAS doesn't honor this film with at least a few nominations (director, actress, supporting actress etc.), then it will be official AMPAS is an idiotic organization which deserves to be ignored. "},{"Title":"After an appalling early nineties, Almodovar has become one of the greatest directors in the world.  How?  Wow.","Date":"8 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodovar's masterpiece.  After lumpy early nineties, and the generic renewal of LIVE FLESH, Almodovar gives us a plot that could have come from any of his films of the 80s 'wacky' characters from the marginals; farcical plot; wild shifts of tone.  Difference - Almodovar has become a great filmmaker.  Where interest used to lie in incident, set design, and dialogue alone, he has learned to use camera to elucidate character, in addition to his old, gorgeous mastery of colour and decor.  As melodramatic as his 50s heroes (Sirk et al), ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER lurches from hilarious comedy to wrenching tragedy in a frame its thematics include legacy (family, art, Spain etc.), tradition and performance.  Cecilia Roth is one of the great actresses. "},{"Title":"Simply fantastic","Date":"23 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film possibly represents Almodovar at his best,maybe only Women at the.... can be compared to this one.Intelligent,colourful,emotional,strong but tender.In a way unreal but dealing with so nowadays common problems.I enjoyed every second of it.For all Almodovar lovers it will be unforgettable experience,and for those who don't seem to like him,it would not change their opinion,because after all this is UN FILM DE ALMODOVAR "},{"Title":"very good, but..","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie very much. The story, the actresses, the funny parts - all wonderful, but for me there is too much sadness in this movie, too many people sitting in the cinema crying, too many sad faces leaving the cinema.  "}{"Title":"All about whom? Perhaps all about women?","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodovar delivered a masterpiece. But without his actresses he might have delivered a boring as usual movie. The emotion of the actresses was genuine and their delights as well. Manuela going to Barcelona looking for the father of her dead son. When she arrives in Barcelona she gets in touch with old connections but will not find the father immediately. But she finds other women instead and the relationship between all these women is the story of the movie. This story is not only the tragic and sad story of a mother who lost her only son but it is also funny and optimistic. However, Manuela will not stop to mourn for her son but all these women will lead her to a new life. This is a movie about women and it is clearly dominated by women. Strange enough it does not show such a thing as strong hate against men. As a message you might state that men are not really important for the life of a woman. Important might be what she can achieve, what she can create, what she can share.Thus it is a movie which can also give everybody watching it something to lead us through our lives.  "},{"Title":"Colourful Tears well spent","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If there's too much crying going on in movies you start to get suspicious. But in this film all the other things taking place divert you excellently from the melodrama and leave you with a feeling of having truly learned something.  About life?  About women?  Very worthwhile!! "},{"Title":"Gracias, Pedro!","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies I've seen in the latest months! It makes you laugh, think and even cry. Wonderful performances of all the actresses (but Cecilia Roth was one step ahead the others) and great sensibility of the director. Thanx so much, Pedro, and go on like this! "},{"Title":"One of the best ever","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I couldn't help adding my immense appreciation of this movie. Let's just say it's the best Almodòvar movie (and I loved some of the previous ones), the best I've seen in recent years and...I could go on like this to the point of saying that I feel this is the movie of my life. Really great performances by Cecilia Roth, Marisa Paredes, Antonia San Juan, Penelope Cruz, each and every actor/actress. Astounding cinematography and musical score, you really feel like going and see it again. It's about women, mothers, acting, writing, it's about LIFE. The man is a genius. There are lots of memorable scenes that linger with you after the credits are gone. I was prepared to see something special but this is almost unbearably beautiful.  Warm, funny, melodramatic and sober at the same time. Unforgettable. Or at least I hope not to ever forget it. It may move you to tears more than once, true, but I also state that, when something like this can be conceived by a human being, life is really worth living. Oh my. Thank you, Pedro Almodòvar. "},{"Title":"Almodovar's acid humour rides again!","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodovar's acid humour rides again! Psycho revisited now the father is a woman! An almost surrealistic view of the traditional spanish family. A complete subversion in  roles and genres.  Beautiful images by brazilian cinematographer Affonso Beato. Unforgettable. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and deep","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Almodovar has really matured. 'Women on the Verge' was a lot of fun, but ultimately fairly superficial. In recent years, he seems to have started to turn his back on kinky sex and excessive behaviour, and probe the human psyche with a lot more depth and subtlety. This tender film is the latest stage in this ascending path, and very welcome it is, too.Cecilia Roth's performance is utterly convincing - profound, varied, humane. The other characters are strongly drawn, too. The photography is excellent, and even the tricksy shots aren't too distracting. The narrative is not without surprises (the tragic event early in the film is called to mind constantly without ever becoming maudlin). It's a little slow in places, and there are moments of unintentional humour, but overall this represents the best work of this director that I have seen. "},{"Title":"It is not only a good film","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It is also a proof that when the story is good enough you can put incredible characters, like HIV-positive, pregnant Catholic nuns, and make them so credible that you end up crying your eyes silly from the sorrow, while laughing at a transvestite's nihilist performance. And after all, and despite the surrealistic turns of the movie, you end up with a basic story about normal people and the feelings that put us all in the same plane love, loss, friendship, loyalty... Don't miss it, it's a marvellous one. "},{"Title":"I'm impressed too much, but....","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Today I saw the film.I don't know how can I explain my emotion about this film yet.Anyway I was impressed very much the affect for the women of the Almodvar. But there was one thing that i didn't like. Who can tell me, how Manuela could keep the ordinary life with Rosa without any job?  "},{"Title":"Almodovar successful melodrama with his ordinary rare characters , twisted situations and eccentric events","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Offbeat drama about an occupied single mother called Manuela (Cecilia Roth) becomes involved with family problems . Young Esteban (Eloy Azorin) want to become a writer and also to discover the identity of his father, carefully concealed by his beloved mother . Later on , there occurs a tragedy , then Manuela leaves Madrid for Barcelona , there hooks up old and new friends and ,just may be , contacts the long estranged father (Tony Canto) the boy never knew and her son's favourite stage diva (Marisa Paredes) . As Manuela gradually regains the will to live through her involvements with the lives with others such as a transvestite (Antonia San Juan) and a pregnant nun (Penelope Cruz) . Part of every woman is a mother/actress/saint/sinner and part of every man is a woman.Agreeable film full of feeling , outlandish characters , haunting mood-pieces , Spanish Neo-realism , and sense of style but not totally satisfactory , including conventional pitfalls , profanities and a lot of sexual references . The picture deals with off-the-wall as well as semi-ironic melodrama , familiar absurdities, dysfunctional roles and many other things ; featuring a feminist heroine of classical proportions . The picture is pretty well but turns out to be inferior to Almodovar's subsequent entries such as ¨The skin I live in¨, ¨Volver¨ , ¨The bad education¨ or ¨Talk to her¨. The result is undiluted scabrous drama , crazy strings of plots , sharp images , plenty of sexual dialogs in constant references to blow-jobs and perverted sex . Filmmaker piles up on the contrivances , turns and twisted events so that the picture to have success . It's a piquant look at lower-middle classes involving strange and complicated situations during its half an hour runtime . Pedro Almodóvar dedicated his movie to Bette Davis, Gena Rowlands and Romy Schneider . And being influenced by American films such as ¨All about Eva¨, ¨A streetcar named desire¨ and by director Douglas Sirk . Nice interpretations by all cast , as Cecilia Roth as a hard-working single mummy , Penelope Cruz as a young nun bound for El Salvador, but instead finds out she is pregnant and Antonia San Juan as likable transvestite , she splendidly plays a monologue based on a real life event as when the electronic system of an theater failed, the director suspended the show , then an actress decided to give the news to the audience and make them an offer if they'd stay, they could listen to the narration of her life . Furthermore , a notorious support cast such as Marisa Paredes , Rosa Maria Sarda , Fernando Fernan Gomez , Candela Peña ,Manuel Lozano , Juan Jose Otegui and other delightfully played roles . As usual in most of Pedro Almodóvar's movies, there is a small role for Agustín Almodóvar, his brother and producer of the film, who plays a cab man . Sensitive musical score by Alberto Iglesias , Almodovar's ordinary ; including some marvelous songs . Colorful and luxurious cinematography by Alfonso Beato . The motion picture was realized in his peculiar style by Pedro Almodovar ; he often uses symbolism and metaphorical techniques to portray circular story lines though here he directs a special melodrama , including his ordinary touches . Almodovar directs throughout with splendid zip and he usually portrays strong female characters and transsexuals and along his career getting some important international prizes . His first feature film, Pepi, Luci, Bom (1980), was made in 16 mm and blown-up to 35 mm for public release . In 1987, he and his brother Agustín Almodóvar established their own production company  El Deseo, S. A. The Almodóvar phenomenon has reached all over the world , making his films very popular in many countries . Oscar-winning Spanish director Pedro Almodovar who made successes such as Labyrinth of passions , Law of desire , Women on the verge of a nervous breakdown , Bad education , All about my mother , Talk to her , Broken embraces , The Skin I Live In and many others . The latest from acclaimed Spanish director , Pedro Almodovar's I'm So Excited (Los Amantes Pasajeros) competing for the inaugural best European comedy honor during the upcoming 26th edition of the European Film Awards . "},{"Title":"Unlikely and totally convincing femidrama","Date":"29 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well, it's no less likely than the next extraordinary familial saga, I suppose. Almodóvar's greatest assets are the directness of his story- telling and his cast. His style is economical, no-nonsense narration, bright (Iberian) colours and honesty. No doubt he demands this of his cast as well, who clearly trust him and deliver fine performances assured that their melodramatics will be faithfully translated onto the cinema screen.The brisk pace that Almodóvar sets means that there's plenty of room for subplots and subsidiary characters. It also means that his films, for all their domesticity and suburban design, accumulate a gravitas that one might otherwise associate with the aspirations of consciously epic films. So here we are casually introduced to Penélope Cruz, who looks rather like another part of the ensemble but has a melodramatic trajectory all of her own. Cruz is good, it must be said, although the film is owned by Cecilia Roth's Manuela. I was also deeply grateful for the composure of Marisa Paredes as Huma, a still centre inamongst the hyperactivity of the (entirely amiable) Spanish cast. Affecting 8/10 "}{"Title":"GARBAGE","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must say, cheesy acting, sad script, x-rated language that was just not necessary, trite and cliche interpretations in script, costuming and general staging. Someone said this was good?hmmmm.....if you think porn is artistic, I guess so.  I understand that Spain is not exactly a major competitor in the film industry, but Penelope Cruz? in 1999? What was she thinking? Did someone tell her this would add credibility to her resume? Worst of all...BRAVO obviously did not screen this movie before running it on basic cable late afternoon. While children are not the innocents that we sometimes wish they were, I don't feel that subtitles such as do you want me to give you a b__w job and suck my c__k are appropriate for 6 p.m. on general cable. Really bad movie!  "},{"Title":"The Best Spanish Movie Ever!","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is definitely the best spanish movie ever made.  I really didn't mean to watch it, it was on cable one night and i had insomnia, so I decided to watch it, and by God, I'm so glad I did!It is excellent, the story is so twisted, yet real, the characters are portrayed with perfection by the actors (especially Cecilia Roth, Toni Canto and Marissa Paredes) and the direction is just incredible.The story is about a mother in search for the father of Esteban her son who died in an accident.  Most of the story develops from that point, she meets her old friend, Agrado, and eventually she will be introduced to Huma Rojo, a theater actress, and her co-star Nina Cruz, and of course, to Sister Rosa, portrayed by Penelope Cruz.Anyways this movie made me cry more than once, it is so touching, and sometimes it's even funny! the one who is in charge of the humor in the movie is Agrado. I give this movie a 10/10, Felicitaciones Almodovar y España! "},{"Title":"Not good","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I love Julio Medem's films and this was my first Almodovar. I did not understand it. For me it was just stupid. The story did not catch me, did not force be to be interested in. All the exaggerated situations remind me of Garp (John Irving - The world according to Garp). But I am happy that I saw it and I am goung to see Habla con ella. The last chance for Pedro Almodovar. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Ever!","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This has to be the best film ever. I have seen it over 100 times and every time I watch it's like it would be the first time. This film is so funny and also very sad, you must see this film and then you will know what I am talking about. A+ 10/10 "},{"Title":"Almodovar affectionately salutes the female spirit and alternative families in All About My Mother.","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is perhaps the last masterpiece of the century. A mother (Cecilia Roth) sees her son (Eloy Azorin) killed in a car accident and heads for Barcelona to break the news to the boys's father, a transsexual prostitute.The film is an emotional Spanish drama that includes a re-working of the Bette Davis classic All About Eve (1950), and refers constantly to Hollywood's 'women's films' of the 1940s and 1950s so beloved of director Pedro Almodovar. It's a melodrama, certainly, but utterly true to itself and its cast of extravagant characters. The final confirmation that Almodovar has matured into a world-class director with a humane, mature world view - and a sense of his own place on film history, both as a disciple and as a new master. "},{"Title":"What was That all about?","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Next time you overhear a pub conversation about lesbians, transsexuals, and pregnant nuns don't assume the worse.  Rather than Tories bemoaning the excesses of their local council, this could be your neighbourhood Almodovar discussion group.  So give them a wide berth.Unless of course you are lesbian or transsexual.  (However if you are a pregnant nun, you too should still steer clear.  They will only laugh.)Mothers are also apparently welcome, but I'm afraid All About My Mother, despite its obvious craft, failed to move me as much as I'm sure it intended.Ron  "},{"Title":"Follow your heart","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Todo sobre mi madre / All about my mother starts very well with an introduction of Manuela Coleman (refers to La flor de mi secreto, another Almodóvar-movie) and her son Esteban. Esteban documents his mother's life as a writer, hence the title of the movie. When pursuing an autograph of stage actress Huma Esteban dies (the car accident well executed by the way). His heart is transplanted to another person, his mother as a hospital worker is able to track that person down. After following her son's heart to La Coruña she follows her own heart back to Barcelona, where her personal history really lies with a background as prostitute. She meets Agrado, a former co-worker, and Sister Rosa. She frequently visits the play A Streetcar named Desire and finally meets Huma and drug-addicted Nina back-stage. After the principal story is set out, many interactions and twists will of course follow.Pedro Almodóvar makes clever use of several devices to lift this out of the ordinary Actors in the play being replaced by other actors in the movie. He uses red (and black) to signify that lives and burdens are passed on from one character to the other. The story frequently shifts focus to keep us interested. The performance of A Streetcar Named Desire and references to All About Eve (among others) all meant as play-in-the-play and to comment the story as a meta-story. The play reflects real life, but is also an abstraction of it. The story takes place mainly in Barcelona, synonymous for modernity.From the strong beginning onwards Almodóvar is however unable to maintain the high level he started with. It is just not well-structured enough when seen as a whole and therefore the quality is uneven. It all ends a bit like superior melodrama on soap level, and he can do much better than that.But Almodóvar has great visual talent The way the opening credits roll for example, but also Manuela leaving and returning Barcelona by train in a short shot of two trains. From this he went on to explore all positives mentioned here to make the far superior Hable con ella / Talk to Her and La mala educación / Bad Education, both better structured and more visually imaginative. "},{"Title":"Spanish Cinema Classic","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is a Spanish film that was written and directed by Pedro Almodóvar.It stars Cecilia Roth,Marisa Paredes,Antonia San Juan, Penélope Cruz and Candela Peña.The movie deals primarily with femininity together with complex issues like complex issues such as AIDS, transvestitism, faith, and existentialism.All About My Mother is story of a woman and her circle of friends who find themselves suffering a variety of emotional crises. Manuela is a single mother who has raised her son, Esteban, to adulthood on her own and has come to emotionally depend on him. One night, Manuela and Esteban take in a production of A Streetcar Named Desire; after the show, Esteban is struck and killed by a passing motorist as he dashes into the street to get an autograph from Huma Rojo, who played Blanche. Emotionally devastated, Manuela relocates to Barcelona in hopes of finding her ex-husband, who is now working as a female impersonator. Manuela becomes reacquainted with old friend La Agrado, a transsexual, and is introduced to Sister Rosa, a good-hearted nun who has to contend with her considerably more cynical mother. While looking for work, Manuela becomes acquainted with Huma Rojo. Huma, on the other hand, has troubles of her own, most involving her drug-addicted significant other, Nina. All About My Mother displays Almodóvar's trademark visual style and a unusually strong sense of character-driven drama that mixes with themes and characters from Streetcar Named Desire And All About Eve.It was a wonderful and poignant story of love, loss and compassion centered on women.Also,it was also a intelligent sensibility with wicked sense of humor.The acting was also brilliant of all the cast involved.And most of all,the direction of Almodóvar makes this film a masterpiece Spanish cinema classic. "},{"Title":"Eloquently Written Drama","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Great monologues and plot line, this movie is an eloquently written drama, that centers around a mother grieving the death of her son, whose last wish was to meet his father. She then searches for her son's father, who parting was based on his status as a cheating gay drag queen.Along her path of mourning and renewal she meets several interesting people. She acts maternally towards them.Even though this movie is in Spanish, everything translates through and through the acting, writing, and filming. This is not a movie to watch if you want an upper. It's emotionally draining film. So, if you feel intellectual or something life changing, I recommend this movie!This is a case where a film actually evolve to artwork... "},{"Title":"Interesting, colorful and imaginative storytelling","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Almodovar's films come across as soap operas. In his case, they are usually very well written, directed and believable soap operas. There's a lot of insight shown about the female mind and female-female relationships, in All About My Mother. Colorful here, refers to three things the warm colors of the art direction, photography and the colorful characters of the story. Volver (2006) was my first Almodovar film and it made an impression upon me. All About My Mother approaches the storytelling excellence of Volver.In a way, Almodovar style and insight is very similar to Joseph L. Mankiewicz, part of whose famous awarded film All About Eve, is used in this film. There's also references to stage acting and the famous play A Streetcar Named Desire. There is also inspiration taken from the title of All About Eve itself.What's best about the film is it's about human relationships and done with honesty and sensitivity. "}{"Title":"All About (Damaged) People","Date":"30 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother is one of those landmark films they could leave in a time capsule on the Moon, for life out there to find; on DVD, that would epitomise the 'state' and range of human relationships on Earth at the end of the 2nd Millennium. Maybe not a very flattering one, nor representative as typical. However, if it's a human condition and an affection, whether lustful or emotional (or both) All About's got the lot. That it covers them all, without them cluttering not only the entire script, but us, also, is a major achievement. Somehow they work alongside each other, fitting in, often awkwardly - and for once, the lovely Penelope Cruz is the relatively plain and 'normal' one - and a modern day nun at that!Playing around the two film's (All About Eve & A Streetcar Named Desire) themes is a way of keeping some semblance of continuity, ones that viewers might first be drawn to and then to expand from. Having re-watched All About Eve again recently, I was pre-armed to see how it might all fit in.It would be knee-jerk reactionary to say something like Everybody should see this and Everybody would be more tolerant, if they watched this, however much one feels the need to do so. Somehow, it is a private gem that however much we think others are tolerant and open- minded, our parents - for example - would simply either be just too shocked or bogged down almost immediately as to who-was-doing-what-and-to-who.One of those colourful vignettes of modern, societal Spain, as individual as Gaudi himself. Impeccably cast, directed and acted but an unusual set of ingredients do make up an interesting, but at times, challenging dish. "},{"Title":"My favorite Almodovar film","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My favorite Almodovar film to this date. He finally combines the best of his older, absurdist films, with his new found maturity and real emotion that began to emerge in 'Flower of My Secret' and 'Live Flesh'. A woman's son dies, while trying to get an autograph from a great actress, leaving his mother bereft, and trying to start a new life. I won't give away any details, but her journey is both funny and tragic, and leads to some terrifically unexpected and sometimes ironic places. Full of odd and wonderful characters, and some very strong acting. A bit cute or 'forced' in a few moments, but overall a moving, special and wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Interesting but not for me.","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I do appreciate that Pedro Almodóvar appreciates the dramatic power of women and this focus is entirely welcome, but I find myself too disturbed by his style and unable to relate to the material. But otherwise, he gets wonderful performances from the female cast, especially Cecilia Roth, who plays the key character in the film. Featuring many parallels to mothers and their responsibilities, I found individual events fascinating; however it was also terribly disjointed therefore I never felt truly involved (despite Almodóvar's visual approach). The use of colour was wonderful. The plot is after Manuela's (Cecilia Roth) son dies in a car accident, she confides herself to her past friends for comfort (in which she discovers what they've been doing). With new responsibilities she tries to be a perfect mother and right her wrongs.7/10 "},{"Title":"Women will do anything to avoid being alone.","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Cecilia Roth (Manuela) gives an absolutely stirring performance as a mother who lost the pride of her life and went on a search for his father, who is now a transvestite in Barcelona.Pedro Almodovar's homage to women won the Academy Award for best foreign language film. It shows solidarity of women and the honor of nurturing of others.Antonia San Juan was a riot as Algrado.Penolope Cruz gave a bravura performance as a pregnant nun with AIDS, who calls upon Manuela for help. After she dies, Manuela takes her boy, names him Esteban after her son, and decides to raise him as her own.As with other films, Almodovar manages to give a dig at the fascists. I also find it interesting when he puts in references to other movies.Fantastic acting, great writing and and that Almodovar magic. "},{"Title":"All About My Mother","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was not a film that I chose to watch myself, I made myself watch it as it could have been part of my Film Studies exam, as part of the New Wave study. I did however recognise the poster from seeing it in HMV, and seeing this foreign film from Spanish director Pedro Almodóvar, studying aside, it is a good film. Basically Manuela (Cecilia Roth), mother of Esteban (Eloy Azorín) is travelling from Madrid to Barcelona to tell the son's father the news of Esteban's death (hit by car trying to get actress's autograph). There she becomes friends with his connections, including transvestite prostitute Agrado (Antonia San Juan), actress Huma Rojo (Marisa Paredes), co-actress Nina (Candela Peña) and nun Sister María Rosa Sanz (Captain Corelli's Penélope Cruz). The film is not just about Manuela or her connection to the play A Streetcar Named Desire, but the other character stories. Including Agrado's prostitution acts and self confidence (she even talks about her surgery and costs on stage in front of an audience), and Sister Rosa who is pregnant with the father, Lola's (Toni Cantó) baby, and HIV positive. A very moving Spanish film with some good use of camera-work and cinematography. It won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, it won the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language and the David Lean Award for Direction, and it was nominated for Best Original Screenplay, it won the Cannes Film Festival Awarx for Best Director, the Prize of the Ecumenical Jury, and Almodóvar was nominated the Golden Palm, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film. Very good! "},{"Title":"I was quite surprised when my host mother in Spain told me that she wasn't too fond of this movie.","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" No doubt any movie buff knows that Pedro Almodovar is probably the prime figure in Spanish cinema. And Todo sobre mi madre (called All About My Mother in English) affirms that. This story of a young man searching for his father - whose identity was hidden by his mother - is interesting, but never degenerating into just being audience-pleasing; artistic, but never too metaphysical or anything. Almodovar has since added to this good resume with Bad Education.All in all, every Almodovar movie that I've seen, I've liked. I was surprised when I stayed with a family in Toledo, Spain, in May-June, 2001, and the mother told me that she wasn't too fond of this movie. But, to each his/her own. I liked the movie, and I certainly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Difficult on a small screen","Date":"29 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Perhaps because I saw this film on DVD and was unable to read many of the subtitles as they flew past, I had some difficulty following the story -- especially figuring out which of the trans-sexuals in the movie was the father of Manuela's son and later the father of Sister Rosa's son. Nevertheless, the acting was outstanding Cecilia Roth as Manuela, Marisa Paredes as the actress playing Blanche in recurring scenes from Street Car Named Desire, Candela Pena as Nina, her drug-dependent lesbian lover, who also appears as Stella in the play, Antonia San Juan as a transsexual whore who is Manuela's friend but not the one who impregnated her, Penelope Cruz as the pregnant nun, and Rosa Maria Sarda as the mother with whom Cruz' character has a difficult relationship. The actual transsexual father of both women's children doesn't show up until late in the movie and that was also confusing. Add in the AIDS which kills both the nun and the trans-sexual father and this is one hell of a mixture. I don't know that it is as good a movie as most of the critics say it is but, especially when seen on a small screen with fleeting subtitles (a scene in the theatre in which Antonia San Juan does a stand up routine eluded me entirely), it's difficult to come to a definitive conclusion. However, setting that aside, see this film for the acting, which is splendid. "},{"Title":"An Exploration of Human Interaction Beyond Gender","Date":"20 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother (Todo sobre mi madre) goes beyond a story of transvestites or transsexuals or nuns or Pedro Almodóvar's pseudo-feminism. This gender-bender goes far beyond any such issues.Therough recurrent explorations of Tennessee Williams and the images of men and women in Streetcar Named Desire, he takes a tour through prostitution, marriage, parenting/being a child and AIDS through fantastical characters.As usual for Almodóvar, the production design is in bold colors.(originally written 1/15/2000) "},{"Title":"Moving Story but a little strong for my taste","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodovar has a unique way of presenting his stories. This is was makes him interesting I guess. I have to admit that it was a great film although many of the themes he uses do not appeal to me, but this is the real world. I guess that is what I like most about Pedro's movies, his movies have important messages and the one that I captured is that we can't prevent the changes that occur. It is simply the cycle of life and we have to learn to move with it. We might not like it but we can not stop others from liking it. I would recommend that people view this film, it is worth your time. It is a story about a woman who's life basically revolves around irony, she acted in a play in her youth that ended up in a reality of her life. The character Stella ends up leaving with her child, while she also did the same with her son Esteban. He was an aspiring writer, yet who died in a tragic accident. The story extends from here. You will encounter all sort of themes in this film. Love, Sexuality, how both intertwine in relationships, and many others. Enjoy the film! "},{"Title":"Moving Story but a little strong for my taste","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodovar has a unique way of presenting his stories. This is was makes him interesting I guess. I have to admit that it was a great film although many of the themes he uses do not appeal to me, this is the real world. I guess that is what I like most about Pedro's movies, his movies have important messages and the one that I captured is that we can't prevent the changes that occur. It is simply the cycle of life and we have to learn to move with it. We might not like it but we can not stop others from liking it. I would recommend that people few this film, it is worth your time. It is a story about a woman who's life basically revolves around irony, she asted in a play in her youth that ended up in a reality of her life. "}{"Title":"Quirky and Refreshing","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a wonderful film exploring the dimensions of mother/child relationships outside the context of the nuclear family. The story paralleling parts of Street Car and All About Eve were really fun. But it might have been a little heavy handed romanticizing the mothering instict of women (or people with feminine spirits). I got the feeling the director was celebrating how despite their desire to resist the impulse- women can't help but nurture those in need.  There've been lots of examples I've seen of women who don't have a mother/savior bone in their bodies. I enjoyed all of their performances, especially the actress portraying Agroda(sp?). She stole everyones scene! Roth and Paredes were great as well. I suppose Penelope Cruz was ok.Spoiler***I just had a problem with her character Sister Rosa. The whole situation with her- I just couldn't buy it. Why would she do that? They played up Lola as a controlling thieving backstabber. What would compell a Nun to do such a thing? If they wanted that part of the story to be a little more believable, they should have emphasized how Lola was attractive to both sexes in her non-binary state. She was kind of like a Mango from SNL or something. And why would Agroda want to be friends with her?  "},{"Title":"Life is not a Picnic. Spanish Tragedy (...Greek Tragedy)","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is a series of Tragedies that are close to reality. Something like a Greek Tragedy. In Hebrew they say that Life is not a Picnic. The DVD Copy I saw was fine and worked well on my Laptop. But see it in the cinema theater. Most of the stories involve in Woman Roles. "},{"Title":"Todo Sobre Mi Madre","Date":"9 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film had some great scenes were you could laugh or cry but otherwise it wasn´t that much of anything. The script is flawed, the acting is cheesy and the plot is bad. This film could have been so much better whith a lot sharper screenplay and dialog and better actors. Penelope Cruz by the way can´t act and Cecilia Roth isn´t a very good actress. 5/10.  "},{"Title":"A movie to think about","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie that gets you walking away from it afterwards and makes you think.  It has a lot to say about relationships mother/daughter, grandmother/grandchild, lovers, friends, etc.It's well worth seeing just to see the performance of Cecilia Roth.  I will be looking for other films in which she acts because she is that good! It's not an Almodovar comedy, which he did so well in Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown,  This is a bittersweet story that pulls you in.See it, and you'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"This movie is the best!","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I saw the movie on my Spanish lessons I was amazed how good it was.For nearly two hours I could not take my eyes off the television. I recommend it to everybody.Especially to those who are interested in Spanish culture and language. "},{"Title":"An Odd but Effective Film","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To say that All About My Mother is odd does not make the case.  It is an operatic story about drug addicts, transsexuals, transvestites, whores, and AIDS, but mostly it is a story about women -- and men who want to be women.  Its emotions are so over-the-top that Verdi or Puccini would have had a field day setting it to music.  It is as subtle as a train wreck.  That being said, it is also warm and occasionally moving.  The performances, particularly Cecilia Roth's as Manuela and Antonio San Juan's as Agrado, are terrific.  HBO, to its undying credit, showed it in letter box format on HBO Signature, a big plus.  Recommended, 7 out 10. "},{"Title":"Well-done chronicle of a mother...","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  1st watched 4/5/2001 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-Pedro Almodovar) Well-done chronicle of a mother and her 3 attempts at motherhood.  Her actual son, a woman that she befriends, and the woman's new baby (after the mother dies.) As an American, there has to be some acceptance because of the consistent use of different types of people(aka. drag queens, homosexuals, bisexuals etc...)in even some of the most important roles but if you can get past this you will enthralled by this emotionally packed, heartwarming story.  "},{"Title":"The best of non-English language movies ever","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was one of the best impressions of the last cinematographic years.Yes, this movie is what you can always expect of Almodovar hot passion, emotions, Latin soap plot and ...as usual, great performances.For those who saw at least once the Latin soap operas on TV, the plot of this movie is not a secret. OK, forget about the plot, and enjoy the warmth of the movie. Isn't it great to see the best Spanish actors in one cast? Only Almodovar can attract them with his crazy ideas.What comes to the viewers' mind after first minutes of the movie? My answer red and yellow pattern..The pattern of Almodovar's life, it is not von Trier with his vague colors, it is not Spielberg with his flashy colors. This visual color effect puts viewers into the atmosphere of the film from first seconds.There's lots of intersecting stories in the plot of the movie. We see a fading actress fighting for her love, we see a story of a mother suffering a loss of her son, we see the underworld story of transvestites, a story of drug addicts, the story of dying HIV-victim...Isn't it what is going around us in day-to-day life, but we do not pay attention to it???The master, Almodovar, shows another side of life to us, and his cast is a great support for that. Personally, I discovered to myself that Penelope Cruz is not just another Spanish beauty, but is a very talented actress. This movie was a really good start for her career, just look at how much she is filmed these days in Hollywood.Being a big Almodovar fun, I should say that this movie has overcome my previous favourite of this director Women on the verge of the nervous breakdown. I highly recommend Todo sobre mi madre to all people who come to movies to see a piece of art, and not another one-day nonsence with Schwarzenegger. I liked it a lot, and..yes, I even cried, because this movie is so sincere and touching, that you can hardly surpress your emotions.If you decided to see this movie after reading this message, please reply to my mail and tell me if you agree with my opinion. "},{"Title":"Unique film","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am not to sure what the basic idea is of this film... I dunno.  The film seems to focus on the fact that the son never gets to know the identity of his father (a transvestite).  It is quite a unique story and somewhat humorous in places.  As  we start discovering more about this dead boys father, his father is quite a character and has done his fair share of influencing other women's lives in ways that are quite surprising.Pretty GoodRating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Kinda sad, but well worth the emotional downs and occasional obscure ups","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I remember having left this movie feeling as I once wrote kinda sad. Mainly for the mother character in the movie who has to take so much of the born-under-a-bad-sign treatment. In retrospect though, as I watch the film again, her story is almost life-affirming in its own way. And Almodovar's style, not as crazy as in his past films but just as uncompromising, suits the story. A 17 year old dies, a transvestite is his father, and many other things. Yet, they were all necessary for this drama that is also good (yet different) for Almodovar, who won best foreign film for 1999 at the Oscars. The best part of all though, I could understand how the characters thought and acted more on a second viewing. This was a good film, but the drama is laid so thick it makes Sophie's Choice look like Dumb and Dumber; yet it's Almodovar all the way, even in the midst of harrowing, very human drama. A- "}{"Title":"Almodovar has shares in Kleenex!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A gut-wrenching, tear-jerking wonder. Almodovar gives us a series of beautifully-crafted characters and interweaves them into a story that, if told, would sound ludicrous. That it isn't bears witness to the Spanish director's story-telling skill and eye for what makes real relationships tick. The actors help, of course, and they are to a man/ woman/ transvestite magnificent, especially Cecilia Roth as the stricken mother and Antonia San Juan as her transvestite friend. The film only comes unstuck at the end when we meet the mother's (and everybody else's, it seems) ex, an unconvincing Toni Cantó. It perhaps needed a stronger actor to portray such a central character. But this is to gripe - Almodovar has served us up a full, sometimes excruciating, never less than moving, tableau of the human condition. Brilliant. "},{"Title":"if you like strange.","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  although i am not familiar with the work of the director, this film struck me with mixed emotions.   when i vote for a film i use the criteria is the film entertaining, moving, interesting, worth my time to sit for 90 to 120 minutes.i gave this one a 9 from being a critically good film but a 5 as far as a good film that i really enjoyed watching.   this film is sort of like the movie 'being john maclevich'. which received high ratings but most people who commented felt that the film was not that good.the ratings and comments of this film are higher than the movie deserves. this is definitely a european art film and probably will not be popular film in america, few foreign films are except the recent film 'life is beautiful'.if you like or are interested in the world of transvestites, and the love of a mother, it is an excellent film.  it was well done but i would not recommend others to see it.  it would be interested seeing comments from others in the US as this was just released in phoenix today (12/24/99).merry xmas everyone, peach on earth, goodwill towards men. "},{"Title":"highly overrated, credits for Gaudi and Cadafalch i Montaner","Date":"10 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie has been praised by The German reviewers very loudly. Unfortunately they did not miss to spoil the watchers impression by relating every detail in advance.But anyhow there are not to many surprising developments in the movie, you can guess the outcome of almost all substories of the plot. The single scenes are cut far too fast, so no intense feeling can develop.Nevertheless the film is beautifully set in Barcelona's turn of the century architecture, but the credits should not go to the director but to the abovementionned architects. "},{"Title":"Sad, humorous, and uplifting","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For somebody who does not often go to see foreign language films this movie was a revelation.  I found the acting to be compelling, and the direction spot on.  The links (both real and metaphorical) to A Streetcar Named Desire were clever and added to the overall themes of the story.  There were also some very funny moments to go with the sad ones, something which is not always easy to pull off (it worked much better in this film than in something like East is East).All in all, a pretty cool movie.  I give it 65/100. "},{"Title":"Superb acting throughout--","Date":"21 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First I must say Curses Netflix!. It isn't that I don't love the service, but my DVD got stuck with four minutes to go in the film and I could not get this disk to play that portion--so I finally just read it on website. So, this is a rare case when I did not see all the film...just 98%. Curses...I must first point out that this is NOT a film to watch with your mother or priest. It is jam-packed full of morally ambiguous people and situations that are bound to offend. This is NOT surprising, as director Almondovar seems to LOVE to offend or at least challenge the viewer--and this is a frequent theme in his films. It covers topics like AIDS, transvestite prostitution, drug abuse, nuns getting pregnant and codependency. This is NOT a film for the faint-hearted!! HOWEVER, despite a bizarre plot that I won't even try to summarize, I must also point out that this is among the best-acted films I have ever seen...period. The film sure packs an emotional wallop as well and leaves the viewer marveling at the cast and the expert direction. A must-see for anyone wanting to see great acting...simply great. "},{"Title":"Lyrical, vivid, moving...women (and men as women) finding meaning...","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All About My Mother (1999)A remarkable, inventive, moving ensemble film. As usual with a Pedro Almodovar movie, there is a joyful openness about cross gender men, and an emphasis on women, who are really everything in the movie (including the man who is a woman). I've always seen an improbable parallel with Woody Allen films, not in the flavor of the narrative and characters, which are Almodovar's province, but in the way they are filmed, the intimate feel, the willingness to take chances, and most of all, the fineness of control. As much as the plot seems to tip out of control, the movie is very much a taut, refined, beautiful piece, an artwork. Many of us here in the United States will be entranced by this early Penelope Cruz appearance (though she had done a couple dozen films earlier, with limited U.S. exposure), and she is riveting and emotionally expressive. But even more commanding and impressive is the lead woman, the character who changes everyone's lives as she barely finds a way to save her own, somehow, played by Argentine actress Cecilia Roth.This is amazing, lyrical, important stuff. "},{"Title":"Mainstream Almodóvar","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just saw Todo sobre mi madre, and I agree with other comments it is not a lousy film, but it is not what prizes and praises suggest. The subversive genius is gone instead there is complacence while the story reinforces the saddest sexist stereotypes, under the guise of tolerance for alternative life styles. My admiration for Almodóvar diminished with Átame, which I found terribly bad. Kika made me think he would recover, but after Tacones lejanos, I just avoided his mainstream films. Until now... I think this film is so, so overrated, that I just could not believe my eyes. I should have kept the memory of Qué he hecho yo para merecer esto?! and La ley del deseo, which are his true masterpieces. "},{"Title":"Life is a soap...until it gets too much","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is typical Almodóvar strange situations, flashy colors, close to absurdity and with a strong presence of women. Yet, it's certainly not one of the best of this Spanish director.The story centers around a woman(Roth) who's just lost her son, being hit by a car, while pursuing another car with his favorite actress(Paredes)in it. The mother leaves for Madrid in order to set things straight and to find the boy's father, a transsexual named Lolo. Soon she finds herself in the company of three other women. Everything seems to get better until...The problem with this story is that it's just too much. After seeing this I tried to figure out why this film won almost every major award in Europe and every best foreign film award outside Europe. The only reason I could come up with was that Almodóvar got rewarded for his entire career along with the fact that it's not always the best film that receives the honours. A look at the past oscar winners made me realize this the charming but oh so predictable KOLYA, the idiotic BURNT BY THE SUN, or INDOCHINE(a year in which DAENS should have won it)... I think Almodóvar's earlier CARNE TREMULA deserves the oscar more than his latest one. A good story, with interesting people, good actors and some original twists in it. TODO SOBRE was far too uneven on an emotional level to even compete with this one just count the moments in TSMM when the characters are crying or when something tragic happens and you'll see what I mean. It's just too much, that you can't care about it anymore after a while.The acting too is uneven Paredes and the beautiful Penelope Cruz are both wonderful in their parts. Cecilia Roth and some others however were less convincing. I honestly don't think that Almodóvar deserved one of his best director awards either. It seems like he's letting it all run out of hand too easily.If you really want a good Spanish Almodóvar comedy-drama, go rent CARNE TREMULA(LIVE FLESH). It's by far better than this soap-opera-wannabe-tearjerker. Don't get me wrong it's amusing and has some wonderful moments, but it's just not worth the attention and praise it gets lately. 6/10 "},{"Title":"It's not such a great movie","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I sincerely cannot understand the high rating of this movie.  Spanish is my native language and I have felt profoundly deceived by this movie. It's just okay but not a great movie. The majority of my friends have liked All about my mother but I disagree. One of the reviewers has even said that All about my mother is better than Life is Beautiful. With all respect, he is comparing a piece of carbon (All about my mother) with a real diamond (Life is Beautiful).In my honest opinion, the movies by Spanish director Jose Luis Garci are by far much better than Almodovar's. Follow my advice and see The Grandfather, a true piece of art in the world of films. You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Cheesy","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Only some scenes deserve my applause those in which Almodovar gather his women and has the opportunity of showing us all his knowledge about the universe of women, through some small details in their behavior.The big mistake all the story turns around a character that never appears until the end, and that should have never appeared, for he doesn't beat the expectations. If Almodovar feels the necessity of showing up such a clown is because he doesn't believe in what he is telling.  "}{"Title":"All About Estrogen.","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have not made many forays into foreign films to date - and the Lord knows I'm trying - but I find it hard to swallow them when they repeatedly fortify their own stereotypes. This saucy little piece doesn't help. Thus, what follows now is a foreign film layman's impression of yet another campy, soapy, doesn't-quite-hit-the-mark effort. Performances were overblown (though Cecelia Roth, I must admit, was quite fine), though the motley crew of characters were already way out of whack, most likely, before the actors got their hands on the script. What a soap opera! Here's a devil-may-care transvestite best bud! There's the pregnant young waif! And look yonder, for here comes the long-lost cross-dressing dad! Holy shlamola! Where's the priest, back from the grave?And look out if you're in the front row - there's so much estrogen packed into this crazy romp, a gelatinous pink syrup started to ooze from the screen. Watch your shoes. "},{"Title":"Another Almodovar's dirty film.","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't know why this movie has been so acclaimed. It looked awful (3/10) to me. Not only dirty, ordinary scenes, but full of the weird idea that most of men want to be mothers (not fathers) and are capable of change their sex (!!!) for it.Awful. Only the 10/15 first minutes of the movie (until the boy dies), it looks good. After that it was a total disaster for me. "},{"Title":"A Strong Melodrama","Date":"9 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Pedro Almodovar's film All About My Mother can be considered a tribute to actors and mothers. Manuela is a mother whose son Esteban is an aspiring writer who the utmost admiration for an actress named Huma Rojo. He chases after her for an autograph and gets hit by a car because of it. Manuela herself was an actress in her younger days and unfortunately must relive a scene she has acted in her actual life. She must decide whether or not to donate her newly dead son's organs. Thus beginning Manuela's trip to Barcelona to tell her son's father about this death. On Manuela's trip, Almodovar's gift of creating interesting and unorthodox characters is in its fullest effect. There is Agrado who is a transvestite prostitute. Hermana Rosa (played by Penelope Cruz) is a nun who is impregnated by another transvestite woman. Huma Rojo's theater production of A Street Car Named Desire is in town and is struggling with her co- star/girlfriend Nina, a coke-addict. Almodovar has a talent for taking individuals that can easily be caricatures and making them into fully fleshed out characters through their circumstances and temperaments. For example when Manuela asks Agrado is her Chanel suit is real, her answer is How could I buy a real Chanel with all the hunger in the world?While Manuela is the main character, the spirit of the film is with Agrado. There are two scenes in particular where the content of her character is prevalent. The first is her monologue in which she describes herself as real because she fixed herself to look like who she thinks she could be. The other is a scene where a man asks her to perform a sexual act for him and her reaction. She is the most noble and sincere person in the film among overall genuine characters.Almodovar great love of films is apparent in the film, referencing Bette Davis in All About Eve and A Streetcar Named Desire which was adapted from a play. In the end, he dedicates the film not only to female actors but mothers as well. In a sense he implies that mothers are actors themselves when it comes to keeping things from they're children. "},{"Title":"Accomplished though overrated","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of Spain's most praised cinematic exports of our time, Pedro Almodóvar, is said to be completely in his element with 1999's All About My Mother. Frankly I Just don't see that. This widely praised film has all traditional ingredients one has come to expect the illustrious director to contain in his personal statements. Sensitive homage to females and mothers, stimulating character dialogs, a solid cast, good score, some great shots...so why did, what some may consider quintessential Almodóvar, the movie feel unexpectedly limp? It boils down to a matter of believability. We have seen how this writer-director has combined an offbeat surrealism against normal, almost boring routine, often creating the low-key, gently menacing undercurrents to showcase his love for the ladies. Here though, Almodóvar breaks into conflict too soon in the film, negating much of an emotional reaction to the majority of proceedings. What transpires is a mildly entertaining and involving, but certainly emotionally manipulative patented Almodóvar soap opera, complete with unnecessary back-story mystique, counterproductive eccentricities, and showy plot revelations.We will see essentially the same thing done, and better, from this filmmaker. All About My Mother is not the definitive Almodóvar some may claim, far from it. But it is still the work of a man who has always marched to the beat of his own drum, and throughout his career, has perfected that drum beat almost to a science. No one will accuse him of being overly diverse, but Almodóvar continues to prove time and again why he is a unique voice in the film world, one of the few giants out there who longs to portray women with the class they deserve. "},{"Title":"A Spanish Surprise","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While the title of this film would simply suggest a maternal story, more exists in also giving an intimate view of women and the bizarre and horrid lives that many people lead in trying to make ends meet. All About My Mother is a heart-wrenching saga of love, children, death, sex, loneliness, and birth. Perhaps what is most odd, especially in retrospect, is that all of these elements seem to be omnipresent, much like real life.For its acting, this is a rare gem. I was unfamiliar with all of the cast but found their talents (especially the lead role's played by Cecilia Roth) to be remarkable. SOME SPOILERS - A few unknowns occur early on in the film such as who is Esteban's father and where is he. Also, the car accident as Esteban is trying to get an autograph seems a bit stretched. Later, the irony of who Esteban's father is and Sister María's baby (played by Penelope Cruz) leads to a shocking discovery. While some of these elements may not have be too plausible, they help to present a film revealing some of the dirty, chaotic, and ultimately senseless aspects of life. In the end, the film feels as if it leaves you with more than just a story. The character Agrado shows, despite any distaste, that drag queens are people too and can have quite a sense of humor to boot. All About My Mother is a European street-life tale that emerges with a happy ending. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A women's movie","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In this women's movie the only two men who have important roles are drag queens. A nun, a drag queen whore, a nurse and two theatre actresses see their strange lives and fates being crossed in a succession of moving scenes arising from the tragic death of the son of one of them who later to some extent revives in the new-born son of another. Indestructible friendship and solidarity is present in most of their mutual relations which makes them strong before life braving prejudices and adversity. This movie shows also how thin is sometimes the line between marginality and the so called good behaviour in people's lives. Nevertheless it exaggerates sometimes a little bit the melodrama and pathos of certain scenes. This is however compensated by the sentimental authenticity of others. The performance of all the actresses is very good especially that of Antonia San Juan in the role of a very intelligent and sensitive drag queen. Here it is therefore a realistic movie in the full strength of the word portraying some odd lives which, notwithstanding,insert themselves in an authentic way in the daily social life of our times.  "},{"Title":"Soap","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Oy vey ! High-strung, hysterical, and over-plotted soap opera you either sit back and submit to the emotional roller-coaster or you leave the theater; there is no in-between.I stayed and enjoyed myself because visually the film has enough sensual body to transcend its own operatic monkeyshines richly saturated with color and resplendent with forms, it offers up images that are often as impassioned as the drama a high-caloric eye candy. It's much too rare these days to find anyone making films with even the slightest cognizance of the fact that film is a plastic medium. Whatever else may be said of him, Almodovar at least has a deep, instinctive, highly imaginative sense of the connection between feelings and images for example, the pedestrian accident, the geography and architecture of Madrid and Barcelona, the choreography of whores and cars in the field, the illusion of the hospital floor level with the sea, and tunneling through time in a train tunnel.The hypercharged emotionalism, a Hispanic and homosexual double whammy, bears no relation to reality, in fact, insults it. Almodovar sexualizes emotions that have nothing to do with gender, inviting politically correct responses such as this one, from that bastion of PC mind-wash, the San Francisco Bay Guardian  'All About My Mother' is a meticulous examination of the roles women play, in grief, in love, and, literally, on stage. But such are the times we live in, where fallopian tubes and a uterus supposedly determine whether or not one can feel honestly and spontaneously. (Gender capitalistic consumer niches have been personalized ad nauseum.) Quite ironically it is the soulful, even masculine, grounding of the superb acting of Cecilia Roth that anchors this film, keeps it from whizzing up and away in its own excesses and camp. Just about everyone else in the cast also keeps a tight trim, which, I am sure, reflects some degree of directorial circumspection amidst all the frenzy.Intellectually the movie is cotton candy, all sugar and air. Leitmotivs referencing All About Eve and A Streetcar Named Desire frame the film. These references, less than profound, are like a sophomore's highlighting. (Almodovar pulled the same trick in Live Flesh by putting Bunuel's The Exterminating Angel on a TV in the background, only to have it backfire by contrasting its sterling high quality to his own cheesiness.) Would I see Almodovar's next film? Definitely. Why? Because he's fresh, fun, doesn't repeat himself, and, most importantly, he honors the medium he deals in; his films look like films. "},{"Title":"When you die, make sure you look good for the funeral...","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I prefer the Pedro Almodovar of Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown over the Almodovar of The Flower of My Secret or his Oscar-winning All About My Mother.  I miss the madcap, wiggy, inventive way he hits his marks.  He did it with verve and panache; and he did it blessedly fast. You weren't forced to take too much of what was going on seriously, and yet no one would have been able to pry me from my seat.  He made it look like les mujeres were calculating their next move on the spot, and this gave Women on the Verge... a kind of highwire-act suspense.  The tension he created left me watching breathlessly.Almodovar has discarded this wonderful side of himself for something more profound, and, unfortunately, more conventional.  That doesn't mean there is precious nothing to take home with you the depth of Marisa Paredes' grief (Here she plays a revered actress named Huma Rojo.) in The Flower...; and the haunting face of Eloy Azorin in this one.  Even if you're not always sure where the story will lead you, you feel as though you're traipsing through emotional ground Ingmar Bergman had dredged up far too many times to suit even his most ardent fans.When you're forced as you are in All About My Mother to look headlong at Manuela (Cecilia Roth), a nurse who has raised her only son (Azorin) who had been fathered by a man (Toni Canto) who abandons them after deciding getting breasts could only add to his appeal, it's hard to muster sympathy for the rest of the sexually-disfranchised in this movie--and this includes the pregnant nun Rosa (Penelope Cruz).  Pity or empathy isn't exactly Almodovar's point, I'm sure; All About My Mother takes for granted the prerogatives of the transgender world to do as they please with their bodies and their lives and see as benighted people like Rosa's mother (Rosa Maria Sarda) who cannot touch her own grandchild because he's HIV-positive.  (I don't think I'd be that fidgety over the situation if confronted with it, but I'm not sure I blame the woman either.)When Manuela's mammary-man-friend Agrado (Antonia San Juan) tries salvaging what is left of a presentation of A Streetcar Named Desire, the movie feels like it's grinding to a halt, and the moment strikes me as condescending.  (I think the critic Molly Haskell's notion that characters like Blanche Du Bois or Margo Channing are really figments of a transgender wish-fulfillment is equally as patronizing.  You could prop Haskell's impressions on a book shelf right next to Mother Rosa's fears.)The hearts and flowers that we get in the end don't root very deep; neither does the moralizing.  The moral here could be When you die, make sure the mortician gets the make-up right for your funeral.  Otherwise, it would be the same politically correct platitudes we get on the E Channel.  The only thing that runs counter to the shallow sentiments is the tenderness which Cecilia Roth brings to the fray.  She should have been nominated for an Oscar.Azorin's is not the only unforgettable face.  Fernando Fernan Gomez (Belle Epoque) who plays Sister Rosa's father holds the camera in the few moments he's on screen.  Spain would look to have resurrected their own Ralph Richardson.  I needed to clear my eyes to make sure it wasn't him.  The great ones never really die. "},{"Title":"TODO SOBRE MI MADRE (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Pedro Almodovar is one of the alternative directors that isn't overrated by critics as in almost every picture he tries to bring you a scenario of life. In this celebrated movie (it even got an Oscar) we find Cecilia Roth who works at a hospital that is specialized in transplantations and its donors. Everything goes fine till her one and only son dies when he wanted to meet his fave actress, Cecilia must sign a paper at where she gives the son's heart to a patient but she forgets all ethics and finds out who got the heart... The only thing she can do is leaving Madrid at where she will be in some company of prostitutes and travesties... Great movie with nice surprises. "},{"Title":"Spanish Snorefest","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Having read the glowing reviews on this site of this movie, I was prepared for a real treat. I am not one who requires constant action or Hollywood sugar-coating, so I thought this might be a good outing. Wrong!!! This has to be one of the most boring movies ever created. But what was not boring was seamy, obnoxious, ridiculous, and goofy. Do people really act like this in Spain? ('Hi, we're perfect strangers, so lets get a car and you can drive me around to look for my junkie lesbian lover'). It was like an HBO soap in subtitles. I threw in the towel two thirds through the movie.Admittedly, reading subtitles is distracting and makes for some wooden dialogue. A Spanish audience would get the flow and subtleties, and thus enjoy (or deplore) the picture a bit more.One might question why a pretty young nun would get pregnant by a middle-aged HIV-positive pre-op transsexual. Of course, this is the second (known) time this has happened, so there is all this to-do about how it relates to the woes of the title character, who has just lost the son she had by this same TS SOB some 17 years before. Good grief! I give four stars...for Penelope Cruz. "}{"Title":"Not the best Almodovar, but still quite good","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Is it possible to like a filmmaker even if you don't like, or have never seen, any of their influences?  Certainly, Pedro Almodovar provides a yes answer to that question for me.  Critics all over say one of his biggest influences is Douglas Sirk, director of movies like WRITTEN ON THE WIND, melodramas which I have avoided seeing since they usually star Rock Hudson, whom I'm not a big fan of.  Almodovar usually takes the melodrama form(some would say soap opera) and gives it a satiric twist.  When he likes the characters, as he did in LAW OF DESIRE and WOMEN ON THE VERGE OF A NERVOUS BREAKDOWN(still his best film), the result is grand entertainment.  When he hates the characters, however(as in KIKA), the result is dismal.  For some people, Almodovar made a comeback with THE FLOWER OF MY SECRET, where he played straight what he normally played for satire, but I thought it was too much a soap opera to be affecting.Now he returns with ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER, and while there's quite a lot of comedy here, it's also played straight.  The difference here between this and THE FLOWER OF MY SECRET is the melodrama doesn't seem tacked on(except at the end, which goes on a little long and gets a little unbelievable), so the drama is affecting rather than tiresome.  Also, the acting is far superior; every one of the actors is quite good, but I think I liked the one who played the transvestite Agrado the best, who seemed determined to stay happy, no matter what.  Finally, I guess I can understand liking ALL ABOUT EVE and A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE more than I can understand liking romance novels(the occupation of the main character in FLOWER).  WOMEN ON THE VERGE OF A NERVOUS BREAKDOWN is still my favorite Almodovar, but this is good as well. "},{"Title":"A waste of time...","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Took us two evenings to see the entire movie -- it was so boring we had to take a break in the middle of it.  No plot, no acting, no story line, not a single character you feel close to or want to follow... just a feeling of time wasted at the end.  With a dozen decent films that came out the same year -- how could this win an award?  Even the Russians, famous for their boring and pointless dramas, turned out a few movies that would be time better spent... Watching movies like this makes me feel guilty about the time wasted in front of the tube like nothing else. "},{"Title":"Has it's moments, but unfortunatly falls into the pap category.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen this film many a time seeing as i'm studying it for educational purposes, and although it does make me laugh in places, it does little else. I'm sorry, but it's damn near impossible to feel any emotion for a guy in a wig and some mascarre other than amusement. The film removes any emotion it may have had by obviously trying to get us to accept transvestites as normal, but it just winds up comming off as a pretentious freak show. Fans of Almodovar will probably be able to appreciate this chick flick more than I can, and don't get me wrong, I don't mind chick flicks terribly, but this one in my view is just tosh. Very well shot tosh, but unfortunatly still just tosh. "},{"Title":"SAD","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen it in original version. It's a good movie, well-played, good story but it's too much  sad. I liked very much the blond actress (I don't remember her name) because she played very well (and she's beautiful) and all the other actors/actresses But once it's enough.   "},{"Title":"Anachronism and Deception of the US Viewers.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is just a game played by the Spanish Culture and Almodovar just to deceive everybody that Spain produces Art while the American Film Association produces Special Effects.Anybody hearing both Antonio Banderas and Pedro Almodovar in interviews given in the US and Spain can clearly see what canny this movie is. "},{"Title":"Michael Jacson in the main role","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Yes, that Satan with purple lips looks exactly like Michael Jacson plus he now has breasts. However beautiful and artistic the film might be its content is a deadly poison for your mind. The message seems to be to embrace all the weirdos -- women with penises, men with breasts, prostitutes and the like. Given the fact Almodovar is gay, it's not surprising, but it's sad that a lot of normal people stoop to the level of the film's director, who should be pitied. Granted, Almodovar is the master of color, editing, and chooses actors who do a terrific job. The value of the movie, however, is not so much in its perfect look and feel, but in the message it conveys. A sweet, but spiked with poison candy may look attractive when wrapped in a glamorous wrapper, but little do people know what they are getting. "},{"Title":"Very disappointing movie","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My wife and I viewed this movie based on the high ratings it received here but were we surprised. This is a perverse and weird movie. I guess if you like stories about transgender people this movie would be great. I would hesitate to visit any city that has seemingly so many screwed up and sexually dis-functional people as portrayed in this movie.  "}]