[{"Title":"Author! Author!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"74 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am usually annoyed by films based on novels about novelists. Really, it's like the author couldn't think of anything else to write about. `Write what you know.'  That's what the writing instructors tell you. But a novel about a writer makes it seem like writing is all you know. Who, except other writers, would want to read it?  The opening scenes of Wonder Boys, however, buried whatever hang-ups I had.  This story is less about writing than it is about the tortured souls that produce it.This film is a departure from anything I've seen before. Really, has there ever been another major studio movie set in Pittsburgh? It's about time. Here's another departure Wonder Boys triumphs as a character study. How many comedies can claim this? And a great comedy it is. Who can't appreciate the fact that one of the most important characters driving the story is a blind dog that's locked in a car trunk for most of the movie?Not to be upstaged by said dog, Michael Douglas turns in his best performance since Wall Street. Douglas plays the ultimate tortured soul, Grady Tripp, a much-respected, award-winning, and soon-to-be divorced University of Pittsburgh writing prof, wrestling as many artists do with a novel that refuses to end. One of his students, James Leer (Tobey Maguire in his best performance ever), is trying his hardest to be a poor, struggling artist and is looking to be inspired. James all but cons his way into Grady's life and the scenes between these two crackle with life. James has his own novel he's finished, and Grady's editor, Terry Crabtree (Robert Downey, Jr.), believes he's found a true `wonder boy,' the next big thing. The film then dangles these questions in front of us How will Grady find a balance between helping James, fulfilling James' expectations of his hero, and dealing with the fact that this kid is On The Verge while he himself is on page 1163 and counting?  Always poignant and dazzling, the film's writer never strays from his characters in favor of overdramatization. Many opportunities exist and Mr. Kloves always wisely passes.Grady's relationship problems are also piling up. The story takes place over the course of one weekend, and Grady is faced with one dilemma after another involving his married girlfriend, Sara (Frances MacDormand), the school's chancellor, his boarder and student Hannah (Katie Holmes, who will shine once she finds that good, meaty starring role), and of course his estranged wife (played by no one at all).There's a lot to love about Wonder Boys and I assure you I've merely grazed the surface. The real reason I went to see it, though it looked interesting enough from the trailers, was Curtis Hanson. I liked parts of L.A. Confidential enough to see what other tricks he has up his sleeve. I must say that his work here is much more accomplished than Confidential, despite the fact that most critics thought it deserved to beat Titanic a couple of years back. I hope this gives you an idea of just how good I think Wonder Boys is. Unfortunately, this is an early-year, low-budget comedy about scholarly people, and Mr. Hanson will most likely be recognized for the mystery thriller that came before it.I want to be wrong, so don't miss Wonder Boys.Grade A "},{"Title":"WONDERful","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"67 out of 83 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not many people have heard of this film. It's not what the masses want, they yearn for Men In Black II, Legally Blonde, Die Another Day and so on. This minor gem is strange, unconventional, rich and moving. It is a classically written character study with unexpected comic twists and turns from every angle. You feel warmer for having watched this movie, and it is a shame that films like these only occur once or twice a year.Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) is a middle-aged professor of English, and is writing his second novel, `The Wonder Boys'. However, this character is not a stereotypical teacher but a fantastically original creation emphasized by Douglas' winning performance. He smokes weed and lives with a student of his (Katie Holmes), he is in the midst of his third divorce and is in love with his married boss, Sara Gaskell (Frances McDormand), and that second novel is forever incomplete, and has been for seven years. One of his pupils is James Leer, played to perfection by Tobey Maguire, who writes amazingly obtuse stories and is obsessed with the death of film stars. James and Grady become partners in crime when they shoot Sara's blind dog and steal the coat Marilyn Monroe was married in. From here on in we are absorbed into the life of Grady and those around him, from his publisher terry Crabtree (Downey jr) to his writer rival, Q. we see lives slowly fall apart, relationships blossom, a novel disappear into the wind and a black dude who refuses to be called Vernon Hardapple, all in one weekend.Wonder Boys never disappoints. It's dry humour and bizarre imagination never stops for a second, and we are glued with a grin on our faces. Hardly realistic, the audience can still feel for the characters as their lives spiral into a comic frenzy. Grady and his off-beat world crumbling around him as he searches for happiness; Terry, the flamboyant homosexual who puts on a brave face, believing in others as he searches for a comeback novel (which he will not get from Grady); James, the loner who needs to release the genius within himself. These are the wonder boys. Frances McDormand and Katie Holmes gladly take a back seat in the story as this film refuses to be weighed down by sap.The acting is flawless, with at least two superb supporting roles. Robert Downey jr sparkles in his greatest role since Chaplin, but it is Tobey Maguire who makes us feel he has always been that awkward, deadpan student that is James Leer. For those who have seen Pleasantville and The Cider House Rules will recognise Maguire for the talant he is (it almost makes one feel he sold out when taking the Spider-Man role), and here he has been sadly overlooked for a Best Supporting Actor nomination. Douglas is in fine form as he always is in these strange and demanding roles, the last one being Falling Down. He can play a suicidal maniac and a stoned teacher and both roles will seem tailor made. The direction is impeccable as Hanson allows the characters to shine and the story flow, and it is almost unbelievable that this man directed the gritty, deadly serious L.A. Confidential. He packs Kloves screenplay with comic beauty and I sincerely hope he continues to direct these understated movies.The big money-makers over the past few years have been either remakes, sequels or by-the-number churned out garbage and all these have one objective to earn copious amounts of cash. Many of these film are successful in this aim but fail to capture one's imagination as Wonder Boys does so well. It is a shame to see the public throw there money at `Rocky and Bullwinkle' when it really should go to those who deserve it, those who still care about the art of motion picture. Anyone that will sit down to watch this will agree that it is a treasure to behold. A hidden treasure  "},{"Title":"small, oddball little film with a definite, quirky, dark sense of humour and a cast of eccentric characters that are never colourful for the sake of it.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"51 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to admit that when i first saw the trailer for this film, I thought, Sweet Jesus, this looks a lot like Rushmore! complete with a dishelved Michael Douglas doing the Bill Murray/Mr. Blume thing and Tobey Maguire as a rambunctious, upstart kid a la Max Fischer. Man, was I wrong. Wonder Boys is the kind of small, oddball little film with a definite, quirky, dark sense of humour and a cast of eccentric characters that are never colourful for the sake of it. Michael Douglas disappears completely into the role of Grady Tripp, a burnt out English professor, who once wrote a much celebrated novel but has since been having a hard time with his follow-up. He just keeps writing and writing with no end in sight (current page count sits around 2100 pages!). the film starts at the beginning of a truly hellish day for Tripp as his wife leaves him, his girlfriend tells him she's pregnant and he almost gets killed by her husband's blind dog. throw in an eccentric writing protege (Tobey Maguire), Tripp's bi-sexual literary agent (Robert Downey, Jr.) and his transvestite date, and you've got quite an interesting mix of characters. in some ways, Douglas' character is a pot-smoking burn-out like the Dude from THE BIG LEBOWSKI. he is content to live outside of society, putt around, write his novel, teaching his classes but when he crosses paths with Maguire's character, he realizes that he's got to change. Douglas is more than up for this role. i'm not a huge fan of the man's work (WALL STREET and THE GAME excepted) but he's perfectly cast in this film. he hits just the right note of world-weary cynicism but with a romantic streak buried underneath. you can tell that he's got the capacity to do something about his miserable lot in life and during the course of the film his character undergoes a fascinating arc. the real stand out of this film, though, is Tobey Maguire. i've only seen him in a few things, here and there and i never really noticed him all that much before (although, he was great in PLEASANTVILLE. everyone in the film keeps harping on what a genius writer Douglas' character is, but it quickly becomes apparent that Maguire's character is the true genius. he writes pages and pages of beautiful prose in minutes. and like any true talent, it just comes pouring out of him effortlessly. Maguire nails that kind of visionary talent perfectly. his character is so different from his peers and you are never sure what makes him tick, until 3/4 of the way through when another side of his intriguing personality is revealed. at first, you think his character is pretty one-dimensional -- the oddball genius -- but Maguire provides all sorts of layers and subtle nuances to his character that are great to watch. it doesn't hurt that Steve Kloves' script is a solid piece of writing. clever, insightful dialogue that tells you volumes about these characters. the dialogue is humourous and offbeat in one scene, touching and thoughtful in the next. Kloves also wisely avoids the usual cliches... ie. the romance between the older man and younger woman. just when you think it's going to go there, the film veers off to something different and better. every character has their moment to really define themselves with the possible exception of Katie Holmes who seems to be sorely underused. which is too bad, really, because the scenes she does have are good. it's nice to see that she can do more than just DAWSON'S CREEK. and lastly, the mood and atmosphere of this movie is so magical. to me, the best films are ones that you lose yourself in completely. the characters and the world they inhabit are so real, so three-dimensional that you can't help but get sucked in. WONDER BOYS does that so well. the attention to detail -- a snowy winter in Pittsburgh -- is beautiful realized. esp. the night time scenes, like one in which Douglas and Maguire talk outside in a backyard while the snow falls gently around them... are so well done, i felt like i was right there. and isn't that what a good film should do? make it able for you to escape for a couple of hours? hard to believe that the guy who made L.A. CONFIDENTIAL did this one. a complete change of pace and mood and... everything. amazing stuff. anyways, i reallly dug WONDER BOYS. it's the first film i've seen this year that has really affected me in a profoundly personal way. a film that as soon as it was over, i wanted to go right back in and watch it again. "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Film","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really love this film. Based on a novel by Michael Chabron, the film is set in a university over the course of a week-end long writing festival. The story concerns Professor Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) who's first novel was a huge success and has been struggling with the follow-up novel for years. When the film begins, Grady's young wife has just left him and his lover (who is married to the head of the English Department) is pregnant. Also, Grady's editor (Robert Downey Jr.) has arrived to see his (still unfinished) novel. To add to Grady's woes he has to cope with a brilliant, but deeply odd, student (Tobey Maguire).The film has some very strong and witty dialogue, and benefits from great performances all around. Probably writers and aspiring writers will like this film for it's portrayal of the literary life. Anyone though will enjoy the humour, heart and fun of this inspirational movie. "},{"Title":"Great story, great performances","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes, movie makers manage to create a world that one cannot resist being pulled into. In this world one lingers for a couple of hours, waiting for the next minute with a smile on one's lips. Wonder Boys is one of the best movies of recent years in that it successfully drags the viewer along on it's whimsical and sometimes really strange journey.The characters are believable despite their alien behaviors - the only normal person around might just be Hannah Green (Holmes), skirting around the main characters like an observing ghost. Douglas is pulling off what must be his best performance ever, portraying a decaying, once-famous addict writer with a severe case of reversed writer's block he can't finish his novel and he can't stop writing... Tobey Maguire is very well cast with his innocent yet troubled look, and Frances McDormand is just as she always is fantastic.I'm very impressed with this film, which took me off-guard. Not many I know went to see it. I'm glad I did. "},{"Title":"Long Live Vernon Hardapple","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas has always been one of my favorite actors. He deserved his Oscar for Wall Street, commanded every second of screen time he had in Falling Down, and has given some of the most underrated comic performances in history in Romancing the Stone and War of the Roses. But I'd have to give his performance in Wonder Boys as his best. His turn as stoner college professor Grady Tripp is the model for the laid back, totally likeable and loveable protaginist. He's the kind of professor I dream of having in real life.After watching this movie, I seriously wanted to go and write a book. For any of you blocked writers out there, just pop in Wonder Boys and you have your muse. "},{"Title":"Time Out of Mind","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" At a recent Dylan concert, my friend Charlie pointed out a shiny gold statuette placed unobtrusively atop one of the speakers way in the back of the stage. It was the Oscar which Dylan won for his Best Song Things Have Changed from this movie, from The Wonder Boys. I was glad that my friend pointed out that gold thing in the background because it added a whole other dimension to the concert. There was a story behind the statue - the whole Wonder Boys story and I was glad to be familiar with it. No, Bob never mentioned the statue. Why should he? He's Bob Dylan. He just did his thing, played his music. Life presents us with the absurd as much as it does the mundane. Watching the way people handle the good and bad drama in their life is a hobby of mine. I liked the way Bob Dylan kept his Wonder Boys gold quietly present. Michael Douglas' Grady Tripp doesn't call attention to his abnormally odd weekend, either. Douglas' Grady always maintains his cool even with a transvestite's tuba and his mistress' husband's dead dog and the Crabtree pharmacopoeia in the trunk of his ass-marked car. Grady deals with all of it. Grady deals with everything this peculiar weekend shows him - with a calm voice and an attitude mellowed from either age or experience or pot. In the here and now, he is calm and quiet but we all know that he'll have his anxiety or heart attack quietly near offstage with as few crowds and drama about them as possible. Grady speaks lines like gimme the gun, James matter of factly, the same way that his married girlfriend tells him she's pregnant, the same way he'd order a drink from Oola. Why add drama and histrionics to the mix? He is what he is. Things are the way they are - even though things have changed. One of the things that separates one human from another is the way we deal with change. isn't it? Personally? I want to hear about the absurdities of life. I like observing how people deal with it all. I like those stories. Tripp's fellow travelers are in flux too - it's not just Grady going through change - his wife (unseen), his mistress (France McDormand), his editor (Robert Downey, Jr.), his students (Tobey Maguire and Katie Holmes) - all of them are experiencing an extraordinary weekend but there's hardly a voice raised in the storytelling. The soundtrack alone is worth the viewing, thanks, Bob Dylan! And Curtis Hansen, Michael Chabon - tell me another story, please! If you can manage to bring a similarly wonderful ensemble cast - even better! "},{"Title":"The best college movie since 'Animal House'.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"26 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Funny and enjoyable drama about a self-centered English professor (Michael Douglas) who encounters several little dilemmas during a weekend festival on the college campus where he works.The performance that Douglas delivers here got to be one of his finest in recent memory. Perhaps his best. Besides Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Katie Holmes, Frances McDormand, Rip Torn, and Robert Downey, Jr. make one of the best supporting casts that I've seen in quite some time. Downey and Maguire (who portray the curious editor and the prized pupil) both turn in super performances that should have earned the pair Best Supporting Actor nominations. Torn's character shares the same name as the man who gave James Bond those cute and exciting gadgets, which is Q.Wonder Boys is the first film directed by Curtis Hanson, who hit gold with L.A. Confidential a few years ago. Screenwriter Steve Kloves writes a smart and intelligent story here and places the funny moments with some perfect timing. Photographer Dante Spinotti (Heat, L.A. Confidential, The Insider) provides the movie with great views of the campus during the fall and winter seasons. The movie's theme song, Things Have Changed, written and sung by the legendary Bob Dylan, is great to listen to and deserves an Oscar for it.Overall, this film is the best college movie made since John Landis' classic comedy spoof/satire, Animal House. This movie is Animal House with much better morals and doesn't have the common clichés. "},{"Title":"Fresh, Funny and entertaining!","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I truly enjoyed this film.  I went into the theater not knowing much about it; perhaps that had something to do with the reason I liked it so much.  I found this film to be extremely witty and entertaining.  I found myself intrigued by each character, especially the dark, mysterious James Leer (Tobey Maguire).  It has been a while since I have sat in a theater merely enjoying a movie.  The storyline was rather odd, but kept my interest.  The students in the film had a quite casual relationship with their professors. All in all, I can say that each actor gave a wonderful performance; and if you are looking to see a film that upon leaving the theater will make you feel happy and disturbed, then this is the film.   "},{"Title":"Sublimely wonderful Douglas and Maguire","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WONDER BOYS (2000) **** Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Frances McDormand, Robert Downey Jr., Katie Holmes, Rip Torn, Richard Thomas, Jane Adams, Michael Cavadias, Philip Bosco.Michael Douglas is not one of the best actors of comedy .until now.  In the adaptation of Michael Chabon's excellent novel of has-beens, chemical imbibing and a 2 day journey of self-discovery, he emerges as if an old pro in one memorable turn as its antihero, Grady Tripp (great name!)Tripp is - to make a funny here - having a bad trip in one disastrous day.  It begins when his (unseen) wife leaves him. From there it only gets worse.  Tripp is a tenured English professor at a Pittsburgh university and something of a has-been downward spiral loser (he once was praised as a `wonder boy' for his first novel of acclaim and has been 7 years down the road struggling to finish its behemoth (over 2000 pages) follow-up) who has many balls juggling in the air as a weekend of literary workshops awaits his presence namely his affair with his boss's wife, the Chancellor, Sara Gaskell (Mc Dormand giving another patented flawless performance) who announces with perfect timing that she's pregnant.  To make matters even worse, its at their cocktail party for a loquacious literary figurehead improbably known as `Q' (Torn, subdued avuncularity) and in tow are his ambisexual New York editor Terry Crabtree (the always welcome Downey) hounding him for a peek at his epic tome who has brought along a titaness of a transvestite (Cavadias) he met on the plane and Grady's two prized pupils, the warm, glowing (and obviously seductive) Hannah Green (the down right sexy baby fat sweet Holmes) and heir apparent, suicidally tormented chronic storyteller/liar James Leer (a star making turn by the incredible Maguire, showcasing his low-key subtle skills at full tilt).  Both are perfect..What ensues is a series of bad timing, unfortunate luck, a dead dog, mistaken identity, pill and alcohol binging (think a less venal `Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas'), secrets revealed, the pilfering of Marilyn Monroe's wedding coat (don't ask, trust me it works!) and gradually the understandment of a particularly Zen-like kwon  it doesn't matter what one thinks of another when it comes to being a creative, artistic genius.Douglas is a revelation as a bonafide movie-star allowing the actor he's always had inside (the last time I can recall a `real' character he's done is the ticking human time bomb in `Falling Down') by allowing to deglam his persona of a slick, lady-killing cocksure swaggardly handsome devil and here allow himself to be absorbed by a lumpy, pot-smoking, hazy for the future shlump who discovers the truth lies within.  And of course that little realization is by no means a slight since it is offered by the melancholic Maguire who exudes a spacey sadness when he's not busy polluting his body to cover his pain(s) or narrating his own assisted run to the men's room to recover (hilarious by the way).  His James Leer is Sancho Panza to Grady's Don Quixote in a twisted sense. Downey has fun as usual as the straw that stirs the drink of debauchery and chicanery that occurs.Filmmaker Steve Kloves (who was originally set to direct and is best known for his debut with the fabulous `The Fabulous Baker Boys') adapts the off-beat quirky novel excellently to the screen with some great dialogue and unique situations (i.e. how to make the bad joke of a dead dog a good running gag).Director Curtis Hanson, better known for gritty noir influenced flicks like `Bad Influence' and the Oscar-winning `L.A. Confidential' plumbs the depths of humanity through humor and succeeds by making it a fun-filled ride into the inner sanctum of all artists self-destruction is easy, self-acceptance isn't always.  "}{"Title":"Beware of All the Hype","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every now and then a movie comes along which all the leading critics give rave reviews about. But upon closer inspection it becomes obvious that all of the applause was much adieu about nothing. So it is with this film. Having just seen it, I must say that I was not impressed. Michael Douglas (as Professor Grady Tripp) gave an adequate performance. Nothing more and nothing less. Yet for some strange reason he was nominated for both a BAFTA Film Award and a Golden Globe. Good for him. But quite frankly, I don't understand why. Likewise, Frances McDormand won the BSFC Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance as Dean Sara Gaskell. Again, she performed adequately. But once again, I failed to see anything in her performance that was so outstanding or noteworthy. Then there is the matter of all the awards the film received which includes the BAFTA Film Award for Best Screenplay and a Golden Globe nomination for Best Motion Picture-Drama. Because of this, one might think that this was an extremely good movie which certainly had great acting and a dynamite plot as well. Well, I guess I must have been watching a different movie because to me this film was a meandering collection of characters and events which never seemed to coalesce around anything meaningful or tangible. For example, one of the college students named Hannah Green (Katie Holmes) apparently had a crush on Professor Tripp. Okay, things like that happen. But it was nothing more than a side-event that never really went anywhere and didn't add anything significant to the film or even matter in the grand scheme of things. That being the case, I thought Katie Holmes' talent was wasted in this movie. Another rather useless scenario involved a character named, Vernon Hardapple (Richard Knox) and his pregnant girlfriend, Oola (Jane Adams). Supposedly, Professor Tripp was riding around in a car that had been stolen from Vernon and he was completely unaware of it. Again, I fail to see the significance or humor in this as it adds nothing substantial to this film. Same thing with the names, Hardapple, Crabtree (Robert Downey Jr.) and Tripp (for the pot-smoking professor). Come on. Making fun of a person's last name is the kind of juvenile humor one might find in a grade school playground--but it doesn't belong in a big time motion picture. In short, this movie had some big actors in it and it received a lot of awards. That's all well and good. But I have the feeling that maybe the stars in this cast somehow influenced the critics because the film itself didn't seem that spectacular to me and I'm sure there were plenty of other films made that year which were more deserving and much better in comparison. If not, then it must have been a bad year for the motion picture industry. In any case, I'm satisfied to let the viewers make their own evaluation and I will end with one last thought Beware of all the hype. "},{"Title":"Literary Film","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Films about writers present directors and screenwriters with a rather unenviable task. Writing is an internal activity, thereby the rendering this activity in a visual medium can prove tedious for the audience. Most films about writers, then, tend to focus on biographical developments; writing is secondary to the overall plot. When these films also explore writing, they are gussied up (like Secret Window) with the trappings of other genres or they're dull (like The Hours).Sometimes, though, a director and screenwriter create a magical film about writers and writing that is not only entertaining and intelligent, but also fairly indicative of the writing process. The Man From Elysian Fields (a terrific contemporary morality play that has not received nearly enough attention) and this film are perfect examples.Wonder Boys is an absolute trip on every level; it's also an absolute treat. Curtis Hanson, as the director, reveals that his sure-handedness in LA Confidential was no fluke. He's even better here, eliciting fantastic performances from every actor and treating a rather zany concept with realism and dignity. This juxtaposition serves the story brilliantly, for, though it at times seems absurd, the absurdity never wanders overtakes the genuine and palpable emotions and perfect realism of the characters. Individual events occur in this movie that, without the previous 10 events, would be implausible. Given the narrative, though, the most insane developments follow the film's own logic. In this way, Wonder Boys is a screwball comedy for the 21st century, carrying on the spirit of Bringing Up Baby without, really, referencing those types of films overtly (which is whY Wonder Boys is far more successful than the Hudsucker Proxy). That Hanson can keep this situation under control is amazing.As mentioned above, Wonder Boys is also filled with amazing performances, particularly by Michael Douglas, who, though always a favorite of mine, never seems to pick roles that demand much of him. He gives Grady humor and humanity, which is precisely what Mr. Tripp needs. The other actors (Frances McDormand, Robert Downey Jr., Katie Holmes, and Tobey Maguire) all give performances that rival their best work. Though this is not surprising of Downey, McDormand, and Maguire, Holmes truly astounds. Sure, her portrayal of Libbets in the Ice Storm was excellent, but what about those other movies? She was okay, but they were undemanding roles. Thankfully, she has started taking on some more mature roles (Pieces of April for instance) and will, I think, surprise everyone in a couple years.I also have to commend the screen writing. As I said, writing a movie about writers and writing is difficult and Steven Kloves does an admirable job. What's even more impressive is his adaptation of Michael Chabon's great novel. Kloves cuts judiciously from the original text and maintains the spirit of the novel. That rarely occurs and this adaptation should be required reading for any budding screenwriter.Wonder Boys is a great and under-rated film; for me it's one of the five best released in this decade. It's sad, serious, funny, and bizarre. It's everything a relatively mainstream movie should be. "},{"Title":"An engaging, wonderful, inspiring motion picture--one of the years best. **** out of ****.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WONDER BOYS / (2000) ****Starring Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Frances McDormand, Katie Holmes, Robert Downey Jr., Rip Torn, and Richard Thomas Directed by Curtis Hanson. Written by Steve Kloves, based on the novel by Michael Chabon. Running time 112 minutes. Rated R (for strong drug use and for language).	I have always dreamed of becoming a professional writer for a living. Curtis Hanson's new comic drama, Wonder Boys, is as accurate and enriching to my opinions and hopes as any movie I have seen. This is a wonderful, inspiring motion picture--one of the years best. It is a movie that enlightens our culture and moves us passionately, while at the same time provides the audience with laughter and moral aspects. This is a great movie to start out the new year. 	The film stars the extraordinary Michael Douglas as a college professor named Grady Tripp, who is around fifty years old. He has written an award winning novel, Arsonist's Daughter,  seven years ago. Since, however, his follow up is drifting and unfocused, wondering over 2,600 single spaced pages in length. Although he does not believe in it, everyone thinks he has writer's block. 	There is an assortment of characters and events brilliantly portrayed within the film's setup, all surrounding Grady. His third wife recently left him, due to her loneliness. He is having an affair with the University's chancellor, Sara Gasket (Frances McDormand), who has become pregnant after several implied encounters and happens to be the wife of his boss, the chairman of the English department, Walter (Richard Thomas). A foreign, loony man, Vernon (Richard Knox), is furious over something to do with Tripp's automobile. His bisexual and antsy editor, Crabtree (Robert Downey Jr.), appearing with the company of a transvestite, desiring to take a look at Grady's long overdue writing piece, but uses the towns writer's conference as an ulterior motive. Also present, a high held writer named Q (Rip Torn), who raises the stress for Tripp, and two students of his, Hannah (Katie Holmes), who rents a room out of his house, and may even be willing to sleep with Grady, and his most brilliant author James Leer (Tobey Maguire), who bonds with him as the movie progresses. 	A lot occurs in Wonder Boys, and the plot is very labyrinthine, although it never becomes confused and always keeps its cool. The characters are perfectly defined and cast. Their intentions and motives are clear and developed with shape and gradual effectiveness. Curtis Hanson pays close attention to each separate character, giving them dimensional qualities, intelligence and depth. 	Complications arise when several key events take place. There is a Monroe artifact stolen from the chancellor's closet and her pet dog ends up shot to death when James defends Grady who is being attacked. These occurrences lead to bondings between Grady Tripp and James, Heather and just about every other character in the film. Heather says in one scene that Tripp's novel would be much better if he would lay off the marijuana usage. She is correct. Grady often lives under the influence, and this is just one of the ideas the film looks at, along with family dysfunction, adultery, abortions, theft, abuse, severe loss, and even violence. All these concepts apply to the morality of the movie.	The narrative through line enhances the story and characters thoroughly. Each scene propels the plot forward, either creating a new conflict or complicating a previous one. This film contains one of the most stolid structures I have seen all year. The conclusion of Wonder Boys is effectual and sums up everything in an apprehensive manor--and is of the same standards as its previous material. How rare is it to screen a movie when the finale is just as engaging as the overall story.Wonder Boys contains dialogue that is decisive and smart. It has a wickedly witty mood, but is still beautifully written and portrayed. Improving the production is the moody atmosphere of a light thriller--and it still overlaps with comic travesty. Although the film is more conceptual than actual, and empowered with overtones rather than reflexive relief, the laughs are still frequent, the intrigue is constant and the statement is clear.I also liked the film's visual style and cinematography. From the fitting soundtrack to the story's presentation, the atmospheres is absolutely mesmerizing from start to finish. Especially wonderful are the sequences in which it snows in the evening. The way the glistening white flakes drift gently down onto the ground from a peaceful and dark sky captures the characters emotional aspects is just stunning. Even the costuming, scenery, and tone are skillful. Michael Douglas, known for characters more active than Grady Tripp, is utterly marvelous here. James writes in a page of his work that Grady, who was once capable for inspiring a world, is now unable to inspire himself. This painfully true scene in captured flawlessly by his Oscar worthy performance. As he, and the other earth shattering performers, entice the audience, we feel much emotion for these characters. So much that we do not realize it until the closing credits role past. Brought to you by Paramount Pictures. "},{"Title":"One of the best films of the 2000s","Date":"24 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mostly ignored upon release and subsequently forgotten, this gem from 2000 is my favorite work from Curtis Hanson, who was deciding between directing this film and what was to be the Brett Ratner/Nic Cage film The Family Man. Good choice Mr. Hanson. The film was poorly marketed in the US and given a terrible release date in February and tanked, but psychotic producer Scott Rudin used his muscle to get the film re-released at the end of the year for Oscar consideration. It picked up a few nominations, but tanked again in the box office. This a is such a nice, warm and beautiful film that I find it puzzling that it also received a C cinemascore from audiences. That's a toxic exit poll and a death blow for word of mouth. There really isn't a moment in the film that feels false or out of place. It's constructed with such care and so beautifully shot by Dante Spinotti. Michael Douglas does his best work here and the man is in almost every frame of the film and he carries it like a pro. There isn't a false note in his performance and Grady Tripp is an unforgettable character. It's a simple film that takes place over a few days about characters going through complicated times in their lives and it never falls into sentiment or is condescending to the audience. It's almost perfect and it's very funny. "},{"Title":"A messy adaptation","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Alternating between an oddball comedy, a surreal thriller and a meditation on the nature of writing, Wonder Boys is an original and thought-provoking film that doesn't quite reach its goal. It's unclassifiable and virtually indescribable, yet all the stylistic tools it uses seem to come directly from any one of the genres it's comprised of; it doesn't do enough to create its own unique style, and therefore fails to focus and become a unique non-genre piece. In other words, it feels too often like a mainstream Hollywood affair, when it's anything but.Wonder Boys is adapted from a very early work by Michael Chabon, to my taste one of the finest American novelists of the last twenty years, and his lack of experience is felt in the script as it is in the novel. It's filled with lots of great ideas, but it lacks in that ever-important focus - and so remains unsatisfying. It's an interesting movie that's worth checking out, especially for those interested in writing and authors, but it's not likely to become an all-time favorite. "},{"Title":"More like WONDERFUL","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I could write a screenplay with the quality of one tenth of the movie Wonder Boys, I'd be enormously happy. If I could write a novel with a smidgen of one hundredth of the source material, Wonder Boys by Michael Chabon, I'd have died and gone to literary Heaven.This movie is literally perfect and is directed by Curtis Hanson, director of another one of my all time favorite movies L.A. Confidential. I love stories that take place in 24 (or less) hours, but willing to accept movies that span a life-altering weekend, in which this is.This movie is about growing, realizing, waking up, making choices&#x85;but mostly about characters.I side mostly with Prof. Grady Tripp, played elegantly by Michael Douglas. NO ONE could have done better. He's the college professor who everyone wants, who I would want. Not perfect by any means He smokes more pot than he eats munchies, he had a one-hit wonder (hence the title of the movie, a true wonder boy) but has hit a brick wall since and he's attempting just to make it through life without making a choice to make him think. Though it appears on the surface he doesn't care, he does have a dash of humanity left. There's something in him, some spark that's still alive, but barely.I see a lot of myself in him &#x96; even though I don't partake in the pot smoking. We both carry the empty shell of the person we were once. Only, this is fiction and in his life-changing weekend, as portrayed in the film, he grows and the spark gets brighter. If only we could imitate fiction.Then there's Terry Crabtree, the sometimes gay played beautifully by Robert Downey Jr. This is LONG before his career began, again that is. I admired him so much in this his quick wit, his never-ending believability in his acting and that all shot Downey Jr. straight to the top ten of my Best Actors list. In addition, I began noticing another up'n'comer little closer Tobey Maguire. Though he was really good in his James Leer role, he seemed like he wasn't quite there yet. Read the book and you'll experience the depth this character really had. In Wonder Boys, Maguire did add humor, humility and originality, but he eventually would show all of those qualities greater in later projects.The remaining crew were good but were always in the shadows of the above mentioned characters. Rip Torn was wonderful in his Great Writer Extraordinaire role. Frances McDormand was acceptable as the mistress, Sara, with issues of her own. The weakest link, but still watchable, was Katie Holmes as Hannah Green as the seductive student housemate of Tripp with blatantly obvious motivations, though she really set the tone and balanced the Leer character when they joined the screen or mentioned each other.Beyond the fantastic characters was the excellent script, the cinematography, the freeness and freshness of the characters, the great symbolism of the bridges &#x96; really notice how many there were, and why, the dialogue was pitch perfect, the humor makes me roll each time and the pacing absolutely dead on. It's slow, but it makes you really fit into these lives. They couldn't have sped it up a second more or slowed it down any further. You get enthralled in growing with them, experiencing and seeing what they endure and yearn for a better outcome for all involved.Let's jump back to Tripp. He's a middle-to-late aged male. He's got it together (prior to the weekend in the movie) but he's also VERY human. The movie begins as the Professor defends his student Leer in his dark tales of literature. Prior to this his wife has left him, for good, supposedly. His mistress is both pregnant and married to his boss and she disavows not only his pot smoking lifestyle but his aimless ambition. He tries to make the right decisions, but fails, then just acts like someone half his age to make up and continue what his younger self would've done. Have a fun adventure.His mission is to save James Leer from self destruction. It's painfully obvious; he's really in it to save himself, but nevertheless leaves a good enough impression on the boy (Leer) to do some good in the world while balancing his love (Sara,) the nagging of his failing publisher, keeping his job and his roommate at bay. Heck, I didn't even mention the dog or car. There really is a lot packed in to this movie and in reality, if he were to step back, this would not have been the weekend to change. But&#x85;there we go.All this depth, all this wonderful filmmaking with heart and yet, it still manages to fit in a fantastic soundtrack which includes one of my all-time favorite songs, let alone one of my all-time favorite movie-songs Things Have Changed by Bob Dylan. I didn't grow up Dylan, but this (like Johnny Cash's The Man Comes Around from Dawn of the Dead) opened my eyes wide.As I began this review, I pointed out I couldn't write anywhere near the quality of this film. In reality, I don't care. I write what I write. They write how they see fit. Stepping aside, I truly admire both this screenplay and performances. They captured enough of one of the greatest books I've ever read to truly capture what the essence of the original story portrayed. My advice See the movie and then experience the book. Your life will be enhanced. "},{"Title":"A Writers Movie","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" With subtle nuances such as Grady trying to validate himself as a writer by saying tired clichés, It's the kind of house you want to wake up in on Christmas, Wonder Boys is a brilliant picture. The great Curtis Hanson, which for my money, is the one of the most consistently excellent director working, makes this film have a wonderful feel, which is important because the words on a page have texture, feeling and purpose. He makes it palpable.The performances are spectacular. Toby Maguire works his boy-childness with subtle perfection. Robert Downey Jr. devours this character up and becomes another memorable, quotable, relatable entity on film. How does he do it? And of course, two solids Michael Douglas and Frances McDormand. It's funny how smaller, lesser known films that are of great quality like this don't need an ad campaign that leaves everyone nauseous with dilution (I've seen the preview so often, if they were showing the film I would be out by now), destroy the drum to let you know what great singer(s) cum actor(s) are in this spectacle, or how extreme we can be for the sake of a plot. Wonder Boys is about people. People who are at the juncture. It's like a group of friends that came to school, live together in a house, share great times, and will part, only to have the memories. The time will never be genuine again; only the memory. This film is about that juncture. What's more to say except if more films were like this, I would be seeing more films in the theater. Simple, not trying to overextend, everyone has a story, or in the right hands, they can make a up a great one for you. Even the President of the James Brown Hair Club.There's a reason the best films at the academy awards are the ones up for Best Screenplay 10/10 "},{"Title":"A Wonder of a movie","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  2000 was a great year for Michael Douglas.  He hit pay dirt with two critically acclaimed movies.  The box office hit Traffic and a not-seen-by-many-gem Wonder Boys.  And that's a shame because this is one terrific movie.  Douglas who usually plays arrogant characters is a down on his luck professor who has been trying for seven years to write a follow up novel.  But he spends much of his time smoking marijuana, that is when he's not fooling around with the dean's wife.  All this comes to a head in one hellish weekend when his wife leaves him, his girlfriend (Frances McDormand) tells him she's pregnant, his zany editor Crabtree is in town (Robert Downey Jr.) from New York and wants his novel (he's nowhere near being finished), and he gets involved in a hilarious crime with his talented-but-troubled student James Leer (Tobey Maguire).  This is one of those rare movies where everything works.  Everything.  The screenplay is brilliant.  We find Douglas caught in one funny situation after another. Take note of where the movie is shot.  It's set in Pittsburgh during the winter and the inclement weather is a reflection of the doom and gloom that inhabits the Professor's world.  It's great to see actors who've established themselves by playing certain type of characters, flip it around and convincingly portray characters that are the exact opposite of all those established roles (Think Jim Carrey in the Truman Show or Robin Williams in One Hour Photo).  Douglas absolutely shines.  Gone is the vanity, the cockiness.  His Professor Tripp is haggard, wears frumpy clothes, and walks with a limp (I won't explain how).  Maguire is perfection as Leer.  I literally forgot I was watching the future SpiderMan.  I truly respect him as an actor because he never overacts.  Most young actors would have tried to force emotion into the characer but he didn't.  He constantly kept me on edge because he's so mysterious.  I didnt know if I was to like the guy or to not trust a single word that came out of his mouth.  Robert Downey Jr. steals every scene he's in.  Because he's constantly in the news due to his drug problem, I actually forgot what an amazing actor he is.  To round it out McDormand, Katie Holmes, and Rip Torn were all great too.  This is one of those movies where it's funny because of the performances.  The nuances of the characters, it's very subtle.  It's an anti-Farrelly Brothers comedy.  And that's a good thing.  A very good thing.  My only disappoinment is the fact that it's not ranked on IMDB Top 250.  One of the best movies of 2000 and it's nowhere to be found and yet the latest brain dead installment of Star Wars Attack of the Clones has cracked the top 250. How bizarre!!!   10 out 10 "},{"Title":"Who Dropped the Ball?","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What the Hell is going on here? Wonder Boys is one of the best movies of 2000, and I'd hardly heard of it before I rented it a month ago. When I subsequently researched it on IMDb I found that, while the critics loved it, it flopped at the box office. Why was that? Is it the producers, BBC, being not-for-profit, don't know how to market a movie? With A Beautiful Mind, Ron Howard and DreamWorks have proved that small, well-crafted movies can bring in the patrons, lots of them...and the awards. Wonder Boys is in that class. Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Robert Downey, Jr., and Frances McDormand all give solid performances. The story, a dark comedy, is well told and directed. There's no reason why this movie should not have been box office gold as well as Oscar gold. Whoever was responsible for promoting this movie, shame on you. Find another profession.  "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of 2000","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As the years go on, the academy is getting more and more out of tune with actual great movies and is instead nominating mainstream garbage. This was especially apparent in the 2000 ceremony where a summer blockbuster, a popcorn movie, won the coveted best picture Oscar. Gladiator was entertaining, a movie with a large head, but no brain. It was a movie you watch and forget about the next day, and it won. Truth be told, the year 2000 was not a great year for the movies. Coming off a spectacular 1999 year in which we saw at least 15 great films, 2000 was rather uneventful. But there were 5 great movies, and only two were nominated for best picture. Traffic and Crouching Tiger were nominated, and the other three were almost completely snuffed in every category. Almost Famous, You Can Count On Me, and finally Wonder Boys were the rest of the best and were ignored by the fools at the academy. It's almost a toss up as to which film was THE best, but my personal favorite was Wonder Boys (Though I treasure the other four greatly). Michael Douglas is stunning in what is, in my not so humble opinion, by far his best performance and role ever. He is spectacular and with each scene he out does what he did in the last one. The supporting cast is also stellar and compliments Douglas perfectly. I loved the screen play. I even read it twice after viewing the movie and I've never read a script in my life. The cinematography is also excellent and the directing is flawless (same guy who did L.A. Confidential, another classic). Well, just watch this movie if you haven't seen it and enjoy a great film (also check out the other 4 I mentioned). "}{"Title":"Like dark humor?","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An outstanding movie.  If you're a fan of weird, dark humor, you'd definitely find this to be a good movie.  Michael Douglas is his usual great self and Tobey Maguire, Francis McDormand, Robert Downey Jr. and Katie Holmes round out an awesome ensemble cast.  It definitely resonates a little better if you're in academia, but even a casual viewer would find it entertaining. "},{"Title":"Wonder-ful","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Professor Grady Tripp has an eventful weekend as he finds out his girlfriend (who's married by the way) is pregnant, has his loony editor pursuing his long awaited book (which just passed the 2000 word mark), gets stuck with a terminally melancholy student (who shoots his girlfriend's husband's dog) and a cutie-pie student who has a major crush on him.Incredibly well written and entertaining comedy/drama with a dream cast who all hit their peak here. Douglas wasn't even this good in Wall Street as the pot smoking Professor who had a hit novel seven years ago and is struggling with the follow-up. Douglas's Tripp is a unique character and he truly excels here. Tobey Maguire is sensational as Tripp's possibly suicidal student who's a future Wonder Boy in the works, an exceptionally talented writer dealing with existential angst. Robert Downey Jr. is also excellent (as always) as Tripp's bi-sexual slightly loony editor.The script is funny, dramatic, insightful and full of delightful unexpected turns. The characters are well defined, beautifully realized and multi-dimensional and grow considerably in the course of the film. The music is great, well chosen to suit the situations and includes the Oscar winning Bob Dylan track Things have changed.Wonder Boys is one of those few films where everything falls completely in place. "},{"Title":"Great movie.","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" (warning possible spoilers) This is a warm character driven movie. Douglas and Tobey do some of the best acting I have ever seen on film. The dialog between Douglas and Downey Jr. throughout the movie is great. It's refreshing to hear the intelligence used between the two. I have viewed this numerous times and it's still fun to watch. Just a great literary adaption that takes us over the course of a weekend where things aren't going to well for all of the main characters. However, the mishaps that occur open up a newer and more clearer meaning to each of these characters lives. The movie also captures the cold dreary weather in pittsburgh and it's surrounding area's. Pot is something that Douglas' character Grady Tripp uses a lot and which causes him to have what he calls episodes where he passes out. The movie has a lot going on for just being centered over the course of a winter weekend. "},{"Title":"quirky college comedy","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If I could find any flaw in this movie, that would make me kind of a jerk, you know?Wonder Boys is a sharp, original comedy for grown-ups. It is a great analysis of the different stages of life, among people who share the same passions. Douglas' character is middle aged and a bit stuck and dissatisfied, Holmes' character is young and wide-eyed and full of ambition. Maguire, who gives such a great, enigmatic performance as James Leer, is gifted but troubled. He possesses most of the film's quirks, as does Downey, Jr., who seems like something out of Leer's imagination of who he wants to be. These two have such great chemistry!! It's rare that a movie like this is made at all, let alone in Hollywood, with major stars, but I'm glad they did make it. I think gem is the perfect word to use to describe this movie. "},{"Title":"Narrative wise not great but a good character piece","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Grady Tripp is a writing teacher and writer.  His first novel caused a splash but that was seven years ago and he has had writer's block since. To make is life harder, his wife leaves him, his lover announces she is pregnant, his protégé goes off the rails (or claims to) and his editor turns up with his transvestite lover looking for a book.I missed this at the cinema but had heard good things about it and the cast seemed to suggest a very good film.  The plot summary is a little more than a summary of the various little happenings within the film as that is as close to a narrative flow as I could do.  The plot here is not that good and is spread over characters who come and go like players in a sketch rather than people.  What the film actually does well is a look at the character of Grady and the learning experience that these various little events bring him to.While this is weakened by the lack of a strong, traditional plot it is not weakened to the point that it doesn't work - it would only have worked better with a better plot.  As it is, it still manages to be quite bitter sweet and interesting enough to keep watching.  I considered it a disadvantage that the sketch-like events were more comic than anything else when the central character had more of a touch of the tragic to him - these were not balanced very well and the comic took something away from the more tragic character, but it still worked reasonably well.Douglas gave one of his best performances here - he is sensitive and understated and he plays it without glamour the whole way.  The support cast are also all good, even if some of them have very little to really do in the grand scheme of things.  Downey Jnr is in fine comic form but his actual character is more of a mystery.  Maguire is a good actor but he plays his cards too close to his chest and the script isn't as interested in him as it suggests by the first half of the film, leading to the feeling that he has just been forgotten in the later stages.  Holmes is cute but very sidelined and it is very much Douglas' film in line with the character-over-plot focus of the film.Overall this is a rather more low-key film than the heavy cast list would suggest and it may prove a bit disappointing to some viewers as a result. As a little character piece though, this film is actually pretty good even if I felt that the overall narrative was very fragmented and didn't totally flow the way I would have hoped it would. "},{"Title":"Perfect, quirky, polished and cool, cool, cool","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Can I just say how much I thoroughly enjoyed this film???  Fantastic.  I don't know what happened to Curtis Hanson, but he's obviously had two lives before LA Confidential and after LA Confidential.  First off, the script was awesome, I couldn't find a flaw in the story anywhere.  And Michael Douglas?  Not that I don't love him in thrillers, but man, it was great to see him do something different and do it so well.  I think it's probably the most endearing character he's played to date.  And utterly convincing in the process.  Katie Holmes is obviously a very shrewd young actress, she continues to avoid teen movie leads and take interesting supporting roles in quality film and I'm sure this will only end up working in her favor. Frances McDormand, who is brilliant in her own right was wonderful and firm and quirky - a perfect fit.  And Tobey was customed made for the part of James Leer.  Forget Spiderman, yeah, I know it made tons at the box office and was fun to watch but this is an infinitely better showcase for his talent and gives him his own niche.  Hanson (may I kiss the ground you walk on for giving me this film?) really made a great film.  I know I already said it above, but I really was impressed.  And whoever wrote this, now that's talent.  From the blind dog, to 'Vernon' to Marilyn Monroe to the novel that never ends, the whole thing was just a joy to watch.  I haven't enjoyed a movie that I could compare to this since Nobody's Fool with Paul Newman (another outstanding film).You know it's a good film when you're in the midst of hell and your spirits are down and after sitting for 2 hours watching a film, you get up and feel like the world might still be an okay place and all is not lost.  That's what Wonder Boys did for me and I can tell it's one of the movies that I'll probably watch many times over as the years go by.  Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful.  I can't recommend this film highly enough. "},{"Title":"A unique comedy with likable characters and a great plot.","Date":"25 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder Boys is a unique comedy that lets you see what the characters are going through. The movie presents itself a pleasant and strange characters and see what is about to occur in every little bit. Wonder Boys achieves to be both a delightful character study and also a stunning success directed into a nice joint piece. It is fairly uplifting to see characters cooperate, contrast,connect, laugh, and mostly do things that appear in full honesty. While it's not a flawless movie, Wonder Boys is applauded for its sharp and smart script and bountiful of great acting. Grady is having a bumpy day. His wife left him, his girlfriend is pregnant, he has an attractive looking student whom rents a room from him, and his editor shows up at his city with a transvestite, and one of his students shows up at a party with a gun. As the viewers, we're in for one hell of entertaining ride.When a flick like Wonder Boys works in nearly all sizes, the greatest attention is rewarded to the actors and actresses. Michael Douglas was pleasant to watch in this movie. Frances McDormand modestly glosses. Katie Holmes was all-out excellent in her character. She's relaxed and smart, and a harsh one as well. As continuously, Robert Downey Jr. is funny and hazardous. He accepts much jeopardy as an actor. The one who mounted out the most for me is Tobey Maguire, smart, shy, weird, and funny was the type of character he played. The kind of guy you stay away from if you were to encounter one in school.Wonder Boys prepares what any upright film would do It provides characters to like and a script that expresses a charming story. "},{"Title":"9 of 10 just for the soundtrack","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I gave this a 9 of 10 because the soundtrack is just incredible. Bob Dylan's Oscar song Things Have Changed and others, Tom Rush, Junior Walker and the All Stars, Clarence Carter's Slip Away, Buffalo Springfield, Tim Hardin, John Lennon, Neil Young, and Leonard Cohen, to name a few. Not just that the tunes included are so great, they are, but what makes them great is how they are used seamlessly in the support of the movie to the point that you almost forget they are playing. The story is good, tight, goofy, wry, poignant, and often funny. And an object lesson that even when all the wrong choices have been made, there is always time to make right ones, and that makes all the difference. Cast is, as many have said, luminous. Well and tightly written, great performances, editing, and photography, even the weather gods seem to have given their best to this gem.But it is not for everyone.It is the anti-box office movie. And thank goodness for it! "},{"Title":"Movie About a Midlife Crisis That I Actually Liked","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A terrific film from Curtis Hanson (director and co-writer of L.A. Confidential), starring Michael Douglas as a college professor in the grips of a midlife crisis.Midlife crises as subjects for movies or books generally bore me unless they're written and acted extremely well, as is the case with this movie. Douglas gets able help from the ever-reliable Robert Downey, Jr., who has a couple of hilarious scenes, and a great theme song written and performed by Bob Dylan that won Dylan the Academy Award.The film also received Oscar nominations for its adapted screenplay and its film editing.Grade A "},{"Title":"Off-Beat, Genuinely Unpredictable","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must say, this is certainly a hidden gem. Whenever I mention Wonder Boys to my friends, they look at me as if I'd just recommended watching some made-for-TV Disney film (which, given the title, okay, I see where they're coming from).THIS is brilliant!!! So off-color! I absolutely adore quirky films like this. Yes, the kind of film that less than twenty people have actually heard of, and that less than ten actually saw. So pleased to see Tobey Maguire in this film...NOT playing his typical quiet-boy-meets-girl-out-of-his-league, as he has obviously mastered in nearly every other film of his. Brilliant, detached (as you'll probably read in the other comments), although I think that, from what I've heard about acting, it would be harder to play a role so withdrawn and mysterious. You can't give anything, even when you have gifted performers like Michael Douglas and Robert Downey Jr. just letting it loose.And speaking of Robert Downey Jr.--can we say crack up? Anybody who is a Downey fan will love this. Even if you've never heard of Downey (he's Ironman, for those of you who have yet to see Chaplin), you'll like him in this film. Or hate him. Give or take.Very, very quirky. And funny. Most people who only glance at this film on the shelf mistake it for some disturbing or nondescript drama. No, it is definitely a comedy, and a hysterical one at that. "}{"Title":"Has to be watched more than once","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I first saw Wonder Boys, I had forgotten about it in a couple of weeks. The story didn't stay stuck in my head and desperately I searched my memory for the ending. Without results. So when it came on TV again, I decided to have another look and the more I watched, the more the movie came back to me and struck me with its greatness. First of all, there is a great cast. I can't honestly remember a movie where I didn't like Michael Douglas. He always gets so deep into his character, that I don't have the slightest idea of how he must be like in real life. For example If they ever wanted to remake a movie that originally starred Michael Douglas, they would have a whole lot of trouble finding someone that could portray Douglas' character as he himself did. Tobey Maguire proves he can act in this movie, although I wonder if he will ever play a non-geeky character. Don't get me wrong, he's great at playing geeks (although here he's more of a geek-freak), but I think he can handle a greater variety of roles (not immediately a bad-ass gangster, though). Robert Downey Jr. then. Well he has always a kind of style around him that makes him a little less ordinary than other characters. He definitely played the most eccentric character in this movie, apart from Maguire then. It was always left unclear whether he was gay or not, but he certainly didn't seem to care. Frances McDormand is always good at playing the housewife (Fargo, North Country to name a few) and I like the way her character always says what she thinks. She's very sincere and that's what makes her character Sara so strong. She wasn't the kind of university rector as one would imagine. A lot more flexible, without ignoring the rules of course, and in more direct contact with the students. Personally I have never seen the rector of my university. And of course Katie Holmes was there to play the teen seductress as she seems to do a lot (The Gift, Thank You For Smoking) and well&#133;she's good at it.Now about the story. There isn't really one particular plot line or it would be Michael Douglas basically screwing up everything. The movie was more like a series of events, one event being even stranger than the other. At the beginning Douglas's character had some trouble with his wife, but apart from that he seemed to be fine with himself, being under the influence for most of the time. But then things start getting so out of hand that he seems to be unable to set things straight. Without spoiling to much He's in a lot of trouble. Also he has taken up the responsibility of taking care of James, who turns out to be either a genius or a nut. Their various conversations, although interesting to hear, never seemed to help anything or go somewhere. James's background was never cleared up, so the audience has a slight idea of what's going on, but never gets to see the whole picture. I liked that. In my opinion, stories don't always have to be explained in full. It leaves the viewer to develop his own interpretation, if he/she is willing to do so. Also, it is never said what 'Arsonist's Daughter' or Grady's new book is about, which also contributes to the vagueness of the characters's backgrounds. Without calling it 'plot twists' (a term that is tossed around too much these days) there are always unexpected things happening. If one would claim this movie is predictable, he couldn't be more wrong. People would except Grady to publish his book and getting involved with Hannah, but none of that happens. It is a very surprising movie I can say. To throw some more adjectives at it Tragic and warming at the same time. Funny and sad at the same time. The movie has great dialogue too and about Curtis Hanson Well I can only say he's a very versatile director. This isn't at all like L.A. Confidential or The River Wild, I wouldn't say it's better, because there is, in my opinion, no way you can compare Wonder Boys to the afore-mentioned movies. Still it is refreshing, interesting, intelligent and very entertaining. Like the movie you can sit back and concentrate to at the same time. Well, I won't forget it so fast this time and if I do, I'll gladly watch it again.Overall 8/10 "},{"Title":"Small Brilliant Gem","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Director Curtis Hansen received both the audience and the critics praises with his 1997 masterpiece L.A. Confidential. In what seemed like an odd career move after that success, he went to direct this small low-budget comedy based on a novel about the misfortunes of a writer during one weekend. While the plot doesn't sound like a comedy, Wonder Boys is in fact a very good one, mixing drama and humor spiced up with a bit of satire with amazing results.Now, Wonder Boys plot is wonderful in its simplicity. It is a character driven story that follows Grady Tripp (wonderfully played by Michael Douglas) as his wife lefts him in the beginning of what could be the worst weekend of his life. Tripp is not only a writer with marital problems, he has a writing workshop in the University of Pittsburgh, and has just found out that his job is in danger when his girlfriend Sara (Frances McDormand) tells him that she is pregnant. The problem? She is the wife of his boss.If that wasn't enough, his editor (Robert Downey Jr.) visits him hoping that his never ending book is finished, and for bizarre circumstances, one of his students, James Leer (Tobey Maguire), joins him in a wild weekend that will change their lives.Now, this is not cheap slapstick comedy, this is a brilliantly crafted character study that explores the life of Tripp, this common man that suddenly has to deal with the world he had been avoiding. Michael Douglas gives one of the best performances of his life as Tripp; he totally owns the character and is truly believable as this mature man that suddenly is forced to awake, as if he had been in a long coma.The strange collection of supporting characters are outstanding and every cast member does a great job. Frances McDormand makes a remarkable performance, but Tobey Maguire as the genius James Leer and Robert Downey Jr. as his weird editor Crabtree really steal every scene they are in. Katie Holmes plays Hannah Green, another of Tripp's students who secretly admires him in more than one way; her part is small but she gives a fine performance too.Hansen's direction is subtle, but very appropriate considering the story's setting. The movie flows very easily and it is never hard to understand the problems of the characters, in fact, it is very easy to feel identified with them. Truly, this is a very well crafted movie.The most well known part of the movie is probably that its song won an Oscar. Bob Dylan's song fits perfectly the theme of the movie, things change and we must change with them, not isolate ourselves. The never ending book is the perfect analogy to this. Tripp continues writing a book just to have something to do, not because he really wants to finish it.Wonder Boys was a very pleasant surprise, its light tone and funny dark humor are improved by the outstanding cast and their remarkable performances. It is a shame that this movie is not as well known as Hansen's other work because, this movie is of a very high level. 7/10. Very Recommended. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining from start to finish","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After the deserved sensational success of L.A. Confidential, director Curtis Hanson came up with the vastly different Wonder Boys. Once again his feel for character and storytelling are handled with an amazing surety. If there was any doubting his formidable talents as a one time affair, they are certainly rebuffed in this terrific movie.As with the best movies, like good music, the sequences flow wonderfully without any superfluity. When that happens you know the man (or woman) at the helm is doing something very right. This rightness elicits from Michael Douglas a performance that must surely rate as one of his finest. His understanding of the foibles and faults of his character are played with a subtlety and vulnerability not often apparent in his work. It's very much his movie, though he is given wonderful support by Tobey Macguire, Francis McDormand, Robert Downey Jr. and Katie Holmes. Shot beautifully in an icy winter setting, Wonder Boys has an infectious warmth about it. At times funny, at times moving, it's entertaining from start to finish.   "},{"Title":"Terrific","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film has much to recommend. The story was interesting from the onset and Michael Douglas gives an exceptional performance as an eccentric professor who questions the things he thought mattered to him. Downey Jr. is also excellent as his wacky editor. Maguire seems to have approached his character much the same he did his role in the Cider House Rules. He's a genius, again, and he deadpans a lot, again, except this time he's a compulsive liar. The female characters aren't really developed too much. But then this isn't their movie, it is the Wonder Boys.' 9/10. "},{"Title":"the most realistic screwball comedy I've ever seen","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Roger Ebert in effect called this movie a screwball movie slowed down to real life time, and I'd have to agree.  Thought of out of context, some of the plot elements are just over the top, but the director and actors put a veneer or reality over the wackiness, which works surprisingly well. Michael Douglas and Robert Downey Jr are great in particular.  The tone is pitch-perfect for the first two-thirds, but in the last third some of the realism I praised earlier begins to lag and some scenes feel somewhat over the top.  Still, overall it's a refreshing movie with unique characters -- highly recommended.  8.5/10. "},{"Title":"A touch overrated, but still excellent","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The most emotionally engaging films get the viewer to hold a vested interest in the characters for their entire running time.  Regrettably, Wonder Boys doesn't quite manage this, but its second half is strong enough to pull the film together. While Steve Kloves' script (from Michael Chabon's novel) is entertaining all the way though, the characters take a while to really stick, and the film's first section is rather cold as a result.  As the audience follows Grady Tripp's voyage of self-discovery, though, we actually come to know him as he comes to know himself, and his relationships with others - in particular his student James Leer and editor Terry Crabtree - really open up.  It is here that the film becomes incredibly warm, and where it wins the viewer over.  A host of top-shelf performances - from Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Frances McDormand, and Robert Downey Jr. (apologies to Katie Holmes, but her character is really underdrawn) - certainly help things along. "},{"Title":"WONDER-FUL BOYS","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of Michael Douglas' best roles, right up there with FALLING DOWN and THE GAME. A wonderful, very funny, beautifully written movie. Able supporting cast headed by Robert Downey Jr., who becomes all the more tragic when we realize what he is capable of when he's not drugging and drinking. (Ironically, he's doesn't seem to be drugging and drinking along with Douglas and Maguire in this film!) Not the kind of movie one would have expected from Curtis (L.A. CONFIDENTIAL) Hanson, by the way. "},{"Title":"Subtle, heartwarming rib-tickler...","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not much needs to be said about this movie except that it is entirely wonderful. Curtis Hanson (LA Confidential) has made a delightful, mature, downbeat and honestly funny film.Robert Downey Jr plays a pharmaceutical-junky-homo-literary agent who comes to town to check on the progress of one-hit-wonder Michael Douglas's new novel. Sounds simple? Que frozen streets, lunatic jockeys, a dog corpse, katie holmes and lots of strong green weed.Douglas, Maguire and Downey are wonderful together as the motley crew who rampage through the sleepy college town, and Francis McDormand is her usual oscar-winning self. Look out for Rip Torn's bone-achingly funny lecture, too. Classic script writing.If you're tired of Hollywood trying to make you laugh, let this low-key gem restore your faith in the movies. Deserves to be absolutely huge. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas gives one of his best performances to date as a University teacher having a mid-life crisis of sorts in this extremely well done film from LA Confidential director Curtis Hanson.  During the course of a weekend Douglas has to deal with his wife who just left him, his girlfriend (Francis McDormand) who's pregnant, an editor (Robert Downey Jr.) who wants to see his new 2000 page book, a dead dog, and a flirtatious student (Katie Holmes).  But that's not all.  Toby Maguire gives a wonderful performance as a complex student who is just as confused with life as Douglas, if not more.   Wonder Boys was released back in February but then postponed from video, while it was re-released back in theatres in hopes of catching the Academy's attention.  Unfortunately the Academy was to stupid to know what a good film was and passed it up.  But perhaps it is for the best.  For Wonder Boys seems like the kind of film that works best on video.  Its not a Roman epic, its not based on a true story, and its not the feel good movie of the year.  What it is is a smart, funny, well written, down to earth story about a man struggling with life's problems and trying to find himself in the process.    NOTE features a great soundtrack with new recordings from Bob Dylan. "},{"Title":"Both smart and funny, you can't miss with this one.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have read so many good reviews about this movie, that I decided to watch it and see what my opinion would be. Indeed this is both interesting and unique. Not your typical Hollywood movie ... Great I hear you say? then you will probably enjoy this greatly. Give it a try.Michael Douglas (Grady Tripp), delivers another outstanding performance, as the professor/writer living in Pittsburgh. Who is struggling with writer's block, his third wife leaving him, and if thats not enough ... his married mistress is pregnant! In the meantime, his agent arrives to pressure him to finish a novel seven years in the writing. Disaster strikes. Over the weekend, instead of making choices, he runs around with his agent and a student doing nothing. He seems unable to cope with what he is facing. One of his students, James Leer (Tobey Maguire) causes him more trouble with his unstable character. James Leer is very good as Tobey. He takes full marks.Wonder Boys is a movie packed with wisdom and morality. It should teach you something, if you look deep inside it. Well done Curtis Hanson ... even if the brilliant cast did help a lot. Lets see more of movies like this. More drama and less action please. At least it makes you think. Black comedies are cool. Both smart and funny, you can't miss with this one.8/10 "}{"Title":"Light and Breezy Pathos","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is rare that a film can point out the absurdities in life without becoming absurd itself.It is rare that a film can point out the pathos without becoming pathetic.It is rare that a film can have characters with depth without bogging the viewer down with them.The Wonder Boys achieves all of these. The story has moments of absurdity, but they are the absurdities of life. The elements of pathos are real without wallowing in self pity; it is first and foremost a comedy. The characters are alive, constantly shattering our first, and second, impressions of them. We come to know them as people.Michael Douglas turns in one of his best performances, buoyed by a strong supporting cast featuring Frances McDormand, Robert Downey Jr., and Tobey Maguire. Curtis Hanson's direction is firm and confident without being overt. The comedic timing is excellent.  "},{"Title":"One great, messed up movie!","Date":"30 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie has everything anyone could ever want. I sum it up with four words it is screwed up. The entertainment keeps on coming, not once does this film become boring. That is mostly due to the perfermances by Douglas and McGuire. The storyline, however improbable, is fantastically done in Chabon's novel and in this movie. After one gets done watching this movie, they can only wish that their life had that much 'stuff' in it - that it could be that action-packed. Perhaps that action is a little negative for the characters, but for the viewers, it is fanatstic. "},{"Title":"Some of the best dialogue of 2000","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Enjoyable and well paced film about a university prof (Douglas) who, along with his co-stars, goes through a series of odd and unpleasant events over the course of a few days. Some of the best dialogue of 2000 and never boring. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Engaging tale of a missing jacket, a dead dog and an unfinished novel!","Date":"21 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Wonder Boys is Curtis Hanson's first project since the Oscar winning L.A Confidential. This charming, realistic film is set in Pittsburgh and concerns a burnt out, philandering, dope smoking author/ professor.Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) is struggling with relationships, his next book and troublesome student, James Leer (Tobey Maguire).Throw in an infatuated Katie Holmes who lodges with Tripp, a sexually confused editor (Robert Downey Jr) who is relying on Tripp's next book to keep his career afloat and a missing jacket formerly belonging to Marilyn Monroe, and a great tale ensues!Professor Tripp is faced with informing the police on the wherabouts of the Monroe jacket, which is the college Chancellor's husband's prized posession, stolen by Leer. Pheww, quite a mouthful. He must also face the fact that he's in love with the chancellor's wife who is pregnant with his child. The usual Hollywood glitziness and preposterous story lines are thankfully absent here as director, Hanson and Douglas offer the audience a wonderful story of a troubled yet bizarrely and highly likeable college professor.The whole cast are superb and play off each other exceedingly well, which makes for a must see film, which also has a must hear soundtrack comprising of new Bob Dylan songs that reestablish the entertainer's musical and poetic genius. I'm sure older fans will disagree passionately, but I don't care as it's still pretty damn cool to hear new Dylan stuff. I almost forgot to mention the bizarre character who jumps on the professor's car, claiming it as his own and puts a dent on the hood. It's worth seeing the film just for the comical hilarity of this James Brown lookalike!To round up, the film offers a relaxed and naturally funny Michael Douglas in a touching story and it seems Douglas, like his acting friend, Jack Nicholson, has found a film where it's as good as it gets.  "},{"Title":"What American Beauty should have been.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Instead of a dreary film full of characters no one could like, doing nothing anyone could support, this film is about characters confronting their dreary, self-destructive lives, and (in varying degrees) overcoming them. American Beauty tried to make the absurdity and loneliness of the modern human condition into a reason to love our pain.  That was poppycock, but there were so many disaffected stereotypes in that film that everyone was sure to identify with someone, unless they were well-adjusted or happy. That kind of thing sells, I guess.  Here, the characters have less extreme problems, and are none of them so one-dimensional.  We see professors and students, dealing with recognizably real problems and doing so in ways that are feasible, if not commonplace.  They don't solve all of them, but they end up mostly better off, and do so by admitting they aren't all perfect. Along the way, it's pretty funny, when it wants to be.  My only gripe is that the main character solves his commitment issues at the cost of an off-screen character who, if made visible, would have been a sympathetic victim of his solution.  But, sometimes life is like that, which is something you can't say about American Beauty. "},{"Title":"Criminally ignored, but will stand the test of time!","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every year gives us at least a few films that seem to fly over the heads and under the radar of the general public, and then, as time marches on, people rediscover them and say to themselves, How could I have possibly missed THIS?!  WONDER BOYS is one such film.While I remember this movie getting above-average or great reviews when it came out last year, for some reason I missed it.  I finally rented it last night and was so pleasantly surprised that it's now on my personal list of the top films of 2000, right up there with CROUCHING TIGER HIDDEN DRAGON, TRAFFIC, ALMOST FAMOUS and ERIN BROCKOVICH.  Anyone else reading this like those films?  Then run right out and rent WONDER BOYS right now!Just look at the cast!  Michael Douglas, Frances McDormand, Tobey Maguire, Katie Holmes, Robert Downey Jr., Rip-freakin'-Torn?!?!  How can you resist this after just that list of names?  Hey, even Richard Thomas (John-boy from The Waltons) puts in an appearance!I'm quite frankly amazed at some of the other comments below.  I don't know what film they were expecting, but it most definitely is NOT slow, boring or pretentious.  It's perfectly-paced, with lots of amusing or flat-out hysterical twists and turns, and above all, honest and mature.  DUDE, WHERE'S MY CAR this ain't.  Look, any film that opens with one of Bob Dylan's best songs in years certainly isn't pandering to its audience, right?  Okay, if you're under 18, sure, you may find it boring.  But for those of us who have actually lived, gone to college, love to read and/or write, or may have found ourselves in an awkward relationship or two, then this film-- with Michael Douglas's BEST performance ever and a cast of quirky (but not overly-so) and nuanced characters--is for you.  * * * * 1/2 stars out of five! "},{"Title":"A surprising piece of drama, subtle humor abounds - for repeat viewing appreciation","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You may not like the film on first viewing, but you'd grow to love it. It's a quiet, perturbed little piece of gem - not quite little really there's the cast of Michael Douglas, Frances McDormand, Robert Downey, Jr., with Tobey Maguire and Katie Holmes. It's actually quite a mature kind of film - definitely dramatic, almost melodramatic in a sneaking up to you sort of way. And with songs from Bob Dylan, Van Morrison, a nostalgic Rogers and Hart tune, an unexpected reminiscing Neil Young voice singing Old Man&#133;it's a well-written and brilliantly directed piece of work. You can tell director Curtis Hanson truly loved the script and delivered the film with assured enthusiasm.It may seem like another story about infidelity and obsession, but be not fooled by the appearance of things. It's actually full of humor - a wry sort of humor at times. All round nuanced performances from a wonderful ensemble cast. You'd never seen Douglas in such disheveled predicaments as Grady Tripp the professor in distress. McDormand is simply precious, measuring up to the 'boys' - what a sharp performance as (Sara) dean Gaskell caught in the middle of it all. Maguire, once again, is made for the role of young James Leer to perfection, and Holmes (previously worked with Tobey in Ice Storm, The 1997) as Hannah Green is no light role. Robert Downey, Jr. is Terry Crabtree, Grady's book publishing agent; he is a rare treat here a subtle brief raise of his eyebrow, a slight movement of his body language, or a change in diction or into a whisper - they're tiny gestures yet add flavorful spice to this film venture. (May he grace us with more opportunities to watch him and appreciate his talent.) There's a short appearance by Jane Adams (from Todd Solondz Happiness 1998) as Oola, playing opposite Richard Knox as Vernon. A scene with a glorious show of flying, dancing pages of paper... A brief legend of a Marilyn Monroe jacket. Yes, little perks of detail scattered here and there - quirky to some, helpful clues to others. It will be an enjoyable time for all who appreciate the Wonder Boys - literally, it's the embodiment by all three male characters Douglas, Maguire, and Downey, Jr. And McDormand's character kept it all in balance. Give Wonder Boys a try. You just might have a good time with it.  "},{"Title":"Don't think, just watch","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I knew nothing more about this film than what was written on the cover - which wasn't much.What drew me to this choice over all the others that late night at Blockbuster were two things (1) It wasn't on the bottom shelf and (2) the cast was too good to pass up.This is one of the more enjoyable films I've seen in a long while. Why? Each character has their own small story, which they are working through. Sometimes together, sometimes not.  But in the hands of great actors, having a clear arc of their character amplifies the richness of  their performances and nourishes nuance.Michael Douglas was tremendous in this sense as Grady Tripp, a one-hit wonder hacking away at another novel while teaching at Pennsylvania college. If stereotyped, Professor Tripp would simply been played a pathetic creature - a man who has chosen not to make choices only to find the cumulative consequences of his inaction overwhelming.But Mr. Douglas adds a lot of depth, intelligence and natural humor to the professor. What was brilliant, was how Douglas used such humor, sarcasm or even pity to free his character to transcend and transform throughout the film.In a way, I found Tripp to be Zen-like. He tried to be the water not the rock. As a result, he was the one who usually ended up getting wet.The rest of the cast is great. Good film. "},{"Title":"as close to perfect as i've seen in a long time","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  and the best picture goes to...? how was this damn good film not even on the list of nominees? seeing huge over-sights like this makes me not want to watch the oscars anymore. this film was damn near perfect... excellent performances from EVERYONE, a great story... PERFECTLY nuanced humour... my only complaint could be hanson's monotone, boring as hell commentaries he placed on his dvd version of the film. he goes into great detail about the most boring stuff. otherwise this film had everything.the BEST PICTURE all year. (even if it did get it's first release in '99)   "},{"Title":"The most laughs I have had in a long time...","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I caught this one quite by accident and had heard it was one of those that was a sleeper and there was little promo done on it. I gave it an 8 out of 10. Michael Douglas, who has always irritated me with his mannerisms, gives a potential Oscar winner here as a jaded old professor who puts in one hell of a 36 hour period when everything goes wrong. He is not afraid to look frazzled, silly and old. His performance is a knockout and incredibly funny. Tobey Maguire also shines in this and I was laughing so hard in parts I resolved I just have to see it again, to pick up on what I may have missed the first time around. The dialogue is sharp, witty and fast and shifts are subtle and clever.This restores my faith in Hollywood. Robert Downey junior is also excellent and dares to play an offbeat role and play it well. Frances McDormand is brilliant as are all the bits, - Richard Thomas as a stuffed shirt and Marilyn Monroe worshipper. Bravo to all on this. "}{"Title":"Great Acting - Dull Movie","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The number of wonderful comments surprised me.  There's no question that the cast was excellent.  Most of the cast have such compelling personalities in whatever roles they play, I always enjoy watching them.  Frances McDormand, Katie Holmes and Robert Downey, Jr. rarely fail to add life to whatever scripts they're given.  None of the cast, however, can compensate for the script.  In the first 20 minutes, I whispered to my companion, I'm loving this!  Then it all never materialized.  It was an entire movie of exposition clinging to a clumsy plot made almost entirely of far-flung contrivances.  The endless dog bit added nothing to the movie but the promise of suspense.  A promise that was never fulfilled.  At some point the plot just disposes of the entire premise after slogging the audience through one implausible and uninteresting scene after another.I did laugh.  It was funny.  It just didn't hang together. "},{"Title":"The World According to Grady","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas reminds us all that despite having been in nothing but tosh for a decade or so, he is still a pretty good actor.  He plays Grady, a college professor who's midlife crisis reaches a climax on the weekend his wife leaves him, his editor is in town and his mistress has some big news. Highly enjoyable comedy-drama, with an excellent supporting cast (particularly Toby Maguire).  Not life-changing, but well worth a look. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Just Kind Of There","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was really excited to see this movie. It looks and has the feel of something that I would really enjoy. Sadly, my expectations were not met. I found the script to slowly deteriorate throughout the movie. At the end I just didn't really care about the story and was only watching for the sake of finishing it up. The movie really started to lose me when they started fooling around with the dog. I mean, why keep it in the trunk for so long? Couldn't they have ditched it way back when? And then, to use it to replace James? Couldn't they have used a pillow? It just left me saying, oh yeah right. I understand stuff like that would not happen in real life and as viewers we are sometimes supposed to let that kind of thing slide, and if I was watching a Bugs Bunny cartoon, I would, but I really thought it was just too stupid for a semi serious movie like this one. Beyond some stupid plot holes, I was not a fan of the characters. I didn't like Holmes' character at all and I think the movie would have been better without her inclusion. Douglas' and Maguire's characters were not bad, but not really good, just kind of there.To sum it up, the movie itself is not overly bad, but it was just too stupid for me to really care about. "},{"Title":"---Standin' on the gallows with my head in the noose Any minute now I'm expecting' all hell to break loose...","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" People are crazy and times are strange I'm locked in tight, I'm out of range I used to care but - things have changed. -- Bob Dylan One of the best movies about writers and writing I've seen, Wonder Boys is centered around Grady Trimp (Michael Douglas in one of his most enjoyable performances), the college professor and the author of one very good book who has written over 2000 pages of his eagerly expected (at least by his impatient editor, Robert Downy, Jr - where is this guy?) second book but still is not sure when and how it ends. During one strange weekend, Grady would have to deal with his wife leaving him, his married girlfriend's pregnancy, the stolen Marylyn Monroe's priced jacket, a dead dog in his car's trunk, his obviously very talented but troubled student, and the most serious question of all - to write or not to write? Oh, and there is that song by Bob Dylan. "},{"Title":"That day, that day, what a mess, what a marvelous mess...","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I failed A-Level English.  It took two years, round the clock study and a deep-seated understanding of the books at hand not to succeed in the endeavour.  I wasn't disappointed at the time because I was still going to University on my B in Fine Art and D in General Studies.  It wasn't until three years after college as I sat watching a production of Hamlet and understanding every word of it I decided I should have done better.  I reconciled that I couldn't have done better at the time and I've moved on.  Watching &#145;Wonder Boys', the memories of the study experience came flooding back to me.Part of the learning journey was one-on-one study periods with the head of the English department.  His ground floor office was much as you would expect &#150; a dusty edifice full of old books and even older carpeting.  The teacher's desk was in the bay window, and as I entered each fortnight, there he would be, sitting with his side too me, stuffing tobacco into his pipe.He didn't actually seem to teach anything which we hadn't covered in class.  On reflection, I think it was his chance to see how much of what he had been saying had crept into my teenage mind.  During each session I would find myself with one obsession.  Trying to imagine what his life was like outside school.I couldn't ask him, this fifty-something man, with squinty glasses and  a receding hairline.  I decided eventually he had a house in Cheshire from which he would drive every morning listening to Radio Two.  He had two grown up kids, one a doctor, the other following in her father's footsteps as a teacher.  He'd been at this school since graduating from college, and had lived an unremarkable yet useful life, king of his own castle, looked up to by all around.I think I secretly hoped though, that his life was something like Grady Tripp, Michael Douglas character in &#145;Wonder Boys' -- someone who had lived life enough to understand the literature from what he'd experienced not from what he had learnt.  That when I wasn't falling asleep in that tobacco smoke filled office; he would be tapping away on an old typewriter on an unending novel which would be considered a classic if he ever finished it.  That when he described why John Donne had written &#145;On His Mistress' it would because of some infidelity of his own or an inability to commit.  That in those moments when he would go into detail about Angelo's attitude in &#145;Measure for Measure' he was teaching me some little nugget about his life.  In effect that I was the James Leer (Tobey Maguire) of this little fantasy.He wasn't.  I certainly wasn't.  I failed English Literature (which probably had more to with my dozing than his teaching skills&#133;but I digress).I do wonder what that teacher would have made of &#145;Wonder Boys'.  I suppose I can imagine him scoffing away, unable to comprehend the implausibility of this man holding down a tutoring position whilst trying to be a novelist.  I can see him giving chapter and verse on it in class, before rolling his eyes and commenting, yet again, that Shakespeare was the only true dramatist.  That may be true, but it's good now and then to dip into the ones who are at least trying.There is a certain spiritual similarity between this film and &#145;Good Will Hunting'.  Both are filmed with the same slightly glary quality &#150; but &#145;Wonder Boys' is a much more literate film with an awareness of history which only comes from writers and directors of experience.  I haven't read Michael Chabon's novel, so I can't say how closely it follows the printed page; but the adaptation by Steven Kloves (the director of &#145;The Fabulous Baker Boys') is entirely dialogue driven, allowing us the chance to learn about the characters &#150; there is exposition, but also plenty left unsaid, moments were implication fills in for truth.  It's entirely shocking that this is directed by Curtis Hanson.  In a decade, he's moved from the histrionics of &#145;The Hand That Rocks The Cradles', through &#145;The River Wild' and the instantly classic &#145;LA Confidential'.  Those were all larger films, full of bangs and whistles.  It could have been a similar story here &#150; the unfolding plotline could equally have been played as a farce in the mould of Steven Moffat (&#145;Coupling', &#145;Joking Apart').  But this has proportion and some experimentation.  Rather like some low budget indie film, it doesn't care if we lose track of a few characters and what they're doing for a while &#150; we'll catch up them later.  What you're seeing is much more interesting.  It's a step sideways for Hanson, but a valid one. Less plot perhaps &#150; more character. Douglas' performance here is as good as it's ever been.  He's a slightly maligned actor because more often than not he appears in so called &#145;Hollywood'-style films like &#145;Disclosure'.  But even there he must have been working some magic to make us care for him.  As Tripp (which is a real &#145;Steve Buscemi' of a loser role), he excels in creating a history behind his eyes, and warmth in his cheeks.  He's certainly the best actor in show here.  Downey Jr does the kind of shtick he's been perfecting since &#145;The Pick-up Artist', and proving what a tragedy his life has been all in all.  Tobey Maguire is in his understated acting mode, making that smile of his, when it finally arrives even more appealing.  Francis McDormand proves once again that the world will eventually be inherited by character actresses, making you love her as soon as she appears on screen.  And Joey Potter &#150; sorry &#150; Kate Holmes is as good as every, talking out of the side of her mouth and cocking her head that way.  It's actually refreshing to see her in a role where she isn't trying to completely lose her TV origins.So this is another of those films I'll watching over and over.  When it appears on television it'll be like bumping into an old friend.  It isn't a surprise that it wasn't a success on its first release in America &#150; it's the kind of film which makes you warm and fuzzy looking back at a week later.  That release wasn't helped, of course, by a staggeringly inept poster of Michael Douglas looking like a wino.  The second poster was much fairer, playing up the ensemble nature of the cast.  It might not been seen as a classic now, but I'm sure in ten years it will be appearing in top one hundred lists.  It has word of mouth in its favour.  Which is why I'm recommending it to you now.  If you're looking for something life affirming in the &#145;Shawshank' or &#145;Field of Dreams' mode, but new to the eye.  This is it.  "},{"Title":"A vaguely wonderful film","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThree years down the line,Curtis Hanson follows up his superb LA Confidential with this comedy drama with neat,intuitive ideas that are never quite put together with enough momentum to fully engage.There are a number of successful comedic ideas featured here,like the decomposing dog,the crazy black man after Michael Douglas' character for unwittingly stealing his car and Tobey Maguire's,one of two actors from TV's Dawson's Creek,vaguely autistic budding writer (well,he can remember names and dates in one scene which alerts the viewer to this condition).It's a well acted piece,Douglas especially as always interesting to watch perform,and the comedy works implicitly.It's just considering the helmer's previous accomplishment,it's ultimately kind of underwhelming.*** "},{"Title":"enjoyable but not great","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `Wonder Boys' is the story of a man made up of so many internal weaknesses that he inadvertently ends up providing strength to others.  The man in this case is Grandy Tripp (Michael Douglas), a college professor in western Pennsylvania, who has been unable to duplicate the literary success he enjoyed seven years earlier when his previous novel created a literary sensation.  Now the long-overdue follow-up work he has been struggling to complete all this time has begun to achieve epic proportions with no ending in sight and Tripp's desperate-for-another-hit editor (Robert Downey Jr.) is arriving in town to check up on the new book's status.  Meanwhile, Tripp's personal life is in a mess as well.  His young wife has just left him, the woman he loves &#150; the married chancellor of his university (Frances McDormand &#150; announces she is pregnant and a disturbed young writing student (Tobey Maguire) has decided to latch onto Tripp as a sort of father figure/literary mentor, a role Tripp feels, incorrectly perhaps, inadequate to fill.One of the strengths of `Wonder Boys' lies in its ability to create a quirky story without having to strain a lot at the edges.  Though the plot often veers off into the absurd, writer Steve Kloves and director Curtis Hanson manage to keep us always focused on the human characters at the film's core.  Particularly interesting is the relationship between Tripp and the young student, James Leer.  Though the aging professor feels he has literally nothing to offer his off beat protégé, all throughout their time together he is actually serving as a source of inspiration for the youngster just by laying bare the reality of his chaotic existence.  He is a man blessedly free of pomposity and pretense.  Tripp uncovers his own inner strength in his love for Sara - and the scenes involving Douglas and McDormand have a kind of quiet magic that is infectious.  The same can be said for the subtle interplay that develops between Douglas and Maguire as teacher and student.  In fact, Douglas turns in one of his most self assured and commanding performances in this role, even though this is one of the least heroic, most humanly flawed characters he has ever been called on to play. Given all these virtues,  `Wonder Boys' may strike one, ultimately, as a trifle overrated.  Although we appreciate the fact that we never know where exactly the story is taking us, it also doesn't provide much in the way of revelation once we finally get there.  The film often seems as if it is lacking in that one quality that separates the great films from the merely good ones - a driving purpose.  In short, likable as it is, the film seems, in the final analysis, to be a bit of a piffle.  The ending, in particular, seems way too soft-edged for the sophisticated nuances of the screenplay and the sterling quality of the performances.  (And it doesn't help that Downey seems to be playing the exact same character here that he did in the contemporaneous release `Black and White').'Wonder Boys' is certainly well worth checking out, but if you are expecting it to live up to its reputation as one of 2000's great films, you may find yourself a bit disappointed. "},{"Title":"A waste of an acting talent ensemble","Date":"26 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is about a college professor taking a troubled student under his wing, as a way to deal with his extra-marital affair and his separation from his wife.Wonder Boys might have had promise as an engaging drama. Normally, I love watching such tear inducing dramas, but it did nothing for me. I find the plot too contrived and poorly explained. James Leer is such a weird person, lying compulsively and manipulative of people around him. I certainly do not see a good reason why Professor Grady Tripp had to help this guy. The supporting characters, played by Katie Holmes and Robert Downey Jr., are poorly developed. Their characters, especially Katie Holmes', could have been more developed to provide better development of the plot.In short, I felt bored with the film, and disgusted by James Leer. I also feel frustrated by Professor Grady Tripp's irrational choices to help James Leer. I did not enjoy watching Wonder Boys, and I think it is a waste of an acting talent ensemble. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As this movie started winding down, I realized that this is not the kind of movie that I enjoy.  I realized that I'm more interested in movies that are fun to watch and have a fantastic, ironic ending.  I was thoroughly enjoying this movie for about the first 50 minutes, at which point I started getting bored.  The problem is not that nothing happens, or that it's not still interesting, it's just that it doesn't move forward. The plot wavers a great deal, and the ending to which I was looking forward, started to whither away. I'm tired of watching movies where nothing happens; just stories.  I'm not one who likes action movies, but I do like BIG endings.  This one just sort of, as I said, whithered to an end.   I left disappointed. "},{"Title":"A boring, phony, film, without character development or interesting action","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes an author creates a character so realistically that you feel you know him.  His actions, however strange and illogical, nevertheless seem true to his personality.  Sometimes an author fakes it, hoping that his readers (or viewers) will take the strange, illogical, zany actions of the character as creative, (showing how zany and creative he, the author, is.) In the second case, he has missed the point; he should have created the character, not just his actions.  That's what's wrong with Wonder Boys. There's no character development; just a set of not-very-interesting, not-at-all-believable, characters, doing uninteresting and also unlikely things. James, the professor's gifted student, the plot spark that the author and director thought would ignite the mixture plays the part basically as a deadpan zombie.  Michael Douglas plays the part well, but his character is not developed enough to give credibility to his actions.The cute little happy ending is the final piece of improbability, and must be quite an embarrassment to the director.  It can't have been in the book. "}{"Title":"This is over-rated crap!! Consider this a warning...","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Oh, man I hated this movie. Such a waste of good talent. Where to begin? This is billed as a comedy starring all actors and actresses I like. If you're reading this, then you know who they are. Even the director(L.A.Confidential) is good. This looks so promising. Add a crapload of great reviews and you have winner, right? Wrong. Everything is wrong here. The mood is set when a dog is unnecessarily shot at the beginning and becomes a running joke. I'm no right-wing moralist concerned about movie content or a member of PETA for that matter but this is not funny to me. Then we have the depressing character of Michael Douglas. This guy is a teacher who does drugs, lives with a female student, is losing his third marriage or something. He is a sad character. Not funny. I hate how nothing is really explained either. Why is Tobey Maguire so weird and suicidal and a compulsive liar? Why is Katie Holmes living with Michael Douglas? Are they sleeping with eachother? Everyone in this movie is dysfunctional in a very unlikeable, unfunny way. I feel sorry for all these characters. Just because a movie has a setting at a college campus and is about intellectuals are we supposed to believe it's a smart movie? There is nothing smart about this movie. The entire movie can be summed up in one line Rip Torn is accepting an award for a book he wrote and in his acceptence speech he begins I am a writer. Which is followed by applause. This movie is masquarading as some kind of intellectual heart-warming comedy but is actually pointless trash, dull, not funny and a waste of time. It's too bad because as I said ealier it's full of great talent. Go see Cider House Rules again instead. "},{"Title":"# 95  « in my experience, signs are usually a lot more subtle » (web)","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I rather take it like this  last evening, i came back from work, slipped on the pavement and sprained badly one ankle ! In pain to walk and having to rest, i watched this movie as it was the scheduled one &#x85; and it was very funny to see for a 1st time, a character having the same health problems than me  here, Michael Douglas is badly bitten by a dog so he limped all the movie ! In addition, he plays a great compassionate, helpful guy who lost his way due to bad habits and get stuck in a dangerous dead end ! And that's probably where i'm actually too. So this was really a great time watching it all the more than the cast is really prestigious  Tobey as the lost student, Katie Holmes as the straight one, Frances as the usual serious and romantic as well wife, and Downey Jr as the usual careless, cool buddy. As the movie happens at winter in Pittsburgh, the locations are beautiful and the story is full of turns, surprises and stress to keep going. However, the movie has a big flaw  the gay context ! Chabon already did a whole movie about this and here to have Downey seducing Tobey is really disappointing and in my opinion totally useless  I'm not homophobic but today cinema plays much too more this card as if being gay or bisexual is a necessary ingredient for whatever the movie is about ! In a way, as a straight guy i feel oppressed the same way i'm with the need for any action movie to solve problems with a gun and with killing the bad guys ! I don't like this message so that's why i give « 4 » and not « 7 » ! "},{"Title":"Wonder Boys Bring your brooms because this is a mess!","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Professor Grady Tripp's life is an utter mess his wife has left him, his lover (who also happens to be the chancellor of the university he works at) is pregnant, his editor is visiting him to verify whether his new novel is complete, he must deal with his two most brilliant students Hannah Green, who has a huge crush on him and James Leer, a rather somber guy with a great talent for writing. Add to the mix a dead dog, a priceless jacket, a stolen car and a nasty case of writer's block and the result is a recipe for disaster.The above mentioned plot is perfect for a delirious comedy of errors, but director Curtis Hanson and screenwriter Steve Kloves take Michael Chabon's renowned book Wonder Boys and they achieve an elegant, witty and exhilarating portrait of a man whose life demands to get fixed before things get worse. This made with an admirable balance between comedy and drama that few movies can accomplish.Some people may claim this is a movie about mid-life crisis, and in some level it is, but it goes beyond that notion and addresses the search of identity in more than one way. Grady, for instance is looking for himself and tries to find out what went wrong and what's gonna happen next. James Leer, a gifted mind rejected by almost everyone will find in Grady the encouragement he might need to come out of his shell. Or Terry Crabtree, Grady's homosexual editor, who's in urgent need of a literary hit in order to stay relevant and keep his job (and he'll be a key element in James' coming of age). In addition to that search, they have to deal with the pressure of not living up the expectations created around them and see how others enjoy the success that possibly has been waiting for them, but they're unable to attain.Wonder Boys avoids favorably most of clichés seen in movies about writers thanks to Kloves' brilliant approach to Chabon's provocative work, remaining faithful to it, but giving in life on its own way. And Hanson's expert hand makes the movie flow with great pace and timing. But it's safe to say Hanson's best quality (as seen in his previous movie L.A. Confidential) is to push the right buttons with his actors. In this case we have people like Katie Holmes, Frances McDormand and Robert Downey delivering superb work, Tobey Maguire who captures James' vulnerability and sadness in a very unique way. And Michael Douglas in a career-best performance as Grady (superior to his Oscar-winning work in Wall Street and close to his Emmy- winning one in Behind the Candelabra). Is hard to imagine someone else playing a very conflicted and distressed man with such sense of humanity and plenty of irony and humor.One thing must be clear Wonder Boys is a comedy, but not in the traditional sense of the word it's a sophisticated and smart piece about what we really want and need to do in life and how to do it before it's too late. "},{"Title":"Wonder Film!","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder Boys (2000) Dir Curtis Hanson / Cast Michael Douglas, Tobey Mcguire, Frances McDormand, Katie Holmes, Robert Downey Jr. Intelligent comedy about brilliant individuals overwhelmed with dread. Michael Douglas plays a professor with writer's block. Tobey Maguire plays a burned out student whom Douglas allows vacancy until his parents are located. Interesting concept that contains a couple unnecessary subplots involving a stolen Marilyn Monroe jacket or the dead dog. Directed by Curtis Hanson as an excellent followup to his masterpiece L.A. Confidential. Douglas struggles with work and commitment as he cannot seem to finish his novel yet distracted by infidelity and his social surroundings. Maguire is superb as a student caught up in theft and drugs but through the care of others, finds redemption. Frances McDormand plays Douglas's infidelity partner whom is pregnant. One wonders whether her final decision is the right one. Katie Holmes plays a student with an obvious attraction to Douglas but fortunately doesn't act upon it. Robert Downey Jr steals moments as Douglas's editor but he is more or less curious as to whether anything is worth publishing. Grand scale screenplay full of detail about inner brilliance within unlawful nature. It shows just what a mess life can become before being torn in all directions like the pages of his new book scattering through the air and into the unknown. Score 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"A wonderfully engaging film","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. It was completely unconventional and offbeat, and the leading (and supporting) characters were incredibly well-developed, making them feel as if they could be your friends, people you would want to go out with and get happily caught up in the mess that is their lives &#x96; that's how engaging they are.Douglas is Grady Tripp, a novelist whose first book was remarkable, and whose second book seems to be running away from him with its unattainable ending. We meet him in the class room of a university where he is a teacher, reading a short story by one James Leer (Maguire). The other students hate it, as they always do, and they all seem to hate Leer, possibly because he is more talented than the lot of them combined &#x96; and they know it. Tripp and Leer meet up again later that night at a party and from there the strangeness unfolds; including the murder of a dog and the theft of a Marilyn Monroe jacket.This is a movie I can (and have) watch again, and again, and again. And after each viewing it will always leave me feeling warm inside, almost as if I have personally gone on Tripp and Leer's adventure with them &#x96; and I suppose in a way I have. It is always a magical feeling when a movie can transcend barriers and captivate the audience, taking them in and far away on its strange little journey &#x96; and I believe that is exactly what a movie should do; that's why people go see them, to be carried from their reality into a fictional world, to be absorbed by them.Michael Douglas is wonderful here as the somewhat shabby stoner-possibly-still-talented writer, and he is backed up superbly by Maguire; they in turn are supported very commendably by Frances McDormand, Robert Downey, Jr., and Katie Holmes. This is a very rich story, and as I have already said, populated by likable, incredibly relatable characters. I would highly, highly recommend this to anyone who is interested in being delighted; this movie will assuredly leave you feeling happy and content, and if you're looking for even more I would DEFINITELY recommend reading Michael Chabon's The Wonder Boys, the novel on which this film was based. "},{"Title":"Comical character study","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was pretty good. How could it not be with the calibre of actors involved. Its foremost a character study and then a comedy -although I didn't find it particularly funny but it is a fun story if that makes sense(?) Michael Douglas plays a burnt out professor trying to finish his next great novel. He's also having an affair and over one weekend his world implodes.Tobey Maguire is incredible as the ever elusive James, one of his students and I also liked Robert Downey here. This was made back before he got so full of himself (Ironman) and he's excellent as an editor with questionable taste in (tall) women. The blind dog storyline was shocking and not so nice, I enjoyed the Marilyn Monroe jacket idea'though. Katie Holmes was completely forgettable. 05.03.14 "},{"Title":"Trippy classic","Date":"31 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This 2000 Curtis Hanson film was the second best he made after L.A. Confidential and together with Bedroom Window. It is a story of two people of completely different background, a middle aged writing professor and his student and protégé. The professor, played by Michael Douglas in one of his strongest roles, is going thru a crisis and drinks a lot, after his younger wife has left him. He is also having problems finishing his second book. The young and bright but troubled protégé is played by Tobey Maguire. Then there is also Douglas' eccentric and flamboyant editor and friend played by the excellent Robert Downey Jr. A guy who is a swinger and according to Douglas is gay, or thinks he is. Katie Holmes also appears as another of Douglas' students who is smitten with him but he rejects her advances.There are also a few really amusing side characters, such as the man Douglas and Downey Jr. dub VERNON HARDAPPLE, who gives the movie a comical edge. The whole movie is somewhat of a dark comedy really, with scenes like the one where Maguire kills a dog who attacked Douglas and Douglas has to keep his body in the trunk of his car for a week or at the end where the manuscript for his latest book flies away. When he's asked by Downey Jr if he has a copy, he replies I have an alternative ending of the second chapter. This is what is so enjoyable with this movie not only is it a character study drama but also a humorous oddball comedy with some exciting plot twists. In the end the roles are almost switched as Douglas the mentor starts to learn from Maguire the protégé and discovers that he has talent. This also helps him revitalize his own talent and get his life back on track. Frances McDormand also appears as Douglas' love interest who is also the chancellor of the university where he works and is pregnant with his child. Really enjoyable and trippy film, a semi-classic. Hanson once again hit bullseye with this. "},{"Title":"Michael Douglas true wonder boy","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Prof. Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) used to be a wonder boy with his first novel. Now his wife has left him, his married mistress Dean Sara Gaskell (Frances McDormand) is pregnant, and his literary agent Terry Crabtree (Robert Downey Jr.) has come with a tranny to press for his next book. He befriends his most gifted depressed student James Leer (Tobey Maguire) who is obsessed with suicides. Hannah Green (Katie Holmes) is another enigmatic student of his. When James shoots Sara's dog, what's a proper professor suppose to do? This cast of oddball characters have a series of wacky adventures. At its core are the individual characters' flaws and neuroses. Michael Douglas is wonderfully droll. He doesn't overplay the craziness, but allow it to overflow him. Tobey Maguire is wonderfully malleable. RDJ is wonderfully funny. Katie Holmes is oddly unreadable. This is probably one of Douglas' most outstanding acting role. "},{"Title":"Indeed Wonder Boys..","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder Boys is that wonderful little film about writers that perhaps we've all been waiting for and has strange cast in the lead that comprises of Mic Douglas,Robert Drowney Jr. & Tobey Maguire. Michael Douglas stars as English literature professor Grady Tripp, and it's going to be the most hectic and unpredictable weekend of his life. He must deal with his wife leaving him, his affair with the chancellor's wife Sarah (Frances McDormand), his editor Terry Crabtree (Robert Downey, Jr.) who's in town looking for his latest novel (which is coming in at 2500+ pages, and there's still no ending in sight), and the unwarranted advances of student boarder Hannah Green (Katie Holmes). To top it all off, his most gifted and bizarre student, James Leer (Tobey Maguire), is attached to him at the hip after learning of the young man's certain perpetrations over the last 36 hours. The movie goes downhill, unfortunately, after the murdered pet incident, a perversely funny scene, and the only one in this self-described dark comedy. Instead of laughing at the continuing dog scenes, you're left wondering why the animal doesn't appear to bleed, or stink. Directed by Curtis Hansen (earlier directed L.A. Confidential) the movie has been wonderfully scripted by Steve Kloves adapted from Michael Chabon's novel. Moreover, the movie won Oscar for Best Music by Bob Dylan, that was pleasure to listen to. I have no reason to explain why this movie wasn't a box office gold which it deserved to be. Whosoever was responsible for promoting this movie, shame on you as you were not able to take this movie to its actual place that it deserved.MY RATING 7/10 "},{"Title":"Brilliantly written, funny, and touching","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Coming-of- age is not limited to the transition from adolescence to adulthood. A coming-of-age emotionally can occur at any time in one's life. Winner of the AFI award for Movie of the Year in 2001, Wonder Boys features a commanding performance by Michael Douglas as Grady Tripp, a once great novelist who is now a burned out, pot-smoking English Professor at a college in Pittsburgh. Tripp has been working on a massive novel that has grown to 2611 pages for the last seven years, but who has lost the inspiration to complete it.Set on the college campus, Professor Tripp is not having a good day. His wife has just left him, his lover (Frances McDormand), wife of the University Chancellor (Richard Thomas), tells him that she's pregnant, his flamboyant gay editor Terry Crabtree (Robert Downey, Jr.) is coming from New York for the college's annual writer's festival, and one of his most promising students, James Leer (Tobey McGuire), a brilliant but suicidal young writer, has attached himself to Tripp.Out of these many and varied crises comes a comedy of wit and intelligence that includes such bizarre circumstances as the theft of Marilyn Monroe's fur coat, the unfortunate demise of the Chancellor's dog, a stolen Cadillac, a novel blowing in the wind, and much more. These strange occurrences bring with them the opportunity for Tripp to reassess his life and discover what new directions are open to him. Wonder Boys is brilliantly written, funny, and touching and one of my favorite films of the last decade. It is one of the few films I know that are comfortable with smoking pot and having sex, both gay and straight, not as a manipulative plot device or a display of weakness, but as a part of normal, every day life. "}{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was the assistant manager of a Crown Book store when Wonder Boys was in the theater. Before then, I had never read any Michael Chabon books or really had even heard of him (which is surprising since I was a book store manager). My manager knew that I was gay and he recommended the film to me because of the gay characters. It seems funny in retrospect because I generally get offended when someone assumes I will like something just because there are some gay overtones or characters in it.I saw Wonder Boys in the perfect setting. It was an afternoon showing in January, in an empty theater on a cold and snowy day. I had no idea what to expect but absolutely loved the movie. All of the actors were phenomenal. The story was great and involving. I fell in love with the soundtrack.The only thing that confused me is that it made no sense to me that the movie was called Wonder Boys. It was only upon reading the Michael Chabon novel that it was revealed that the 2000 plus page book Grady was writing was titled Wonder Boys, as it was about several siblings with the surname of Wonder.I watch this great movie several times a year. The movie alone is worth watching for the great scenes with Vernon Hardapple. Quit calling me Vernon! The best thing this movie did, though, was connect me to the books of Michael Chabon. Though Wonder Boys the novel is extremely different than Wonder Boys the movie, they stand together as my favorite movie and book. I recommend both. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder Boys never disappoints. It's dry humour and bizarre imagination never stops for a second, and we are glued with a grin on our faces. Hardly realistic, the audience can still feel for the characters as their lives spiral into a comic frenzy. Grady and his off-beat world crumbling around him as he searches for happiness; Terry, the flamboyant homosexual who puts on a brave face, believing in others as he searches for a comeback novel (which he will not get from Grady); James, the loner who needs to release the genius within himself. These are the wonder boys. Frances McDormand and Katie Holmes gladly take a back seat in the story as this film refuses to be weighed down by sap.The acting is flawless, with at least two superb supporting roles. Robert Downey jr sparkles in his greatest role since Chaplin, but it is Tobey Maguire who makes us feel he has always been that awkward, deadpan student that is James Leer. For those who have seen Pleasantville and The Cider House Rules will recognise Maguire for the talent he is (it almost makes one feel he sold out when taking the Spider-Man role), and here he has been sadly overlooked for a Best Supporting Actor nomination. Douglas is in fine form as he always is in these strange and demanding roles, the last one being Falling Down. He can play a suicidal maniac and a stoned teacher and both roles will seem tailor made. The direction is impeccable as Hanson allows the characters to shine and the story flow, and it is almost unbelievable that this man directed the gritty, deadly serious L.A. Confidential. He packs Kloves screenplay with comic beauty and I sincerely hope he continues to direct these understated movies. "},{"Title":"Mostly Good","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An English professor's wife leaves him while he carries on an affair with a married colleague and tries to overcome writer's block. The characters are interesting and the academic setting is nicely evoked. Unfortunately, the film runs out of steam about two-thirds of the way through. Douglas heads a good cast, and he gives a terrific performance as the professor who is having a very bad weekend. Maguire plays a genius student who is is not all there. It's not a bad performance, but Maquire seems to play the same character in every movie he makes. McDormand and Downey are fine as Douglas's lover and literary agent, respectively. "},{"Title":"A charming film with a few issues","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Transvestites, pot, funny looking midgets. Just what kind of film is Wonder Boys? No, it's not a perverse screwball comedy. It's a charming and heartwarming dramedy that manages to make us laugh but not without forgetting what is important the characters and the story. In Wonder Boys Michael Douglas plays English Professor Grady Tripp. Tripp's wife has just left him and now he must survive the onslaught of problems coming his way, such as a strangely unhinged student he has reluctantly taken under his wing and the arrival of his editor who has been waiting on his book for seven years, a book he hasn't even finished yet. Tripp gets himself into one crazy situation after another as they slowly lead him to discover who he really is. It's a quirky little tale of love and life. One that makes us laugh as well as think.Whether you want to believe it or not, we all need a film like Wonder Boys every once in a while. It's a film that isn't too terribly complex, it isn't stern and serious, it's lighthearted and really just has a good time while not being an overly simplistic and too easygoing. This is a film full of wit and charm and it just enjoys itself as it moves along a straightforward path that doesn't need a lot of intense focus to stay on. But there is still a lot you can get out of this film if you sit back and enjoy. There are plenty of laughs along the way, but also a smart and human story that moves us and makes us feel like we are accomplishing something by watching this film.However, there was a certain point towards the middle of Wonder Boys where I finally had to ask myself, Where is all this going? After a while I started to feel like there was no real point to any of what was happening, as entertaining and engaging as it all was. I would say that this film's only purpose was to entertain, except for the fact that there is a constant undertone of serious feeling and movement in the film which makes one think that there is something larger at work here. But after a while the characters seem to be stuck in a repetitive state of moving from one situation to another, not learning anything and not actually growing as much as the film would like us to believe. And then by the end of the film I feel like we should have learned something, but in reality the final message is hollow.I'm not saying Wonder Boys is a bad film in any way. It just doesn't seem to have the impact it shoots for in its attempt at a serious subtext. But on the surface the film is a lot of fun with some great scenes and fantastic characters. The film is entertaining from start to finish with great dialogue and fantastic performances from great actors like Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Frances McDormand, and the ever illustrious Robert Downey Jr.. I really enjoyed Wonder Boys despite some issues that the film may have had. All in all, there are things I love about this film and then things that I wasn't too fond of in retrospect. This probably isn't a film I would watch again but in no way do I regret watching it once. "},{"Title":"A Memorable Film...","Date":"21 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Based on the 1995 novel of the same title by Michael Chabon, 'Wonder Boys' directed by Curtis Hanson, is a memorable film indeed. What works for this box office flop, is it's realism in it's characters.Michael Douglas stars as a writer, who is currently in deep confusing and depression. Here-after, he has to deal with sadness, he has to recoup the writer in him, and how he tries to stable a student of his.'Wonder Boys' works due to it's real characters. The story of the film is paper-thin and is rightly executed on Screen over a weekend. Curtis Hanson's direction is superb, yet again. Steven Kloves's adapted screenplay offers the story the correct recipe. Music by Christopher Young is great.Performance-Wise Michael Douglas delivers a neat and clean performance from start to end. An Impeccable Actor! Tobey Maguire excels, as always. Frances McDormand is outstanding. Robert Downey, Jr. does a fair job. Katie Holmes is good.On the whole, A Must Watch for sure. "},{"Title":"Wonder Movie","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this the other day, but didn't submit a review of the film because of the vast amount there already are, yet I still find the need to submit one.This film is excellent, it reminded me of the humour in Kiss Kiss Bang Bang (or the other way around since this one came out first) and I'm not saying that because Robert Downey Jr. is in both. The humour is sly and unexpected which is hard to achieve.Michael Douglas does very well as the main character.Tobey Maguire and Robert Downey Jr. are as well as you'd expect them to be, their characters are completely different, but both are extremely important and well portrayed.Frances McDormand and Katie Holmes are great as well, both being necessary for the story.This film is amazing, it was unexpected and there are some big names including producer Curtis Hanson and writers Michael Chabon (the novel) and Steve Kloves.Watch this film, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Just watch it","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Chabon's book transfered into a great movie. It remains one of the most powerful and interesting movies i have witnessed. It speaks volumes about the human condition. The story is witty,smart,honest,and emotional. The characters are really well developed. They seem like real people. I have met a James Leer or two in my life. (James Leer) by the way, is my favorite character. I think this movie is just beautiful. It moved me in away i cannot explain, but it touched my soul. This movie touches on so many issues, drugs, homosexuality, careers,love, creativity, but somehow it's not about any of that and that is key. It's not about being a drug addict, or a drag queen, or a failure. It's about being human, and having human qualities. This is the trick to a great novel/movie, transcending the roles we place people in until we hit common ground. This movie is about growth, and choices. "},{"Title":"A clever comedy","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder Boys is full of subtle humor and fine performances. Michael Douglas plays a college professor/writer who seems to be having one problem after another. His wife just left him, his girlfriend is pregnant, and he can't seem to find an end to his novel (not to mention he's been having spells lately). Toby Maguire plays a troubled, talented student who seems to be reaching out for help and is taken under Professor Tripp's (Douglas) wing. Robert Downey Jr plays a bisexual editor in search of a good book to publish, and a companion to keep him warm at night, not to mention he travels with a stash of recreational drugs. Frances McDormand plays the pregnant girlfriend who is also the wife of Douglas' boss. Throw in a stolen car, a drag queen, a dead dog, lots of pot and shake vigorously. "},{"Title":"Love the songs in the movie!","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Such a weird movie but real. It kept me glued. I'm in love with Katie Holmes!!! Katie looks like a girl i dated many years ago.I just discovered the Bob Dylan song Things have changed The song is awesome! Liked Old Man by Neil Young Liberals will love this film -) It's about Dope, Booze, Rock N Roll, Infidelity, Liberalism.Michael Douglas puts in a grand performance in this movie. Funniest scene was when Toby McQuire was smoking a joint and drinking bourbon and watching Route 66.The look on his face when he was busted was great. Oh and did i tell you Katie has the biggest, roundest brown eyes i've ever seen! "},{"Title":"wonder films","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Some people might compare Wonder Boys to Good Will Hunting, but I found the former better. It features Michael Douglas as pot-smoking* literature teacher Grady Tripp, about to go on a voyage of self-discovery. Looking back on it, Tobey Maguire's character James Leer was a sort of precursor to Spiderman, the way he was looking for his place in life (as it was, he played similar characters in The Ice Storm and The Cider House Rules). Probably the most effective scene in the movie is when the book gets destroyed; it shows how Grady manages to start over in life. All in all, I would consider this part of Curtis Hanson's troika of masterpieces, along with LA Confidential and 8 Mile. Also starring Robert Downey Jr, Frances McDormand, Katie Holmes, and Rip Torn. And of course Bob Dylan sings the Oscar-winning song Things Have Changed (and he looked like Vincent Price at the Oscars).*Ironically, later that year Michael Douglas played a drug czar in Traffic. "}{"Title":"Parts are Greater than the Whole","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I avoided this movie for too long, because Michael Douglas is not one of my favorites. I'm sorry I waited so long! The movie as a whole doesn't add up to too much -- and in fact, I think the ending is terribly trite. But I had so much fun by the time the movie ended, I didn't care.Although the subject matter tends toward the cliché (substance abusing bohemian celebrity writer causes trouble on college campus), Douglas does an outstanding job in making his character live and breathe.He also has great chemistry with the other actors. One of the funniest lines in any movie ever happens when Downey, the writer's agent, explains why he doesn't fit in with his firm's new corporate culture. These are two great actors, made greater in how they play off each other. Tobey Maguire does very well in a chameleon role -- in all its different guises.Michael Cavadias has a small role as Miss Antonia, but his performance sets the movie off on the right track. Richard Knox, the actor who plays Vernon Hardapple, also takes a minor character and makes him one of the most memorable in the movie.Bob Dylan's songs Things Have Changed and Not Dark Yet are masterpieces -- but, as good as they are, seamlessly become part of the fabric of the movie.All these pieces are so satisfying, it doesn't much matter that the movie as a whole falls somewhat short of great. "},{"Title":"Sweet Contemporary Screw ball Comedy","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is nice to see Michael Douglas act his age in Wonder Boys.This reminded me of the Paul Newman movie Nobody's Fool, a sweet little movie about reconciling to getting older. This too uses location shooting for good effect, here Pittsburgh.The new Dylan song is used at least twice, for nice commentary, and the classic rock songs are well-chosen as well.Frances McDormand doesn't get to do much. Katie Holmes gets to be her usual young luscious self, barely above a cameo. Tobey Maguire is again quirky fun.I suppose this would be considered a contemporary screw ball comedy, it's sweet and amusing. You can wait to see it on video or commercial-free cable with no loss.(originally written 2/27/2000) "},{"Title":"Now, that is a big trunk. It holds a tuba, a suitcase, a dead dog, and a garment bag almost perfectly. - James Leer","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Talk about a dark comedy, my god! 'Wonder Boys' involves a dead dog, a transvestite, a midlife crisis, guns, theft, adultery and Robert Downey, Jr. making it one of the grimmest so-called comedies of all time. The story follows a middle-aged acclaimed novelist turned college professor, Grady Tripp (Academy Award Winner Michael Douglas) who is going through a severe midlife crisis because he is suffering from writer's block. Grady is close to finishing his follow-up novel that could prove to everyone he's not really washed up, but can't seem to end it. To make matters worse Grady is being nagged by his ambiguously gay and unquestionably neurotic editor Terry Crabtree (Robert Downey, Jr.) and Grady is wrapped up in a heated love affair with the chancellor's (of the college where Grady teaches) wife, Sara Gaskell (Frances McDormand). All this changes when Grady gets close to a deeply disturbed yet brilliant writing student of his, James Leer (Tobey Maguire) who reminds Grady and his editor of themselves. Everything goes to hell when Grady and Terry bring James along with them to the chancellor's party for published authors, where James ends up killing their dog.'Wonder Boys' is an interesting film in that I don't really remember seeing anything like it. I liked it, but at the same time I had a problem with it. For a comedy, it is a very unsettling movie for reasons beyond a murdered doggie. I hated the tone of the film, but everything else I liked. The acting is spectacular with an incredible, out-of-this-world performance by Michael Douglas that should have earned him an Oscar nomination in 2000. The supporting cast is very strong with decent performances from Frances McDormand, Tobey Maguire, Katie Holmes, and especially, Robert Downey, Jr. in his best role since 1992's 'Chaplin'. The directing is great, and the writing damn well earned it's Academy Award Nomination. 'Wonder Boys' has all these great qualities, but I could barely stand watching the film because of how upsetting and disturbing the tone of it was. Watching this is like going a week without showering, you feel dirty and paranoid, and I hated feeling that way.'Wonder Boys' is a film that won't appeal to many people. It's definitely for those who have the strongest endurance for unsettling subject matter. It was a very good film, I just won't ever see it again...ever. Grade B "},{"Title":"movie, that helps you feel a little more happy then you were before","Date":"15 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I was watching this film, i I felt like the meter of happiness hormone was rising inside me.The duet of Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire was really good. I think Curtis Hanson had done his best, while creating that simple,and also very especial true-life movie. Also, I liked the colors, the weather and all the environment of the film. It smells like Chrismas, but the film is not about this holiday. I like movies, who let me feel his own odors. I didn't red it, so I can't talk about the differences between the film and the novel. "},{"Title":"a great film","Date":"9 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When i first sat down to watch this movie, it was a nice, warm, sunny day and all was well in my little heartland. After the screen had gone black and my TV had done me the service of rewinding this movie, i could not think about anything except what a miserable place the world is and how wonderful people are to keep trying to get by in it. This movie is one of those rare films where the viewer can get into the head of the characters not by lame shots of people looking at sunsets or anything, but through simple empathy. We all know what it's like when things are building up on you and everything comes down at once. This movie is like that, but better. Superb acting jobs all around. There was no weak link to break the spell in my opinion. The script is fantastic. Totally about the human himself, his everyday life and those rare occasions when his life is really alive. This movie speaks a great deal about what it is to be human and what it is to be truly alive. "},{"Title":"A satisfying whimsical comedy","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) is a struggling writer living in Pittsburgh can't seem to write anything. He is also a college professor and happens to impregnate the chancellor (Frances McDormand).He also proceeds to seek the help of student James Leer (Tobey Maguire) in a quest to try and find a rare jacket that used to be owned by Marilyn Monroe; and on top of all this, a college girl, Hannah Green (Katie Holmes), who is boarding with Grady, seems to have a crush on him.Wonder Boys is based on a well-known book by Michael Chabon, which I have heard is very good, but which I have not read. As a result, I can't compare the two - chances are the book is better (they almost always are) but I wouldn't know.What I can commend are the efforts by director Curtis Hanson to resist from turning this into a crude little sex film. It's a witty, wonderful little comedy that has a heart for its characters, and sympathizes with all of them.If you're looking for a bunch of laughs, look elsewhere - this is not frequently funny, in-your-face stuff. But if you want a mature and smart film, Wonder Boys is a safe bet. "},{"Title":"In Some Peoples Eyes","Date":"23 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What needs to be considered about this movie is it is a film for certain tastes. I can completely imagine if someone disliked this film primarily because of its subtle humor. Many parts contain blunt humor which are still quite funny. The portions that are a little more subliminal are funnier to me than nearly any movie. The scene when Micheal Douglas reveals that his book is 2000+ pages about floored me.Tobey McGuire's character James Lear is so deadpan that one can only see genius in the simplicity. I don't really see Tobey McGuire as much of an actor but I couldn't think of anyone better for this role. Well complimented by both Douglas and Robert Downey Jr.I just hope some of you take a chance with this movie, it might end up being one of your favorites. "},{"Title":"I really love this movie","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I really love this movie...but can I recommend it? Tough question...I have spoken to others about how much I love this movie, and then they have viewed it and asked me, What the hell was so great about it? All I can say is this is the kind of movie I love...it just has an overall feeling and flow that I enjoy. Also, it was filmed in Pittsburgh, and the exteriors of that steel town REALLY give this film a great look. Sometimes, you just don't want to see yet another movie filmed in Los Angeles! I would also say that if I were to recommend this to anyone, it would be to an artist, preferably a writer. There are great moments of the self-imposed torment that some writers put themselves through on a daily basis.I really love this movie.Milo Janus "},{"Title":"Left field cinema that is pleasing to watch without achieving a great deal.","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mike Douglas plays one of those men that only the college system can support. A blocked book writer come lecturer whose love of dope and longish hair harks back the time when these things were all the rage. Now he is just a beaten and battered antique who can't quite get his life together, although it still has its windfalls.What a curious piece of work. I didn't think America could do stuff like this anymore. Not without filming it on a digital camera in someone's backyard. Dowdy men in old clothes and the people that circle around them. Not all failures, but always with small faults. I want to give this one an extra mark for bravery alone. I am sure the box office wasn't set alight - but this will be playing when the hits are forgotten.Here we have a modern view of sex Gay, straight or bisexual, it is all the same. For no one here thinks it is too big a deal. There is no zooms to shocked faces or voices of outrage. In truth this what modern life is really about - people don't actually care. People care in the movies because there has to be some point of drama, so why throw any away? Toby Maquire reminds me a lot of Bud Cort in Harold and Maude (now that is a cult movie!) in that he does nothing with his face. He just sits there and underplays, although he has great acting eyes. At one stage he is sat at a table and motions only with his eyes. A small moment, but a great one. He is a talented novelist, but that isn't the point. His reckless personality drives the plot - but he is forgiven. As people with talent often are.There are no big laughs here. The jokes are dark, not broad. Even when the characters are taken off the leash they don't want to run anywhere or do a great deal. I give this an eight, although it is probably more of a seven. The extra mark is for going places that few movies with a budget want to go and giving insight in to failing lives. "},{"Title":"Wonder Boys","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie Wonder Boys, was a great movie. It is about a college professor (Michael Douglass) and his student(Toby McGuire). Michael Douglss' character is depressed writing a never ending book. He often deals with his problems by forgetting about them by doing drugs. HIs student, an aspiring writer, tho a genius is suicidal. The movie displays the two men struggling to survive in their twisted lives. They get themselves into messy situations and there friends only exacerbate the different situations. It was a great movie that can teach you many lessons. I absolutely suggest watching this movie. I loved it an extreme amount! "}{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I first watched this film recently in my media class. It was actually a very interesting film. The acting was great. The story was very interesting as well as entertaining. It had many conflicts and adventures and kept the viewers hooked by adding in its of comedy. There was also many subliminal messages including the placement of bridges in the background of many scenes. These things were not done by accident. Each scene was thought out very well. Tobey Mcguire did a great job playing the crazed student. Definitely a must see movie. It is almost like a modern version of The Seven Year Itch starring Marilyn Monroe.-Josh R (Mr. Cooney Per. 1) "},{"Title":"A really Wonderful movie","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of my absolute favorites. It consists all things that makes a movie great. It is talantly written for the screen and talantly directed by Curtis Hanson. The director and his team has also made an excellent casting with Michael Douglas in, as I see it, his best role ever as a dissillutioned man in a strange time in his life. And Tobey McGuire - excellent, Robert Downey JR - excellent, Frances McDormand - excellent&#133; and so on!!And then you have the soundtrack!! Bob Dylan with one special written song and a lot more&#133;I highly recommend this movie to all!! "},{"Title":"Refreshingly realistic","Date":"20 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the smoothest stories I have seen brought before the camera. There is not one lull in this movie, as the scenes flow together beautifully. The directing, lighting, and camera shots all work together to realistically portray life in academia. The acting is so good in this movie that one almost forgets that these are big name stars (Michael Douglas, Robert Downey, Jr., Tobey Maguire, Frances McDormand, Katie Holmes, Rip Torn) are not actually the characters on screen. This is one of Michael Douglas' finest performances, and Frances McDormand, as usual, does not let us down. This is a perfect movie to watch curled up on the couch on a winter's night.  "},{"Title":"Better than words","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm really writing this comment more in response to the last one than out of my own love for the film -which, by the way, is great. It's not that this movie needs spice, it's that there are nuances of character that may be lost on the unfocused viewer. The fact alone that this other guy has even read a book on screen writing attests to his ignorance in the subject. The movie is perfect, as hauntingly poignant as The Hours, but with a smart and rare kind of humor that had me laughing out loud. An adoration to writers and the craft of writing such as this one, as well as the biting critique thereof that is also present, would quite simply make no sense if a rewrite were done. The movie is perfect, perhaps that is why it did not appeal to the masses as a whole.  "},{"Title":"Wonder Boys shine","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys(2000) Witty, low key comedy starring Michael Douglas as a 50 something, pot smoking college professor and the bond he develops with a troubled, yet brilliant student played by Toby McGuire. Douglas, always a great actor is terrific as Grady Tripp, an author now suffering from writers block after having written a best seller seven years prior. Robert Downey Jr, also very good, plays Tripps bi-sexual publisher, desperate to have Tripp finish his second novel. Bob Dylans excellent score won him an Oscar and the entire supporting cast including Rip Torn and Francis McDormand all do a good job. I would highly recommend this quirky film. Rated 4of 5 stars  "},{"Title":"Good movie, but definitely made better by Downey's comedic relief","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a funny, quirky film that i love. I get the feeling that this film would have been incomplete with out Robert Downey Jr's comedic timing. Don't get me wrong Micheal Douglas and Tobey Maguire deliver their lines with wit and humor but Downey has a presence in this movie that brings it full circle, i just can't imagine another actor giving this character that sense of dry, sarcastic humor, edged with bitterness but just slightly, but also making you have a tad bit of compassion. The bottom line is this is a great cast, a smart, witty and acted out with great intelligence and it is nice to see Maguire in a role that challenges his skills in stead of the one dimensional character of peter parker.  "},{"Title":"Witty introspective comedy","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those films where everyone seems to be cast in a role that truly suits them. The basic storyline centers around the fact that Douglas has writers block or perhaps more precisely, has lost his way with his 2nd book as much as he has with his life in general.This sense of searching for purpose sets the tone for the whole film as an array of characters, each in their own way, try to sort out their lives with both amusing and inventive plot developments that seamlessly and professionally hit their mark right the way through.Writers, writing about other writers can often be an excuse for script writers to pontificate about the burden of their craft and few manage to so effortlessly avoid the egotism that this generally entails.Wonder Boys craftily reinvents so many of the stereotypes I generally abhor while lovingly crafting a redemptive comedy of errors that has brought me back to rewatch it many times.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful in every way 8/10","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonderboys combines cinematic elements that many modern pictures lack. Producers made the right decision when director Chris Hanson was chosen to lead this delightful project. Chris Hanson seems to maintain the integrity of the film by not letting the picture become overly melodramatic, presumtious, or dull (which most flicks use as their focal point). Instead, this film is to the point, stylish, and immensely fluent while keeping the audiences full attention. The screenwritting itself is in a league of it's own. Although the plot may seem simplistic, many elements are woven together seamlessly in a widely entertaining turn of events. Michael Douglas shines as a burnt out Author that must deal with his Editor, his girlfriend, and his marriage which has just fallen apart all at once. This whitty film is one of the smarter and entertaining pictures I have seen in ages. Do yourself a favor and enjoy two hours of your life by watching Wonder Boys!  "},{"Title":"Grows into a great film","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm hardly the first person ever to hold up their hand and profess a deep and lasting hatred of Michael Douglas, so it's a tribute to the man that after about ten minutes of Wonder Boys, I had completely forgotten to boo every time he appeared. The story is engaging, even if Tobey Maguire's performance jars a little to begin with, and the film itself is beautifully moody. Robert Downey Jr remains the greatest superstar who never was, and Frances McDormand is on fine form. I only saw this because it was on tv and I had nothing to do since then I have searched out the (Region 1) dvd so I could see it again (incidentally, Bob Dylan looks terrifying in the video for his song. Watch the extras if you dare!) "},{"Title":"a right choice","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story of a writer that drives himself in life in a stolen car, who gets laid with someone else's wife and earns a living as a teacher due to the past glory of a bestseller hit. Curtis Hanson's fable of an initiation is way ahead from the phoniness of Gus van Sant's `Waiting for Forrester'. As an essay of individuals looking for their identity, this film is more related to Hanson's next work (8 Mile), rather than with the classicism of its predecessor (L.A. Confidential). In its loosen, edgy structure, Wonder Boys is a playground for the fallen that seems to remind us that only through making `the right choices' &#150;both in literature and in life- one can get a shot of happiness and claim any right to be `saved', as the last image of the film metaphorically suggests. "}{"Title":"Sometimes the good ones just go unnoticed...","Date":"9 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If I go to see a movie in a theater it has to be a really special movie. Either it´s the kind of a movie that has to be seen on big screen or it´s just an other kind of an event (critically-acclaimed, award-winning etc.). I prefer watching dramas and real-life stories on small screen. But still I find it surprising that only few people went to see Wonder Boys during its theatrical run.       I watched Wonder Boys on DVD a few days ago and it was a pure gem of a movie. I had read tons of positive reviews and since my friend had bought the disc I figured it had to be at least watchable. I have nothing against dumb big-budget blockbusters, but you miss a lot if you watch just those kind of movies. In movies like Wonder Boys the stage belongs to the cast and the story. Michael Douglas is without a doubt one of the most talented actors working in Hollywood. He can do drama, comedy (Romancing The Stone, The War Of The Roses) and thriller (A Perfect Murder, Disclosure, The Game). Frances McDormand, who has fantastic in Fargo, impresses as well, and so does everybody else. And if you thought Tobey Maguire was good in the overrated Spider-Man be sure to check Wonder Boys.       Wonder Boys is a successful mixture of real life drama and comedy and it certainly deserves multiple viewings. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"MICHAEL DOUGLAS WAS FANTASTIC !","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"                   Michael Douglas ( Grady Tripp) Professor & Author gave a very great performance in this role.  It was a difficult role to play and his great acting skills made his character overpower the entire cast.  Robert Downey, Jr., (Terry Crabtree) supported Grady Tripp throughout the entire pic.    This picture at times is rather hard to follow and diverts your attention with a dead dog and various different types of ending for the conclusion of this picture.  If you love Michael Douglas, stay with this film and enjoy a great veteran Actor ! "},{"Title":"Douglas's best work in years","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Douglas is great in this movie.  So is pretty much everyone else in it. It's a good movie.  Not great - but damn fine. Ah yes, and 'Watching the Wheels' by John Lennon is in it.  That alone makes the film awesome. "},{"Title":"Nice situational comedy","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A pot smoking English professor faces several personal crises in the course of a single night accompanied by his gay editor and a talented but alienated student.  There is lots of fun dialog and strange situations as the professor's life comes to a head.  Don't look for anything especially probing in the story, but it is a worthwhile trip anyway. "},{"Title":"Heart warming","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie i can watch over and over again it's just a metaphor for every artists life.  I can honestly say that Tobey Maguire impressed me.  While Michael Douglas and Robert Downey Jr. do their usual superb preformance. That combined with the comedy and powerful message really makes this movie something special.  It kind of reminds me of a happy American Beauty.  I love what the director has done with this film it's just fantastic. Katie Holmes in my opinion needs to start doing more films like wonder boys instead of going after the money she could go on and expand her carear into being comparable to a meryl streep.8/10  "},{"Title":"A great, overlooked film","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first saw Wonder Boys on video after hearing all of the critical acclaim after its two theatrical releases.  American audiences really missed something special here.Michael Douglas, in one of most underappreciated roles, plays Grady Tripp, a college professor and the author of one successful novel that was published seven years earlier.Life for Grady Tripp isn't great at the beginning of Wonder Boys. His wife has just left him, he learns his boss' wife (Frances McDormond) is pregnant, and 2600-page follow-up novel is nowhere near completion, which is not good news for his editor (Robert Downey, Jr.) to find out when he arrives for the three-day writing festival at the school.If that weren't enough, he tries to fend off the subtle advances of a female student(Katie Holmes)who rents a room from him, and he must deal with the troubles of James Leer, a talented writer played outstandingly by Tobey Maguire.Wonder Boys starts slowly, but picks up when his boss' blind dog (who knows Grady is sleeping with the wife) is accidentally shot to death. It is one of many great scenes in which Douglas and Maguire are together that help drive the story forward. "},{"Title":"Nice!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoy action and horror movies as much as the next freak, but sometimes I enjoy a warm character-driven drama comedy. And I really enjoyed this. A distinctly unglamorous Michael Douglas is forced to face the threads of his unraveling life during a weekend complicated by a soon-to-be ex-wife, a pregnant mistress, an editor desperate for a new hit, a self-destructive genius student, and a blind dead dog. Best lines include Katie Holmes' generous assessment of Douglas' 2600+ page opus and practically everything Tobey Maguire says. What a nice movie. You may not want to show it to your mom, but it'd be perfect for sitting around with friends. (8/10) "},{"Title":"Best Movie about Writing","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Great movie and one of the best films about writing ever made. I have read the book, and I even think the script may have improved the book by streamlining a bit. All the performances are great, the characterizations fabulous, and the story manages to be romantic without letting go of its scathing wit. I'm sorry this never became the giant hit it deserved to be.  "},{"Title":"An offbeat, quirky glimpse at the lives of writers","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Fantastic movie. In the absence of a 9.5 option, I gave it a 9. Can't believe I'd never heard of it. I'm always relieved when I see actors with the stature of Michael Douglas, Tobey McGuire or even Katie Holmes in a movie just because it's a great movie and not because it's sure to be another generic box-office hit.The movie was strangely similar to a number of novels written by Haruki Murakami, one of Japan's premier modern novelists and by far my favorite. Many of Murakami's elements were there the random breaks for smoking or drinking, the mysterious disappearance of a wife, the flirtation with a beautiful younger woman, the crazy variety of events thrown into a single day, the protagonist's relative implacability in the face of it all.Now, I'm going to go back and read Chabon's novel. I wonder if he's read Murakami. "},{"Title":"Seasoned","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Probably the best written screenplay that has come around in a long, long time.  Wonderful, awesome, really seasoned, textured, and full of the quirky truths of life.  What is doubly wonderful is the fact that every word translate to the screen and was obviously protected and blossomed under the direction of the filmmaker, the actors and everyone else involved.  I'd single Michael Douglas out as being really great in this film, but the fact is, that as good as he is, everyone that came to the table rose to the ocassion and the actors are all right on.I enjoyed this movie immensely.  IMMENSELY.  And I would recommend it to anyone and everyone.  10/10 "}{"Title":"Good story, good actors, great movie!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent dark comedy that I would recommend to anyone.  A brilliant story with great acting makes this comedy very enjoyable.  It features great actors like Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Katie Holmes, Frances Mcdormand, along with Robert Downey Jr.  Even though it is a bit slow at times the director Curtis Hanson(L.A. Confidential) makes up for it by incorporating great underlying plots, carried on by stellar acting.  All in all a very funny film that every one should see.  A nine in my book which could of easily been higher if Katie Holmes would of received more screen time. "},{"Title":"Good story, good actors, great movie!","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  An excellent dark comedy that I would reccomend to anyone.  A brilliant story with great acting makes this comedy very enjoyable.  It features great actors like Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Katie Holmes, Frances Mcdormand, along with Robert Downey Jr.  Even though it is a bit slow at times the director Curtis Hanson(L.A. Confidential) makes up for it by incorporating great underlying plots, carried on by stellar acting.  All in all a very funny film that every one should see.  A nine in my book which could of easily been higher if Katie Holmes would of recieved more screen time. "},{"Title":"Perfect!","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is Michael Douglas' best film, and that's saying something considering Traffic and War of the Roses.Not only is the script terrific, but Douglas' physical appearance is a perfect metaphor for the chaos in both his personal and professional lives. Add in a serious limp (I won't discuss how it occurs) and a dysfunctional cast of characters (Robert Downey and Tobey Maguire are also brilliant) and you can't help but sympathize with Grady Tripp's plight. There are times when he seems like the head of a large support network, but it's obvious that he can barely support himself.Another admirable quality of the Douglas character (a college professor) is that he abhors the elitist, pseudointellectual snob-fest that serves as the background for Wonder Boys. Unlike the rest of the college establishment, Grady never takes himself too seriously.This is absolutely one of the best films of 2000. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Who is the Wonder Boy ?","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie reads like a book... I usually like movies that do. Most of the Coen brothers' movies do, and they are highly intelligent, well directed and well played. I think this one sure did. One question remains though who is the Wonder Boy in this movie ? Is it Robert Downey Jr. for playing his typical part again (well casted!), is it Michael Douglas for a non-typical performance or is it Tobey Maguire for playing a highly likeable and very hilarious outsider. My answer would be, they all are! "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this is a great movie. I think it's one of Tobey and Katie's best films. Frances McDormand gives another great performance  and Robert downey jnr. is very funny. if you like movies about writers or anything like this, then go for it.  SEE THIS MOVIE!!!! "},{"Title":"Great Film Adaptation of a Great Book","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You heard it here first, folks.  Michael Chabon is a bonafide genius.  (And Pullitzer winner).  His novel, (of the same name), is beautifully adapted to the screen with this lyrical, silly and absolutely true interpretation.  Even if you don't like Michael Douglas...he is perfectly cast as the Writer/Professor who is spinning out of control and taking as many people with him as he can.  Toby Maguire is also fantastic as the young protege, (Chabon himself?), who finds love, life and meaning in his teacher's fall from grace.Just a great adaptation. "},{"Title":"Michael Douglas' best work, Tobey Maguire shines","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is real. It shows us a glimpse in the messy lives of Grady Tripp and James Lear (professor and student) who unwittingly save each other from themselves. Be warned...this movie is hysterically funny - even though it portrays true feelings of doubt, envy, love, honesty, anger, and despair.  "},{"Title":"A film you'll love... if you're the right person.","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie touched me personally... maybe because I identified so closely with the character of Grady Tripp, and have known people like James.I've seen this movie a dozen times easily. I understand totally why many here didn't like it -- if you haven't experienced the creative process, or known the difficulties of trying to move while people are circling around you, this won't affect you in any way. Meaning in this film isn't found in the story, it's in the characters, and understanding them.Frances McDormand's performance is especially wonderful here as Michael Douglas' love interest. She may be the most underrated American actress currently working. "},{"Title":"Wonderful","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Wonder Boys' offers the kind of simple perfection which can restore your faith in Hollywood.  Everyone's great here, everything works &#150; from the gorgeous cinematography right down to the inspired soundtrack.  Douglas, in particular, is masterful as the one-hit writer hovering on the edge of personal and professional oblivion.  But its Steve Kloves' screenplay which really shines - it manages to chart the territory of middle-aged angst and redemption without ever descending into sappiness.  It's a crying shame he missed out on the Oscar for this &#150; but his peerless skills as an adapter did score him the ongoing 'Harry Potter' gig, and I imagine the pay cheque for that will be some compensation. "},{"Title":"uneven","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful performances by Frances McDormand and Tobey Maguire.  Michael Douglas plays his usual self-absorbed generic male character, if a little shlubby and addled by pot this time around.  Robert Downey, Jr. plays close to type, but is such fun to watch.  Nice portrayal of academic politics. The ending is quite unsatisfying. "}{"Title":"My most enjoyable film of the new century.","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This charming, involving film has enough star power to launch the space shuttle.  This is a writer's film, and not a word is put wrong.  These characters interweave with each other with such confidence that the audience can just relax into a delightful anticipation.  This movie has a perfect script, and is perfectly cast.  Tobey Maguire stole the show and may never top his performance, Frances McDormand is  intensely in love with Michael D., who sorta kinda might know he has slouched his last slouch, and Robert Downey, Jr. makes women everywhere despair as he chooses first a towering transvestite, and second the wonder boy of the title.I bought two of the videos and gave one as a gift, and I bought the soundtrack, which is satisfyingly moody. Highly recommended.    "},{"Title":"My New Favorite Movie","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For years, the Accidental Tourist was my favorite movie. But Wonder Boys has taken the forefront. I stumbled on to this rare gem at 140 a.m. while channel checking during a particularly bad bout of insomnia. The catchy opening ballad sort of caught my attention, and then Michael Douglas, playing a truly divine, thoroughly disheveled college professor appealed to my sense of whimsy. Add in Toby Maguire as a dark, morose English Lit major and Robert Downey, Jr. as a gay (sort of) New York literary agent and I was completely sucked in. The cast is rounded out with Frances McDormand as the cynical married mistress of Douglas, a blind pit bull (that hates Douglas), and an ugly pinkish chenille bathrobe (worn by Douglas) and you have a little movie magic.The beauty of this movie is there is not one wasted line of dialogue. Every single line is perfect. Every time I watch it, there is something funnier that I didn't pick up on the first five times I watched it.The plot is pretty simple, an aging writer, Grady Tripp (Douglas) is struggling with letting go and handing over his Wonder Boy title to the next literary genius, James Leer (Toby Maguire. Together Grady Tripp and James Leer sort of blunder along through the weekend trying to figure out where they belong in the world and work through a few issues. We are lucky enough to be pulled along with them through Wordfest at the college where Grady Tripp teaches, a ratty bar, and a few of other places along the way.It is worth whatever you pay to see this movie just to watch Frances McDormand act perfectly gracious when Terry Crabtree (Robert Downey, Jr.) brings a HUGE transvestite wearing a 3-inch heels and bright red coat over to her house for cocktails. McDormand also delivers some fabulous one liners in her dry understated style.Let's face it, a movie that features a huge transvestite in a red coat, a tuba, a dead dog, an ugly car, the president of the James Brown hair club for men, Marilyn Monroe's jacket and Robert Downey, Jr. can't be all bad. You have to see the movie to see how they all turn out. "},{"Title":"Nothing fantastic...","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not that this isn't a pretty good movie, but it's hard to understand what all the hype was about. This is a pleasant, unchallenging film. Maybe a bit dry for some and maybe a bit slow, but an enjoyable way to spend two hours. It was nice to see a story made for adults for once, but anyone coming to Wonder Boys should probably lower their expectations. "},{"Title":"a wonder","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  See this movie.  Best performances, best writing, rich laughs.  There is not a false note in it.  I don't know how Michael Douglas could go from this movie, in which he give his best, most honest performance ever, to the baloney of Don't Say a Word with all that makeup and all those cliches. But that's another story.  The cast of Wonder Boys is uniformly excellent. It has its unpredictable moments, but these moments arise out the the characterizations, not just to befuddle the viewer.  Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Not so wonder!","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Slow but somewhat ironic movie concerning the weird and dramatic relationship between a dissilusioned professor (Douglas) and his clever but sometimes depressed young pupil (Maguire). The movie is a kind of School Movie like many others and it's not so wonder or different however,it's a change of mood for director Hanson, previously famed by some suspenseful films. Douglas gives a good performance and Maguire seems asleep as always. I give this a 6 (six). "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If it slipped under your radar in the theaters, like it did mine, then please see it.  Every person (including those whom I've forced) who has seen this movie has loved it without exaggeration. Michael Douglas is the star, in the truest sense of the word.  Though he usually possesses a kind of creepy energy on film and also when discussing his marriage to Catherine, he is just plain likable in this movie.  I think it's the affection this movie can generate is what raises it from good to great.  Every character in this movie is sympathetic (except possibly for John-Boy as the pretentious head of the English Department).  That is really saying something where seemingly every film contains a cartoony villain or antagonist. (The same COULD be said of The Royal Tannenbaums but all but Hackman's characters are 0- or 1-dimensional relative to these in Wonder Boys.) I'm glad I bought the DVD - even though there aren't any twists or surprises at the end that promote a 2nd viewing to understand what just happened (like Memento or The Usual Suspects) and the DVD doesn't have alternate endings or supplemental material (like Se7en or both versions of Planet Of The Apes). But watching this always puts me in a good mood; I watch it with friends, and loan it to friends.  I'm just very careful to make sure the disc is returned promptly.  "},{"Title":"Made me think","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I guess the question this movie asks is is it possible to live an unispired life, and still make inspired art ? Grady Tripp, clearly, has lost track of both his life and his art. Just as he has stopped making decissions in his life, he has stopped making decisions in his literary work, and he can't seem to be able to distinguish what's important to what's not. James Leer - the character played by Toby McGuire, on the other hand, has everything Tripp lacks. Everything he says and does probably is a lie - but isn't art, when it comes down to it, all about lies ? And isn't a great artist just a great liar ? I usually don't like movies, or books, about authors and their pains about finding inspiration. Those kind are written by authors for authors, and I always feel like screaming GET A LIFE!! whenever somebody gets lost in his og her own author-esness. But the point of this movie seems to be exactly the same, so I can easily live with almost all the main characters being somehow connected to writing and the main theme being inspiration - in life AND art. "},{"Title":"Maybe the best movie of 2000.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've watched this movie at least ten times. The story of one man's midlife crisis and how he affects those around him, Wonder Boys makes the viewer love and root for the flawed and very human characters that populate the film. It is filled with brilliant understated performances and great writing. Curtis Hanson out does himself with pitch perfect direction of both the actors and the visuals. Steve Kloves script is terrific and Tobey Maguire, Robert Downey, Katie Holmes and Frances McDormand are all wonderful. Rip Torn and Richard Thomas have secondary roles but they are also terrific.  Which brings me to Michael Douglas. What a relevation! I only hope that he makes more films like this in the future. This film made me a fan.  "},{"Title":"Worth Watching","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why, but when I first saw this, I thought it was a Canadian movie until I realized it was Michael Douglas and Tobey MacGuire I was watching. Maybe it was because it gives me the same feel as watching Waydowntown, but it's just as funny. On TMN, they said the critics loved it, but no one ever watched it. This doesn't surprise me much. Film lovers who love things from film festivals, and really think about the movies they watch, will want this movie (possibly another reason I thought it was Canadian at first), but the ones who'd rather see lots of sex and more drugs would find this is over their heads. It has a great plot, and Bob Dylan's music gives it the atmosphere it deserves. I'd be interested in reading the novel it's based upon.  "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Curtis Hansen's Wonder Boys tells the story of a professor (Michael Douglas) who takes a troubled and confused student (Tobey Maguire) under his wing.  This movie made me feel good about myself for some reason.  I love Tobey Maguire's preformance as the troubled James.  I hope him being Spider Man is the upcoming movie doesn't ruin his chance of getting good roles.  Go see this movie now.  If you did, see it again! "}{"Title":"7/10","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Although the film is nothing more then a poor man's Big Lebowski, it's still worth a viewing or two.  In fact, I would recommend at least two viewings.  The film isn't for all tastes, but it may or may not grow on you.  I didn't really care for the film the first time I saw it, but after a second viewing it grew on me.Douglas, as usual, is brilliant. "},{"Title":"A really nice movie about making choices in your life.","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a really nice movie about making choices in your life, and the teacher/writer Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) failing to do so (until the happy ending). The movies shows us a few days of Tripps life, in which he gets involved with a student of his, James Leer (Tobey Maguire). James is a kind of a peculiar person, who (apparently) makes stories of everything he experiences. He admires Tripp for a book he has written seven years ago. Since then, Tripp didn't published anything. His life has become quite a mess in the days we follow him. The very fine acting by Douglas and Maguire is enhanced by the appearance of Frances Mcdormand (the pregnant and daring detective in 'Fargo', an absolute favourite of mine). Just before the end there's a weak moment in the movie all the problems have only build up until then, and have to be solved in just a few minutes. Luckily the characters are charming enough to overcome this weakness, so the happy ending is a nice experience. "},{"Title":"One of very few beautiful films","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful film. The story, the setting, and the actors in the film are nothing short of beautiful. Tobey's performance is so unappreciated that it makes you want to choke every critic from LA to NY. Katie Holmes, oh my God, Katie Holmes. A supporting actor none-the-less, she is amazing every time she sets foot in a scene. Through out his amazing career, this is one of many that he'll be remembered for. "},{"Title":"A bad Tripp","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yes, Douglas IS cast against type as permanently stoned, hairy old English professor Grady Tripp (geddit?) having a nightmare weekend involving a dead dog, a demented student, a marriage crumbling, and an affair with his boss' wife - as well as being pursued by a James Brown lookalike who wants his car back. But his peformance alone can't salvage a mess of a movie. It's a great script, often very funny, and a fantastic ensemble cast. But many of them have very little to do, especially Katie Holmes, whose part is woefully underwritten. I get the feeling the book has much more to offer and that it has been condensed down to movie size, ultimately cramming too much into a small space. A shame, because parts of it are wonderful...it just doesn't go anywhere. "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a surprise for me, because Michael Douglas isn't one of my favorite actors. But after seeing this, I look his new work from a new point of view. Douglas is perfect in this movie. The movie isn't perfect and it has few flaws, but anyway it is entertaining and uplifting. Also it is refreshing to see good movies coming from Hollywood. Sad thing is that 70 % movies that come from Hollywood are crap. (***½ stars from *****) "},{"Title":"What a film...","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I watched Wonder Boys just two days ago (mostly coz I wanted to see Robert DJ play someone else than Larry Paul) and I thought I didn't like it. But then I stumbled upon it again just a few hours later, and I found myself knowing a lot of the lines. I usually never remember lines, unless it's a film I really like. My point here is that this is a film that you have to think about. I figured it would be funny, but instead it was very confusing. I'm not saying I didn't like it (let's face it, best film I've seen since Moulin Rouge!), it just really confused me. Michael Douglas was great in this one. So was Robert Downey Jr. and Tobey Maguire. Anyone who's ever wanted to become an author should watch this film, coz in between all the itrigue there's a lot of good tips.  "},{"Title":"A funny, original movie with heart","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was surprised that this movie was not nominated for more Oscars, including one for Robert Downey, Jr. who was very funny as Tripp's editor Crabtree. Michael Douglas has always been one of my favorite actors and he brought back to the screen what I feel that he does naturally being laid back. I think every college student should watch this movie because it gives a good description of accepting who you are. I would call this a wonderful character movie, and those are the kind of films I love best. It was seriously underrated, and should have gotten more attention at the theatre than it did. I would give it my full rating of 5 stars simply for its originality and witty humor and of course the memorable characters. Finally original cinema, instead of all this recycled crap you see nowadays.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Style, barely adequate substance","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As Curtis Hanson amply demonstrated in L. A. Confidential, he is one of our most promising directors.  Wonder Boys has a fascinating offbeat, irreverent, and quirky style and feel.  The plot however is full of holes and digressions.  It's a shame because the acting is marvelous, and the score is perfect. "},{"Title":"a funny film","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WONDER BOYS is a smart and funny film, which, after some initial struggle to find the proper balance between comedy and drama, delivers memorable performances by all members of the cast, great music (with a few new songs by Bob Dylan), great photography and lighting, strong dialogue and great directing. One of the things that I find to be the most important part of a film is its characters, and WONDER BOYS has a wide variety of fascinating people in it. Toby Maguire stars as the almost suicidal and compulsive liar, James Leer. We've got Michael Douglas as the weed-smoking professor, Grady Tripp. Robert Downey Jr. (who's just a brilliant actor) plays the gay editor, Terry Crabtree, who becomes fascinated with James Leer, and last &#150; but by no means least &#150; there's the two women, Frances McDormand and Katie Holmes, who do their best to tackle a weekend with the `wonder boys'. But the character that got the most sympathy out of me was not one of the leading roles, it was instead Walter Gaskell (played by Richard Thomas), who during the film, without the fault of his own, ends up with his dog shot and killed, his favourite memorabilia (a Marilyn Monroe jacket) stolen and finally, to top it all of, his wife leaves him See the film and you'll understand.  "},{"Title":"Touching, endearing, fantastic film","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is a marvelous piece of work, finely crafted and well-executed. This amazing cast gives life and feeling to the story as they're pulled through the twists and turns of not-quite-normal life. Heart-warming, intelligent, down-to-earth, I've watched this masterpiece a dozen times and still end up giggling, sniffing back tears, and laughing outright. Definately one of the best I've ever seen. "}{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Here is a wonderful little comedy from Curtis Hanson (L.A. Confidential). Its a story about a loser (Michael Douglas's best performance), Grady Tripp, who used dope to write his award winning novel and is now making a follow up, which he can't seem to finish. It follows a crazy weekend he has with other goofy characters, such as a morbid, troublesome student of his, a gay editor, a chancelor, whom he's having an affair with, and their blind dog, who's looking to kill him.  I know, it sounds like crap, but it you must see it to believe it.There is terrific dialogue and plot twists all around this film, as well as flawless direction by Curtis Hanson. The performances, consisting of Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Robert Downey Jr., Frances McDormand, Katie Holmes, Rip Torn and others, are simply superb. Its one of the most underrated films of 2000, and it is a film that will be remembered in years to come.O  O  O  O  O  O  O  O 1/2  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Here is a wonderful little comedy from Curtis Hanson (L.A. Confidential). Its a story about a loser (Michael Douglas's best performance), Grady Tripp, who used dope to write his award winning novel and is now making a follow up, which he can't seem to finish.  It follows a crazy weekend he has with other goofy characters, such as a morbid, troublesome student of his, a gay editor, the chancelor's wife, whom he's having an affair with, and their blind dog, who's looking to kill him.I know, it sounds like crap, but it you must see it to believe it.There is terrific dialogue and plot twists all around this film, as well as flawless direction by Curtis Hanson.  The performances, consisting of Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Robert Downey Jr., Frances McDormand, Katie Holmes, Rip Torn and others, are simply superb.  Its one of the most underrated films of 2000, and it is a film that will be remembered in years to come. "},{"Title":"Wonder-ful movie","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I am just going to wind up repeating what others have said, but Michael Douglas does give one of the best, if not the best performance of his career, in a part that is very much a change of pace for him. Toby Maguire takes a great part and runs with it. I was very impressed with him in Pleasantville and this movie only adds to my opinion of him as a very fine young actor. The supporting cast is not to be believed. So many wonderful actors. It was a joy to watch them all work. All in all, this is one very good movie. Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Excellent film waiting to be misunderstood","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Wonder Boys' is the type of movie that could easily be passed off as pretentious, as indeed I see it has by a more than a couple commenting reviewers. But, those who ascribe to the movie such pretentiousness clearly missed the subtle nuances, the wonderful sense of humor, and the painstakingly drawn out, sometimes tragic characters(particularly Professor Tripp and James Leer, whose quasi-morbid obsession with celebrity suicides is made light of and overcast by his pathological lying). This is probably the most undercherished gem of the year, other than 'Requiem for a Dream,' and is a must see. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Michael Douglas gives an intelligent performance.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas is great, the supporting cast is great, the story is great, and, especially, the music is great.  As soon as I first heard Things Have Changed by Bob Dylan, I immediately ran out and bought the soundtrack. There is something special about this movie, and I think it is the music which makes it universally unique. "},{"Title":"Intelligent, quirky, very funny, wonderfully acted..","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas really deserved and Oscar nod for his wonderful portrayal of the grizzly pot-smoking Professor Grady Tripp in this infinitely charming comedy/drama. As did most of the supporting cast in fact; Tobey Maguire is great as the morose young student/writer prodigy James Leer, Frances McDormand is as subtle as ever as the Chancellor, and (a perfectly cast) Robert Downey Jr turns in a delightful performance as Tripp's book editor Terry Crabtree. In addition to the brilliant casting (which, on it's own, could keep this film afloat) the movie also boasts a witty script, a great multi-layered storyline, a perfect soundtrack, and some exceptional direction from Curtis Hanson. The film is full of moments that will make you burst out laughing, usually out of surprise, and is a genuine delight from start to finish. The Bob Dylan song ('Things Have Changed') that opens and closes this movie is, as well as being a great song on its own, PERFECTLY suited to the vibe of the film. I sit until the end of the closing credits each time I watch this movie because the song just caps it so well. The narrative aspect added to the films literary quality (it was adapted from the novel by Michael Chabon) and served it well, and in some ways reminded me of Stand By Me (the ending in particular..)I really think this movie deserved more recognition, and definitely more Oscar nominations, than it got. It is easily the equal of (the previous years Oscar fave) American Beauty, to which, in terms of style and vibe, I might compare it. I heartily recommend this film to everyone, (and add that I think the more literary minded among us will appreciate it particularly.)  "},{"Title":"One of the best of 2000....","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Director Curtis Hanson does it again! Wonderfully acted - Michael Douglas should have received an oscar nomination for this! Robert Downey Jr. - sparkling as always. (One can only hope he can get his life back on the right track again as he would be would be sorely missed by his many fans.) Toby Maguire (sp?) a true comedic straightman - but that burst of laughter in the auditorium, oh my! Hilarious!   Not sure how many times we watched it before, reluctantly, returning it to the store. Definitely one to add to the collection! The humor ranged from very subtle to in-your-face and everything in between. Certainly one of the best of 2000...just sit back, relax and be entertained!  A 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Slow motion comedy","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a very funny movie, only everything was so slow you chuckle more than laugh out loud.  I agreed with Roger Ebert that it was like a screwball comedy at a different pace.  But I liked it a lot.  I guess if your married to Ms. Zeta Jones you can look like a bum and not have it hurt your image. "},{"Title":"Great Performance By Douglas, Movie Fizzles Out","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Prior to seeing this film, primarily what I had heard was what a great job Michael Douglas did. And indeed he does. Douglas gives another outstanding performance as usual. The rest of the cast follows suit and does an above average job including Frances McDormand and Robert Downey Jr. Tobey Maguire's character is a little bit too one-dimensional. The story starts out with alot of promise but by the end of the film, the film had lost its bite and began to fizzle out a bit. Still worth seeing, but not as great as everyone says. "},{"Title":"Steven Kloves, Michael Douglas and Curtis Hanson deliver.","Date":"20 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Like HI FIDELITY, WONDER BOYS is a fine and fairly faithful film adaptation of a good book about the problematical personal and professional relationships of a man who may or may not be about to finally grow up. Both end with many, if not all, of the major characters having moved on to stronger relationships and/or better jobs.  Frankly, given that these are movies, I like that things end happily.  The optimistic endings do not seem particularly forced because the characters are basically decent, if confused, people trying to find happiness and understanding amid all the contradictions and ambiguities that are their lives.The writer, Steven Kloves, deserved his Oscar nomination.  Hopefully, he has done as fine a job of adapting the first Harry Potter book as he did with Michael Chabon's WONDER BOYS.Performances in WONDER BOYS range from good to great.  Grady Tripp is one of the best parts Michael Douglas has ever had and he does a fine job with it. It's tough to imagine a better choice for Terry Crabtree than Robert Downey, Jr.  Type-casting has its good points.  Whether Tobey Maguire was the best choice to play James Leer is open to question, but he is wonderful in the entire scene at Emily's parents house and that makes him good enough. Frances McDormand is, as ever, a plus.It's also nice to see a Pennsylvania winter that looks like a Pennsylvania winter.  Thank you, Curtis Hanson. "}{"Title":"A great film with a terrific script","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is a great movie, with a fantastic script, great acting and directing. The characters are very well developed during the film and it is interesting to see how they change. Michael Douglas gives his best performance of his career, better than Wall Street, Tobey Maguire shows us that he is a great actor and not only a cool guy of the new generation of young actors, Robert Downey Jr is also great (as he always is), Frances McDormand is also fantastic. It's a very funny film, but it's not a nonsense comedy, you will see that this movie made you think about many things.  "},{"Title":"Excellent character-based comedy/drama.","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Douglas is a talented, versatile actor who doesn't make great choices. In the past few years, he was stuck in roles in plodding thrillers like `The Game' and `A Perfect Murder'. He seemed to be playing the same thing over and over again. In the beginning of 2000, Douglas finally broke out of his mold with Wonder Boys.Douglas plays Grady Tripp, a fifty-ish English professor with an estranged wife. Grady wrote a book 7 years ago and has now fallen into a rut. He smokes pot and teaches his class, taking a special interest in one student in particular. Solitary, dark James Leer (Tobey Maguire) isn't very appreciated by his classmates, but Grady sees the potential. He and his tenant-student Hannah (Katie Holmes) see the potential in James. One night, James, Grady and his gay editor (Robert Downey, Jr.) go to  a party at the chancellor's (Frances McDormand) home. Grady is having an affair with chancellor and therefore is allowed in her room. He takes James into the room and shows him the Chancellor's wedding present from her husband. It is the vest that Marilyn Monroe wore at her wedding. James is spellbound by it. Later, the Chancellor's blind dog attacks Grady because he knows what's up. Panicked, James shoots the dog. Wonder Boys is a bittersweet comedy/drama about people. Never too flashy, never lapsing into melodrama or slapstick/crude humor, Wonder Boys is all about people. You don't laugh too much, but you find yourself amused and sympathetic for the very good characterizations. While I was describing them, I kept thinking about how they seemed like, well, wrestlers and such. However, when you watch, you feel these characters. Douglas is great as Grady Tripp. While the character isn't exactly complex as is, Douglas makes him a complicated, multi-layered being. For the first time since Wall Street, Douglas isn't playing by the rules. For the first time since Wall Street, Douglas is acting, instead of just playing a character. Tobey Maguire plays a character that doesn't stray too far from what he usually does, unfortunately. However, since he's usually pretty good in what he does, he fits his role very well. Frances McDormand plays Grady's mistress. Frances McDormand is a talented character actress that gets unanimous praise in whatever she does. In Wonder Boys she gives an excellent performance. McDormand's character has problems she's pregnant, in an unhappy relationship&#133; McDormand makes all these feelings show without going weepy. Katie Holmes, the teenage star of Dawson's Creek, is good in her first really serious role. I was truly impressed. My biggest gripe, however, is with Robert Downey Jr. I know he's a talented actor, but he overplays it a bit. While he's not really gay, (Grady says `Sometimes he's gay, sometimes he's just himself') there are times when his performance borders on Will & Grace's Jack. You can play a gay character without acting like a fairy, you know.The script is excellent. It's a subtle mix of comedy and drama that never transcends too much into one another. It is also tasteful with the controversial issues such as marijuana, unwanted pregnancy and never lapses into violence, even when the dog is shot . The comedy here never misses. The jokes are never extremely mean-spirited or dark.Wonder Boys was directed by Curtis Hanson, director of L.A. Confidential. Hanson doesn't use visual flourishes or strange camera angles to try and get the movie to work. It works on its own, with the actors and the script making the whole movie. When I rented Wonder Boys, I wasn't sure I would like it. Movies in this genre aren't my type. However, I was amazed at how great and engrossing this movie was. This movie eats you up confused and cautious and spits you out amazed and begging for more. 9/10  "},{"Title":"A stellar movie from a lackluster year","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This gem stands out in a year in which Gladiator was Hollywood's idea of a great movie.  With such exquisite (and fun) cinematography, characters, acting, storyline, dialog, pacing, and soundtrack, it boggles the mind that this faithful adaptation of Michael Chabon's novel was overlooked. "},{"Title":"Dark Horse film of 2000","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This top-notch film boasts a well constructed ensemble cast that would have easily received more mention at Oscar time, if it were not for the unfortunate first release date and choice of marketing ploys.Michael Douglas, as the star of this film opens his mind, body and spirit to bring this multi-layered character to life.  This is probably the best work to ever come out of Mr. Douglas as he holds the audience mesmerized in this slice of Murphy's Law revenge.Tobey Maguire delivers a soft, quiet performance as the young student who leaves you wondering if this young man know the difference between reality and the impromptu story lines he whips up at a moments notice.  Had this film been release at a more optimum time, Mr. Maguire would have certainly been on the list of Oscar nominees. The sub plot lines intertwine seamlessly with the old teacher, young student/admirer main story line.  You could lose track of which one is the real story line; the hidden relationship between Douglas and McDormand (and the dog) or the tracking down of Marilyn Monroe's wedding jacket (and the car that may or may not belong to Douglas).We can only hope that Mr.'s Douglas and Maguire find another vehicle to shine in as brightly as this one...and that they get a smarter marketing team. "},{"Title":"The film goes for the goal and falls short.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  My first thoughts of this movie at the beginning were Wow, this looks like a fun movie! Then the movie actually started, it was about two hours too long. Don't get me wrong, I am a fan of Michael Douglas (Basic Instinct, The Game.) This has got to be one of his worst roles ever! The premise of the movie while funny, takes WAY too long to execute. "},{"Title":"8 out of 10","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  really good movie. michael douglas should have won the oscar over russell crowe. to me, it was no contest. what a gutty portrayal. he really let himself go to be his character. i even like toby in this role. not too childlike here. katie holmes...well im married, so enuf said about that! rip torn, can never get enough of him. and frances mcdormand was really tender as tripp's lover. all and all a well written/acted movie and worth seeing. really... "},{"Title":"Why wasn't this nominated for best picture?","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why wasn't this nominated for best picture? This movie was outstanding. It has expertly woven comedy mixed with bizarre plot twists that kept me from knowing what would happen next. This blows Finding Forrester out of the water. Seeing Tobey Maguire watch old movies while under the influence had me rolling! Why wasn't this picture nominated for best picture?? "},{"Title":"Well-intentioned but needed some spice","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can't say anything blatantly bad about this movie.  It's well-intentioned, the acting is magnificent, but I just wasn't deeply engaged.  I read in a screenwriting book that it's not wise to have the protagonist in a story be a writer, because with writers--and actors, for that matter--most of the conflict occurs internally.  Writers are generally introverts and their emotions aren't expressed fully to the outside world.  I think that was one of the problems with this movie, and that's what took out the general entertainment value.  The characters are well-developed, the whole movie is very original, but I just wasn't getting into it.  I just felt it needed some energy, some spice.  The scenes in the movie are offbeat and well-written, but the whole film has a downbeat tone which pretty much quiets the audience's interests, bringing this character study almost towards mediocrity.  One thing I have to admire greatly about Wonder Boys was the song by Bob Dylan Things Have Changed--or something like that.  The song greatly portrays the whole mood of the atmosphere perfectly, and it almost measures up to Paul Simon and Art Garfunkel's compositions in The Graduate.  I was so glad when Dylan picked up an Oscar for the song, because I thought this movie would be totally snubbed--even in the Best Song category.  This is not the type of movie I can--technically-knock.  It's simply an adequate film that just needed a shot in the backside to get its audience more interested in the material.  And maybe they should've done a rewrite, changing Douglas' writer persona.  As I said earlier, writers don't make good protagonists.  I'm not going to sign myself up on the committee that desperately wanted to add this movie to the list of Best Picture nominees, but it's an ambitious effort that just didn't--totally--do it for me.  This is more of a subjective review.  I'm sure others may think differently.My score  6 (out of 10)  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable tale set in Pittsburgh,PA.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I would recommend renting or purchasing the DVD format. That way you will be able to get all the background information. I also enjoyed the music, especially the Bob Dylan video. The excellent cast and director all combined for a movie worth viewing and it has a feel good ending.  "},{"Title":"A professor of creative writing must face up to a host of catastrophes in one weekend","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  How can a cast that includes Michael Douglas, Robert Downey Jr., Frances McDormand, and Tobey Maguire fail?  Not a great movie, but very good, with excellent performances all around.  Perhaps best of all, it doesn't assume the stupidity of the viewer.  It leaves things unexplained, for the viewer to think about for some time to come!   "}{"Title":"A Wonder","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why didn't this movie win all the Oscars?  It was by far the best-written, best acted film that I saw last year.  Michael Douglas gives the finest performance of his career as a fifty-something professor with an adolescent attitude who reluctantly becomes a father figure to a troubled talented student.  The movie is never predictable, the plot is hilarious and yet the characters seem completely real.  Everyone has to see this movie.    "},{"Title":"Long and Winded Road picture","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I rented this mind enema because the Howard Johnson scenes were shot near my house.Those scenes like the entire movie were disappointing. Right after the shooting ended they tore the thing down.They should have put the film in the rumble and hauled it away too! This one is a snoozer. This is a comedy? A failed to see the humor.All I saw was life's lost souls in a neverending script..just like Mr. Douglas character's manuscript that went on and on. Robert Downey Jr. playing a parody of himself was interesting. I guess I am in the minority as negative reviewer,but I can see why this movie did poorly at the box office. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Christo's 25 or so...Charismatic performances by both Douglas and Downey Jr. A pleasure to watch, intelligent, funny and very smooth. We feel Prof. Tripp's anxieties and exhaustion...we may have been there in some form. "},{"Title":"I Wonder, Wonder...","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Curtis Hanson's Wonder Boys begins as an unkempt Michael Douglas stumbles through his equally messy home, perfectly setting up his character.  He plays a once successful writer now turned college professor whose love life, professional life, and craft are falling apart while his editor comes to check on the book he's been writing for 5 years.  Enter Toby Maguire, one of his less than normal students, who becomes attached to the seemingly washed up Douglas and editor (Robert Downey Jr.)Wonder Boys is full of great performances, but Tobey Maguire comes out ahead, hitting all the right notes with his touching, pensive turn as a student who trudges on writing regardless of derision from his peers. Douglas is also playfully aloof as the pot-smoking Professor Tripp, and turns in one of him most likeable performance in years.  Katie Holmes and Frances McDormand round out the fine cast, but again, it's Maguire who comes up with a breakthrough performance that ensures his place as a serious up and coming young actor.Under the steady direction of Curtis Hanson, the film moves along at a leisurely pace, much like L.A. Confidential does.  Still, this laidback storytelling is one of the film's charms, and it works for the most part, thought not as successfully as the Coen brothers employed the effect in the Big Lebowski - at times it seems to drag here.  And though it may seem that there is no focus point or message, choices are what the film ultimately divulges is important.While Wonder Boys may move in strides, the sheer talent of the cast manages to help move the story along and there's plot twists and some scenes of sheer brilliance that comes totally unexpected.  For a movie about writers, it certainly captures the struggle of creating and choosing what do next in life as well as literature in an unexpectedly offbeat, sometimes hilarious way.7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Dark but intelligent comedy","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `Wonder Boys' is a dark and intelligent comedy about choices.  Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) is a college professor who is the constant victim of the circumstances of his own life.  On the day we meet him, his wife has left him and the chancellor of the college (Frances McDormand) with whom he has been having an affair tells him that she is pregnant.  Add to that the fact that his star student has killed the chancellor's dog, and that his agent is in town to talk to him about the book he hasn't finished, and Grady is suddenly awash in crises that require pivotal decisions.  Unfortunately, deciding is not his forte.The humor in Steven Kloves (`The Fabulous Baker Boys') screenplay is more that of dire irony rather than the whimsical inanity that characterizes most film comedies.  As such, the film didn't have much mass appeal, garnering a meager $19 million at the box office despite a very bankable cast.  Nevertheless, this excellent screenplay merited a Best Screenplay nomination from the Academy, and it is full of thoughtful dialogue and wry humor.Michael Douglas is terrific as the overwrought college professor.  Douglas shows a great deal of versatility here; playing an offbeat and tortured character that is unlike any he has played before.  Tobey Maguire (`Pleasantville', `The Cider House Rules') turns in another fine performance expanding his boundaries with a much heavier and complex role.  He gives the character a moody depth that is both devious and impassive while maintaining a certain insecure naiveté.  Frances McDormand, as usual, delivers a strong supporting performance as the chancellor at a crossroad.  Robert Downey, Jr. is also fantastic as the quirky literary agent, adding a touch of absurdity to the otherwise dour script.Bob Dillon won an Oscar and a Golden Globe award for Best Song, and deservingly so.This is a strong film that will appeal to a limited audience.  I rated it an 8/10.  It is a thought provoking and somber character study that is well worth the time for the serious viewer. "},{"Title":"I Wonder Why This One Did Not Do Better In The Box Office!","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Boy! O Boy! I wonder why the Academy did not nominate Michael Douglas of `Wonder Boys' for a Best Actor Oscar. It was the best performance of his career. This film is also one of the best films of the year. The movie is about the very strange but hilarious episodes that happen to an english professor who is struggling with writers block- which is very similar to what I am currently experiencing in trying to end this film review.  Curtis Hanson showed the `write' stuff with his pinpoint direction. It is no longer confidential that as far as complex storytelling goes, he is one of the best in hollywood today. Steven Kloves Oscar-nominated screenplay was very much deserving of its accolades. I also do have to `a-noun' that were many more `pro' acting performances in this film. Frances Mcdormand who plays the university's chancellor proved again why she does not have that much `far' to `go' in becoming the best middle aged actress in Hollywood today.  Robert Downey Jr. Was the real `mcbeal' i mean  `mcdeal' with his role as the constrained editor. Why wonder any more? Go see this movie today boyyyyyyyyyy!!!! ***** Excellent  "},{"Title":"It's official Curtis Hanson is the #1 actor's director.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just loved this movie.  Curtis Hanson has had two great scripts in a row, but it seems as if every single actor that utters a word in his last two films is putting out their best performance.  There is nothing particularly stylish about the guy.  He has some great taste in music I suppose.  Dylan will deservedly win the Oscar.  But this is without a doubt Michael Douglas's best performance.  Will the self-conscious post face-lift version ever equal the warts and all Douglas of Wonder Boys?  And Toby McGuire, Robert Downey, Katie Holmes (He made me fall in lust with her.) Even the small parts , Richard Thomas, the kid who played the janitor, the waitress and Vernon.  It is really an actors film.  Frances McDormand was great as always but somehow seemed miscast.  And I cannot say this was Rip Torn's best film, because I will always consider The Man Who Fell To Earth his triumph. When Curtis Hanson is remembered this will by one that scholars talk about even more than L.A. Confidential.  And one day they will discuss his films and say Curtis Hanson, hell he even made Steve Guttenberg look good. (watch the underrated Bedroom Window).  This guy could direct Pauly Shore as Hamlet and pull it off.  Understated and non-pretentious the guy is an actor's director.  Wonder Boys proves it once and for all. "},{"Title":"what is this?","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  wow where do i start? i thought the acting in this movie was exceptional, but the big problem with this film was the plot. the story would go into one direction then switch. i was confused. you couldnt pay me to sit and watch this film again.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, disappointing","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  With all the critical acclaim for this movie, I grabbed it as soon as it appeared on the shelves of the video store.   Unfortunately, as is usually the case, the film did not live up to the hype.  The bottom line is, a bunch of offbeat characters and adult themes can't rescue this film from being a better-than-average TV sitcom -- the Sopranos as academics.  If you take away the frequent pot smoking, the casual gay sex, and the cute interracial couple, you aren't left with much substance here.  And please, how many movies do we have to endure with an intrepid corpse as the running gag?  Unless you think that killing an old blind dog is the stuff of high comedy, most of the humor in this movie is pretty sophomoric.Then there's the acting.  The very talented Robert Downey Jr. is once again wasted as a wise-cracking, sexually ambiguous Puck, a role whose possibilities he exhausted in Home for the Holidays.  And the likewise excellent Toby Maguire monotones his way through this film like a zombie.  By the hundredth he croaks out the words Professor Trip, you want to smack him.  All this leaves you longing for more scenes between Michael Douglas and Frances McDormand, whose presence is the only really enjoyable part of Wonder Boys.In short, I'd wait till the movie comes out on television -- which, sadly, is where it really belongs. "},{"Title":"Now I know why this didn't get the awards everyone said it deserved","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'll give it this..this movie is creative and tries to hit on a kind of movie ala Pulp Fiction in a way. It just doesn't hit me they way I think it was meant to or something. Maybe this is how it hit many others too. I liked it...but I didn't liiiikkkkeee it. If I have to sit through a movie looking at my watch or changing positions constantly in my chair, then a movie is just not getting to me. There are just too many movies today trying to give us the treatment this movie does. While it is mildly successful...it's nothing new to me. That is why it didn't win any awards and didn't make the nominations so many people think it deserved. It's just nothing new. "}{"Title":"Satisfying and laugh-out-loud literate","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is a very enjoyable movie, especially recommended for anyone who is interested in writers or academic campus life for adults. Novelist Michael Chabon's story deserves high marks for showing the central figure, a college writing teacher, as a comically beleaguered and decent man who is a pot-smoker, which may (or may not) be partly responsible for his dilemma. With fine work by the entire distinguished cast, this movie is well-paced and nicely filmed, and contains a number of intelligent, laugh-out-loud moments. A too-pat ending, probably different from what Chabon originally wrote, keeps it from being a perfect 10; still, this film is satisfying and eminently worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Good, but all the extravagant praise surprises me.","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  For the most part I enjoyed this movie.  The cast is really good and the comedy is quiet and really well done.  The storyline however I didn't think was that great.  The motivations seem very hazy at times, and occasionally you are really left wondering what exactly is going on.  Maybe I fell asleep at some key moments.  Anyways a good movie to rent, I wouldn't go see it in the theatres unless you are out of choices. "},{"Title":"Add this one to your collection.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie starts off just a little off center and stays delightfully off balance all the way through.  Michael Douglas is a professor dining out on his first novel while laboring endlessly on his second.  His book, like his life, seems unable to find its way. Along comes a troubled young student played brilliantly by the always magnificent Tobey Maguire.  Before you know it, they've killed the Chancellor's dog, stolen a jacket that once belonged to Marilyn Monroe, and generally wrought havoc on the university community.Robert Downey Jr. is Douglas' editor, who may be interested in the young student, who may have written a great book and lied about just about everything he tells them.  Frances McDormand is woefully underutilized but fabulous as usual. And John-boy Walton is her husband.I loved this film.  The screenplay is perfect and the sterling cast rises to the occasion.  Add this one to your collection.  "},{"Title":"Makes movie-going worth while. Douglas/Maguire/McDormand +++","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I could imagine Gene Siskel leaning over to Ebert and saying This is why I go to the movies at the screening of The Wonder Boys. The many good things said about this film are correct.  The pleasure is watching Douglas and McDormand playing civilized characters in an emotional whirlwind who keep their personal demeanor collected.  This is a well crafted somewhat cerebral comedy with splash of black humor. This is the most enjoyable Douglas has been in a while. Maguire brings his own quirky skills to this mix as well.The script is strong and the film well-paced.                   Some reviewers have commented the ending is underwhelming.  Better said, I think, is that the ending wraps up too neatly, and the is at odds with the enjoyably windy path the plot cleverly navigated through-out the film. A small criticism of a worthy film.Highly recommended. (9 of 10) "},{"Title":"A very inspiring movie","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There might not be a lot of action, but somehow director Curtis Hansen manages to make this rather peaceful story into a very exciting movie. Michael Douglas is splendid as usual, playing an established author who finds it hard to write a follow-up to his previous successful novel.The movie is very inspiring, at least for those who have writing ambitions. The movie gives a very objective view upon a writer's daily life, with an excellent dialogue, especially between Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire, playing Douglas' misunderstood student with writing talents.This is absolutely one of the best movies from last year. "},{"Title":"Sad that movies this good flop.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  At least see it on video.  Great story about a confused middle-aged  writer.  Funny, thoughtful, and well made.  All of the actors are  great.  If you're tired of the same old sentimental Hollywood button pushing, enjoy this. "},{"Title":"Wonder Boys is wonderful","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's been a while since I saw a film, at the cinema, which was as funny, entertaining, and -- in the end -- as uplifting as Wonder Boys. In fact, Wonder Boys is a wonderful film.The script is great, the direction is brilliant and enough cannot be said about the acting. It's a great cast where in particular Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire (better than ever!), and Robert Downey Jr. give great performances.Wonder Boys is a brilliant film, however, the pace slows down too much toward the end, but that is the only negative thing I have to say about this movie.Highly recommended. (8 or 9/10) "},{"Title":"Excellent performances and a top flight script","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I finally managed to catch this film, with Michael Douglas as a literary professor in a mid-life crisis and Tobey Maguire as his protege. Excellent performances and a top flight script keep this one involving. And the cast, which also included Katey Holmes, Frances McDormand and the terrific Robert Downey Jr., is more than up to the task. I definitely recommend this one. GRADE A "},{"Title":"The best movie of 2000","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Don't take my word for it.  Go see it! (Well, you'll probably have to wait for the rental.) This movie is clearly the diamond in the rough for 2000. I don't understand why this movie didn't find it's audience.  When I saw it, my friend and I were the only ones in the theatre.  That was actually a benefit as we didn't hold back with our fits of laughter. "},{"Title":"tobey is great","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful boy Tobey turns out to be in this film. This is a gem of a picture. The sexual connotations are played extremely well and Tobey Maguire's naievity makes the eventual bed scene highly enjoyable though lacking in graphic detail. Lots of cunning and deception on his part and Michael Douglas's ability to present himself as a corruptor leaves you thinking that there is no real innocence in any of the players. "}{"Title":"movie equivalent to Lodge","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you have read and enjoyed David Lodge's Small World, Changing Places or Nice Work, you will probably also enjoy this movie. I think that this film is the movie equivalent to Lodge's campus novel, mixing elements from many different genres (most often and obviously farce) with a lot of humor and satirical comments on the university world (and, in this case, also the book publishing industry). Though there are not really any characters or situations taken from Lodge, the film shows how it would have to be done, were Philip Swallow and Morris Zapp ever to enter the world of moving images. It is not necessary, however, to be a fan of the genre of the campus novel, since it might as well be seen simply as a very well written comedy with excellent actors (e.g. Michael Douglas as the burnt-out, pot-smoking writer and professor) obviously enjoying their job in the hands of a skilled and talented director. A must-see, especially for students!  "},{"Title":"Great movie for fans of the written word","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"    Woner Boys wasn't a box-office smash, it wasn't an Academy Award Nominee, but it still remains a great film.  It offers a behind the scenes look at authors, in this case a failing author, and shows how they do what they do- write,  This movie is also the story of a confused young adult, Tobie Macguire, and the people who try to develop his writing skill into success.  I foyu like Michael Douglas, but are sick of his usual roles, then see Wonder Boys.  All acting was great; it makes the viewer better experience the lives of the writers.    My rating a high 8/10 "},{"Title":"A waste of two hours.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was possibly the most incoherent film I've seen in years.  The director clearly had no idea what he was trying to convey to the audience. It starts out as a somewhat serious and deep look at a depressed and confused young man, who begins forming a relationship with his English teacher.  But then after the first half hour or so, it's like the writers ran out of ideas.  The movie is suddenly transformed into a slapstick comedy, but the only thing is that the slapstick isn't that good, and the comedy isn't funny.  Then at the end the film suddenly becomes a feel good movie out of nowhere.  Just on a whim all the sadistic and depressed characters decide that everything's going to be all right.  I don't buy it. Must have been an early deadline for getting this script written.  The one thing I noticed about the movie though is that the more I got to know each character, the less I cared about them in any way.  I would see a character and think, well I like that character.  Then I'd remember, oh yeah, he's only been in one scene and had a two sentence speaking part.  This movie can be compared to The Big Lebowski in that it appears very confusing and to not fit together at all.  The difference is that the Big Lebowski DID actually fit together when all was said and done, and it was entertaining, and the comedy in it was actually funny.  I'm hoping the director's cut for this film will be about 10 minutes long.  That's about how much of the film had Katie Holmes wearing skimpy clothing. "},{"Title":"Has Minor Flaws, But Still Very Watchable and Entertaining.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I absolutely adored Curtis Hanson's masterpiece, L.A. Confidential, so I was really looking forward to this. Unfortunately, Wonder Boys did not match up to the standards of L.A. Confidential, but it was still very entertaining and watchable.Professor Tripp (Michael Douglas) is so engrossed in trying to finish his endless second novel that he has been writing for seven years, that both his marriage and his affair with the college dean are being damaged. Everything comes to a head one weekend during the college's annual literary festival when he must deal with troubled student James Leer (Tobey Maguire) who he has befriended, sort out his love interests, defend himself from a vicious dog and deal with his pressing agent (Robert Downey Jr).Wonder Boys is a well made film with laugh-out-loud moments and an excellent screenplay. It just falls slightly short because it moves a little too slow for my liking and it isn't all that memorable. Still, clean-cut performances from a never-better Michael Douglas, the ever-excellent Tobey Maguire and the Dawson's Creek babe Katie Holmes still keep this film watchable and engrossing. Curtis Hanson's direction once again steals the day, he is seriously one of the most impressive directors around these days.Although it has a few minor flaws, Wonder Boys deserves to be applauded for its cleverness and it's will to keep audiences entertained throughout.I rate Wonder Boys 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good, but not was i expected","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie is good, but it´s lengthy and the plot is a little boring. The cast is the best thing of the movie, their performances are great, robert downey jr and tobey maguire are the best, their performances are extraordinary, and katie holmes are good too. The movie is very well done and original, it´s about a crazy weekend of the college prof of literature Grady Tripp (Douglas) and all the stuffs that happen to him (he want to finish and publish his book,  handle with his pregnant lover and other stuffs). It´s a movie to see on video, not in theaters, and i wouldn´t watch it more than once. "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a great movie! Curtis Hanson is a great director, this movie really was funny. I love Tobey Maguire and he is my favorite young actor, Michael Douglas was great, as was the rest of the entire cast. Robert Downey, Jr. was a complete crack up as his gay editor. Dante Spinotti's dark apmoshere adds complete surroundings for the picture, and the pacing is nice and enjoyable. Definitely see this movie. "},{"Title":"A great film by Mr. Hanson","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is a glum screwball comedy with a ganja-addicted professor as its protagonist and it is the best kind of follow-up Curtis Hanson could have asked for after the success of LA Confidential. Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) is our main wonder boy, an English professor who hasn't produced a novel nearly seven years after his successful Arsonist's Daughter. It's a testament to his credibility as a writer that everyone from a precocious student (Katie Holmes) to a fellow professor (Rip Torn) still fawns over Grady whenever he gives them a chance.Hanson's jaded take on the academic life of a Pittsburgh college is defined by a rich exploration of men whose emotional bonds with each other build over a series of chaotic events. James Leer (Tobey Maguire), one of Grady's students, is a gloomy lad who seems all but ready to join his professor on his quirky little journey to normalcy. The third wonder boy is Terry Crabtree (Robert Downey Jr.), Grady's neurotic book editor whose job is on the line if Grady can't produce another successful novel.The problem with Grady is that his new novel is 2,000 pages long and he doesn't know how to end it. It's not so much that Grady is marijuana-happy but that he doesn't know how to deal with the turmoil in his life and therefore allows himself to go to seed. He toils away; incapable of understanding how he can let go of his third wife and allow himself to marry Sara (Frances McDormand), a professor's wife he is having an affair with and who has revealed to Grady that she is pregnant with his child.Sara's husband Walter (Richard Thomas) holds a party at his house and Downey's fey character is instantly stricken by James uncanny ability to recite, alphabetically, the methods by which numerous celebrities met their suicidal ends. The seemingly fickle Terry is just as vulnerable as James so their relationship, culminating in a not-so-surprising romp in the hay, feels like a union of two lost souls who have oddly found their way home. But the meat of the story lies in the fact that the party at Sara's house ends with Grady and James needing to dispose of Sara's dead dog. Things also don't look too good for Grady when he discovers that James stole the coat owned by Marilyn Monroe on her wedding day, which Walter had secretly locked away in his bedroom.The film is full of many surprises, like Grady's discovery of Marilyn's coat in James' schoolbag and how Grady's car ends up in the hands of a quirky, ex-jockey and his wayward girlfriend. The couple leads Grady on a softly cathartic and mythical journey that helps Grady lose his verbosity and take control of his life.Michael Douglas, playing against type in a year that also brought us a surprise performance from Hollywood-heavy Julia Roberts, plays Grady with a sympathetically scruffy cynicism that reminds us why he is such a good actor. Things tie themselves up a little too neatly by the end of the film, as if one's relationship to marijuana was a main cause of writer's block, but it's an ending that is smooth on the stomach. Wonder Boys is about the commitments that we make to ourselves and the people around us and the fears that one must conquer in order to make the decisions that will emotionally mature us. Hanson's film has an undercurrent of pathos running throughout its very fiber that makes the journey richly rewarding and akin to opening a present on Christmas   "},{"Title":"The Second Best Art House Movie This Year","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a fan of Michael Chabon, but missed the original theatrical release of Wonder Boys. I was very pleased when the studio decided to rerelease this fine film, and caught it with a mostly-full house last Saturday night. The attendance (eleven months after the release, and a full month into the rerelease) was surprising.The quirky, layered script did justice to the book. I was surprised by how well Downey, Jr. and Maguire fit the roles. Frances McDormand was, as always, a standout. While Mr. Douglas was certainly actor enough for the role, I wouldn't mind never seeing him again in a romantic role, unless it's opposite Jessica Tandy.If the movie paled slightly, it did so for two reasonsOne - where was Clarence Carter's Slip Away, used to such effect in the trailer?Two - I had seen You Can Count On Me only a week before, and that film just plain blows Wonder Boys, and any other film released this year, clean out of the water. Where Wonder Boys derives interest through borderline magical realism (there is an afro-toting midget, an extended sequence involving a blind dog, etc., etc.), You Can Count On Me succeeds through sheer quality, brilliant storytelling, poignant realism.If Wonder Boys is still in theaters, I'd definitely catch it -- assuming you've already seen You Can Count On Me. "},{"Title":"What a delight","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This review may contain a spoiler. Grady Tripp ( Michael Douglas) is a university literature professor who is about to go through a weekend that will change his life. Nothing new here. What is new is the way the story is told.We rarely see a movie that handle such a story in an original way and this movie does it and does it well.All elements of the story are even handled which give the film a sense of balance that help the movie carry itself till the end.Even the gay element is treated as a part of life and not as something of a problem. Good performances from everyone especially Tobey Maguire and Robert Downy Jr. and including Douglas who tend to be sometime wooden in his acting and here let loose and deliver a wonderful performance.I liked Curtis Hanson directing which was in tune of the material,light and with self assurance while keeping close watch on all details,something we have seen from him first in LA Confidential. This is a gem of a movie,a delight not to be miss. "},{"Title":"A lovely film...","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well worth seeing.  Michael Douglas continues to grow as an actor,  he's fast becoming as good as his father once was.  The supporting cast is all wonderful,  and the story just works.  A delightful evening at the movies,  and a really good date movie too!Go and see this,  you won't regret it.    "}{"Title":"Its witty, and cleverly written, a fully enjoyable, quirky film to watch...","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Basic plot outline Douglas plays Grady, the eccentric professor, whose universe gets entirely disrupted in this film. His wife leaves him, his mistress is pregnant with his child, and his gay publisher wants a sneak peak at his latest novel (five years in the making and no end in sight, the supposed follow up to his last masterpiece which isn't quite piecing itself into a master). Now, to complicate things, throw in two students - one a compulsive liar who shoots Grady's lover's blind dog, the other a gorgeous student who boarders with Grady, with a huge crush on him. And that's just the start of the film... Review Well this is the first film EVER whereby I haven't despised FishFace Douglas. He doesn't even look like that much of a fishface anymore. I think age has de-fishfaced him somewhat. And I can't even complain that no cute chiq would throw herself at him anymore, now that he is married to Catherine Zeta-Jones (why? why?!?). Back to the film  its witty, and cleverly written, a fully enjoyable, quirky film to watch. Perve factor is huge (mmmmmmmm Katie Holmes from that idiotic Dawson show - yummy). The acting is great (Maguire gives yet another brilliant performance), and I overall highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the years best!","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Now that WONDER BOYS has returned to theaters, do yourself a favor and go see it. I saw it last February when it first came out and loved it. Michael Douglas gives the best performance of his career as Grady Tripp, a college prof who had a hit book 8 years ago and is still working on its follow-up. Tobey Maguire is his most talented student, with a passion for meaningless facts and lying. Robert Downey Jr. is Tripp's editor who's pressuring Tripp, and Frances McDormand is the woman who is having an affair with Tripp. All these and other story lines collide over one very strange weekend. But, this is not one of the those madcap comedies. Instead it looks for the humor within each character, and never betrays them. All the characters are memorable, even Katie Holmes as another student of Tripp's and Rip Torn as an big headed writer, who only have a handful of scenes. This is an American classic. Intelligent and witty, funny and sweet. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The wonders of creativity","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder BoysHere, Michael Douglas is the Eng Lit professor from central casting, middle-aged, seedy, unhappily married, in the middle of an affair, teaching creative writing but unable any more to create himself. This sturdy stereotype has infested films set in academia since at least Edward Albee's Who's afraid of Virginia Woof, brilliantly filmed in 1966 with Richard Burton as George the down at heel academic and Elizabeth Taylor as his shrewish wife Martha.This time though the wife does not appear. Our professor is indeed screwing around, and his wife has just left him, but rather than a student his bedmate is the University Chancellor (Frances McDormand), who happens to be married to his excruciatingly boring Head of Department. As he contemplates his situation, his agent descends on him seeking the manuscript of his long overdue book, and an apparently suicidal creative writing student manages to shoot the Head's dog and steals from his collection of Marilyn Munroe memorabilia part of Marilyn's wedding dress. He also discovers that the student has managed to produce a promising first novel. The rest of the film deals with the consequences of all this, which needless to say are not too serious. Michael Douglas tends to play buttoned up characters and it's interesting to see him play a man who really doesn't know where he is going. Tobey Maguire is really rather good as Leer, the student whose powers of imagination make it hard for him to tell the truth about anything. Robert Downey as the desperate (both workwise and sexually) agent also stands out but Francis McDormand, brilliant as the woman police chief in Fargo, is nothing special as the as the mistress. I was really left wondering what the attraction was for both of them.The bleak winter weather and industrial grunge of Pittsburg help the general air of gloom along - this campus is no Elysian field - it is no wonder that the wonder boy produces such depressing stuff - the prose equivalent of Leonard Cohen's songs to slit your wrists by. But it is the mark of a writer that he or she cannot stop from writing (writer's block notwithstanding) and whatever is within must come out. This at least the Professor clearly realizes. The value of what is written is something else again. His problem is that he cannot select, or make choices as his young student tenant puts it, and thus his work is voluminous and valueless.This is a light comedy without any pretensions to profundity, but the Professor does make one wise observation that should cheer those in academia. Writing books and becoming famous is all very well, but at the end of the day it's what's passed on to students that counts. If a student turns out to be a wonder boy, then so much the better. There's all that reflected glory to bathe in and the guy might even say something nice about you in his Booker acceptance speech. Better a footnote person in history than no mention at all. "},{"Title":"It's a real shame this film didn't get the attention it deserved.","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas takes a leave from the kind of roles that made him so succesful. Yet he plays the role of benign, confused, weed-smoking writer Tripp with so much charme and effortlessness he immediately draws viewers into the story. Or rather a series of portraits against the backdrop of the american academic world. Every one of the characters is not only portrayed with a certain charme, the writing is extremely witty and subtle. This makes it a joy to follow Tripp around town as he struggles with small issues and bigger ones. The developments flow into each other very nicely and there is a lot of effective humor injected into the story at appropriate places. Michael Douglas proves once again he is a great actor, he immediately embraces his character and our associations with yuppiedom dissolve into thin air. Tobey Maguire and Robert Downey Jr. (who shot this picture before he went to jail) deserve a special mention. Both portray their characters with enthusiasm and apparent ease. Unfortunately this film went by almost unnoticed by the american public. Give it the attention it deserves. I was glad i did.   "},{"Title":"top drawer drama/comedy, with a fine cast","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is a special film, which reads and feels like a book. This may appear obvious from those who know the book it was adapted from, but the approach is to the film's benefit.Curtis Hanson takes a backseat in this film, allowing the script and characters to shine throughout, rather than trying to give the film his fingerprints.The cast is uniformily fine and almost underplayed. Douglas has a great time playing Grady Trip, but not as much as Downey Jr as his almost slimey publisher Crabtree.To summarise, everything about this film adds up to a more than enjoyable experience. The cast has fun acting the characters, the director breezes through the material which is of the highest quality, and the script should be up for an oscar, as may Douglas if he's lucky.Go and see it, sit back, and enjoy an interesting story unfold, with a film which reminds of why books were meant to be adapted to film. "},{"Title":"An amusing but generally disappointing film","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I knew that this was not a typically Douglas type film from an interview that I saw on film night so I was expecting something different.  I was not expecting to be bored with feeling that I had wasted my money and time in going to see it.The story was slow to start and when I did find out what it was about, it made no sense.  The characters were certainly mixed and although the events were just plausable, the combination did not work.  The happy ever-after ending was nice but seemed not to align with the what went on before.  The film was well directed and well acted but it did doing anything for me, but maybe I am too stuck on the type of films that I expect Michael Douglas to be in. What is wrong with stero-typing anyway ! "},{"Title":"Admirable","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WONDER BOYS (2000) ***1/2The year of 2000 was not as good for cinema as the year of 1999 was. Then we had at least four true masterpieces MAGNOLIA, AMERICAN BEAUTY, BEING JOHN MALKOVICH and EYES WIDE SHUT, and lots of great films ELECTION, THE END OF THE AFFAIR, THE TALENTED MR. RIPLEY, THE SIXTH SENSE, ALL ABOUT MY MOTHER, BOYS DON'T CRY, FIGHT CLUB, SOUTH PARK... Unfortunately, my list will not be that long in 2000, but WONDER BOYS will be there for sure. Released in the end of February, it wasn't a big box-office success, but was praised by most of the critics. Now that it is being re-released in order to get Oscar nominations, it is no hard job to take a look in this great film.The story is focused on Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas), a University professor who is having a bad weekend. His second or third wife has left him. He is writing a book but has an uncommon trouble too much ideas- and he writes everything that comes to his mind. His editor (Robert Downey Jr.) arrives to see how the things are going on. Grady's lover, Sara (Frances McDormand), his boss' wife, is pregnant. And one of his pupils, James (Tobey Maguire), wants to stay with him for the whole weekend. To make everything worse, James steals a coat that belonged to Marilyn Monroe at Sara's house and kills her dog. So the point is that Grady has to solve all those things and their consequences on a weekend. Poor guy!Of course we had to expect something great from Curtis Hanson after L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, but we don't have to worry about that. WONDER BOYS is almost as good as Hanson's latest picture. He directs this dramedy with the right tone, avoiding cliches and, with the help of the editor and the director of photography, he makes the film move together with the main character, who is a mari-juana addict slow-paced, sometimes mad, sometimes sleepy. This was intentional, of course, and the result is original and admirable, without being forced or out of control. Not only Hanson may take an Oscar nomination, but also the screenplay, that mixes dark comedy and drama, with delightful situations and intelligent dialogues. I can't forget to mention the performances, that also make the difference. Michael Douglas is terrific; I can't think of another person to the role. Frances McDormand is back for good. She was incredible in FARGO and is great here. Tobey Maguire surprised me, because most of his performances are bland, and so did Robert Downey Jr. Katie Holmes is always good when she is out of crappy DAWSON'S CREEK, but her character is disposable. This is one of the film's problems. Some minor characters, as the man who Grady calls Vernon and the waitress, have more importance here than Katie Holmes and Rip Torn- both of them are window dressing. The conclusion was also not that good, could have been better.Even with those minor flaws, WONDER BOYS is a great film. It's basically about two men- Grady and James, the teacher and the pupil. One of them is a genius, but each one has to learn with the other. It's also a story with a moral, a simple one- life has got a way. For things like that I like this film so much and hope the old guys from the Academy remember it in some categories. It is intelligent, entertaining, bittersweet, delightful. A must-see. "},{"Title":"Unusual and well-executed","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In the usual glut of action formulaic movies from Hollywood, this movie comes as a pleasant reminder that the USA can still make thoughtful movies aimed at the intelligent cinema-goer.           The story follows Michael Douglas' character, Professor Tripp, a literature teacher who is also a renowned author. Unfortunately Tripp hasn't finished writing anything for seven years and some of his students suspect that he has lost his edge. We follow his gradual decline, augmented by a host of other personal problems, and also the rise of an eccentric but brilliant student played by Tobey Maguire. Tripp, as a teacher, cares for the success of his students, the only remaining success, it seems in his downsliding life. Eventually, however, after heroically wading through the difficult mire of circumstances created both by himself and others, Tripp also finds his own path once more. The story is set amidst a writers' festival - a rather unusual scenario for a gripping movie - but the bland backdrop perhaps gives the necessary contrast to the inventiveness of script, character and substance.           The film has been widely hailed as Douglas' greatest performance to date. Certainly it is refreshing to see Douglas concentrate on a character study rather than an action-led or issues-led movie of his previous formulaic ilk. It is a convincing, moving and often very humorous portrayal. Whilst the movie probably stops short of serious greatness it is still a very fine film. It also has a fittingly classy soundtrack, with appropriate material by Bob Dylan, Van Morrison, Tom Rush, Leonard Cohen and Neil Young. "},{"Title":"Carpe diem!","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Do you know that maxim? That´s latin, and it´s a quote from Dead poets society. It means seize the day, to get your chance to solve your crisis.  Michael Douglas is Grady Tripp, a literature  teacher in Pittsburgh. He´s a neurotic, chaotic, but somehow lovable guy, who´s smoking to much  grass sometimes. His wife has just left him.  He´s in love with Sarah (Frances Mc Dormand),  his superiors wife. There are his most talented students James and Hannah (Tobey Maguire and  Katie Holmes), and his lecturer Crabtree (Robert Downey jr.). And there´s this little problem with that dead dog - who again was Woody Allen? I  think there´s a little bit of Grady Tripp in everyone of us. Everyone has got a crisis in his  lifetime. I didn´t have a great day, when I  watched Wonderboys, but after leaving the  theatre, I felt much better - positive! Director Curtis Hansons last masterpiece L.A. Confidential was truly underrated at the  academy awards 1998. Wonderboys has the potential to get it. It´s a warmhearted comedy with a wonderful script, a superb cast, and a  great director. Good luck to you, Mr. Hanson!!! "},{"Title":"Michael Douglas finally extends himself-oscar nomin. beckons","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas Finally extends himself and displays some of his talents that I always thought he had. I believe he may well earn himself an oscar nomination for this performance.  I found it a very self-deprecating, honest and riveting performance that added to my overall enjoyment of the film.  "}{"Title":"Why Wonder Boys deserves two thumbs up","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is a superb piece of craftsmanship that has earned a place in this critic's heart as one of my favorite movies. It is down to earth and very real. It is probably too real for most critics and moviegoing babyboomers out there, but that does not detract from how good this film is. Critics and much of the moviegoing public will not like this movie because it is too real for them to enjoy. This movie's got booze, drugs, implied homosexual sex, and a transvestite. Too many critics would be afraid to affix a seal of approval on a movie that contains such articles of scandal as these, but this critic isn't. This movie is all about real life, and about how one man helps others through rough times while he himself is helped in return through one of the most difficult parts of his life. The only bone I have to pick with the movie is the fact that I wanted Katie Holmes to get naked. It's rated R so they could've done it, but they didn't. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've basically been telling everyone I know to see this film. It is brilliant in an understated way. Though I'm not usually a fan of Michael Douglas, he is fantastic in the main role of Grady Tripp, a burnt out, ex-'wonderboy' college professor. It was towards the end of the movie that I realised I was watching the character and not Michael Douglas. Likewise, Tobey Maguire and Robert Downey Jr also act well, at times upstaging Michael Douglas! They also have great chemistry.It's wittily funny yet also thought-provoking and emotional. I recommend it "},{"Title":"funny, interesting, involving","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's not a great movie, but it's pretty close. It paints a portrait of a college english professor that feels right, although no one has ever had such an interesting couple of days, and the ending tied things up a little too neatly. All of the performances are first rate -- Douglas is especially impressive, as there isn't a trace of his Wall Street character here, and he's been ringing the changes on that performance for years.The movie has an edge and a dark sense of humor, but it is actually very sweet without being self-indulgent. "},{"Title":"A wonderful tale of writers and writing","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A beautiful film with wonderfully well-developed characters. Wonder Boys focuses on a weekend in the life of a once highly-revered writer, Grady (Michael Douglas). His frantic weekend turns into a period of much growth, as he accidentally comes to realise what matters in life through events he has very little control over. "},{"Title":"Genuine!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went and saw this film considering the rave reviews of it.  I'd have to say that I was impressed with Douglas's performance.  Is it Oscar calibre?  maybe I think that depends on what else gets produced this year.However, the story about writers who are missing their mark in their profession and to some degree in their life, is told brilliantly as we hear it in Douglas's point of view throughout the film.Toby is an actor I have never realy been found of, however, here he is cast correctly portraying that sense of dense empty spaceness his character just seems to do with ease.Also Robert Downey is very good to.  In fact all the actors are great cause the characters in the film are all done so superbly and are so genuine and honest.  Throw in some humor of a dead blind dog, and you have a unique film.Very good film.Rating 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Waste of film","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Review in a sentence  A true disappointment.I had such high hopes for this film.  I eagerly anticipated it's arrival and saw it the day it opened.  It had two big things going for it  Frances McDormand, and Pittsburgh -- my hometown and one of the best cities around. From the previews I thought it would be very unique.  In fact, it was utterly mundane and intellectually lazy.  In one especially disappointing scene, James is getting high and watching an old film, The Picture of Dorian Gray.  Dorian is receiving advice on how to enjoy life  live for yourself and succumb to all your urges, whether they are wrong or not.  The whole point of that scene in Dorian Gray is that this advice is what causes Dorian's soul to become a hideous beast, and eventually die.  But Wonder Boys seems to portray this philosophy as the best advice one could receive on living a fulfilling life.  A complete waste of time, despite a few nice shots of the 'Burgh.  2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One of those rare movies for 'grown-ups'","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Grady Tripp is having a verrrry bad weekend. A renowned but disheveled author now teaching at a Pittsburgh university, he's hit a bit of a dry spell since his last book was a hit with the critics and the public seven years ago. It's not that Grady can't write--he just can't stop. But like Grady himself, what he has written doesn't seem to know where it's going. If that isn't bad enough, for the next two days he'll have to contend with chronic blackouts, an increasingly anxious editor, his impending divorce, the pregnancy of his girlfriend (and boss' wife), the advances of a comely co-ed, and the inscrutable behavior of a promising but sullen writing student. Ironically, the onus is also on director Curtis Hanson who follows up his near-classic L.A. Confidential with this serio-comic character study of an aging former-hippie (Douglas) suffering dire consequences by zealously avoiding life-altering decisions at every turn. Saddled with a refreshingly unpredictable story that is equal parts drama, farce, satire and black comedy, Hanson admirably maintains a well-modulated tone without the potentially distracting dynamism that necessarily propelled L.A. Confidential. As head of the trio of titular characters, Douglas uses his imminent physical deterioration to perfectly embody Grady; he's just old enough to accept as a fugitive from the sixties but not too far gone to still be attractive to the ladies. Ably supporting Douglas are the other two Boys Robert Downey, Jr., as a libidinous editor inches away from the bread line if he doesn't scrounge up another hit, and Tobey Maguire, whose hangdog quality again serves to present a disarming naivete which actually masks complex underpinnings. Frances McDormand and Katie Holmes make the most of their brief roles as Douglas' enciente lover and would-be fling, respectively. Unlike the path Grady Tripp ventures for 48 hours, the fine line Wonder Boys walks between affirmation and oblivion is blessedly bold, original and assured. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I remember going to see this movie a few months ago.  Being a neophyte writer and a budding intellectual myself, I took particular interest in the academic bent of Wonder Boys.  I will be attending graduate school soon, and I have spent a lot of time with professors lately, trying to understand how they think, who they think they are, how they live, and what they are like in general.  I have spent many months emulating their personas--assimilating to professorship--just to make the transition to full-time academic life a bit more smooth, and a bit less perplexing. Needless to say, it has been a trying ordeal.  What I thought this movie would do for me would be to provide me with a professor character to LAUGH AT instead of to emulate.  I thought it would be nice to take Douglas's character with a grain of salt, as I would love to do with my current professors.  It would, after all, be the safest way to vent (sort of like punching pillows instead of real people).  Instead, I found Wonder Boys to be inherently much more serious...more deep than I had expected.  For some reason, the previews seemed to build the story up as a comedy.  It might have been a comedy to some extent, but it struck me as being more of a comment on academia, on the ridiculousness of the everyday pomposity of professors.  We aren't really supposed to look behind the curtains of these high-prestige caricatures, are we?  Wonder Boys proves how much more interesting (and realistic) academia can be if we allow ourselves to do so.           "},{"Title":"Wonder boys, indeed.","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What a great screenplay! The acting was wonderful. Michael Douglas, perhaps playing the softer academic version of his character in Falling Down, played his character with great timing and subtle expression. The film treats a diverse group of characters with humorous sensitivity, without the scourge of P.C. fuzziness. It was entertaining throughout. Not a dull moment. It also held one of the clearest messages I have seen in films about the effects of marijuana abuse/addiction. It even did this without any P.C. finger wagging. Amazing. Robert Downey, Jr. and Toby Maguire have fabulous chemistry together. Frances McDormand is believable and refreshingly sexy as the 'other woman' in Professor Tripp's menagerie. A must see.  "},{"Title":"Nice and flawed (spoilers ahead)","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I bought the book after I watched the movie, read the book and then rewatched the movie. Although I can't testify to the authenticity of the liberal arts college setting nor relate to the travails of being an English writing professor, this story was thought provoking all the same. I found myself speculating on how my life would be like when I get to Grady Tripp's age in a quarter of a century's time. His inability to take control of his life or even spend some effort thinking about his problems is very typical of the inertia that has a chokehold on a majority of the world's population. However, his mid-life conundrum is a little more self consuming compared to the problems of the average Joe because he had once been a wonder boy, someone  who had scaled the heights of success - a precariously high place for anyone to stand confusedly on. And as a teacher of young people, he has more than his own expectations to live up to.Coming back to the movie, I found that the pen of Steve Kloves, the screenplay writer, was better at psychoanalytical summarisation than that of the author, Michael Chabon's. Over the 350 pages of the novel, the author rambled on about the motivations of his central characters without actually giving the reader an exact spot to pin down. The movie's largest departure from the book  were the parts where Kloves allowed the characters to make up their minds conclusively about what they intended to do next. This does not mean that Chabon's writing is ineffective, it's just that a Hollywood movie doesn't have the luxury of leaving its characters with any lingering sense of self doubt. Hollywood wants the paying audience to walk out of the theater feeling that there was closure. Having said that, I do like Steve Klove's tweaking of the narrative, it chases down the characters' meandering thought processes for the viewer.The first major Kloves addition to the narrative were the scenes immediately after Tripp and James Leer had broken into Emily Tripp's family home. As Tripp sat among his wife's belongings, it dawned on him that he wanted to belong to another woman and so, he called Sara Gaskell. This episode never occurred in the novel.  Meanwhile, James Leer was downstairs helping himself to some bourbon. I treated these Leer scenes merely as comic escapades of the young man on the first viewing. The second time around, I realised that they held more portent than comedy. As James Leer poured himself bourbon, the TV character in the background was exhorting him to yield to temptation and longing so that there would be no regrets later on in life. This was followed by a Judy Garland movie coming on TV where we have James singing along to her, a dead give away with regard to the inclination of his sexual desires.These scenes shaped the reason behind James' subsequent willingness to succumb to Terry Crabtree's seduction. Over the course of the weekend, after having drunk and drugged himself into a stupor, James proclaimed that he was enjoying himself. For a person who previously had only been able to express himself through his writing, this was a psychological breakthrough, a spiritual release of sorts and so, when he decided to go along with Crabtree, it was clearly a conscious choice he made for himself. Some conservative reviewers have decried what they saw as neglect on the part of an educator to protect his student, a sexual innocent, from outright exploitation. The argument to that is, come on, the kid made up his own mind he was going to do it and as a college junior, he's old enough.The second Kloves contribution was, of course, the scene where Hannah Green pointed out that Tripp made no choices where his writing was concerned, he threw down on paper everything that came his way. The dialogue in that scene neatly summarised Grady Tripp's entire problem, his paralysing indecision and fear of dealing with his messed up life. In the book, Tripp saw his life as a series of disasters happening as well as waiting to happen, knowing full well that this came about only because he never took the trouble to lob off the peeking heads of would be monsters that were waiting to rear up to their full sizes. The choices speech was the best summing up of the whole story although it came rather late to have been able to inspire Tripp to take his foot away from the accelerator, do an about turn and change into a whole different person by Monday morning.Last, the improvise dialogue between Tripp and Crabtree where the professor soberly decided, in one fell swoop, how to dispose of Marilyn's jacket, what he was going to do with himself and how James' plight should be dealt with. It was way too hurried a wrapping up of the Tripp dilemma, extremely jarring given the pace of Tripp's procrastination in the whole movie up to that point. My personal opinion of a better ending would be one where Sara pulls Tripp back from the edge and he convinces her that he would take care of the baby together with her. He then demonstrates his sincerity by confronting Sara's husband, gets beaten up and asked to resign on the spot. He and Sara can follow through by walking out together.  No need of fading to a warm autumnal scene complete with Sara and Baby in tow.Kloves' screenplay and Curtis Hanson's direction tried to strengthen the resolution of the characters' fates and clarify the subtleties in the book's narrative but the result was left wanting in places. The editing by Dede Allen did the best it could, there were no wasted scenes, every moment tried to propel the story to its next development. The product, though quirky and heartwarming, reeked too much of Hollywood's grovelling to audiences with short attention spans. "}{"Title":"Right on!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Witty, charming, dark, wonderful portrayal of life and relationships on campus - too true in its agony and its despair, too true in its farce and its pathos, too true in its joy and mischief. Right on! "},{"Title":"So You Think You've Had A Bad Week!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys will make you think. Your troubles won't seem to matter as much after watching Professor Grady Tripp, played well by Micheal Douglas, try to put his life back together after a series of problems has him looking up to see bottom. There is enough dark comedy thrown in here to keep you from throwing up your hands and leaving the theatre. Just around the corner there is something else that pops out that is totally unexpected and interesting. Unless you have read the book, there is no way you are going to predict the ending to this film. Michael Douglas and Toby MaGuire are outstanding with some great supporting performances from Frances McDormand, Robert Downey Jr. and Rip Torn.  Certainly a movie that is worth the price of admission.  "},{"Title":"You Can't Fake Depth","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is a film that seems possessed with a burning desire to make a profound comment on the human condition, the capricious drive to create, the twisted little demons and idiosyncracies that make us all fragile, and all human.  The problem is, by the end of the film, director Curtis Hanson and writer Steve Kloves seem to think they've made such a statement, when really all they've given us is two dour, rather dramatically inert hours with a college professor who has, to put it mildly, problems.The prof's name is Grady Tripp, and he's got a lot on his plate.  His third wife has just left him, and the married chancellor of his college has just admitted to him that she's pregnant with his baby.  On top of that, his editor is coming to town to see his latest book...a 2000+ page monstrosity that Grady hasn't been able to trim anything from, and which has been seven years in the making, a period of time that has made people start to speculate about whether old Tripp was a flash in the pan.  On top of THAT, Grady has to contend with James Leer, an immensely gifted and deeply troubled student who starts to get Grady to start questioning his own commitment to his art.  And ON TOP OF THAT, he's stuck driving around in a possibly stolen (?) car with a dead dog in the trunk, a transvestite in the back, and Marilyn Monroe's wedding jacket being worn by a pregnant waitress in the driver's seat.  Get the picture?  Wonder Boys is so overstuffed with quirky characters and goofy plot conceits that it never really focuses its energies enough to say something about its main plot thrust, which is the dilemma of a man trapped in the grip of out-of-control creativity.  It's an interesting spin on the idea of writer's block, but a spin is all it becomes, and not a true hook to turn the plot in interesting or inventive ways.  I don't know what made Grady Tripp such a unfocused sad sack, or what made James Leer such a tortured, creepy genius.  I wanted to know, though, and that is the film's failing. It's almost shocking that the same Curtis Hanson who gave us the vital, fire-breathing L.A. Confidential was responsible for this picture, which is drenched in dark, muted visual melancholy and never seems to build any kind of momentum or dramatic energy.  It all comes off as curiously meandering and rather sluggish; one wonders what Hanson and his screenwriter, Steve Kloves, found in the original Michael Chabon novel that made them want to film it if this is what they came away with.  The Ellroy novel had passion, fire, trickiness.  This story is a wet dishrag.The film is somewhat redeemed by some decent performances.  Michael Douglas is nicely understated as Grady, and Frances McDormand has some affecting moments as the chancellor grappling with her feelings for her star professor.  Tobey Maguire is not bad, considering he's turning in the same performance he's given in every single film he's been in.  Katie Holmes is stuck with a  generally purposeless character, though her beautiful face is one of the film's saving graces.  The most fun to be had here is with Robert Downey Jr.'s impish, pan-sexual editor.  He gives the film a much-needed satirical distance from its own material, and his right angles to the preciousness provide a charge sorely lacking from the rest of the film.It was somewhat interesting to see the usage of my home town of Pittsburgh, though the city's most striking landmarks are not featured as prominently as they were in last year's Inspector Gadget.  Of course, I might have felt better about it if IT HADN'T HAPPENED AGAIN.  Everyone who reads my reviews on a regular basis will know what's coming next.  Hanson and his cinematographer, Dante Spinotti, are going on my Christmas list.  Hey, Paramount, if you hadn't spent so much to get Douglas, you might have been able to afford a TRIPOD!  Except for very specific dramatic circumstances, hand-held camera does not work.  Directors take note!Wonder Boys has been the best-reviewed film of the new year, probably because it's the only one with any real ambition and even an attempt at an underlying theme.  But that theme stays lying under, and Hanson really doesn't seem to be working overtime to excavate it for us.           "},{"Title":"This is a film that causes one to think, re-evaluate, and assess themselves.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I truly enjoyed being in the theatre for this tale of the misadventures of a campus misfit who happens to be a tenured faculty member.  The story was well-written, if somewhat meandering, yet continually entertaining. Relax, enjoy the movie and then think about it for weeks to come for it will stay with you. "},{"Title":"Has some great moments but doesn't ultimately ring true","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas was fantastic in this film.  The rest of the cast was good but Douglas was ever-present and carried nearly every scene.Many of the plot elements seemed ingenious to me when they were first introduced, such as the novel that ballooned to thousands of single-spaced pages or the pompous novelist (Q) at the college's gathering of writers, but as these situations were expanded upon they no longer rang true with me. Maybe my experience as an english major was abnormal, but much of the film just felt wrong to me, and I couldn't really point out exactly why.  Many of the big scenes were entirely predictable.The second half of the film definitely ran out of gas, but luckily by that point I was already drawn in and it didn't really matter.  The end felt a bit forced in its attempts to find a neat resolution but that's fairly normal.  If it was good enough for Shakespeare's comedies, it's probably good enough for a film about a writing professor's writing. )Wonder Boys isn't a classic film.  It isn't even a very thought provoking or realistic film.  It is, however, quite an entertaining romp where everything can and will go wrong.I hesitate to make comparisons with The Big Lebowski, but I would put this film into the same type of loose-knit films that polarize audiences--either they let loose and enjoy where the film takes them, or they're put off by the drug use and free-running plot and feel like walking out.  TBL is an all-out masterpiece (in my view, at least) because of its perfect dialogue, acting and smart use of history.  I like to think that future audiences will see The Big Lebowski as a period piece set in the LA of the early nineties.  Wonder Boys felt like an attempt to create a lightweight TBL, and that's what they got a lightweight.Wonder Boys is a good diversion for a few hours and little more.  It is highly entertaining at moments, but any take-home message (other than a reminder that Douglas is a great actor) seems forced.  "},{"Title":"Perfect 10!","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a perfect 10 in my opinion.  All around strong acting performances by everyone involved including what could be Douglas' best ever.  The movie was funny, thought provoking and simply enjoyable.  Great musical score also.  Go see this film, you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"very unusual and fun film","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was a very fun movie.  Not many original comedies out there but this is certainly one of them.  Michael Douglas plays a strung-out professor going through a mid-life crisis and Tobey Maguire is great as his morbid student.  Very entertaining film.  There are so many different threads to the film and one doesn't know how they're going to turn out.  I suppose one should expect excellence from Curtis Hanson because LA Confidential is one of my favourite films.  But this is a genuinely enjoyable and unpredictable film that is well-worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Great film that is out of step with the film world...","Date":"17 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought that Wonder Boys was really enjoyable - not a revelation in any way, but at least it was different than the normal Hollywood drivel and had characters you could sink your teeth into instead of surface-only drones.Tobey Maguire is one of my personal heroes.  He is fantastic in this film - perfect for the role and I think he did it in a way that no one else would have.  Michael Douglas is great too - finally a role that isn't all slick and fancy - I like him much more in this situation although I thought he was great in the Game.Frances McDormand is as ever fantastic.  I can't say I have ever seen her be bad in a role.  And she seems to know how to choose the roles as well as know what to do with them.The film is story driven - it looks good too but what I liked most was that you could feel that there was depth to the story - like most films that come from books.I was pleasantly surprised and I plan to go see the film again before it leaves theatres. "},{"Title":"a good distraction, and a little bit more","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  this movie impressed me the first time i saw it, then i went back and still liked it.  grady's narration gets a bit wordy at times, like he is trying to prove to the audience that he knows how to speak with intelligence, but it is a really refreshing option from the usual s**t-based major motion pictures.  At least this one had something to show us. For someone who appreciates literature and the craft of writing, i think this is a true picture. it also knows how to have a little fun, but did anyone else read an implied message about weed? that would be my only turn-off if it was more explicit.  overall, certainly worth $6.50. "},{"Title":"Search for your place.","Date":"14 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a warm and compelling film about the search for what is best for you.  Where should you be? Who should you be there with? What do you have to do to get there?  Michael Douglas plays a college professor, as blocked in his personal life as he is in his professional. Douglas did a truly great job with this character, we've all been there, and I really felt for the guy.  If this film, and The Cider House Rules, are any indication, Toby McGuire is going to do great things as an actor, he just needs a part with a little more emotion and the chance to express himself in greater depth. The smiling, yet very entertaining, deep thinker has been done twice now.  Frances McDormond is her usual fantastic self and Robert Downey Jr. is as good as I've ever seen him.  Go see it! "}{"Title":"uneven, but just entertaining enough to be worth a viewing","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is one of those movies in which characters repeat the lines of other characters as if they're being especially clever or profound.  I hate that.  Furthermore, Wonder Boys is full of such distracting flaws, so I'm a little surprised that I actually enjoyed it.Among other things, the start of the movie is shaky - literally.  That camera rattles like crazy for the first ten or so minutes while the movie cuts from shot to shot in such an uneven manner that one wonders if the editor was drunk.  And the film never totally recovers, always feeling like it could be paced better (though the camerawork does get better).Also, characters often act under mysterious or unreasonable motivations.  Of particular note is Vernon (those who've seen the film will know why this is quoted), whose actions make no sense whatsoever.Luckily, however, Wonder Boys has its pluses.  The general story is interesting, even though it's a little uneven in its execution.  Also, the film is cast well.  Michael Douglas and Robert Downey Jr. are both perfect for their roles.  Tobey Maguire, who I usually can't stand because I think he underacts to an exaggerated extent, actually seems to fit his part for once.  And I always like seeing Frances McDormand in a movie, even if she doesn't get to be more than the girlfriend.Too bad the movie never really grabs you.  Although it is entertaining and a little funny, it always feels a little too distant.  Sure, Wonder Boys is likeable and worth seeing, but, in the end, it's also forgettable.  7/10 "},{"Title":"Good, solid movie","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys was a nice surprise, which we often don't get these days.  The acting was excellent, the script was fantastic (probably one of the best in the last two years), and the plot was solid.  The cinematography was also quite good.  My only regret was that they didn't do more with the dog.While it is good, it is not great.  Some scenes are lacking in the crisp edge of the majority of the movie, and that throws its pacing off making it seem a bit longer than it is.  Other than that, however, it's a wonderful film.I am very glad I was coaxed into seeing it.  Hollywood, we need more films like this!  Definitely worth seeing before it leaves the theater.  Most definitely worth renting when it becomes available. "},{"Title":"Small Wonder","Date":"11 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is Curtis Hanson's second little movie.  It doesn't have the comparisons to L.A. Confidential that one might expect. It isn't being hailed in the press as his triumphant return, or any such thing.  In fact, it isn't being mentioned much at all.  Which is one of the reasons I love it. Wonder Boys is one of those small treasures.  You hear it advertised, and then it simply goes away quietly.  Those who went to see it treasured the two hours spent in the dark and those who didn't will claim that they rushed out to see it a year from now when the awards start piling on. A beautifully crafted character review, Wonder Boys is definitely not a sequel to L.A. Confidential.  In fact, I think that in many ways it surpasses its predecessor as far as direction goes.  It's quite polished, and not a moment is wasted.  Yet the viewer doesn't get the sense that he is being rushed.  It's really quite a wonderful little movie, and I encourage you to go and see it before it slips quietly away.  Be one of the ones who did see it, not who claimed to see it. "},{"Title":"A lot of fun!","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Curtis Hanson insisted on making a comedy as a follow up to his critically acclaimed 1997 crime drama L.A. Confidential. We should be thankful that he did.Michael Douglas, in his best role, portrays novelist/professor Grady Tripp. A 50 something pothead who is having trouble writing his follow up to his hugely successful novel seven years earlier, he has written thousands of pages and doesn't see the end coming soon.The film takes place over a weekend in which Grady's wife leaves him, his girlfriend (Frances McDormand) tell him she is pregnant with his child, his live in student (Katie Holmes) is constantly seducing him, his best and most disturbed student (Tobey Maguire) shoots his boss' dog, his editor (Robert Downey Jr) comes to town with a giant transvestite at his arm and is hounding Grady to see the novel, and all of this is taking place during a largely popular writer's fair at the college. Oh yeah, Grady's boss' wife is the woman he is having the affair with and James Leer (Maguire) has written a fantastic novel in just a few months.What a tangled web.Thankfully the film was cast so well because there isn't a single thing wrong with any character portrayed.  Douglas is caring and lovable as Tripp, Maguire is eerie, fun, and fascinating as Leer; and Downey is absolutely hilarious as the always opinionated Terry Crabtree. Holmes and McDormand add great performances among all the others.Wonder Boys is a great well rounded comedy.9/10 "},{"Title":"Smiled the whole way through","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story of Wonder Boys follows potentially washed-up writer/professor Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) in his attempts to placate his estranged wife, a disturbed student, his book agent, the department chair, a fawning student/housemate, his pregnant lover, and the man his car was stolen from, among others, all this on the weekend of the college's writers conference.  It's going to be a tough job, especially considering that Tripp's head seems to be permanently enshrouded in pot smoke.  Wonder Boys is the first movie since Flirting with Disaster that kept a smile on my face from beginning to end.  In the go-for-broke, anything-for-a-laugh comedic atmosphere bequeathed upon us by the Farrelly brothers, it is rare indeed to find something like this film, which chooses building over exploding, each joke sprung from the last, heading towards the next, the context becoming more and more humorously treacherous.Director Curtis Hanson fashions an actor's paradise here, and everyone involved seems ready to take up the challenge.  Despite more than a decade of promising young actors who seem to evaporate deservedly into obscurity about the time their fifth big picture opens, I am willing to suspend my disbelief in the case of Tobey Maguire, who plays troubled student James, enjoying what space Tripp can spare for him under his wing.  There's a delicious scene in which James helps Tripp break into his wife's childhood home.  While Tripp sits on a bed upstairs ruminating, James lounges on the couch, drinking borrowed bourbon, smoking a borrowed joint, watching MGM classics on the solid-state television.  He stares at the screen, enthralled or horrified, bobbing his head to the Garland-Rooney number, toking, sipping, utterly in the moment.  It's complete bliss.  Wonder Boys also reminds us that Michael Douglas is an actor with no small amount of talent.  When he gets away from the jut-jawed sex addict roles, he is quick to display humanity, intelligence, and other not-so-simple virtues.  Hooray for that. "},{"Title":"Almost as awful as Affliction","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  No, I didn't get this movie. I couldn't find any parallels to Proust, James, or even Joyce. I don't even know who doze guys are but I thought mentioning them would make me sound a lot less dumb than I actually am.Please allow me to quote from a man who is arguably the most insightful thinker of our time, Homer J. Simpson BOOOOOOORING!!!Want a fun film? Catch Ronin or Payback. Want to pretend you're an intellectual? Experience Citizen Kane or Ugetsu. Or do you just want to escape? Try Blade Runner or Brazil. Summation I want my $19 back. Geez, at least my wife get a good nap out of that dreary 112 minutes. Or perhaps it was 112 hours. "},{"Title":"Worth a visit to the theatre","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Maybe not a must see, but definitely a fun movie and worth seeing.  A solid 8.Thank god for Michael Douglas that Catherine Zeta-Jones did not see him in this movie before committing the rest of her life (and baby) to him.  Douglas plays a college English professor who can't get motivated for much of anything as he goes through a mid-life crisis.  He's often unshaven, unkempt  - and must have lost his bottle of head and shoulders.  Three marriages; lighting up joints through-out the movie; having an affair with the English's dean's wife (Fargo's Frances McDermott), who also happens to be the school chancellor; living with a college female as a housemate (he does have some scruples, however, as he artfully dodges her advances).  Not the most appealing guy around.  But, what does he care; as he says, I've got tenure!  And he played his role beautifully.Tobey McGuire is very good, as usual, if not a bit quirkier than normal.  Robert Downey, Jr. is wonderful as Douglas' down-on-his-luck-too literary agent.  Now, if he could only stay out of jail in real life!  McDermott is good, almost believable as the chancellor.  You gotta look hard (I think) to recognize John-Boy (Richard Thomas) as the English Dean, McDermott's husband.The humor in this movie is not of the slap-your-thigh variety, but there are plenty of laugh lines.  Don't wait for the video.  "},{"Title":"A middle-aged literature professor with one critical success under his belt spends most of his time avoiding making any choices to move himself forward until everything around him starts to unwind.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was stunned at what a successfully against-the-mainstream film Wonder Boys turns out to be. Even though it lacks the usual boffo ending, it manages to make a film about a small transformation of a character engrossing and empathetic. I have to admit that I was originally not that impressed with Curtis Hanson's LA Confidential because the plot was so overwrought and the idea of a brothel that specialized in star look-alikes wasn't that radical. But the fact that he was able to look at this material and actually see a movie in it, amazes me. I was watching the film ten minutes, during the Marilyn Monroe marriage jacket scene, before I realized that I had actually read the book it was based on, though the book had been such a mess that the only thing that managed to pull me through it was the fact that there was the possibility that there might be some meaty gay coupling in it somewhere. The film manages the near-impossible feat of actually improving on the book while remaining absolutely faithful to it. Besides brilliant cinematography and script adaptation, the casting is perfect. None of the female characters looks as if she was cast for any special male audience except for the Dawson's Creek actress. Frances McDormand, who's usually wasted in character-actor parts (see her play a mousy forensic psychologist in Primal Fear) has a role she can sink her teeth into and does that special thing that only she can imbue a character with. And Michael Douglas, who is usually cast as a maniac or the victim of maniacs, shows a disorderly soul trying to find his way to some personal clarity through a haze of pot and various avuncular obligations towards a self-destructive student and his literary agent, who's about to lose job for lack of any recent successful books. This is the most gender-friendly movie, without being a primarily gay film that I ever remember seeing since Miracle Mile.  The film is remarkable for its general air of benevolent pansexuality.  "},{"Title":"A great film that is for all of the critics","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ****10 out of 10MPAA Rated R for language and drug content.Wonder Boys is a film that is for the critics.  You really have to dig down deep to follow the plot.  If you go to see films for the action don't waste your money on this one.  Although this film is excellent the only action is when a dog gets shot.  If you go to a film to enjoy the depth and felling this is your show.  Michael Douglas is great as a lowlife and a loser that gets good morals and cleans up his act.  He has the face and manner that makes him a great actor in all situations.  In this situation he again proved himself worthy of an Oscar.  They're are few movies that are perfect but this is one of them.  They're were no problems what so ever in this movie and if you didn't like it I encourage you to see it again and pay more attention this time.  I happened to see this with a good buddy of mine and his mom.  He is also on this website and he felt the same way I did, his mom on the other hand didn't like it.  So like I said before this film is for the critics.  If you don't see this you are missing out on a great film.  "},{"Title":"A Good Movie","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A good movie is about the best way to describe Wonder Boys.  It was not outstanding, however the performances of Michael Douglas, Frances McDormand, Robert Downey Jr., Katie Holmes, and Tobey Maguire raised it up above mediocrity.  What kept this from being an outstanding movie was, just as the title character Grady, the movie lost its way at times.  The movie was stuck somewhere in the middle of the drama and comedy genres.  This was definitely a fairly well scripted movie that at times resembled Grady's new book a little too much.  One note on Tobey Maguire's acting in general.  After his outstanding job in Cider House Rules and a good performance in Pleasantville, Maguire needs to show a little more range of emotion and expressiveness. Though that type of demeanor lent itself to Cider House Rules, that is not always going to be the case! If you are going to use Rip Torn, give him a meatier role and one final note, Katie Holmes a few years down the line, is going to have some dynamite lead roles. "}{"Title":"Nice little movie","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I don't know what I was expecting but overall I liked it. The acting from Frances McD. and Michael Douglas was very good. In covering the same territory, the male mid-life crisis this was a much better movie than American Beauty - despite the hype for the latter. "},{"Title":"The actors give it their all in this meandering film","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys starts out great.  It's quirky, funny, everything a February film should be.  Halfway through, you really start looking forward to 2000's slate of REAL movies.  It's about this time, however, that you notice some developing flaws in the film.  You soon discover how indecisive the film is.  Katie Holmes's character talks about writers not making choices, and I think that that same problem happens here.  The film isn't really sure whether it wants to focus on the wisely toned-down relationship between Michael Douglas's Grady and Frances Mcdormand's Sarah or the hilariously strange relationship between Grady and Tobey Maguire's James Leer.  This early established conflict of screen time continually hurts the film until it gets to the point in the third act where it nearly destroys the film.  For a while, you are able to enjoy the amazing performances from the three prominent characters as well as a shockingly great performance from Robert Downey Jr., which, to quote a local movie reviewer which I usually hate says it makes you want to give Downey Jr. a get out of jail free card. minor spoilasAfter a while, the film finally makes up its mind, but it's too late.  The movie realizes it wants to focus on Sarah and Grady, but by this time Sarah is too under-developed for you to care. You've become quite interested in the adventures of Grady and James.  So what results is a final third act where no one is really sure of what they want.  Even the characters look indecisive, for the ending with Sarah is too perfect and the ending with James is, well....what ending with James?  It's like he just kind of leaves.  If director Hanson and writer Cloves had spent more time with Sarah and less with James, maybe we'd be less attached to him and we'd actually care what happened to Sarah.  But we don't, and we leave the theater with an empty feeling in our stomachs. "},{"Title":"A wonderful job all way round.","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys  Grady Tripp is a middle aged college professor stuck in a rut seven years after penning a literary masterpiece, he is struggling with the never ending sequel, his publisher is driving him crazy, his wife has left him, he's in love with a married colleague and he is  envious of the withdrawn genius in his writing class.  If only things remained so simple.   This movie has been advertised as a comedy, which is somewhat misleading - although there are some very funny moments in the film, it is really a character study.  As such, it takes the time to develop the principles and the situation, moving slowly but deliberately, and the final product is a rich story with great characters.  I can't remember the last time Michael Douglas played a regular guy.  Most of his roles have been drenched in machismo and/or wealth, with even doses of cunning and malice.  In stark contrast, Grady is prone to rambling, smokes dope endlessly, dresses in Salvation Army rejects, and is at best pitiable and at worst pitiful. Douglas infuses his character with soul and the result is a delightful performance, unlike anything he's done before.  He isn't the only one who shines.Robert Downey Jr. plays someone near and dear to his heart - himself.  As the living-on-the-edge publisher who talks a mile a minute and whose focus is self-gratification, he avails himself of whatever pharmaceuticals he can find to maintain his manic lifestyle.  It's just too bad that Downey can't tame his demons in real life. Tobey Maguire is well cast as the dark outsider who refuses to sell out and writes what he feels and to hell with the costs.  Maguire has a disturbed apple pie face (Happy Days reference) - you'd never buy him as a lothario or glamour boy but he is the quintessential boy next door.  Finally, Katie Holmes is relegated to a role that appears to have been an afterthought - she will get a good role but this isn't it.Great execution and solid characters make this a must see.    "},{"Title":"the realistic coming-of-age of an actor","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is one of Michael Douglas' best movies. Why? Because he finally realizes that his macho man days are over. I wish Harrison Ford would do the same thing. Ford was pathetic as the hero from Six Days, Seven Nights, playing a man trying to woo Anne Heche, a woman 30 years younger than him. Michael Douglas is Grady Tripp, an unkempt, drug-addicted, university English professor. His wife wife left him, his book is already the size of an encyclopedia with no end in sight and his mistress has just told him she is pregnant. This would be enough to destroy morally an ordinary man. But wait, there's more. He is supposed to take care of a mentally unbalanced young writer, to reject the sexual advances of a female student and to deal with his eccentric editor. You definitely do not want his life.If Douglas is so good than the supporting cast is equally good. Frances McDormand is wonderful as his married mistress who loves him despite his many problems. Tobey Maguire as James Leer is probably the second best thing after Douglas. His performance as the mentally unstable but incredibly talented writer just hits the right spot. And his sexuality is just the icing on the cake. There are two very welcomed surprises in Wonder Boys. The first one is Katie Holmes playing a student with a crush on Tripp. This is the first time when  she makes a believable performance after so many movies. The other pleasant surprise is Robert Downey Jr. as the ditzy editor, who did not have a best-seller since Tripp's first book, is enjoying James twice he plans to publish James' manuscript and he also becomes James' lover. His acting calibre approaches and even matches his performance in Restoration (1995). That's been a long time. The movie is not however perfect. There too many other characters in Wonder Boys. Jane Adams as Oola, a waitress is completely under used even though she was impressive in Happiness. But this is absolutely a very good movie and I recommend it.9/10.         "},{"Title":"An entertainment for the intelligentsia","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You have to believe that writers are by definition psychopathic, and that you would be better off eschewing a college education to buy the premise of Wonder Boys.  But let me tell you, I enjoyed the movie.  Now and then, truth emerged, and that was worth enduring the sheer nonsense of academia as animal house. "},{"Title":"An entertainment for the intelligentsia","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You have to believe that writers are by definition psychopathic, and that you would be better off eschewing a college education to buy the premise of Wonder Boys.  But let me tell you, I enjoyed the movie.  Now and then, truth emerged, and that was worth enduring the sheer nonsense of academia as animal house. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the spoilers...","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes I have to remind myself that I'm watching a movie, not reading a book.  You just can't get the kind of character development in a two-hour feature length movie that you can in a book.  When watching a movie, sometimes you have to fill in the blanks yourself.  Which can be more or less difficult & fun depending on where you are coming from. So I didn't have any trouble identifying with the characters in this movie (perhaps they found echoes in characters from my own life?) and I really enjoyed it, especially the dead dog.  I liked Michael Douglas' portrayal of a stuck, marijuana-toking writer, Robert Downey Jr. was beautifully funny, and, no, I didn't understand Tobey Maguire's character completely either.  The higher education political antics rang true and are always good for the humor mill, and there was enough background for me to understand Grady's emotional difficulties with women and himself.It may not be your kind of movie/story, but if it is SEE IT! "},{"Title":"A Lovely Surprise","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I didn't have much in the way of expectations.  I remember titles.  I see a trailer or commercial, think I'll see that and remember the title.  Not much else.  So I didn't know much about it when I sat down with my jumbo coke.I wasn't expecting a comedy, and I'm not sure it is a comedy.  It was damn funny, I'll give you that.  But I'm not comfortable issuing that label to a film that has far more facets than that. It wasn't a big heavy great movie, either.  It was just damn enjoyable start to finish.  Marvellous performances from everyone, a terrific script, and lots and lots of fun.  I saw it in a mostly empty theater, but everyone seemed to enjoy it and have a good time.  Like The Fisher King, it's in that rare field of feel-good, uplifting, life-affirming movies that aren't just pastiches of fluff.  I will be buying this on DVD as soon as its available, that's for sure.  This is a dreary, rainy, Saturday afternoon kinda movie.So, I loved it.  What else do you want from me? "},{"Title":"A fine enough shaggy-dog tale","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WONDER BOYS isn't great, but it's good enough that a matinee ticket price is not begrudged.  I had seen the trailer and wasn't impressed -- in fact, the promotion steered me away; Hanson's last effort, L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, had struck me as one of the most overrated films of the decade (nearly tying with LEAVING LAS VEGAS), so I was going to pass on this one.  I started reading very positive reviews and little else is out there right now, so I figured I'd give it a chance.If you've gotten this far into checking out WONDER BOYS, it's a sure bet that you know more going in than you really should.  To keep from spoiling the mild surprises, I would simply offer these observationsThe movie is pretty well written and has a fine literary texture to it; it feels like we're watching a novel.  The acting is fine, and Douglas, McGuire, and McDormand each pull off some nice notes.  Tobey McGuire, particularly, makes a difficult role convincing, amusing, and sympathetic -- fine work.  The film has many gentle graces marred, for me, by shamelessly manipulating the audience into rooting for adultery.As far as shaggy dog stories go, this isn't as funny as THE BIG LEBOWSKI; as spiral of mishap, it's not as funny or nerve wracking as AFTER HOURS.  On its own, it's a decent enough diversion for a weekend afternoon. "},{"Title":"A chuckle here and there, inspiration everywhere","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie is preached as a hilarious comedy. Now, don't get me wrong; it does have it's funny moments. Those moments can be hysterical, but it is just not that funny. On the humour scale, I'd give it three out of five.Now, the drama is a whole other ball park. This movie is such a great dramatical work. Wonder Boys was extremely inspiring to me, as a writer, and as a human being.Michael Douglas's odyssey in Wonder Boys proves that dedication is important to accomplish a dream. He also takes James Leer (Tobey Maguire) under his wing, and he becomes the father-figure in the movie. He teaches James Leer a lesson or two in life; he teaches him that perseverance is important to achieve a dream. He also teaches him to ignore society, since society does not accept James Leer because James Leer is different.James Leer, what can I really say about him, well, he is awake. I don't mean that in a literal sense, I mean he is awakened.  He sees the world, and he sees people. His writing is not as commercial, he does it for his own satisfaction, and everyone pretends not to understand it, and they criticise him for it. As a father figure, Douglas teaches Leer to forget what they think, and depends on himself.  For these reasons, the movie is more than worthy of a 10 out of 10 I recommend it to anyone who wants to be inspired, and I recommend it to anyone who likes a heart-warming, occasionally hysterically funny work of art, which is what Wonder Boys is.  "}{"Title":"Great characters, but the script leaves them hanging","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was so disappointed by Wonder Boys.  Here is a movie with a real pedigree (Hanson, Douglas, McDormand, Downey, Maguire) and a story that would seem to hold great promise (angst-ridden novelist/professor perpetually struggling with the expectations of others, as well as his own).  The characterization is wonderful, and Douglas is at his least dyspeptic.But why, after establishing some interesting relationships, does the main character's big revelation come at the hands of a couple of undeveloped fringe characters that we have been given no reason to care about?  The impact of a potentially fine movie completely dissipates, and the tacked-on upbeat ending goes a long way towards ruining everything good that had come before.If it sounds like I'm being a bit harsh, it's only because there's nothing more disappointing to me than expecting a great movie and being given merely a good one.  (7 out of 10)  "},{"Title":"An average film with great comedy","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie to a certain extent.Wonder Boys is a movie for Michael Douglas fans and people who want to become his fans like me.Going in to see this film I didn't expect to crack so many funny jokes as he did. On the other hand, Tobey Maguire wasn't funny nor did he add anything of substance.Maguire wasn't the only problem with this film, the plot took a long time to develop and it was rather confusing at first.The comedy from an unlikely source and plot if you understand it make this film worthwhile.Grade 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A bit too dull for me","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I agree totally with Totoro's assessment of the movie - I was really looking forward to it and I found the comedy too sporadic and only moderately funny most of the time when it was supposed to be moreso. In addition, the script was rather ordinary and the pacing awkward. The story lacked cohesiveness. Leer's actions were not logical, and half the time Sarah didn't seem to be in love with Grady. And did she have to look so dowdy all the time? In fact,when Grady let the coat go at the end,  I lost what little faith I had in logic. My husband, who did not want to see the movie, enjoyed it far more than I, so thanks to Totoro for making me feel better.  "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is that extremely rare thing, a truly great film.  Michael Douglas, habitually underrated but frequently over-qualified, here gives a performance of unalloyed genius.  No matter when the release, Douglas deserves an Oscar nomination--as do Robert Downey Jr., Frances McDormand, and--particularly--the incredible Tobey Maguire, who is becoming before our astonished eyes one of the all-time screen greats.  And as for director Curtis Harrington, the one-two punch of L.A. Confidential and Wonder Boys makes him one of our national treasures.  This is one of the best movies in years, better than any 1999 release. "},{"Title":"Wonder Boys is Wonderful.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is a movie that offers many delicate and subtle rewards for the attentive viewer.  Warm hearted without being overly sentimental, witty without being pretentious.  It is a literate movie about literate dignified people.  Much happens in Wonder Boys, but the clever plotting takes a backseat to character and atmosphere.  The atmosphere in this movie is so rich that it actually lingers on the pallet after viewing.  Curtis Hanson's evocative, natural approach to the material is appropriate and fresh.  The movie has a wonderful flow and feel to it, an intangible quality that is both believable and true.  Michael Douglas gives a wise and likeable performance that any patron of arts & lit. community will relate to.  Tobey Maguire is suitable understated in his role, Robert Downey Jr, is typically credible and Katie Holmes offers the best work of her career.  It is the performances that stand out, because they are the backbone of the film.  Each of the actors gamely throws out any traces of professional vanity, and avoids the impulse to try and steal the show.  There are so many little details that help add to the richness of these characters without actually spelling it out to the audience.  In essence Wonder Boys has the texture of a European film which lends it a compulsive sense of reality.  Poetic, witty and insightful.  The first great movie of 2000. "},{"Title":"Less wondrous than it might have been.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Watching the trailers for Wonder Boys and glancing at a few of its rave newspaper reviews, I fully expected to like this movie a lot more than I ended up doing. True, the film was well cast, much of the dialogue was sharply written, and the cinematography was excellent. Unfortunately the script was weakly adapted from its source novel - at least that's what I assume caused the story's disjointedness and its failure to develop any of the characters, including Michael Douglas's mid-life crisis writer/academic, with any satisfying depth. Despite its interesting setup, the film ultimately settles for simply stringing together quirky characters and mildly gross/black humor sight gags(a la Something About Mary) on its way to a shallow, formulaic comic resolution. To anyone who'd like to see Michael Douglas in a much more courageous dark comedy, I'd suggest a viewing (or re-viewing) of War of the Roses.  "},{"Title":"Outstanding!  The true Wonder Boys are Curtis Hanson and Michael Douglas.","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There simply isn't praise enough for this unique and wonderful film. Michael Douglas gives one of the best performances in his career, and the character he creates here in Grady Tripp is so completely different from anything he has done before that I was absolutely blindsided by him. We expect to see the usual suave confidence that he displayed in movies like Romancing The Stone, but instead we given a touching, gentle, quiet portrait of a middle-aged man who must contend with making a number of choices that will clearly change the course of his life forever. His wife has left him; his lover is pregnant; his publisher (slyly played by Robert Downey, Jr.) may lose his job unless Grady can deliver the book he promised yet hasn't finished- a follow up to his best seller seven years earlier.  It's a shame this movie wasn't released a few months earlier- it would most certainly have brought Mr. Douglas a well-deserved Oscar nod.       I have a hunch that Wonder Boys is not going to set the box office afire, just as Curtis Hanson's previous L. A. Confidential didn't. However, I also think that the right people will see the movie and recognize the outstanding talent- acting, directing, writing, and otherwise- that went into this wonderful film. Did the Academy not have such short attention spans, this movie would virtually be a shoe-in for next year's Oscars. Do yourself a favor and go see this film- it's as good as movies get.   "},{"Title":"A Comedy for Smart People!  And a very fun two hours at the movies...","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The book, by Michael Chabon, was hilarious.  Happily, the film version of WONDER BOYS doesn't pale in comparison with its source material.  If you're looking for an extremely funny and enjoyable and literate film, without the mugging and schtick that typifies way too many comic films these days, then you'll love WONDER BOYS.  The performances are excellent, the screenplay highlights Chabon's wit, the film ticks along without any dead spots, and the soundtrack -- featuring a great new song from Bob Dylan -- is perfect for the story.WONDER BOYS is the perfect midwinter gem -- neither profound nor vacuous, it's simply a very enjoyable film for people with functioning brain cells. "},{"Title":"He did it!!!","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"   Curtis Hanson made it. He followed up his success to 'L.A.                      Confidential' with this sweet story of a beatnik,                                       mostly stoned Professor Grady Tripp  who had fame seven years ago with a top-selling book                             and finds a prodigy in an oddball student of his class                              and has many adventures with him.  The movie ends up being the red velvet cake of  2000 and possibly destined to become a classic.                  And in a good supporting role is Robert Downey Jr as Grady's gay book editor. Also Katie Holmes is nice as one of Grady's students. My grade- A                                           "},{"Title":"An example of film mastery","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had a chance to check out a sneak preview of the film last night and loved it!  It's being called a contemporary screwball comedy by so many critics, but it's much more.  It fully explores its main characters with a sensitivity and awe rarely seen anymore.  Each of the actors are at their absolute best and Hanson's techniques and methods of storytelling are brilliant. "}{"Title":"A enjoyable romp.","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"       Poor Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas), he's a English professor who is having a somewhat of a mid-life crisis.  He's fallen in love with Sara Gashell (Francis McDormand) who is the wife of his boss.  One of his students, James Leer (Toby Maguire) is very talented and gifted, yet he is a conventinal liar and one doesn't know when to believe him or not.  Another one of Grady's students, Hannah Green (Katie Holmes) has a crush on Grady.  And Grady's editor, Terry Crabtree (Robert Downy Jr.) keeps pursuing Grady on when he's going to complete his long awaited novel.  Then there are Grady's own problems, including his wife leaving him, and he has a bad case of writer's block.      WONDER BOYS is the newest film to be directed by Curtis Hanson, who's last film, L.A. CONFIEDNTIAL is one of the best crime-drama's of all time.  In WONDER BOYS, Hanson takes a different approach, it's more of a whimsical tale of a man who is trying to put his life together, but it's not that easy.      I did enjoy this film, but at times it did get a little slow.  Michael Douglas as Grady does a excellent job!  This is perhaps Dougals' most sensitive and emotional character that he has done in years.  One usually is frighten or dislike Douglas' past characters in his films.  But as Grady, you sympathize his feelings and thoughts.  And Tobey Maguire is also very enjoyable as the gifted student.  There are some great monologue scenes where James just discusses to Grady his thoughts, and what his life has been like.  Also good are Francis McDormand as Grady's love intrest, and Katie Holmes as Grady's very devoted pupil.  Only Robert Downy Jr. comes off in this film a little shallow.  He plays a typical editor who only cares about his client's work than life problems, and there isn't much detail on what his real intentions are of Grady.     For Hanson, doing a film following L.A. CONFIENDTIAL is quite a feat.  But like most director's it's difficult to follow up a classic.  But this is a good film for Hanson to do, and it's far better than his films before L.A. CONFIEDNTIAL. But overall, WONDER BOYS is a enlighten film.  It is funny and intresting at times, and then there are times where you're looking for the fast-forward button.  Overall, a enjoyable film, with great acting, and a so-so plot.  ***1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"It's fun to watch a great film!","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Curtis Hanson has directed another winner.  His last film was one of the best of the decade (L. A. Confidential) and this one will end up as one of the best films of the year. Wonder Boys is brilliant and the early contender to be over looked at Oscar time next year.  Michael Douglas is the best he has ever been and the rest of the cast is wonderful, particularly Robert Downey, Jr.  The writing is extraordinary. Wonder Boys is funny, touching, emotional, and romantic.  It's fun to watch a great film.  If it had been released closer to the end of the year it could (and should) have garnered a number of nominations.  "},{"Title":"Douglas & Maguire are top-notch!","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The story of a writer (Douglas) who is searching for  satisfaction within himself. He must rediscover his passion for life and oddly enough, he does so while trying to help a student (Maguire). Character and dialogue driven - well written with an excellent cast! The film is a story about real life, which captures the audience "},{"Title":"A unexpected disappointment","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  ********MILD SPOILER ALERT********Basically, I was expecting great things for this movie, coming from the director of LA Confidential and starring Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire. However, I was extremely surprised to find myself not enjoying it as much as I thought.  The problem lay in the characters, especially Maguire's part. I found his character unfathomable, we were given no real reasons for his odd behaviour and a lot of the things he did didn't seem to make sense.This was a problem I found with the other characters as well, they were too distant from the viewer to understand their motivations.  The lines of humour seemed disjointed, with no real purpose.Maguire's character was so unclearly drawn in relation to his sexuality that we, as an audience, didn't really know what was going on in his mind. Which is a bad thing if we are to like and understand the characters.Downey Jr acted fine on screen although, as with the other character, he wasn't as clearly defined as I might have liked.  Douglas's part was perhaps the most elaborate although I was still annoyed by the lack of explanation by the rest of the story.  Indeed, things seemed to happen that made me think, where did that come from?And one final point, one of the characters who fancied Douglas and spent the whole of the movie trying to seduce him, just vanished at the end leaving us unsure or uncaring about what had happened to her story.So basically, I found problems with the characters.  The direction was fine although let down by an undeveloped script.   "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was surprisingly very funny, and a great movie. I only went to watch it cos another film was sold out. On the surface it looks boring, but it is really good. Douglas who was excellent in 'The Game', but then followed up with the awful 'Perfect Murder', has a change of character. And his performance here is great. I really liked this movie, go and see it. Don't be put of by the boring poster and trailer. "},{"Title":"A Wonder-ful adaptation","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was concerned about this movie when I first saw the preview because I so loved the original book. But Curtis Hansen has does a spectacular job of capturing the joy, tone and pacing of Michael Chabon's hilarious novel. Michael Douglas gives his best performance in years and Tobey Maguire again shows why he's going to be a big star with another well crafted performance. A big thumb's up to this movie.  One question - is the studio so concerned about the 'gay' theme that they had to release this in February? This is an oscar worthy movie. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, emotional and thought provoking","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was also surprised by how much I liked this film. I'm not a Michael Douglas fan and the posters around town have been a real turnoff. But the screenwriting is adult, intelligent, witty and thought provoking. The performances (especially Douglas' and Downey's) are among the best ever given by each of the actors featured. The story is almost farcical and yet delivers on an emotional and thematic level that is rarely achieved by contemporary filmmakers. The movie reminded me of those great Hal Ashby movies from the 70s (Shampoo, The Last Detail) or maybe Mike Nichols at his best (The Graduate). I'm definitely going back to see it again.  "},{"Title":"The heartwarming tale of a man and his girlfriend's husband's dead dog","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Quite frankly, I did not know what to expect from this movie. Michael Douglas, in a comedy/drama, directed by Mr LA Confidential? Anyone would have their doubts. But this movie turned out to be one of those fabulous movies based on the quirkiness of life. Had this movie been released 2 months ago I think we would see Michael Douglas as an Oscar nominee.  He adds personality and humor to his character that makes the performance enjoyable. The cast was excellent, with stand out performances by Tobey Maguire and Katie Holmes.  Honestly, I think that this is some of Michael's best work since Wall Street, if not THE best thing he's done since Wall St. "},{"Title":"This movie ''smells'' like the book...","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Probably one of the most accurate book-to-movie adaptations..Just like the book it drives your mind to a more spiritual less materialized world when words still meant something. Black humor wit and weird situations come along very nicely. Chabon's words live greatly through the script and the narrator thing through the eyes of Michael Douglas is superb. Not to forget the amazing Tobey Maguire whose awkwardness fit perfectly to James Leer. You will have this feeling of warm loneliness after the end titles. Probably a feel to do some reading. Movies that gonna make you dust off some book and dig into? Not that many.Even if you already have read the book it won't disappoint.9/10 "},{"Title":"joey's review","Date":"6 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The writing in this movie was very good. I've seen a few movies from the director of this film now.Curtis Hanson has made several creditable movies.LA Confidnetial is probably my favorite cop movie ever made aside form dirty harry.The River Wild was very enjoyable too. This story focuses on a middle aged writer played by Michael Douglas about to publish a book.His best student played by Tobey Maguire i thought also did a good job.Robert Downey Jr playing his editor also did.I don't know what Curtis Hanson will AK next but I'm sure it will be something interesting.He's made a cop movie a movie about an aging writer,a movie about a rap singers rise to fame.They were all good i cant wait to see whats next. "}{"Title":"Intelligent laughs for adults","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonderboys has a few small problems*, but it's such a generous piece of entertainment that it hardly matters. I wish I had seen it at the theater. It seems like the right audience would have been rolling in the aisles. You want to thank the creators for making it possible for an adult to go to the movies and enjoy themselves. I would happily shell out more cash for intelligent funny movies as good as this. It's an interesting companion piece with Rushmore. You've never had this much fun with people who are ruining their lives. Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) is a defeated, tenured writing teacher who's going to be hitting rockbottom this weekend. His wife has left him, his next book is long overdue. Instead of having writers block, he has logorrhea. His new effort is 2,600 pages with no end in sight. His student is in a hell of a situation under his watch, and his romantic entanglements are blowing up.I won't describe the plot except to say that the characters are spinning their wheels They run around fulfilling trivial duties and obligations, never getting to the big choices they need to. They will never get where they need to under their own volition, only by the impact other people have on them. James Leer (Toby Maguire) is really the eye of the storm. His function in the story is as a catalyst to force the other characters to make long-delayed life decisions. Everyone is served well by a very good script. It's a damned funny movie. But also mild. Even a tranny who is thrown in for laughs is treated graciously. The casting is very good. Douglas gives a really great atypical comic performance. He does very funny things while receiving the brunt of everyones abuse. He should play more roles like this and fewer evil power-brokers. Douglas and Robert Downey Jr have a very funny rapport which practically makes them a comedy duo. Downey is his usual impish self. He has a hard time sharing a scene with anyone but he's awfully funny here. Frances MacDormand has a decent role which I prefer to Fargo. Even the slightly bizarre casting of Richard Thomas as a grad school administrator turns out to be well done. Only Katie Holmes is a bad choice. It ends up being a truer view of education than many other movies that revolve around education; Rushmore (which is more a beautiful movie about adolescence and friendship) and the very junky Finding Forrester.The movie also gets my reward for not making the outing of a character (or two) the big deal everyone defaults to, out of protocol & convention. Only the camera outs them. The point is never mentioned on the soundtrack. Like mostly everything in the movie it's beautifully subtle. Other movies would have burdened the moment with 'outing scene' conventions. But this movie finds smartness at every turn. It's so rare when a movie treat the audience like adults.Curtis Hanson's heavily scripted tour of the Pittsburgh locations may not be to everyone's taste, but after seeing a hundred limp, inane DVD commentaries, it's a relief to me that someone would actually prepare for a featurette. * Tobey Maguire needed to find more range in his weirdness. I do wonder what the movie would be like with another actor in the role. - The need to depict action (car rides) for such a non-active milieu (a writers college) results in many gratuitous, plot-nullifying rides to and from places. - Too many of MacDormands scenes end on chirpy, self-actualizing, phony gauntlets. - The happy ending with Vernon seems a bit perky & gratuitous. "},{"Title":"A Pleasure About Doing What You Truly Want to Do Instead of Coasting Through","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder Boys is a movie I watch every Christmastime, because it has the ambiance of that festive, snowy, steely cold holiday season. Don't picture a modern-day It's A Wonderful Life, just picture a funny, against-formula, nonviolent character piece set in the uplifting and cozy atmosphere of Christmas. Granted, it's not set at Christmas, but my point explains itself at around the middle of the film when Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire find themselves alone in a snug and pleasant house, and Douglas says, It's the kind of house I like to wake up in on Christmas morning.The film also understands writers more than most films about writers. Perhaps because it's based on the novel by Michael Chabon, an award-winning contemporary writer, the story taps into the less-spoken-of frustrations of writing. Everyone knows about writer's block or bad luck with finding publication. Hardly anyone knows about the tribulations Michael Douglas's Grady Tripp character goes through. Grady Tripp is so wrapped up in the complicated, overworked, messy world of the novel he cannot stop writing that he hardly knows where he wants to go in his life anymore. He, as a writer, has failed to make any decisions, and he wanders stressfully and unassuredly through the story with envy for every successful writer in his life, like the self-centered and perhaps less talented Q, the Rip Torn character, and is afraid of the potential of the students in his class like elusive and disturbed James Leer, the Tobey Maguire character. This is maybe the most realistic struggle any writer has ever gone through in any movie I've ever seen.Wonder Boys is a wonder, with a terrific cast including Douglas in one of his deeper and more well-drawn roles, Maguire delivering a fantastic and deeply felt performance (even if his character shoots an attacking dog, which did not make me happy), Frances McDormand in one of her earthier roles, playing more of an everywoman than Marge Gunderson or Billy Bob Thornton's adulterous wife, and Robert Downey, Jr. once again playing in essence himself but being absolutely wonderful and charming doing it. "},{"Title":"A wonderful film about writers","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You'll have a hard time not sitting through this picture and not having a smile creep across your face. Wonder Boys is that wonderful little film that perhaps we've all been waiting for. Michael Douglas stars as English literature professor Grady Tripp, and it's going to be the most hectic and unpredictable weekend of his life. He must deal with his wife leaving him, his affair with the chancellor's wife Sarah (Frances McDormand), his editor Terry Crabtree (Robert Downey, Jr.) who's in town looking for his latest novel (which is coming in at 2000+ pages, and there's still no ending in sight), and the unwarranted advances of student boarder Hannah Green (Katie Holmes). To top it all off, his most gifted and bizarre student, James Leer (Tobey Maguire), is attached to him at the hip after learning of the young man's certain perpetrations over the last 36 hours. Directed by Curtis Hanson, from Michael Chabon's novel, Wonder Boys is a continual pleasure to watch, with many laughs and astounding performances from the cast. The script is also well-done and well-written; Scott Kloves knows Chabon's material well. Wonder Boys is an endlessly funny film to watch. It's a great film to watch if you're a writer or thinking about becoming one. If I ever get to be a successful writer one day, you'll definitely be hearing more from me.10/10 "},{"Title":"Intelligent & witty","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A wryly comic tale about life, love and a place where they seem to have only two kinds of weather - wet or cold. Sorry, I'm not familiar with Pittsburgh - but on the basis of this I'd say it merits a visit. I like places where life happens, rather than where people pass time in some contrived, compromised rendition of utopia. This film has a depth to it that is almost reassuring.Without being spectacular or smugly clever, this film shows what a good writing/acting/directing/technical team can put together. Douglas is never better than when playing the tortured soul, resigned to his fate at the hands of a cruel and cynical world. Maguire, Downey, Holmes & McDormand are all perfectly cast, and there can be few more accomplished team performances. The humour, the pathos, the entire movie itself, are all slightly under-stated and inspire confidence and warmth from the viewer. Perfectly pitched, some genuinely original and funny lines. Quality like this doesn't need hype, it will always stand the test of time. "},{"Title":"My all time favourite movie","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" - This comment may contain small spoilers - I have watched Wonder Boys four times so far and I'm not considering putting it aside yet. But when I wanted to share my enthusiasm for it with a couple of friends one night, they dozed off after 20 minutes.Wonder Boys is not your average fun night out movie, although with the suitable frame of mind, you get your laughs, and plenty of them! If you are also the kind of person who hunts for the good old regulars when choosing their movies, then you're in for a treat. This profound comedy with a dramatic scent has an outstanding cast! The amusingly absurd series of events of the movie is overshadowed by the even queerer odds and ends characters, out of which Trip (Michael Douglas) may seem the dullest... Starting with Terry Crabtree, the sharp New York editor (Rober Downey, Jr.) with vague sexuality and the transsexual he picks up on the plane to Pittsburgh, and finishing with the chancellor's dog, Poe, which is dead throughout most of the movie but remains an important character, none of the characters, as short an appearance as they may make, is what you and I would call regular. Tobey Maguire is also amazing as James Leer, the young wonder boy, a charming self-induced delusional student who writes and lives his own fiction.The movie deals with people who cannot and will not adapt, but underneath it all, Wonder Boys is about love and being able to come home to it. The cherry on top is one of the best movie soundtracks, performed in a great extent by Bob Dylan. Great movie! "},{"Title":"Disappointing, boring; wasted opportunities","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Missed this one at the cinema, but now I am happy I did. I could cry about the wasted opportunities (and my time), because I wanted to like this movie. Though the cast/director were promising and the plot at a first glance sounded interesting, the whole movie did not meet my expectations. This one was unfortunately not genuine, and it has been done much better before (see below tips).It started out (moderately) good, but then it went downhill after ca. 30 minutes. The main reason is there is no plausible story (at all). Other weak points it tries to be a comedy and a drama at the same time, which in this case does not work. It is neither very funny/ironic nor dramatic enough. The pieces just did not fit together. I could not believe most of the character's actions/decisions, because I got little to no insight into the character's personalities. The characters are flat and cliche. The whole story meanders pointlessly until the film is finally (thanks!) over.The underlying themes (e. g. mid-life crisis, coming of age, relationships etc.) are indeed very crucial, but it seems like the screenwriter does not care much about them (or he can not convey them adequately).To say at least some positive points the cinematography was okay, the acting so-so (due to the circumstances (bad script)).Some (subjective) movie tips American beauty (1999), Finding Forrester, Dead poet's society, The Graduate (1967), Good Will Hunting  (so-so Igby goes down (2002)) "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie so much, it's almost pathetic. This movie is so true to life, well, it is true to my life and experiences in it. The movie has no real plot, nothing to really resolve, sure they run into a few snags along their journey, but there's never any real conflict. I think that might be why some of the people I've talked to about the movie don't like it, because there is not set path that the movie has to follow, oddly enough, I think that's why I like it in the first place. People are too use to story line that has to follow a theme, they need to open themselves up and experience something new...This!Like I said the movie has no real plot, but it does tell a great story. It' about a struggling writer (Douglas) and his life over a several day period, and that's all you need to know. PERIOD. "},{"Title":"Why is this such a little-known film?","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Last night, my friends and I searched the local video shop for something worth watching. We picked Wonder Boys, even though none of us had ever heard of it before. Result? All of us laughed ourselves silly and watched it three times.    This film is about Glady Tripp, a pot-smoking college professor going through a tough time in his life. Seven years ago he wrote an acclaimed book, but is having trouble following it up---it's over 2600 pages long, shows no sign of ending, and his agent Terry Crabtree is getting impatient...That's not all. His wife has left him, his mistress Sara Gaskell (or his boss' wife) has just informed him she's pregnant, his best student James Leer, a crazy literary genius who can't stop lying, is following him around, and Hannah Green, a female pupil who rents a room in his house, is clearly trying to put the moves on him by wearing very little.But it gets worse again for Grady. James Leer kills the Gaskells' dog when it won't get its teeth out of his professor's leg, a man with a James Brown haircut is claiming he owns Tripp's car, and a jacket Marilyn Monroe once wore has disappeared from the Gaskells' safe. Soon, some young-looking police officers are swarming around Grady's house. Throw in some codeine, alcohol, a pink dressing gown and a heavily-pregnant waitress named Oola and you've got the ingredients of a very tasty film.There are some very funny moments, including a scene where James Leer climbs through a dog flap to get into a house, then makes himself comfortable on the sofa in front of the tv, Vernon jumping and running around Grady's car, and there was one little scene that just shone out to me. When James is semi-conscious in the club and is just propped against the chair, Terry starts touching his hair and brushing it behind his ears and I thought it was hilarious! So incredibly camp!All the acting in this is superb, and it's very much a cast effort. Michael Douglas made me smile as Glady Tripp, Robert Downey Jr is SO funny as Terry Crabtree, he deserved an Oscar for sheer dedication to the role! Frances McDormand puts in a perfect performance as Sara Gaskell, and Tobey Maguire's character James Leer kept my attention. There is something wrong with that boy! I don't think any other actor could have pulled off that giggle during the speech by Rip Torn's character! Agh! I urge EVERYONE to see this film! I have one question though. How come I never heard of Wonder Boys before my friends and I rented it? It's a brilliant film!   "},{"Title":"I see myself as Grady Tripp in 20 years","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This has turned out to be one of my favorite films of all time. Every single main character is memorable, as well are the supporting characters.I am a Michael Douglas fan, and I believe that this is his best role. I could not imagine anyone else playing Grady Tripp; same goes for Tobey Maguire as James Leer. Robert Downey, Jr. IS Crabtree.Much of the humor is subtle and not overly obvious, not is it humorous to the characters in the situation.This is one of the types of films that has it all great characters, great story, great acting, great cinematography, great directing, and great music (which, by the way, fits in perfectly with each scene-- look at the scenes specifically with the Neil Young and Leonard Cohen songs).This is definitely one of the best films that's come out of the past decade, and I'm sure it'll remain a favorite for years. "},{"Title":"The tired and inspired blend as catalyst for change.","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Complex, comedic and, nicely crafted character study of Professor Grady Tripp's (Michael Douglas) travails as a Literary Professor with serious mid-life issues.  Thrice-married, newly separated and, fifty-ish Professor Tripp still likes to get high smoking grass, which has become an ineffective crutch in his otherwise stalled though once promising career as a successful auteur. His epic novel is fragmenting, overly detailed and, more importantly overdue; despite 7 years in the making and, going nowhere.His life of stasis is about to be rearranged in a few short days and, he comes to terms with his problems, but not before being caught in peripheral issues including his mistress (Francis McDormand) whom he learns is pregnant and, James Leer, promising author and student, played by Tobey Maguire, who has his own problems and whom Professor Tripp decides to  take under his wing.  Add to this Katie Holmes's character, the beautiful and intelligent student, Hannah Green, who has somewhat of a crush on the Professor and, through her honesty is able to help remove his cling-ons of denial and, Robert Downey Jr.'s character, Terry Crabtree, a gay friend and confident who provides well placed comedic balance to an interesting and amusing story.Oh yeah, and don't forget about Marilyn Monroe's jacket, as it proves a climatic catalyst of sorts, about which all the characters seem to  momentarily pivot and, then continue on their separate ways, resolving and coming to closure, albeit perhaps a little too tidily. But this film has enough turns to keep the viewer guessing and, hooks to keep interesting; warmly textured and nuanced; contrasting without getting too deep; without becoming mired within itself and, prodding with a message.Michael Douglas's work as the lead anti-hero is refreshing and, subtly tragic, without sullying us with the pathetic.  Plus, it's nice to see Robert Downey Jr. again and, it appears Tobey Maguire will be around for more than awhile.In all, a well-crafted sleeper that should endure and, perhaps will be appreciated more with time. "}{"Title":"A load of boring rubbish about totally unpleasant people.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What were all you other reviewers smoking when you watched this crap? Michael Douglas, as usual, threw out his chest and followed it around the screen. A totally unpleasant, disorganized, and ultimately non-sympathetique character. Had I hit someone like this with my car, my only concern would be to make sure that I was able to clean all of the **** off the bumper bar.The other characters are exactly the same. Mean, unpleasant, totally self-absorbed. Ultimately, when something happens to them, good or bad, the only thought that comes to mind is *** WHO CARES ?????? *** "},{"Title":"Scattered","Date":"7 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Was it my impression or this movie lacked a dramatic line? I mean, I started seeing this and I thought it was one movie and when Tobey Maguire pulls that trigger it changes to another comedy movie! It was this strange the way I felt Wonder Boys, a movie that unfortunately won't live long in my memory since it scatters its characters and doesn't live up to the expectations it builds. I thought, however, that Michael Douglas tries to save the show but his character changes from night to day in just one scene. Strange movie, I thought of it. And indeed I will keep on thinking that way. "},{"Title":"Great screenplay, overall nicely done... A fun ride!","Date":"2 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film was a belated surprise!No! I did not see it while it was still playing at the local theaters!  No! I did not chose to rent it when needing a final selection, to round out the other six I already picked out at the local video rental shop. Yes! I did find the title slightly off-putting for some reason... Perhaps I had deduced that it was going to be some overwrought and unamusing search for metaphorical meaning, not unlike the Fabulous Baker Boys!, --  another work written by Steven Kloves.And YES!  I admit it, I was wrong all along...  this flick was neat.  Yes! It was a little metaphorical piece about one man's wintery search for middle-age meaning, as he wandered up and down the streets of a small mid-Atlantic community. But, oh! That was half the fun!Fun for the audience as well as the characters of this film because the answer was right there in front of our eyes all along, and the best part was, we got to be present when the main guy finally saw the light.In several ways, this film reminded me of another flick I delayed to see Nobody's Fool!  Both stories had odd characters (one-legged Jewish lawyer, or a blind pit bull who stalks literary gatherings) all of which apparently seem to populate small mid-Atlantic communities.  This winters-time tale seem to make use of an entire community as it  searches for human life, and current methods of its living.My only regret about this film, and NOW I do have one  is that I waited so long to enjoy it.  Yes!  I unfairly dismissed it based entirely upon its ambiguous and seemingly intentionally vague title.Even word-of-mouth did could convince me to rent this film.  In fact, I only watched when it finally appeared on a friend's 500 channel satellite, at 430 am when there was honestly NOTHING else to watch!  Talk about your hard sell!!But, I did finally watch it.  In fact, I liked it so much the first time, that I waited for it to come on again, taped it, and then watched it four(!) more times in a row.  Now THAT'S --  in case you didn't know! -- is a compliment.  Forget word of mouth...  With me, the only sincere compliment I could ever pay a film, is that right after watching it, I was willing to stay put, watch it all over again, and again  -- and still enjoyed it!  So, that's the good word from me.Sorry, I was so late!    "},{"Title":"???","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Why doesn't everyone love this movie?  What is wrong with you people??  Anyway, this is my favorite movie of the yar 2000, and once again, my favorite movie wasn't nominated for best picture at the oscars (aka being john malkovich, magnolia, mulholland drive, and on and on and on).  If you haven't seen this movie, please watch it.  If you enjoy it half as much as I did, you won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Certainly has its flaws","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The fact that this film, first released in Februrary of 2000 to glowing reviews, than RERELEASED when it didn't get the love and affection that uh, someone thought it deserved, vaguely makes me nauseous. For Wonder Boys is AT BEST an OKAY movie, highlighted by good performances from Michael Douglas,  sexy, charming, talented Robert Downey Jr., Jane Adams (whom I know best as Mel from Frasier) and, I suppose, Frances McDormand. The soundtrack is not too bad, either, and a couple of the scenes, such as when Adams and her boyfriend (some man who screeches and acts like he is right out of a blacksploitation film, which means people in blaxploitation films must screech and act obnoxious...how irritating that must be) run into Downey and Douglas in a car and...go on a spirited adventure. Those are among the elements of Wonder Boys that I appreciated. Besides that... well, what's so great about it??? FAR too much of what I saw  centered upon not-my-favorite actor Tobey McGuire playing some BEYOND not-my-favorite character, James Leer, a  troubled, but brilliant student of Michael Douglas's professor character, Grady Tripp. Prof. Tripp(who's one of those annoying professors that tries to be all hip and cool and swears, smokes, and drinks) also happens to be some author suffering from writer's block. Instead of focussing on his own book, he goes after James, who apparently seems to have potential as a writer. Somehow, annoying James ends up at the home of Grady after some wild night of drinking and killing the dog of Grady's girlfriend(for Prof. Tripp, to add to his coolness, is also having an affair). Grady's publisher, Robert Downey Jr(I missed his character's name) also happens to be there, and he also decides to go after aspiring talent James...in more ways than one. Sadly enough, James Leer happens to be one of the most boring characters ever written, and, er, Mr. McGuire did not help in making him more interesting. I laughed aloud at some previous post where somebody hoped that McGuire would be more awake in his other films, because his James practically seemed like a ZOMBIE at times. I know that somewhere in the script, Douglas had some line about James's emotions, which was pretty funny, too. WHAT emotions? I could just imagine James angry(*flatly* I'm gonna raise my voice). He and Douglas had a particularly boring scene in a car where he was saying his parents met in something that I'm sure was supposed to be a management firm(but maybe not, is there even such thing?), but since McGuire occasionally also mumbles, it sounded like he said they met in a mannequin firm. Besides being boring, James is also unlikable, and is things like a liar and a runaway. I don't think those flaws are supposed to make the audience not like James. After all, EVERYONE in Wonder Boys has flaws, and that's probably actually done with the intention to make the characters more appealing, but it didn't really work for me. James was a human sleeping pill, Robert Downey Jr was WONDERFUL as the publisher, but his character was very...questionably developed. Why did he do...the things he did with awful James(another thing to add to James's list of flaws). It did nothing for his character or the plot, but whatever. At least he was funny in other scenes (and looked handsome as he chased a bunch of papers that were accidently got caught in the wind, while lazy Grady just watched. Actually, Grady couldn't have helped because he walked with a limp. Why? I, um, think I missed that explanation. Or else Michael Douglas just WANTED him to... maybe to signify his aging, since Grady looked about 65... When I first turned it to Wonder Boys and saw Douglas and McGuire, I beyond wondered who the old man was. ) Michael Douglas was also quite good as Grady Tripp, but Prof. Tripp was somebody whom I came to the conclusion that if he were one of my professors, I probably wouldn't like him all that much, nor would I like Frances McDormand's character, whom I believed worked somewhere in the University, which I also wouldn't like if it were real, or the students that attended it, ESPECIALLY the pointless character of Hannah (Katie Holmes... was that her REAL voice, and I hate when casting directors try to be all hip and cool by casting actors like Holmes and McGuire), who tries to flirt with Professor Trip(overly flirtatious people bug me...and did she live at Grady's house? Why was she there? Why, for that matter, was she in the  movie?). Anyway, besides the fact that the movie is rife with basically unlikeable characters, and the film goes all wrong by focussing far too much on the most boring of all, it also crawls along at a snail's pace... probably on purpose. How boring. Despite all of that, I didn't loathe Wonder Boys. I might even watch it again for Downey, the music, and--if I am in a cynical mood--to mock McGuire, but it was NOT a film deserving of the praise it received by a long shot!! "},{"Title":"Great Adaptation","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a big fan of Chabon's novels and was worried when I heard they were making WONDER BOYS into a film. But, I was blown away by the expert touch this movie showed. Hanson did a fantastic job with the tone of the piece and the performances are amazing. I can take or leave Michael Douglas but I feel this is the best performance he has ever given. The haunted, fearful look of a once great writer with awful writer's block, now forced to teach creative writing at a Pittsburgh college, Douglas absolutely nails it. From Tobey Maguire to Frances McDormand - there isnt a bad performance in the film. It totally captures the little wars' that take place on college campuses amongst the staff and the students. Competition, tenure, talent, no talent, drugs, sex - it's all there in a muted, grey, ugly snow look that shows a Pittsburgh winter perfectly. One of the best films I have seen about how hard it is to write. Perfecto. "},{"Title":"Not much going on","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" For a film that has such interesting characters we only scratch the surface if exploring them fully. Hardly anything about why Tobey Maguire is a bit weird is explained to us. This is very annoying as he is the most intriguing character in the film. Although it was cool to see him paired up with Katie Holmes again. Michael Douglas turns in a terrific performance but he is not as good as he was in Falling Down which was definitely his best. But he certainly does come close here. As a writer myself I kind of understood his frustration but his reasons for not writing like he used to just didn't convince me.The photography in this film was superb. Dante Spinotti (LA Confidential, Heat, The Insider) creates a very unique and effective atmosphere. The scene outside the house during the party was very impressive. The snow, the silence and the slight wind were all wonderfully captured. This is without a doubt the film's strong point.This is by no means a bad film but it's not a great one either. But no matter what your tastes, you'll never waste your time watching it. "},{"Title":"Annoying.","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is what happens when writers write about writers writing. A pointless story, whiny characters who immerse themselves in self-pity. Perpetuating stereotypes. Are you supposed to sympathise with the main characters? I just found them annoying. "},{"Title":"Trivial, campy tale of mixed up professor who takes unpleasant student under his wing","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There were great expectations for 'Wonder Boys'. You can even hear Michael Douglas say on the DVD extras that this was an opportunity to play a more substantial part, much different from what he terms prince of darkness roles he had recently been known for. Nonetheless, here was a film that was released a SECOND time, after it initially bombed at the box office (the second release, by the way, fared no better). Perhaps the biggest reason for 'Wonder Boys' failure, was the source material the novel of the same name, written by the young wunderkind, Michael Chabon. Michiko Kakutani perhaps said it best, describing the novel in her 1995 NY Times review, as silly and verging on camp. Although I disagree with her assessment that the film had a split personality, with the story being also touching and melancholy.Screenwriter Steve Kloves' faithfully adapts Chabon's story and retains the same sorry schematics in a nutshell, the protagonist, Professor Grady Tripp, has no significant antagonist to play off of. This might work better in a novel, where the characters' internal arc is highlighted, but in a full-length feature film, it's deadly. Tripp is basically the pot-smoking loser who can't replicate his earlier literary success and also can't decide whether he wants to commit to the University Chancellor, Sara Gaskell, now pregnant with his child. Gaskell is married to Tripp's boss, Walter, chairman of the English Department.Peripheral characters seem to drift in and out of view during the film with little or no identifiable purpose including a young Katie Holmes as Hannah Green, both Tripp's student and boarder as well as Tripp's literary agent, Terry Crabtree (played by a younger Robert Downey Jr.), whose career is also falling apart (mainly due to Tripp's inability to come up with a new novel).The bulk of 'Wonder Boys' concerns Tripp's relationship with the dissolute James Leer (a very, very young Tobey Maguire), one of Tripp's students who aspires to be a writer. A singular event ruins the entire movie when Leer shoots Walter's dog and the bumbling Tripp places the carcass in the trunk of his car for most of the rest of the film. Somehow, Chabon and Kloves believes that the shooting of the poor pooch is supposed to be funny. My theory is that talk about this most unpleasant event got around and accounted for the very poor response at the box office. Clue for future film scenarists don't allow one of your main characters to kill a dog, if you want people to like your movie!!!The rest of the machinations in the film are only briefly worth mentioning. Suffice it to say that after Leer shoots the Gaskell's pet, he also makes off with the Chairman's precious Marilyn Monroe memorabilia. At a certain point, Terry ends up in bed with James and then Tripp's car turns out to be stolen and is repossessed by its rightful owner (a crazy black dude who resembles a cross between James Brown and Little Richard). The repulsive Leer is saved after Tripp makes a deal with Walter, arranging for Terry to publish his book, described as a critical exploration of the union of Joe DiMaggio and Marilyn Monroe and its function in American mythopoetics, tentatively titled The Last American Marriage. The dig at academia could have been developed quite a bit more, but the scenarists here fail to go in that direction. And as for Tripp, the loss of his manuscript signals the shattering of all of his illusions.Tripp's ultimate fate is indicative of Chabon's (and Kloves') failure to do anything creative with their protagonist. Tripp, the perennial procrastinator, finally decides to make the obvious commitment (which we can see a mile away from the very beginning), where he decides to shack up with Sara and play the responsible role of the good father (a significantly SENTIMENTAL ending for a film billed as some sort of black comedy).Granted, Michael Douglas does the best he can in a role where his character simply doesn't develop. At least (as he says), this time he's not playing the prince of darkness. The rest of the cast also do the best they can with the limited material but the chief highlight here is merely seeing how notable actors (Downey, Maguire, Holmes and McDormand) looked as their pre-9/11 selves.'Wonder Boys' truly has little to say about human nature since its quirky characters are distantly related to how real people think and feel. Most disappointing is the film's campy humor, which sometimes veers into excessively unpleasant terrain (yes, I'll bring up the dead dog one more time!). Remember that many films with an 'indie' appellation, do not necessarily come close to 'art', despite assorted critics' claims to the contrary. "},{"Title":"No direction","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder Boys or the absolute fail, you are still wondering what Curtis Hanson and his writer Steve Kloves wanted to tell us through this abysmally weak story from which there is absolutely nothing to draw nor to save. The script, or rather the catch-all, is composed of disjointed scenes, with no binder, that don't form a logical and coherent whole. The genres on which the movie relies on just don't work the comical aspect is totally missing, and the drama side turns out to be uninteresting with a plot a lot too limited, with no clear direction nor enough convincing stakes. As for the characters, they are personified with no verve by a little inspired cast, they are not endearing and don't arouse any empathy which is inevitably crippling for a comedy-drama. To think this movie was nominated for the Oscars... "}{"Title":"I guess we just divorce our spouses, marry each other, and have this baby, right? Simple!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A good, not great, story about finding out what is really important in life.SPOILERS - Prof. Tripp (Michael Douglas) is stuck! He teaches composition, smokes pot, and is not able to make choices necessary to finish his long, long novel, 7 years after his big success. His beautiful, young wife - the third one - has left him that morning. He is having an affair with Chancellor Sara (Frances McDormand), whose husband (Richard Thomas) is distant and wrapped up in his study of Marilyn Monroe and baseball. His prize student James (Tobey Maguire) has a vivid imagination, almost everything he says is fiction, but writes well and becomes the new Wonder Boy with a publisher of his first novel. Crabtree( Downey Jr.) is the publishing agent who shows up with a transvestite, who romances James.In the end, Tripp figures it all out. He throws away his writing robe, gives away his pot, gets a haircut and shave. He loses everything he thought was important, but finally decides where to go. The movie ends with Sara and baby getting out of the car, while he is upstairs typing on his computer, and the movie ends with him clicking on SAVE on his computer screen. That word says it all.Some of the things about tis movie bother me. First, marriage and fidelity, or the lack of it, seems to be treated a bit superficially, although perhaps we are to assume Sara and Tripp both figure it out. The whole thing with the shooting of the dog, carrying it around in the trunk, putting it into James' bed, was sorta cute at first but to me detracted from the story. Plus, the side story with Crabtree's homosexual ways was not central to Prof. Tripp's journey and was also a distraction.On the plus side, the Bob Dylan songs were a good touch, and especially the Dylan music video included in the DVD extras.  The DVD picture was up to high standards. The sound is listed as Dolby 5.0, and was fine but nothing special.I rate this film a 7 of 10, an interesting story but nothing really new. Just an elaborate presentation of M. Scott Peck's life is difficult statement, along with all problems can be solved with discipline, as he presents it in the book The Road Less Traveled. Without discipline, which is the way the film starts, Tripp could not solve any of his problems. "},{"Title":"Quirky Thinking movie","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Curtis Hanson's Wonder Boy's has some funny things, but it is not by definition a comedy to me.  It seems more like a drama than a comedy, but if you look for charm, it's here.  Especially by Michael Douglas who is a great lead a the pot-head, proffesor/writer who takes under his wing a odd writer (Tobey McGuire) who accidentaly shoots Dougla's boss' dog.  The plot goes crazy after a while, but it isn't that difficult.  Not the best film of the year, but not the worst either.  A "},{"Title":"Extremely boring. Sorry, Michael...","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is a good example of a movie based upon a very bad script and a very good novel. I really wonder, why all those wonderful stars took part. There is absolutely no drama, no flow in the whole story. It's just a calm see from the beginning till the (awful) end. Many questions are raised Will the protagonist leave his wife? Will he fight his drug-addiction? Will he finally finish his new book? (and many more) The problem is, that all the answers never touch the audience. Maybe. Maybe not. And if so? Everything is undecided and without any consequence. A total lack of dramatic emotion. A very boring movie. Sorry, Michael... "},{"Title":"Wonder Boys is Wonderfully Awful *1/2","Date":"22 April 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Disintegrating film and real fast despite an excellent fast.The story starts out well as Michael Douglas, a tenured English professor, is teaching his creative writing class. The film soon falls apart due to the miserable writing.Tobey McGuire portrays one of his students who is sullen, an excellent writer, with constant morbid thoughts. Who really cares about the number of Hollywood stars who committed suicide? Ridiculous.Never get too cozy with your students. McGuire and others are invited to the home of the Chancellor (Francees McDormand) and her mousy-like husband, English Chairman Richard Thomas. Go know that Douglas and McDormand are lovers and she is pregnant by him.All mayhem breaks lose when McGuire steals a coat worn by Marilyn Monroe and kills the Chancellor's dog who has attacked the Douglas character.What follows is a weekend of revealing philosophies and torture for the rest of the audience.The ending is somewhat unexpected.Rip Torn shows up as a guest speaker at some sort of weekend symposium. Robert Downey Jr. portrays the editor for Douglas. Ironically, it's Douglas who is hooked on coke and what not. Wouldn't the part have been more appropriate for Downey? Of course, nothing really would help this film. "},{"Title":"Why was it released twice?","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I finally got to see this film on DVD. It is no surprise to me that it did poorly, not only the first time, but the second as well. Boring direction and unnecessary voiceover. I've noticed this quite often recently - as if the producers are so in love with the written word they have the lead character read from the page so we all know how wonderful the book was. We don't need the novel read to us.Borderline despicable characters all around; dubious motives and a sappy ending all contribute to the box office failure of this movie. Critics' praise aside, I would doubt many people left the theater recommending it to their friends and family. "},{"Title":"Not your average film","Date":"25 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you are looking for the next action adventure film, this is not your film. If you are looking for the next box office smash or a classic of film making, this is not your film. However, if you are the kind of person who loves a good story, some exceptional acting, and few good puns and jokes thrown in to relieve the tension, this is your film. Michael Douglas portrays his role with a combination of ambivalence and passion that bring a depth the audience can relate to. Frances McDormand gives a strong performance as the woman with a career on the line and an unhappy marriage. Toby Maquire plays a very different role as the confused but talented student and writer who is uncertain about his role in life. Robert Downey Jr. is excellent as the agent trying desperately to find that next big book that will put him back in the limelight. And Katie Holmes is perfect in the role of the sultry, not too sexy, not too forward, but available co-ed who wants to get into the professor's bed. The sex in the film is implied, not explicit, but the drug use and language earned the film an R rating, so you might want to make sure the kids are in the rooms before turning this one on. Not particularly collectible, but a wake up call for people who have fallen into a rut. "},{"Title":"A Dog's Life","Date":"28 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An unfinished novel, a stolen car, a murdered pet, and a failing marriage are just a few of the crises piling up like a logjam in this often hilarious story of bright promise gone awry, according to the DVD sleeve's description, During a singe hectic weekend, college professor Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas) scrambles to gather together a life that has suddenly reeled out of control. Along for the ride are his gifted but troubled student (Tobey Maguire), his eccentric editor (Robert Downey Jr.), the married chancellor of his university (Frances McDormand) who is pregnant with his child, and his sultry student boarder (Katie Holmes). It goes downhill, unfortunately, after the murdered pet incident, a perversely funny scene, and the only one in this self-described dark comedy. Instead of laughing at the continuing dog scenes, you're left wondering why the animal doesn't appear to bleed, or stink. Mr. Douglas and the cast perform marvelously, under Curtis Hanson's fine direction. But, their relationships are too dry; the platonic one, between Douglas and Mr. Maguire, holds more passion than either the love (Douglas/McDormand) or sex (Maguire/Downey Jr.) duos. And, the film is too glossily over-produced when it should be naturally gritty (like Bob Dylan).******* Wonder Boys (2/22/00) Curtis Hanson ~ Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Robert Downey Jr., Frances McDormand "},{"Title":"worth three (3) watchings","Date":"9 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Ah, Pittsboig?? By the end of Wonder Boys, a trip to Pittsburgh sounds, not so bad. Even the lousy weather makes one feel swell in this movie. Interesting and intelligent characters handling 'moments of truths'. Bonding with with wit, and a pinch of uncharacteristic selflessness. It's an action movie for the mind and the acting is as real as the rain. Most impressive for me, is Toby. Often times I can't tell if a guy or gal had to work hard to play a role as well as it is played. I'd hate to think that McGuire handled the role easily. He's just too good. My best guess is that 25-30 minutes into this movie, 80% to 90% of the viewers are 95% sure that they're stuck with an 'OK' movie. That's not OK. It's a Disney feel good movie for adults. "},{"Title":"My Favourite Movie By Far","Date":"13 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The fact that this was a Hollywood box office bomb and total sleeper albeit loaded with an elite cast should tell you something.Michael Douglas shines in this movie alike Gordon Gekko, only stoned throughout. Robert Downey Jr. is also brilliant sporting his trademark mannerisms and quick witted behaviour.If you've never heard of this movie, I would highly recommend it; especially going into it blind. Don't do any homework on it, just check it out and enjoy.It's a great flick.10 stars.Cheers "},{"Title":"Wonder Boys","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What attracted me to this film was the many good stars, it was from director Curtis Hanson (The River Wild, L.A. Confidential, 8 Mile), and (even though I can't remember hearing it) it had an Oscar winning song. Basically ageing, pot smoking college Professor Grady Tripp (BAFTA and Golden Globe nominated Michael Douglas) is having to deal with his third wife leaving him, having an affair with married Dean Sara Gaskell (Fargo's Frances McDormand), and she is pregnant, oh, and he's got writer's block with an improvised novel. He also has to deal with odd, but potentially talented student writer James Leer (Tobey Maguire) who he knows pretty much nothing about. Grady and James are put together when at a party a dog belonging to Sara's husband, the college chancellor is shot by James, oh, and he also takes valuable memorabilia, Marilyn Monroe's (wedding) coat. Grady wants to deal with this in his own way, and thinks it best if James goes home, but with his homo-erotic urges taking over James won't tell much truth about his personal life. Also starring Rip Torn as Quentin 'Q' Morewood, Robert Downey Jr. as Terry Crabtree, Dawson's Creek and Phone Booth star Katie Holmes as Hannah Green, Richard Knox as Vernon Hardapple, Jane Adams as Oola, Michael Cavadias as Miss Antonia 'Tony' Sloviak, Richard Thomas as Walter Gaskell, Alan Tudyk as Sam Traxler and Philip Bosco as Emily's Father. The performances are all good, the direction is good too, I don't know if I can agree with the critics giving it four stars, but it is certainly worth seeing. It won the Oscar for Best Song for Bob Dylan's Things Have Changed (it also won the Golden Globe), and it was nominated for Best Editing and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material Previously Produced or Published, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Adapted Screenplay , and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay. Good! "}{"Title":"Antonia, Vernon, Poe & Oola","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Brilliant!! Every aspect of this marvelous totally believable work with almost bizarre & unreal characters & situations is just brilliant. I'm pretty sure it would have been impossible without Curtis, Steven & Michael working together. Its a triumph & a movie making handbook. The way it panned out (every scene had the potential to let the movie go astray & down the drain) was the handy-work of sheer mastery.A disparate group of characters who are in very serious problems, where they are dealing with anguish, past promises, bleak futures & any sense of purpose. Sounds serious eh? Well guess what I couldn't stop laughing.He said a few things that lead me to believe that the car was his. Such as?? That's my car m*****f*****Casting was perfect. Douglas himself (nothing less than a legend for me), Downey, Tobey & Frances i thought went a few steps further than what their acting duties called for. They were really Tripp, Terry, Sara & jimmy jimmy jimmy!!I wouldn't really like to give much of the plot away, but would definitely say that anybody who might have any appreciation of a situation where art & humor are mud wrestling each other while completely stoned, will watch this experience in total awe.Take a bow Wonder Boys...... "},{"Title":"Amusing, shambolic, pretentious","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In 'Wonder Boys', Michael Douglas plays somewhat against type as a washed up professor, Grady Tripp. He can still (just about) talk the talk, but he doesn't believe in himself any more, and no longer has the nerve to express his deepest feelings, even to those he cares about the most. Douglas so often plays hyper-confident characters that his persona here strikes one as fresh; the opposite can be said of Tobey Maguire, who plays a deep, talented, mis-fitting student in exactly the same way he has played every other role in every other movie he's ever been in. Also striking a slightly wrong note is Kaite Holmes, as a sexy female student who rents a room in Douglas's house; in typical Hollyowood style, she's just too sexy to be wholly believable, a fantasy object like this would surely never wind up with a crush on a loser like Tripp.What's more surprising about this film is its pacing. Director Curtis Hanson made the high-octane 'L.A. Confidential'; but 'Wonder Boys' is as shambling (and at time, pedestrian) as its middle-aged hero. In a sense, this suits the mood of the piece Douglas is to some extent a passenger as, over a week-end, his life slowly falls apart. But what's lacking is any sense of mounting tension life seems pretty much just too damn hard for Douglas from the very beginnings of the film, and remains evenly so as the situation progresses from bad to worse. There is a plot here, but the hero seems stoically depressed, almost from choice, and semi-independently of the actual developments of the story. You get the feeling he has stopped caring about his own future; so why should we? A final word about the ostensible subject of the film writers and writing. The film makes much of writing as a special vocation, stresses the idea that the role of a professor teaching creative writing a duty to nurture the talent of the next generation; that it's perfectly natural that such a teacher should have in his class a student who is will become a figure of cultural importance. This, I suspect, is an idealised view in our egocentric world where everyone wants to write, and the closest most of us will get is a few occasionally-read reviews on the IMDb! Secondaly, the ending of the film (hero finds redemption through writing about his troubles) seems trite. And thirdly, the voice-overs throughout the film (which we eventually learn are extracts from this later book) are desperately, desperately dull this is really not a book you would want to buy. This film, on the other hand, is one you might want to watch; but it could have done, perhaps, with a bit more editing. "},{"Title":"Stuck in neutral","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are a few good quirks in this movie, some scenes that made me laugh out loud, but all in all it is a high-fallutant character piece about writer's block which I feel like I've already seen a thousand times before. Gee, how about making a good movie and not making a movie about how hard it is to make something for once? Other than Michael Douglass' character, the characters were undeniably shallow and over-the-top smartasses. Reminded me a lot as a book version of the musically related High Fidelity, which I think is much better. The movie, appropriately enough, never goes anywhere, until the ending, which seems a little cut and dry- 'Oh Even though i lost my job and everything i'm happy now and look- I have a computer and I'm clean shaven! This movie just has too many cliché aspects in it, and suffice it to say I could never believe Douglas or Spider-boy had anything like writing potential.  "},{"Title":"I wonder what this is all about.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've said it before and I'll say it again, Michael Douglas should not be doing comedic roles with that child molestor voice of his. I really liked the idea of the story, which is that this guy who hasn't had a hit novel in seven years is blocked and is writing this novel that is just going on and on. I enjoyed the quirky role of Robert Downey Jr. as Michael Douglas's editor, a bit of a druggie, a bit of a bisexual, it's a wonder he even gets around to talking to Douglas about this illeged book he is working on. The role of Tobey Maguire as the strange, yet amazing writer, James, never really materialized because he was just a light-touch character ( a character that slightly changes something about another character, but it really isn't anything to base a human after). All-in-all this story has it's moments. I really enjoyed that their was such a stunning revolution to the plot, but I was a little hung up when the credits rolled...weak movie.  "},{"Title":"Great dark comedy","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In many dark comedies, the characters are completely unlikable.  Not so in this film.  You find yourself sympathizing which each character.  And each character is interesting, quirky, but most of all, human.  The movie is pretty funny, and thought-provoking.  Michael Douglas is great in it, as is Tobey Maguire.  So is everybody else...Robert Downey Jr, Katie Holmes, Rip Torn, etc. "},{"Title":"An unknown gem","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It seem as though everyone who's seen this film loves it. The problem is that few people have seen it and I know why It has the world's most boring cover. Ooh, an ungroomed Michael Douglas smiling. I received this film as a present a year ago and thought ...piece of junk but when I watched it recently I was pleasantly surprised. I've rarely seen characters as sharply drawn. The story is my favorite type, the kind that can't be summed up one sentence, but it's also the hardest to bring on screen. Films like Wonder Boys have a tendency to be boring without proper direction but Curtis Hanson does a great job with a great all-star cast. But the one thing I found most refreshing about this film was the way it went against the grain, almost purposely creating situations where characters could very easily become cliches. That never happens in Wonder Boys. People with grudges against other characters don't nesessarily act out with revenge. Successful writers, such as Q, may seem a little snobby but nevertheless find themselves in quirky situations along with Douglas and never complain about it. And Douglas's character even gives one of his students drugs, without the film ever suggesting that this is a negative thing. All these things make Wonders Boys deeper and more intelligent than most films and I highly recommend it. Do NOT be fooled by the extraordinarily boring cover. "},{"Title":"Who in the hell called this a college movie????","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I can hardly compare this to Animal House and anyone that does is beyond insane.  This movie, if you watch it with the idea of nothing, is amazing because it is real.  If you have ever existed in a strange reality that you thought noone else understood - but that involved all the people around you - this is for you.  Ever spent an evening in Never, Never land and wondered how you got there?  It will seem normal to you.... "},{"Title":"Teaching granddad to suck eggs.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Based on R1 CDAging English Professor; and one hit wonder; Grady Tripp (M. Douglas) wanders on and off lifes path with the help of his publisher, his adulteress and a few students.Maguire, Homes and Downey are all well cast. Homes is particularly tantalising as intended.A good chuckle comedy with a wistful look at midlife, decisions to be made or avoided.7/10 well worth watching. "},{"Title":"First Katie, then a great movie...","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first wanted to rent this movie because I simply love Katie Holmes.. but after seeing it I was surprised of the perfect humor, a perfect mix of bad luck, stupidity and humor.... I won't suggest you to rent it... I'll suggest you to BUY IT! )ne thing is wrong in the movie.. to few of Katie. "},{"Title":"ennh....","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  it was okay. Slight Spoilers Ahead. I didn't like the anti-drug message (Grady stops smoking pot as part of his last-ditch effort to not lose everything), nor the only two people of color being straight out of a 1970s blaxploitation film. Cheers to the wonder boy and the male editor hooking up. What was Katie Holmes doing here, other than keeping her torch lit for the Professor? Tobey Maguire was good. Michael Douglas was aight. Frances McDormand was beautiful as usual, but wasted here. it seemed any white actress of a certain age could have played this role. and the subplot about the dog, and the gun, and the car, seemed to come from an entirely different movie.5/10, I guess. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable.","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I must admit that I rented this movie because I like to watch a Michael Douglas performance.  However, this movie, while starting out slow, captivated my interest.  I was impressed with the story and how well the actors portrayed their characters.  The direction was also very high quality.  Have patience at the beginning...the movie does start out slow. If you give it time, though, it unfolds into a fascinating, unique, and sometimes hilarious story.  I voted 8/10 for this enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"Writing wrongs","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Grady Tripp is a washed-up author. Well, washed-up is a little harsh, perhaps, but he's written exactly one book - five years ago. And he's had writer's block ever since. At present, he's a shambling, shifty, scruffy, sloppy, disheveled college professor in the field of creative writing. In the morning, his wife leaves him. I lost a wife today, he later tells his agent Crabtree (Robert Downey, Jr.). To which Crabtree responds, You'll find another. You always do.Grady has a student living at his house (she was there before the wife left, so yes, it's platonic). Another student, James Lear (the ineffectual Tobey Maguire) is obsessed with death and can recite in alphabetical order the names of famous celebrity suicides. Then there's Grady's mistress, the chancellor of the college (Frances McDormand). Oh, and there's a blind dog who hates Grady, too. And a transvestite. And so it goes.Anyone who's ever written something, whether they've been assigned to do so or just want to do it of their own volition, has at sometime or another had a problem getting started. With this review, in fact, I didn't know where to begin. Once you get started, you're ok. Well, Grady's problem is quite the opposite. He has a different kind of writer's block, you see. He has diarrhea of the mind. He's been working on this book for five years. He has accumulated over 2,000 pages. The ending keeps getting further and further away, he says in voice-over narration. Grady can't seem to finish his novel not because he can't figure out what to write but because he can't stop writing.His agent, Crabtree, is in dire straits. Grady's all he has left, and in New York the other literary agents laugh at him. He comes to Grady's school during Word Week, an English Department-sponsored gathering designed to be a way for some of the brighter writers to sell their works to attending agents. Crabtree is a well-developed figure, too, and it seems to me that Downey Jr. was probably the wisest choice to play him. Downey Jr. turns in a magnificent, understated performance that's the backbone of the film.Maguire, as the critical character James, takes underplaying to a new level. He delivers his line in an almost-catatonic, droll monotone. Granted, there are several scenes in which this makes sense, but not all the time. Maguire's mannerisms are as deep as a puddle, and this is nothing new for the so-called wunderkind. I saw him in Pleasantville and The Cider House Rules, to name a couple, and in neither was he more than mildly interesting. With that in mind, I was not disappointed in his work here.McDormand is excellent in her brief scenes as the chancellor. She's assuredly one of the best actresses working today, as her work here and in Almost Famous attests. She's strong, iron-willed, charming, angry, petulant,and loving. A perfect foil for Douglas' Grady.And Douglas himself is a lot of fun. He's so much the victim in here, but so much is also his own doing. He's not a bad guy, and he tries his hardest to make things right, but as happens so often with guys in movies, what he tries fails, and what he doesn't try haunts him.  "},{"Title":"Good Cast, Bad Movie","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is a movie with a very good cast, and very little else going for it. The actions of the characters so defies logic that it makes you wonder how in the world they ever got these fine actors to participate in such a silly film.  I was tempted to stop watching before it was half way through, but persevered in the hopes that improvement was on it's way.  I was wrong! "},{"Title":"Not without appeal, but ultimately disappointing.","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After having heard from several sources that this movie was a must-see sleeper, I rented the DVD with high expectations.  I was disappointed.Just when I thought that the movie could develop the characters in a way that might make me care for them, some unbelievable comedic artifice was inserted.  I wish this movie could have been played as either pure comedy, or pure drama.  In trying to be both, it lost its credibility. Neither Douglas nor McDormand came within a parsec of convincing me that they cared for each other enough to throw over their entire lives to be with each other.Tobey Maguire has such a minimal range that he never brought the neurotic young writer to life for me.  When we first meet him he has a very closed-off personality, and in that role Maguire is good.  But very shortly, presumably under the influence of his admired professor, he quickly moves into deeper waters, such as shooting a firearm in a house during a large party, smoking pot, experimenting with homosexuality, drinking large quantities of hard liquor, and breaking and entering a house, among other things.  In portraying that more experimental and life-embracing  personality, I found Maguire's performance lacking. There are some scenes that just seemed bizarrely unbelievable to me, like when, at a large formal lecture, Maguire breaks into a high-pitched whinny in response to the pomposity of the speaker.  When Maguire tells Douglas, You were the best teacher I ever had, I felt that I would have never known that without his having said it.  I never felt the special bond between Maguire and Douglas that can exist between student and teacher.And we are treated to a fair number of cliches, like Douglas' saying something to the effect, You can never teach someone how to write, ...  And the upbeat ending must surely have been tacked on as the result of running various endings by focus groups.All of this is not to say that the movie is without its charm.  It is certainly worth a some chuckles and Douglas shows a facet of his talent that I have not seen before.  And Rip Torn is a delight, as usual.           For a truly affecting campus comedy/drama read Kingsley Amis' novel Lucky Jim,  which was unfortunately turned into a rather mediocre movie.     "},{"Title":"Where's the story?","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Wonder Boys' is all characters, and no story.  Movies like 'Pulp Fiction' proved that a plot is not necessary for a great movie, but it could be made up for with compelling characters combined scenes of marvel and shock. Well, 'Wonder Boys' simple does not deliver scenes to along carry the movie. It just isn't exciting.  It progresses like a collection of 'best scenes' from some much longer movie, a movie which we never get to see.  And in the end there is no satisfacton that the characters were anything more than doodles on paper brought to film, with no motivation through story.  I honestly liked the pot smoking professor, the boy genius, and the gay guy, all thrown together into a mix of scenes from a long college weekend.  But why did they hang out together, and why did they take such risks as smuggling the student from his parents' fine home, or throwing the baggie of pot to the janitor?  You will not get any answers watching this movie. (5 of 10) "},{"Title":"Hits the target. Misses the bullseye.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The Wonder Boys is a much lauded and over-rated film about a pivotal fragment in the life of an aging, eccentric professor of creative writing played by Douglas. A well crafted and heady comedy/drama with more cerebral than visceral humor, the film wanders into blind alleys with off beat co-characters when it could be building a deeper, more meaningful story around its central character for whom were not made to feel much. The result is a failure to connect with the audience on an emotional level; reaching out and shaking hands but missing the hugs and kisses. Not without its moments, Wonder Boys is an enjoyable watch even though it misses the mark. "},{"Title":"The real wonder is why this movie was made.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I went expecting comedy.  I left feeling bewildered.  This movie moves very slowly and held little interest for me.  It's one of the few I actually considered leaving due to boredom.  There was very little humor unless watching Michael Douglas look his age but messier strikes you as funny.  I could never believe his character was a college professor... he didn't seem to have any idea of what day or time it was, so how did he meet his class periods?  One bright spot they saved money on wardrobe because no one looked good in this movie.  Sometimes I go to a movie, later wishing I had saved money to wait for the video.  This one, I'd rather have save the bucks altogether.  Snooze! "},{"Title":"The artist as saint and creepozoid","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  What's with this whole thing of the sensitive creepy artist next door who's the most overrefined, unable-to-cope-with-life boy-in-the-plastic-bubble in the world? First it was Wes Bentley in AMERICAN BEAUTY getting choke-eyed over a plastic bag swirling in the breeze, sniffling, Sometimes I think there's so much beauty in the world I can't stand it. Now it's a super-deadpan Tobey Maguire at a faculty function reciting his litany of celebrity suicides--Kenneth Anger as performed by Steven Wright. (Everett Sloane--he was good--pills too, 1955.) Stolen from the tender-as-a-girlie juvies played by Warren Beatty in his twenties, this character is eponymous now; post-macho, post-antimacho, post-grunge, he's almost post-penile. He's like a dark princeling from Tim Burton's universe given the warm snuggle of Judy Blume's universe.Maguire, playing a morbid, pathological liar, is obviously thus (in this movie's eyes) an A-one candidate for a fiction writer; and his opposite number is the movie's hero, Grady Tripp (Michael Douglas), a novelist with one big book on his resume and no follow-up. Like a white Ralph Ellison, or a goyish Harold Brodkey, Grady has been hewing away at a leviathan of a book for seven years, and his diarrhea is starting to make David Foster Wallace look svelte. Meanwhile, his wife has left him; his mistress, the college chancellor (Frances McDormand) is pregnant; a buxom young student (Katie Holmes) is making googly eyes at him; and there's the matter of the chancellor's husband's purloined Marilyn Monroe jacket and his murdered dog. In short, through a symphonic arrangement of contrivances, Grady's messed-up life is coming to a boil.Ultraconservative in its prosecution of marijuana smoking, sex with hot young girls, and excessive verbosity, WONDER BOYS is like a parting kick in the fat rump of the Clinton era. Grady has to learn to grow up and get with a girl his own age--or almost. (One can hear the producer Scott Rudin Who we gonna put Michael Douglas with--Jill Clayburgh? Blecch!) The age thing makes WONDER BOYS kind of kerflooey. McDormand isn't the wrong age, but she's just wrong--you can't imagine an old rakehell like Grady giving up his revolving coed platter for her. The casting of Katie Holmes and Tobey Maguire is plain creepy. I imagine in Michael Chabon's novel these are graduate students--hence the intensive study in fiction-writing. One can imagine these parts played by, say, Edward Norton and Heather Graham. With Holmes and Maguire, the movie seems dementedly unbalanced--one minute Douglas is dealing with Frances McDormand and Rip Torn, the next second he's communing with milk-sipping high-schoolers. And when Douglas is in a clinch with Holmes, who seems to be nineteen going on twelve--well, it just gives you the willies.But Hanson, buoyed by the success of L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, is nothing if not sure of himself, and his work here is the best I've seen from him. Visually the movie is more fluid, dynamic and alive than you'd expect from a bookish script like this one (sweetly and smartly adapted by Steve Kloves); Hanson knows how to direct actors; and he even chooses music well--from the new Bob Dylan song that opens the movie to a curt, correct use of Neil Young's Old Man. And the movie accomplishes one of the rarest of tasks--it makes you like its characters so intensely you wish to go on encountering them after the movie's over. The movie has a peculiarly old-fashioned-feeling pleasure--the recognition of intelligent professionals who know exactly what they're doing. Hanson, a fan of Old Hollywood in the Peter Bogdanovich vein, may be square as a country churchwarden. But, unlike most of his peers, he's good at the thing he's paid for. "},{"Title":"Why all the hoopla?","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was neither disappointed, nor knocked out by Wonder Boys. It's an okay film with some interesting characters, but played out a bit flat.The cast was okay, but I do agree with those who commented that the lovely Katie Holmes was underutilized. I thought she was most riveting and mysterious. There were some unanswered questions about her character that worked against the story line.Douglas was good as a burned-out, weed-smoking writer at the crossroads. He looked bad, and that's good. None of that pretty boy b.s. this time around. But that Toby Maguire character opens as a typical brooding, withdrawn artist who is as abstract as he is cliched. I could never get a grasp on what the hell was going on in his head. He flashes literary brilliance, but there were scenes of him so morose and sad early on, I thought he would just do himself in at some point. He has some gay scenes, but I never get the hint that he has feelings in that direction. So is he just confused, or detached?What bothered me about Wonder Boys most was that the story played out like nothing great was at stake. Douglas loses his wife, so what. Can't write, so what. Robert Downey jr. is also hanging on the ropes, but that's what we were told. Not what I sensed. So what. Francis McDormand didn't seem to be too involved in anything--she never seemed to be in love with Douglas, didn't much care about her husband, wasn't upset the blind dog got nailed; she was a sleep walker throughout. So what. Every character was at some point in their life where they had to make a choice, go right or go left. The problem was it didn't matter which way they went. So what? So what?All I can conclude is that the book must have had more depth to these wandering souls. Again, not a bad film despite my criticism. But all these gushing reviews, well I had to stand up and take the other side. It could have been so much more. Oh well...  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" From the minute Bob Dylan's music starts to play during the opening credits, you know Curtis Hanson is going to hit another one out of the park. This movie is not only one of the best, it is one of the rare few that remembers that movies are the sum of their parts - and each and every part of this movie, from the music to the writing to the direction to the wardrobe to the set design - EVERYTHING meshes flawlessly to create one of history's perfect movie-going experiences.Michael Douglas, in one of his finest roles to date, plays Professor Grady Tripp, a man who finds himself paralyzed by the fear of not living up to the stellar expectations of his first success, The Arsonist's Daughter. As a professor at a northeastern university, he watches his life fade away before him one failed marriage at a time.Things come to a head during the weekend of a literary festival. Tripp discovers that his current mistress, Sara Gaskell, is pregnant. His publisher, Terry Crabtree has come into town, desperate to get his hands on a novel that Tripp has been promising him for years. And to top things off, he discovers that his enigmatic student, James Leer, has a novel of his own - a novel that far outshines anything Tripp has ever seen or written; and he wrote it all over the course of the winter break.As I have said before, everything fits together flawlessly and the plot is no exception. Everything comes to an unexpected but wholly satisfying end.Kudos to Curtis Hanson. As the man at the helm, he deserves whatever praise he gets. Michael Douglas, Robert Downey, Jr., Frances McDormand, and Tobey Maguire all shine. And last, but not least, the men who first brought this story to life, Michael Chabon (author of the novel) and Steven Cloves (screenwriter).10 out of 10. It is truly a timeless classic. "}{"Title":"What An Awful Movie.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Wonder Boys is definitely one of the worst movies, I have ever seen. You have got an all-star cast here, (If they should be called that.) including, Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Robert Downey Jr, Frances  McDormand and Katie Holmes (Should I include her?.) and you really couldn't care less about them or there characters, which one of the reasons is because the script is awful, along with everything else here. I wouldn't recommend Wonder Boys to anyone. It joins Save the last dance and Cruel Intentions 2 as one of the worst movies ever.  A 0/10 is what I rate it. "},{"Title":"It's another Michael Douglas bore!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas really bores me.  The fact that this was the one film of the selection I hadn't seen on the Trans Atlantic flight meant that I sat through it.He plays an English teacher of a writing course, who is going off the rails and is developing an unhealthy relationship with the head of his English department's wife, and is influencing one of his pupils along the way.The rest of the cast made this worth seeing, Douglas himself was as lifeless as ever. "},{"Title":"A great actor gives a great performance.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A dubiously reactionary narrative trajectory (from dope and gay friends to, quite literally, the Holy Family); mannered acting surrounding Michael Douglas; obvious, writerly symbolism (eg the bloated manuscript and Grady's life).Yes.  And yet.  Three things.1. 'Wonder Boys' is the anti-'American Beauty', deliberately inversing that film's immaturity; people have to live with their choices.2. 'Wonder Boys' is actually a meta-text.  Douglas plays Mr. X, a successful writer who appears near the end, with a nice house and wife and kid, who writes about Grady the mess, perhaps sublimating his desires; more probably dramatising the cracks of his own life.  His action of 'save' on his laptop is a giveaway.3. Michael Douglas, a great, great actor giving a great, great performance, so rich and sympathetic, and, yes, sexier than he's been in so-called 'sexy' roles for ages. "},{"Title":"A Great Cast Wasted","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Douglas, Tobey Maguire, Robert Downey, Jr. WOW! Sounds promising. Now if only they'd been given a decent script to work with!I truly thought that this was bad. Interminable. Dull from beginning to end. I'm trying to think of something good to say (especially since it's rated so highly here at the IMDb.) Umm ... Well ... I guess the transvestite (Antonia, played by Michael Cavadias) looked real enough.Enough of this. I don't want to think about it any longer. 2/10. Don't buy this; don't rent this; don't pick it up; don't even look at it! And, if someone gives this to you as a gift, immediately question the sincerity of their friendship! "},{"Title":"sooooo boring!","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Are we sure that movie was under 2 hours long? I never thought it would end. It reminded me of a great quote from Sixteen Candles -- It's not ugly, it's just ... void. I guess it was nice to see that Richard Thomas from The Waltons has gotten some work but didn't Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire have anything better to do? Honestly! "},{"Title":"Thinks much too highly of itself","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie thinks it so incredibly smart. Not only is the narrative unbearably pretentious, but every character tries so hard to be quick-witted that the dialog just comes across as downright unrealistic. No one speaks or reacts to situations like a real human being would. That is what ultimately ruined this movie for me.Which is why I am so surprised to see such an the inordinate amount of high-praising reviews. Did we all see the same movie here? Were you all seriously tricked into thinking this movie was as clever and witty as it so shamelessly boasted? It was NOT clever or witty. It was unrealistic and scattered. "},{"Title":"Dead dog...dead movie","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Unfashionably shaggy comedy, yet not as cutting-edge as it wants to be. Michael Douglas is a disheveled college professor/frustrated writer who has gotten his married lover pregnant, has become smitten by a smart, pretty student, and forged a friendship with a male student who's so morose he cries when he sees an outfit once owned by Marilyn Monroe. Tries to be dry and witty, but phoniness comes through. Douglas is in the proper spirit of the piece, but the flurry of unfunny characters and uninteresting verbal exchanges quickly tire the ear. * from **** "},{"Title":"Why are more men interested in this small masterpiece?","Date":"7 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Here 9 years after its first release any retrospective comments on Wonder Boys would seem to be rather late in the day, however I'm interested to note that from the voter page or user ratings page here on IMDb to date there have been 15,567 male voters compared to 5,182 female votes which is a significant difference, so what does this mean?The film is clearly at its strongest when it comes to its males characters and certainly they get more airplay, the main female characters however are also strong. A professor's wife and a young female student are well written leading parts whose characters are unemotional, rational and mentally autonomous without falling into any of the usual traps of weeping and screaming when things get out of hand completely dependent on the boys, not so here. Bravo to the writer! And when we do see a vulnerable female propping up the male ego its in the form of a transvestite! Bravo again to the writer for thats one you may have missed.Michael Chabon who wrote Wonder Boys is quoted as saying ... people can't be put into categories all that easily....and this to me is one of the main thrusts behind the plot, what we first see is not what we necessarily get. A film full of surprises along the way and full of fun, one that will continue to resound for a long time.I found this film refreshing, but I'm curious why more women haven't voted here on IMDb as it seems a film good for women too being completely void of stereotypical female ineptitude.If you want clearly defined safe roles with predictable reactions that prop up the stereotype of Hollywood don't watch this film. 10/10.You'll also notice here on IMDb that the film's appeal lies clearly outside the USA. I suspect that American audiences have been so far away from continental cinema for so long with a drip diet of Hollywood that they can't see a good thing when it hits them in the face. They expect rubbish. Three cheers for the writer, the director and its actors and another for all IMDb USA voters who have picked up on this small masterpiece from their own rich soil. "},{"Title":"Wonder what it is about","Date":"18 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wonder Boys is one of those movies that intends to make you think about life. However it only made me think What is this movie about? I don't know what it is trying to tell as the plot is all over the place.Plot outline from this site On the day his third wife leaves him and his literary agent arrives to pressure him to finish a novel seven years in the writing, Carnegie Mellon professor, Grady Tripp, also learns that his married mistress is pregnant. Seven years before, with his first novel, he was a wonder boy. So was his agent. Both now need something. Over the weekend, instead of making choices, he vacillates in a pot-induced haze. One of his students, James Leer, perhaps stirs paternal feelings in Grady and raises homo-erotic urges in the agent. Academic politics complicate things Grady's mistress is the college chancellor, her husband chairs Grady's department, James has just shot the husband's dog. What to do? Other, quite different, plot outline from this site Grady Tripp (Douglas) is a professor/writer living in Pittsburgh who is struggling with writer's block. Whilst doing this, he also manages to get the chancellor (McDormand) pregnant. In the meantime, he and a college student, James Leer (Maguire) are trying to find a rare jacket once owned by Marilyn Monroe, and a college girl, Hannah Green (Holmes) boarding with Grady has a bit of a crush on him.The plot is really odd (this is only the outline of the beginning of the movie, it keeps getting more and more bizarre) and always interesting. The movies is extremely funny at times. However I don't really understand what the movie is about other than Life is complicated.I have only watched this film once. After I watched the somewhat similar American Beauty I immediately thought it was beautiful, but in order to understand what makes this picture wonderful (note the word play ) I have to watch it at least once again. This is the type of movie though that is good or maybe even better the second time around.Funny movie whose deeper meaning I hope to understand the next time I see it. Definitely worth watching.*** 6.5/10 *** "},{"Title":"stop me before I rent again...","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  	Michael Douglas plays a writer/professor with a major case of writers block.  His wife has left him. He's in love with the Chancellor of the school.  He is a heavy user of recreational drugs.  His young border has a thing for him.  His gay publisher (Robert Downey Jr.) is in town sniffing around trying to find out when the next book is coming out.  One of his students has latched onto him but the student has his own problems that Douglas is having problems dealing with.  	I really am not certain what the point of this movie is.  My wife explained it had to do with Douglas coming to terms with his inner demons and getting his life back on track.  This could be true but for the most part I sat there thinking, This is a complete waste of time and they picked that kid to play Spider-Man???   "}{"Title":"WONDER BORE","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was one of those movies I wanted to love! Twenty five years ago, I would have been in that class. Now at the age of 44 I understand alot more about why people are famous or successful. I don't see the romanticism about being a self indulgent intellectual, when everything about your life stinks. Scumbags come in all shapes and sizes-some even have talent.The characters in this film are completely one dimensional, not to mention cliche as hell. Brooding artists are fine for atmosphere, but the reality of great art is hardwork, not self indulgent pity. I don't understand all the comparisons to Animal House(my generations classic slob movie)-the Donald Sutherland character? The anti authority stance? The undisciplined life style?I would rather my teacher understand his own artistic process before I pay to have him bore me with his inability to grow up! "},{"Title":"A Masterpiece.......It Aint.","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  While the Wonder Boys is certainly watchable one thing it isn't is memorable.It drags a little even though it is only 100 minutes long and the story did nothing for me at all. Michael Douglas plays a teacher that once sold a best selling novel but now is struggling to write a follow up. His publisher turns up from New York (Robert Downing Jnr) expecting the new book only to discover a new young talent (in more ways than one) that could make his flagging career take off again. Perhaps there is more to the story than my synopsis but i couldnt see it . The acting is ok but no more than that and i cant help wondering if Michael Douglas had not taken up the lead role would this film have ever been made? 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Watch THE LAST DETAIL Instead","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Hollywoods answer to the offbeat, quirky quality of a independent film. Douglas plays a writing professor who befriends a lonely student while trying to finish a mammoth novel that he knows has to have a 'ending somewhere'.  One of those stories were for one magical period the whole world seems to stop and all the lost, lonely souls bond for a very brief, but significant moment. Initially seems refreshing since Hollywood hasn't handled this theme in a while, but then you think about all the other films of this nature and realize it's nothing special. The 'magical bonding' in the dead of winter was taken right out of THE LAST DETAIL.  The lost young man looking for guidance from a equally lost elder was done as recently as SCENT OF A WOMAN.  Like the novel of it's character the film wanders needlessly.  It also betrays it's own quirky nature by having the  world famous Hollywood ending where everything comes together is such a cutesy was it's worse than a sitcom. Although you have the impression that the director respects offbeat people, you also get the idea that he doesn't really understand them, which helps explain why they turn pretty ordinary by the end.  Considered a comedy, but it's really just slightly amusing with nothing to really laugh out loud at. (Although the unexpected fate of Douglas's novel does deserve merit.)  Established actors Thomas, Torn, and Grizzard's roles are so small one wonders why they even bothered to sign on.  Actress Katie Holmes plays a 19 year old middle aged men can only fantasize about. She's cute, emotionally mature, enlightened way beyond her years,  provacative, sensitive enough to understand a much older mans problems, and confident enough to come on to him.  Does anyone really know a 19 year old girl like this?  Do the filmmakers really know a 19 year old girl like this? "},{"Title":"Pedestrian pleasant, and ultimately unrewarding.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Michael Douglas kept the film together and performed up to his usual high standard. Other characters were rather overshadowed by him.  A pleasant film with a plot that was steadily developed. However the film never really captured the viewers' interest. "},{"Title":"Quirk und Whimsy","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Quirk und WhimsyFinally caught the lavishly praised « Wonder Boys » on DVD as the distributor never bothered to open it in France (Les Garçons Merveilleux is not very catchy).  What great reviews it got in the States though. Of course it would, it is designed to appeal to English majors who are movie buffs - the curriculum vitae of every movie critic alive.  Of course, they would be flattered.  The Sixties' references - the gratuitous mention of Jean Genet and major pot smoking - all were tailored to make a big impression on any counterculture survivor.I am fully qualified to be the target audience of this movie and yet it bored me silly - no, it was so contrived, it actively annoyed me to the point where I cannot prevent myself from posting a review (something I only ordinarily do when I loved the movie in question and feel it is being unfairly attacked - e.g. « Hannibal » - by Philistines).This movie really got up my nose.  « Wonder Boys » is just like its hero Grady Tripp  it is intelligent, it writes well, unfortunately it doesn't have anything to write ABOUT.  It has nothing to say beyond the fact that it wants to verbalize itself into existence - and verbal it is!  Curtis Hanson is the anti-Ridley Scott in this flick  all talk, no action. It could be a radio play.The movie's only pleasure is a fine performance by Tobey Maguire.  Robert Downey, Jr. has slipped inexorably into self-parody as a slimy b****rd  he may be worth saving as a human being, but as an actor he has shot his wad. The film's major disappointment (and a killer, as the movie's about HIM) is Michael Douglas' woefully inadequate stab at playing a character lead. Michael Douglas is incapable of conveying one emotion convincingly, let alone the conflicts at the heart of this guy.  Every close-up of Mike and all I could read in his eyes was  «what do you think the opening weekend grosses will look like ? ».Michael Douglas seems like a very nice, very intelligent man.  He's surely a reliable leading man and great businessman but an acting virtuoso he is not. Curtis Hanson's strength as a director in the past has been a gift for casting.  « Wonder Boys » might not have flown with a Hopkins/DeNiro/Duvall in the lead, but at least it would have been interesting.  Grady Tripp is a likeable hack, so is Michael Douglas.  Birds of a feather may flock together, but unfortunately they make easy targets.  "},{"Title":"Fell asleep . . . twice","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Yawn.  Movie is long, boring and pretentious.  This is the worst movie about writing and writers that I have ever seen.  I know the pointless verbosity is supposed to be illustrative of the characters' journeys, but it still bored me to tears.  Don't believe the hype; stay away. "},{"Title":"How could I be so out of step with 700 other moviegoers?","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Every time I think I've seen the worst movie ever made, a better example comes along.It seems incredible that Curtis Hansen could have made this, or that Michael Douglas would have taken a part. What the heck was it about??? I watched 90 minutes of it before leaving and had no clue as to a story line. Was there one? When I pulled it up I expected to see a rating of about 3 stars average, but EIGHT? I'll just have to keep watching Thelma and Louise over and over I guess. "},{"Title":"Give me my money back","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" What a waste of time.The only good thing in this movie is Katie Holmes. She looks great.What could be worse than an aimless story supposedly about writers and university professors? I don't CARE about professor Michael Douglas and his attempts to write. What a bunch of lifeless, useless characters this movie contains.I can't believe that the same director who did LA CONFIDENTIAL could put out such a failure.Please give me back the time I wasted watching this (except for the times when Katie Holmes appears). "},{"Title":"Threadbare and rather thin","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  All the hoopla surrounding this at its release, with critix decrying Micheal Douglas and his unfair Oscar nom snub, had me interested in viewing. Then I finally saw it and thought big deal. There's only one potent scene in this quietly uninvolving snoozer and it involves a lost manuscript. I won't say how or where. And really, did we need to see Robert Downey Jr and Toby Mcguire sitting side by side in bed after sex? Well, at least they didn't show that, thank god. Mcguire has been chosen to play Spiderman. Let's hope he's more awake and less vague than he is in this piece. The book, even a children's coloring book,  has got to be better. "},{"Title":"Light Lunch","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I used to care but things have changed... Bob Dylan's accompanying song seems to sum up the feckless, amiable, unfettered tone of this charming but directionless film. I guess it's a movie in that people are acting in it, and there's credits at the end, but there's nothing much to interest you if you aren't given to like it off the bat.Michael Douglas as Professor Tripp is effective and enjoyable playing against type as the sort of rumpled, middle-aged underachiever more commonly associated with Jeff Bridges. He sells his lines effectively by underplaying them, and the camera lovingly strokes every age spot on his wrinkled face. I like his writing gown and his penchant for smoking pot on the porch of his middle-class town house like it was his Sunday cup of joe. Robert Downey Jr. is also fun to watch, because he has a pulse and plays up while everyone else plays down. It might be considered overplaying, except it's needed to keep you awake. Frances McDormand is doing her usual emoting-while-sucking-on-sourballs routine, all rolling eyes and puckered lips, but she plays her romantic scenes with Douglas nicely, and their adultery is the one thing in this movie you find yourself rooting for, sort of, maybe.Tobey Maguire, I like him, but he coasts through his usual amiable alien routine here. He spends a lot of the movie just staring and saying odd things in a deadpan way, being odd often for no better reason than it moves the plot. Why did Tripp drag him up to the professor's bedroom anyway and show him Marilyn's dress? Katie Holmes and Rip Torn are conspicuously wasted, as are most of the subcast, like a here-and-gone transvestite and Douglas's soon-to-be-ex-in-laws. Since the movie doesn't care about them, why should we? As Katie's character says, you have to make choices in fiction. Or put another way, maybe we don't need to know about the transvestite's tuba.A long time ago Randall Jarrell wrote a novel called Pictures From An Institution about life among the faculty at a backwater college. Not a great book, but an interesting one, and this film, at its best, offers the same sort of slightly disenchanted characterization, the same hyperintellectualized setting, and the same slow-as-syrup plot pacing. If you liked the movie, and obviously many did, you might check out the book. Really, I think you'd like it.There's not a lot of films set in northeastern colleges in winter, and this film demonstrates why. Drab, whited-out scenery, bundled-down characters with red noses and visible breath, weekends with nothing to do, this is why we escape into theaters in the first place. I just felt like I spent two hours watching a film set in a dentist's waiting room.There is versatility in pursuit of something deeper, then there's just versatility for showing off. The Wonder Boys feels like an example of the latter. It isn't involving except in a shallow way, it's funny only because it throws bizarre tangents at us and pretends they are organic to the story, and when it was over I really didn't care whether Douglas would have to write his opus all over again or not, because no one else did, least of all him. A movie about disaffection is hard to get behind. Or maybe you don't. Maybe it just doesn't matter anyway, know what I mean? "}{"Title":"Dark and depressing!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I was very disappointed in this movie. The storyline was pointless, as were the characters. It was depressing and dark. I found it impossible to understand or even care about the characters. I never really figured out what the plot was all about.  "},{"Title":"One of the stupidest movies I have seen in years","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was dull, had little or no plot, and had really uninteresting characters played rather poorly by the actors. I thought that it had gone on for at least 4 hours and looked like it was going on and on and on with nothing happening. I wonder why it is on the big screen playing nationally. "},{"Title":"A movie that will put you to sleep quicker than a Bergman drama.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Pointless drama(?) comedy(?) that simply plods on without any rhyme or reason. This is from the same director who brought us L.A. Confidential; clear proof that without a good script you can direct all you want, it's no use.Downey is totally miscast; he isn't convincing as a gay guy and even less so as an editor. (Though he may have become &#150; in his private life - the former in jail.) That morning scene with Downey and Maguire in bed together is disgusting, annoying and unnecessary. Never for a moment was I lead to care about whether Douglas will stay with McDormand and have the baby or not. Just so trite. So soap-opera-like. We are informed that Douglas has a younger wife - and we have to assume that she is much better-looking than McDormand (after all, who isn't?) - so why would he waste any of his sperm on a dog like McDormand. Plus, this entire weird/tortured-writer-genius pretentiousness is so blah and so utterly corny, though I admit it could have been a lot worse.Katie Holmes may be extremely cute but like a major writing talent she does not look; that's another miscasting right there. Maguire is his usual sleepy, apathetic self. Just see if you can out-doze him this time, while watching this boring, overrated mess of a film.If you're interested in reading my biographies of Tobey Maguire, Robert Downey Jr. and other Hollywood intellectuals, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"Super","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie with Ryan Brian and Elan. It was amazing111 love josh 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 I watched this movie with Brian Elan and Josh it was wonderful111 love111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Ryan I watched this movie with Elan Josh and Ryan It was very sexy111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 love111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Brian I watched it with Josh Ryan and Brian it was very funny love Elan111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Just111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Making1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 101111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Lines11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 "}]