[{"Title":"A nice little movie, not too outrageous and the expert acting makes it enjoyable","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"56 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" We own this movie in our home collection and we haven't watched it in a while. Saw it again tonight on TV, and realized that it is still a good movie.Clint Eastwood produces and directs this movie, and draws some experienced actors to help him fill the lead roles. They manage to extol the trials and tribulations of the senior years, while still capturing the exuberance of youth from the past.the story leads a mildly predictable pattern, but in this case it is not the end of the story that is primarily important, but instead how they get there. Also, all 4 lead actors all come off as really having a good time in the movie, it feels like they really enjoyed making this one and it comes out on the screen in the performances.The pace is even and smooth, again demonstrating Clint Eastwood's legacy of directing and acting in watchable, enjoyable movies, no matter what the gender.I should also mention that the special effects and the space sequences are stunning and much better done than most other movies in near-earth space. That would be the industrial Light and Magic team doing it again.Overall, enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Yea right, we have John Glenn to thank for this one.","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"40 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys builds its humor around a quartet of aged characters who seize their first and last opportunity to fulfill their lifelong goal of going into space. Space Cowboys satirizes the traditionally romanticized conception of the young hero by portraying its characters as sagacious --yet imperfect-- old men.Space Cowboys revisits its embittered protagonist, the retired Air Force test pilot Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood), forty years after a humiliating episode where he is replaced by a monkey for a 1958 NASA mission to space. Unexpectedly, Frank is summoned by ex-boss and NASA official Bob Gerson (James Cromwell) to fix a Russian communications satellite that is soon to crash, and that contains the obsolete guidance system that he and his colleagues designed for the earlier satellite, Skylab. Realizing he is the only one who can fix the system, Frank coerces the desperate Bob into rehiring his old team pilot Hawk Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), structural engineer Jerry O'Neil (Donald Sutherland), and navigator Tank Sullivan (James Garner) --all seemingly unlikely candidates for the task at hand. Gaining the trust of NASA Engineer Sara Holland (Marcia Gay Harden) and the mistrust of flight director Eugene Davis (William Devane), the reunited Team Daedalus face the biggest mission of their lives.Space Cowboys, which benefits from the performances of four seasoned actors, successfully establishes its four main characters as the source for all its comedy. Space Cowboys' initial introduction of its protagonist (in the brief black and white sequence which includes the humiliating incident with the monkey), offers a convenient setup which allows the ellipsis of forty years to hyperbolize the four characters' emotional states and to justify their subsequent actions. Furthermore, this initial sequence, which also depicts the four characters as audacious US Air Force pilots, establishes itself as a point of reference against which the present inconsequential lives of Frank, Hawk, Jerry and Tank will be contrasted.Space Cowboys subtly and effectively creates an analogy between the characters and the troublesome guidance system while the men's present occupations are portrayed as rather useless, the guidance system's design is described as old and obsolete, yet neither the men nor the system are entirely expendable. (This suggested duality of man/system is emphasized by Frank's ironic statement ...it wasn't designed for this duration.) While Space Cowboys draws its humor from the characters' efforts to revert to their prior occupation and regain importance, the second part of the film --the mission-- serves a dramatic purpose, where the characters' true mission is to disprove the others' belief that they are outdated and replaceable. Narratively, Space Cowboys' space sequence does little more than simply prolong the characters' task of proving themselves, yet visually, it offers eye-catching special effects and set design.Nevertheless, Space Cowboys succeeds more as a comedy that deconstructs its heroes than as a drama that exalts their heroism. "},{"Title":"Minor script problems but a very good film overall","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"48 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The year is 1958. Frank Corvin, a bit of a rebel and a hothead, leads Daedalus, a small Air Force team training to be the first men in space. However, his lead pilot, William Hawk Hawkins is even wilder. He pushes a test flight beyond its limit. They have to bail out. The plane is destroyed, and it leads the project director, Bob Gerson, to pull the plug on Daedalus and set his sights on putting a chimp into space first instead.We cut to the present (circa 2000). A Russian communications satellite is experiencing problems and will return to Earth if it isn't fixed. We see a Russian General, Vostow (Rade Serbedzjia) and Gerson (James Cromwell), now a NASA director, agreeing to attempt repair. The only problem is that the guidance system is so antiquated--it's the same as the old Skylab guidance system--that no one in NASA can quite figure it out, and they only have a few weeks to act. It turns out that Corvin (Clint Eastwood) designed the guidance system. Gerson and Corvin understandably hate each other because of the events in 1958, but Gerson gives the okay to contact Corvin to see if he can fix the system somehow or train others to do it. Corvin finally agrees, but only if Gerson consents to a seemingly crazy plan--Corvin wants the four members of Daedalus--Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), Jerry O'Neill (Donald Sutherland), Tank Sullivan (James Garner) and himself, all now senior citizens--to be sent up in the space shuttle to fix the satellite.As many have pointed out, Space Cowboys seems like a bit of a riff on Armageddon (1998), and understandably so--an unlikely, gruff, motley crew are sent into space by NASA on short notice to stave off some kind of impending disaster. However, it would be difficult to say that Space Cowboys was directly influenced by Armageddon. They're too close in time, and scripts have a tendency to float around Hollywood for a while before they're picked up and greenlighted. What seems more likely is that Space Cowboys was just another one of the films riding on a trend in the late 1990s for sending motley crews into the face of danger in some kind of insular vehicle, against all odds, to save the planet. It wasn't only Armageddon that had that plot, and at any rate, anyone who regularly reads my reviews knows that I disagree with the cult of originality. Films aren't better just because they're unprecedented. Space Cowboys does the plot just as well as Armageddon.Besides, like Armageddon, there are other stories happening here, too. The focus is much more on the geriatric crew and their relationships to each other and a few select NASA employees. After the period intro, the bulk of the film focuses on Corvin fighting for the agreement to get his friends into space, trying to get his friends regrouped, fighting against Gerson, who is trying to sabotage him in various ways, and Daedalus' training period.Given that structure, the casting was extremely important. Eastwood, who also directed, produced and contributed some of the music, put together an excellent bunch. Eastwood, Jones, Sutherland and Garner mesh extremely well, even if Sutherland and Garner do not get nearly as much screen time. This is a fairly serious film in many ways, but it also has a strong comic element running throughout. Eastwood and scriptwriters Ken Kaufman and Howard Klausner find a nice balance between the film's various modes. Although the NASA-oriented material works well enough, the best moments arrive through the core cast's more mundane interactions, including the scenes where Corvin first tracks his friends down.We know that Eastwood as a director is extremely skilled and multifaceted. Even at that, it was surprising initially to see him tackle film with sci-fi elements, but he's just as adept here, whether it's creating suspenseful moments that hinge on dial-loaded equipment or achieving attractive space cinematography. He proves a natural at the latter--the closing scene of the film is one of the more poetic yet economical in cinema history.However, some of the film's minor flaws also arrive with the sci-fi material, but seem to emanate from the script. The dialogue can become too jargony and/or gobbledy-gooky to follow, especially during a few crucial moments. I never did quite follow the final solution to the dilemma, despite rewinding the DVD a couple times and putting on the subtitles, although I was able to figure out the gist of it so it made sense in a more fantastical way.But even without a full comprehension of the plot details when it came to technology-oriented ideas, Eastwood as a director is able to completely wrap you up in the film emotionally. The climax is sustained and will have you on the edge of your seat, ready to cheer the penultimate scene, despite realizing how ridiculous it is to do this towards your television.Although it's not a perfect film, Space Cowboys delivers just what it should--a very entertaining ride with a fair amount of poignant subtexts about friendship, loyalties and our culture's off-base conventions/popular beliefs about age and ability. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable movie","Date":"30 November 2003","Score":"36 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While much of the film is predictable (except for a couple of surprises) and and almost certainly implausible, the movie was enjoyable because of the camradarie between the characters and the theme of redemption. How often does someone get a second chance and then also make good on it? The sets and special effects were very convincing and Eastwood seems to be good at both the artistic and technical aspects of directing. There's great chemistry between the stars as well. All in all, a very enjoyable movie, 8/10. "},{"Title":"Actors Take Center Stage","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was a pretty enjoyable tale of The Ripe Stuff, four old geezers going up into space to help save a project they had a hand in years ago. It's pretty long at 130 minutes but the four diverse characters help keep your interest. Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner are quite a foursome. Add Marcia Gay Harden to the mix, along with Loren Dean, Courtney Vance and James Cromwell and you have a fabulous cast.This is a drama but one in which there is a fair amount of comedy and some romance. There are some Hollywood clichés (a suspect boss, arguing pals going back-and-forth all the time, a weak minister, etc.) but they aren't as blatant as usual. The storytelling is pretty good but the real show here is not the story but that group of veteran actors. One joke was overplayed Sutherland and the size of genitals. Not real classy stuff but, overall, the movie is fine. Definitely a rental, at the least. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"20 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Four old guys going into space to do something for NASA sounds even more stupid than a bunch of people who normally drill for oil going into space. Almost. I didn't expect too much of it but Oscar winners like Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Marcia Gay Harden (OK, she won it after this movie) and Oscar nominees like James Garner, James Cromwell and a great actor like Donald Sutherland don't sign up for nothing. For that reason I saw the movie and (not for that reason alone) I was not disappointed.Sometimes a movie is just fun to watch. This is a very good example, and it is even a little more than just fun. Because the guys are old a lot of the jokes come from that area and they are truly funny. There is also suspense. In space the four (Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, James Garner) have to get a Russian satellite back in its orbit and of course things do not always go as planned.There are some predictable elements, or things I doubt if they are even possible, in the movie but in a movie like this that don't bother me. Great actors, making fun of themselves, a nice story and better visuals than we saw in 'Armageddon' or 'Deep Impact' make this a pleasant surprise. "},{"Title":"Fun - Fun - Fun","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"34 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As always.  The people putting in the post here are looking for too much in this movie.  This was a fun old geezer movie. So what if it reeked of Armageddon.  Client Eastwood going around collecting men to help him save the world.  Just like Bruce Willis did.  So what if a lot of the Scientific Facts did not mess out correctly.  Who cares.  This was a funny and entertaining movie.  I laughed in all of the right places.  Just pure entertainment.  Nothing to take all serious.  Get over it!!!!!  If you wanted something serious - read a book. "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"26 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the greatest action/dramas that I have ever seen. Not since ARMAGEDDON has there been such a movie that managed to satisfy my craving for action, laughter, and drama all at the same time. Clint Eastwood returns to show us that he can handle any role that comes his way. While the film was not a really big hit in theaters, it managed to catch my eye at the video store because it had to do with a failing Russian satellite and since the four lead actors are so good. Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner and Donald Sutherland are the title characters and our heroes in SPACE COWBOYS, one of the most memorable movies of the year for me.I enjoyed the way the film slowly develops the characters and shares with us their past history. The film is great in my opinion. The supporting cast includes James Cromwell, Marcia Gay Harden, William Devane, Loren Dean and Courtney B. Vance (Loren Dean and Courtney B. Vance both being men). All of the key actors and elements of the film are wonderful and create a film that is both memorable and, in my opinion, timeless. SPACE COWBOYS gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"brilliant script, amazing actors, generally wow.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"41 out of 66 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This has to be one of my all time favourite films. I wasn't sure what to expect. The acting had to be some of the best I've seen in a long time, but with four such amazing lead actors it was hard to believe it could be any other way. The story didn't let the film down either. It could have been so easy for them to have just put in four really well loved actors and then not bother with an exciting and heart wrenching storyline. This is a film which has every emotion flowing, one minute your laughing, the next your on the edge of your seat and can't believe what is happening. It is very rare to come out of the cinema and be blown away by a totally amazing film but this did it. I now have four films which impressed me in the cinema and I'm very pleased to add this one to my list. "},{"Title":"You are never too old to have fun","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What movie with Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones. James Garner, James Cromwell, Donald Sutherland, and Marcia Gay Harden wouldn't be worth a look. This one has it all, but mostly laughs. This Clint Eastwood produced and directed movie is great simply because the cast doesn't appear to take it seriously. They are just having fun. And special effects? They are better here than other movies like Armageddon and Deep Impact.If you like movies where people are considered outdated or replaceable and prove the experts wrong, then this is the one. I watch it and keep getting reminded about all those COBOL experts who were back making the big bucks just prior to the millennium change. "}{"Title":"Ride that rocket, cowboy! The team gathers one more time.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"26 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  NASA is in a pinch. A Russian communications satellite is about to crash after an obsolete guidance system fails. The system was designed by Dr. Frank Corvin(Clint Eastwood)retired Air Force test pilot. Corvin and his old crew team up to ride to the rescue. The aging astronauts are as humorous as they are fit for duty; well. The other space cowboys areTommy Lee Jones, Donald Southerland and James Garner. Garner is a bit of a disappointment among the cowboys, but other notables in the cast areMarcia Gay Harden, James Cromwell and William Devane. This is a fun watch. No great shakes, but really enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Space Cow-flop","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" An egregious waste of talent and expensive special effects, the script for this mangy dog features a by-the-numbers plot and a howler a minute, from the opening sequence in a *twin-seater* X-2 to the final scene (more about that later). If by the end of the first half hour you haven't figured out both the Russians' dirty little secret and which of our heroes will sacrifice himself, send me $20 for your first psychic reading.(WARNING The rest of this comment contains multiple spoilers.)There's just so much to dislike about this movie Besides the inevitable aging jokes, it's permeated with stale, self-righteous Cold War ideology. The post-USSR Russians need our help, because a decrepit telecommunications satellite (their only one) is suffering from guidance system failure and its orbit is decaying. The politicos fear its loss will plunge Russia into civil war (apparently MTV and Home Shopping Network are the only things currently keeping the chaos at bay) so we graciously offer to fly a repair mission in the Space Shuttle. You see, those backward Russians don't know how to fix their own guidance system. Why? Because they stole it from Skylab. So it's up to Clint Eastwood and his geriatric teammates to set things right. Why Clint? Because he designed the system and there isn't time to teach someone else how to repair Cro-Magnon electronics. (As Dr. Evil would say Riiiight...)So why Donald Southerland, James Garner and Tommy Lee Jones? Because it's a senior buddy movie, you dolt!Predictably, the Russians are lying The satellite is really a Cold War relic containing several missiles with nuclear warheads still targeted on the good ol' US of A. (I won't go into the technicalities, but trust me This is the sort of Amazingly Stupid Premise that can only originate with a screenwriter who's shamefully ignorant of his own subject matter.) Now these deceitful Russkis are so ashamed of having done what our own Air Force has been lobbying for since some barely-ex-Nazi rocket scientists thought up the idea at the end of WW II that they just can't bring themselves to admit the truth -- until the repair mission runs into the satellite's automatic defense system.One wonders what the Russians figured they'd say if the Shuttle had been destroyed -- instead of just severely damaged -- by their satellite Oops? (Oh, darn, we knew there was something we forgot to tell you! Ivaaaan, joo got some 'splainin' to do! Waaaaaahhhh!)Anyway, things get tense when an anti-tamper program is triggered and the satellite prepares to launch its missiles. Fortunately, there's a surprisingly long countdown, giving our guys just enough time to disarm it. Which you'd think would kind of negate the entire premise for an anti-tamper program, but then, logical consistency obviously isn't this film's strong point.But the boys aren't out of the woods yet, because the satellite's guidance system is fried and its orbit still decaying. So they hot-wire the missiles, and tragic hero Tommy Lee (who knows he's got the Big C) volunteers to fly this ultimate big rig to the Moon, thereby fulfilling his life-long ambition as a test pilot.There's an attempt to flog up some suspense after Tommy Lee's exit That young whippersnapper of a pilot got himself injured earlier when they tangled with the satellite's defenses, so now it's up to Clint to land the damaged shuttle. But anyone with a fighting chance at a triple-digit IQ will know they're going to make it.In the film's closing sequence, the camera's point of view zooms up from the Earth to the Moon (while Frank Sinatra belts out Fly Me To The Moon in the background) to reveal the wreckage of the satellite, then pans to Tommy Lee's spacesuit propped up against a nearby boulder, then tightens to a closeup of the moonscape reflected in his visor. Wow.Look, I'm more willing than most to suspend my disbelief, but that satellite would have been traveling so fast (like, several miles *per second*) when it smacked into the Moon, there wouldn't have been enough left of Mr. Jones' character to fit on a postage stamp.I guess that -- at the last possible instant -- Tommy Lee jumped off, and was able to hit the Moon running. That's no more improbable than the rest of Eastwood's self-indulgent exercise in Space Bull. "},{"Title":"Gobble gobble...","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What a turkey!It's sad, really.  The basic story isn't bad, and could've made for a fun and exciting flick... if the writers weren't seemingly going out of their way to make the viewer laugh and/or cry at the ludicrous details.Why?  Why do people try to write science fiction and then not even bother trying to learn at even the most basic about their chosen subject?  It's a lament that's as old as movies, I suppose; still, Space Cowboys is one of the more egregious examples.  Evidently they had a decent budget; they could have spent a little on research.I could trot out miscellaneous stupidities like 1000 miles is not geosynchronous orbit; 1000 miles is a ludicrous place to put a satellite; the Shuttle cannot fly to anywhere near 1000 miles up; a satellite in geosynchronous orbit will (essentially) never decay into the atmosphere; and so forth.You'd deride me as a nerdish wet blanket, I suppose.  But more fundamentally, the level of stupidity this movie ascribes to practically everyone is stratospheric.  The very concept of NASA putting four rookies with a month of training onto a shuttle and sending that shuttle to rendezvous with and grapple a satellite ABOUT WHICH VIRTUALLY NOTHING IS KNOWN (like the design, even the mass) is about as far removed from reality as can be imagined.  There isn't even a pretense of building a willing suspension of disbelief.  And if on every turn your reaction to the story isn't Wow, neat but Nobody could be that stupid!, the writers have failed abysmally. "},{"Title":"Four Guys from Different Ranches","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is an utterly forgettable movie, and the flaws are ordinary and uninteresting. But there are some interesting things about it.Clint Eastwood is a rather highly regarded director he is not someone who can get inside a script and create (and pare to) a unique vision. Rather, he is a no nonsense stick-to-the-schedule craftsman who focuses on performances. So he's very popular in the business, while keeping his distance.Here we have four actors. None is a great actor, but each has mastered a particular approach. The problem in this case is if we let these men do what they do, and each has a different, contrasting style, how we pull off an ensemble piece?We do have radically differing styles here. Garner is a natural, comedic, with an emphasis on body movement. Eastwood is purely facial. His comedic strength is in his vocal stance when speaking, while Garners is in his timing. Both are `external' actors, meaning they `put on' their role. Jones attempts the most in his general approach, the standard `method,' and is the least accomplished, while Sutherland has thoroughly mastered his simpler, but similar goal. Both are `internal' actors. It must have been quite a set with Clint trying to get some shared vision of what to project and how.All the ensemble scenes (other than walking) are cut and we have instead individuals and pairs. That works well enough for this film, though I think more Garner would have been funnier.I have been in most all the places at Johnson Space Center where the film is set, and that took some of the fun out. That's because folks, NASA uses really OLD technology, partly because they are not the brightest kids on the block, partly because of they way they buy things and partly because older stuff is more reliable. And they have many, many old guys on board (mostly as double-triple dipping consultants). So the notion of an `obsolete' guidance system is laughable. The shuttle's flight control system was essentially designed 35 years ago! But Clint doesn't know that I guess.The nearly final shot is a panning shot of the moon which seamlessly zooms in a few thousand miles to `normal' figure distance. This computer generated effect is best in class.  "},{"Title":"Oh please!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's grumpy old men meeting Armageddon. okay, i had a couple of laughs, I admit. But the script is so...bad I amazed that someone even wanted to make this movie. I can only say that if you thinking of seeing this movie, don't. Spend your money on a burger instead. It will satisfy you better... "},{"Title":"Well made film...for a slightly older crowd.","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I remember hearing about this title and thinking, Oh geez...Space Cowboys? Old actors? How stupid. Its probably for the 50+ crowd, and I won't get it. But Ahh, what a great film! Being in my mid 30's I had definitely heard of the main actors, but not seen many of their earlier films. They were all really good in this film.The story flows very well...with enough character building to get a feel for who they are. Clint seemed to just say his lines, but hey...that's Clint usually. There are some scenes that seem un-needed, but only a few short ones.I like my films to be somewhat realistic. A LOT of movies.. I find myself saying, NO WAY...that would NEVER happen, etc. Hardly once did I notice anything like that. The film seemed quite realistic...in a movie sense. "},{"Title":"*sigh* Nothing new here.  (Minor Spoilers)","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing that most critics are cynical these days, I'm utterly shocked that this film has been generally praised in both Internet and professional film reviews.  While I admit that this film had a few good points, it seemed to have more bad points.My main complaint is how completely formulatic this film is.  As the astronauts entered their shuttle and gave a glance to the crowd, I leaned over to my friend and remarked, `Gee, I wonder which of these guys isn't coming back.'  It's completely obvious.  I wish the screenwriters had at least attempted to break the mold here and throw a few surprises at us.  I must give a little credit to Clint Eastwood as the director, however. There is an interesting effect in the opening sequences in which he uses voice-overs to convince the audience that the young pilots are the same characters as the old ones.  While this is a good attempt, it just doesn't work.  Tommy Lee Jones' young character was particularly laughable. but nice try, guys.  I think they must have realized that it wasn't really going to work, because they made every attempt they could to cover the mouths of all the actors.Secondly, it seems like a lot of elements were just glossed over.  For example, we don't really spend any time with the main character's wife. We meet her in the beginning, but then we don't see her again until the launch (during which she never says a word).  It would have been interesting to know what she thinks about the mission.  Is she excited for her husband? Is she nervous?  How did he break the news to her?  Does she not want him to go?  Additionally, when a main character sacrifices himself, the film doesn't spend much time on his departure.  At least the movie didn't create a typically sappy `goodbye' scene, but in a sharp contrast, the scene seems rather rushed.  In fact, the whole space section of the film is rather rushed.  And in the end, what happens to the `villains' of the film?  Are they punished?  Are they even exposed?  There's no real pay-off there. (As a side note, why, WHY are NASA and air force guys always chewing gum in films?)Final complaint, I promise.  Why does Hollywood insist on bending the laws of physics and creating sound in space?  Can't they find a creative way to deal with this?  Let us concentrate on the silence of space for a change or allow us to listen to the film's score.  With a film like Star Wars, sound in space is forgivable because the story is a fantasy.  Here, we have a film that pretends to be based around scientific facts.Donald Sutherland does an excellent job, thanks to his fine acting skills and the humorous dialogue in the script.  There are some genuinely smart, funny moments in the film, but I'm afraid it just doesn't make a good film. I suppose the purpose was to create just a fun, entertaining film without anything substance.  If you like those kinds of films, you'll probably really like this one.  I haven't seen Armageddon, but if people consider this film to be significantly better, then I must NEVER see Armageddon!  "},{"Title":"Very watchable movie","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For some time the title put me off watching this movie - it felt a little juvenile. I was wrong to judge the film by its cover though. Space Cowboys had me totally absorbed right from the start with a great cast of damned fine actors able to help you suspend your disbelief as the plot became ever more far fetched. Clint Eastwood has still to make a poor movie and his part in this is no less absorbing than his earlier titles. Best of all it is a film in which age and experience appear to win out against the young - well I am 58 so it naturally appealed to me. It takes your through all the emotions from laughter to tears. Overall a brilliant family movie based on a really good yarn which I highly recommend for all the family to watch. "},{"Title":"The pleasure of watching four old pro's entertain you","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The storyline is secondary when you have four seasoned veterans like Eastwood, Garner, Sutherland and Jones entertaining you.  They have the ability to raise the level of any writing with their professionalism.  At no time could you detect any scene stealing.  All four are comfortable in their own abilities and don't need to resort to gimmicks or scene stealing. Eastwood is at his economic story-telling best behind the camera. "},{"Title":"Don't bother if you are missing it","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint was used to great stories but this is really a low for his average. The first part of the story is a remake of thousand of other movies where not-capable-to can do it in a week because they are real men. The second part is actually nice with spacewalk and great effects. The last part you can as well leave the theater, really a disaster.  "}{"Title":"Incredible cast, great film for the entire family","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Now the cast alone is enough to get me to buy a ticket to this film. Clint Eastwood both stars and directs this fantastic tale with the skill that accompanies every Eastwood film. He knows how to get the best out of his cast, which would hardly be necessary since the cast is what so many critics in the past have called Star Studded. Donald Sutherland portrays the group's horn dog, James Garner the kindly country preacher, and Tommy Lee Jones the show-off who never grew up. Marcia Gay Harden is, as always, lovely and charming as the NASA Mission Director who must make sure the group can qualify for the flight. William Devane is the cranky Flight Director, and appearances by Barbara Babcock and Blair Brown make the show a little easier on the eyes, as if that were necessary. The photography is uncanny, and had to incorporate some of NASA's footage of the Space Shuttle and some EVA's (extra vehicular activities) and the entire film breathes realism from start to finish. But that's Eastwood for you. Great show, no problems for the kiddies, and might even inspire a few more astronauts down the road. "},{"Title":"Space Cowboys Damn Enjoyable","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Despite my constant adulation of Eastwood's films of the decade ending 2009, I had never managed to see either Space Cowboys or Blood Work. Surely, I thought, I should be rushing to see both of these, given my fondness for that period of the director's career. Surely they would conform to this extraordinary block of raw talent.An ex Air Force scientist denied the chance to go into space following the establishment of NASA, Frank Corvin is called upon to bring down a dangerously unstable Russian satellite which employs a now-archaic system he designed. Spying the opportunity to achieve his onetime dream, he rounds up the old team for one last mission.I think it way have been the nature of Space Cowboys which perhaps subliminally kept me from getting around to it. A cast littered with highly esteemed names, a massive budget, a high-concept premise. None of these things were ever present for the slew of masterpieces which followed (some big names appeared, I grant you, but never so many simultaneously), a factor I must have considered an ill omen for this film's chances with me. I like my Eastwood dark and dramatic, not lighthearted and action-filled. Nevertheless, I was willing to get invested and involved, the cast offering names the like of Eastwood, Jones, Sutherland, and Cromwell, all of whom I'm deeply fond of. The plot is of course rather far-fetched and requires a considerable leap of faith. If you approach this film with cynicism you will be lost immediately upon learning that NASA is willing to send a force of geriatrics into space. That said, it is explained as best as possible; given that Corvin is literally the only man for the job, the government's acceptance of his terms is somewhat less fantastical, especially considering the delicate balance of international relations thereon dependent. The narrative structure is, beyond the age issue, pretty standard, following the well established path of gradual training and the resolution of whatever issues are encountered. When a serious problem threatens the success of the mission, a creaking cliché steps in to fix it. We all know the story, for so many times have we seen it unfold. And yet, in spite of all the problems of sheer unoriginality and a formulaic implementation, the film is damn enjoyable. There is a heart-warming charm to be felt in seeing these actors occupying the screen together and having quite so much fun in the process. They crack jokes, compete physically and sexually, and behave like little boys. Maybe that is the key to the film's charm the participant's tongue-in-cheek acceptance of their own age, and a bold defiance of the societally imposed limitations thereof. In a way, the absurdity and ridiculousness of the premise is entirely intentional, allowing these onetime cowboys to ride again and feel the vigour of youth. And who are we to deny them that?Though it is completely and utterly ludicrous and requires quite a substantial suspension of disbelief, one gets the impression that Space Cowboys plays upon just that very aspect of itself, breathing a renewed life into its elderly participants and vicariously so into its audience. An ode to youth and a firm middle finger to the limitations of age, one cannot help being drawn into its fantasy. "},{"Title":"Age An Asset, But Script Isn't","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood had nothing left to prove in 2000, and though he had at least a couple of Oscars still awaiting him, Space Cowboys catches him in cruise control. He's among a quartet of old flyboys given their one shot in space 40 years after being bypassed by NASA. It's a film that deploys charm in place of a smart script.I can't fill up a spaceship with geriatrics, moans a nasty NASA executive played by James Cromwell with a shaky Southern accent.Clock's ticking, Bob, and I'm only getting older, Eastwood's Frank Corvin replies.Eastwood is a good sport in playing up his age for laughs, as are Donald Sutherland, James Garner, and Tommy Lee Jones. Jones looks a bit young for active service in the 1950s, as does Cromwell as their former commander. A bigger problem is the way the film plays to action-comedy convention most of the way through before pulling a big tearjerker of an ending that doesn't make much sense.Not that much was making sense before. At the beginning, for example, we see the then-young quartet (younger actors badly dubbed by the four croaky stars) go through a bone-rattling mission, only to discover upon landing that weaselly Bob has grounded them for space flight in favor of a chimp. Why does he have them appear at a press conference to be humiliated, or even allow them to go up one last time knowing their Project Daedalus has been scrubbed? Eastwood and his writers go for the big scenes, and don't worry about setting them up properly.All this opening section does is waste time that could have been economically handled with a minimum of exposition. We don't even need the protracted scenes of the four meeting up again, especially when we are asked to believe Frank doesn't know that his old buddy Hawk (Jones) has lost his wife years before, or that the woman Jerry O'Neill (Sutherland) is hanging out with isn't his daughter.The age jokes get annoying, too. You noticed how everybody seems to be dead lately? asks Tank Sullivan (Garner).Garner is supercargo on this mission, regulated to making lame Holy-Joe jokes about his vocation as a minister. The man has obvious difficulty walking (Garner had major knee surgery years before) but we are asked to believe he can pass an astronaut physical.I wasn't buying, but as a trip to the well it works in bits and pieces. Sutherland has fun playing his Ensure-gulping Lothario character, in one scene memorably pulling out his teeth as Frank grimaces in disgust. They work off each other as well as they did in Kelly's Heroes 30 years before. I liked Jones best in two scenes he shares with Marcia Gay Harden, a love interest who still can't make him forget his wife - or his willingness to give of himself in service of his fellows.Like many Eastwood films, Space Cowboys pushes bad guys into the picture with no subtlety. Cromwell's constant glowering is bad enough. Worse is Loren Dean as a seemingly smart astronaut whose left-field hatred for Frank causes an outer-space meltdown as severe as HAL 9000's in 2001. You're only here as a publicity stunt, he whines, Eastwood's way of letting us know it's okay to dislike him.As a director, Eastwood isn't subtle but usually he's more economical. Space Cowboys, which runs over two hours, is the kind of movie that leaves you with the concept and little else. With a cast like that, you just want for something more than a spacewalk into the sunset. "},{"Title":"American Hero Sandwich","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There is a rare breed of animal in the world, outside any established morality, divorced from mundane reality, mythically above many of its technically superior kin; that animal is &#150; The Clint Eastwood Movie.Clint Eastwood is an American Hero. And Clint Eastwood Movies deal with the nature of Heroism. *Space Cowboys* is a Clint Eastwood Movie, therefore to critique its unrealistic plot is moot. It stands mythically above plot contrivances, outside any system of common-law judgment; it is hyper-reality and supra-morality. Plot is secondary to Heroism in a Clint Eastwood Movie.The edge-of-plausible story involves four test pilots who, forever glum over having been excluded in 1958 from NASA's fledgling space program, find themselves jubilantly piloting a Space Shuttle into orbit to repair a Soviet satellite &#150; 40 years later! The hook that makes this ridiculous-on-paper scheme surprisingly good on screen is that the four pilots, known as Team Daedalus, are Clint Eastwood (Frank), Tommy Lee Jones (Hawk), Donald Sutherland (Jerry), and James Garner (Tank), four well-loved actors who imbue the shaky storyline with freely-punning maturity. Being a Clint Eastwood Movie, Frank is the one person on Earth who can repair the outmoded guidance system on the satellite, before it de-orbits destructively. With screenwriters Ken Kaufman and Howard Klausner maintaining our suspension of disbelief on the Sensible side of *Armageddon* and *Red Planet*, director Eastwood explores &#150; through his laconic wit and casually-paced, character-driven style &#150; exactly what makes these implausible candidates for this mission such plausible Heroes. Well, excepting maybe James Garner&#133; Despite their ages, Jones and Eastwood are still two very vital leading men, zealously fit and believably tougher than most comers half their age. Sutherland, as cheeky comic relief here, also seems sturdy enough for extreme g-forces. But since Eastwood's last outing with Garner in a 1959 episode of *Maverick* (co-starring as a scrappy gunfighter to Garner's gambler), his machismo has only elevated, whilst Garner's aged frailty makes his character, Tank, look more like a Yugo.The Casting Director scored big with Toby Stephens (playing the 1958 young Eastwood character), who nails the Clint Squint like a ghost from *Rawhide*; visions of a present-day Man With No Name picture riding across the High Plains of our speculation&#133; hmm. Stranger things have happened - to wit this movie's plot.If this were real life, we would surely question the integrity of a space agency that would allow out-of-shape sexagenarians into billion-dollar taxpayer equipment. NASA Supervisor, Bob Gerson (James Cromwell, uncharacteristically mean-spirited), does try to quash Daedalus, issuing an ultimatum that they must pass rigorous astronaut muster or remain earthbound. But he forgets he is in a Clint Eastwood Movie&#133; Never losing sight that entertainment is a movie's prime objective, Eastwood's four stars exude an effortless camaraderie, imbuing the film with a humorous, self-deprecating slant at what a Hero must endure when past his Use-By date.When Frank's team discover nukes onboard the communications satellite, we turn to the token Russkie, Rade Sherbedgia (go-to guy for Russian Character Actor), to provide the furry face of Soviet Collusion at Houston, with an anemic performance that really goes nowhere but vanilla. I guess Cold War apathy extends to film as well.Though the outer space milieu is not Eastwood's forte, he handles these sequences with such care, dexterity and attention to detail that he escalates the grandeur of being in earth orbit to a scale that rivals the best films ever made in this genre. On the crew's first spacewalk, there is no desperate clamor to cut to the chase - rather, Frank, floating free, first quietly watches the earth turn beneath him. Houston Flight Director, Gene (William Devane, playing his role with extraordinary realism), adds simply, Welcome to space, Frank. Jerry joins Frank in gazing Earthward for a few languid beats, as Italy and Western Europe float by in a magnificent Industrial Light & Magic planetscape.Emulating mentor Don Siegel, Eastwood's trademark pullbacks have always revealed the grander cityscape backdrop his characters played against; this film lends him the grandest backdrop of all planet Earth! During Shuttle re-entry into Earth's atmosphere blanket, Eastwood gives us long shots of the globe, with all the solitude, quiet majesty and obliviousness of this world as that jot of man-made, friction-flaming steel traverses its face.Having somehow wrangled his team of cowboys into space, the accusations throughout the movie against Frank &#150; that he is not a team player &#150; attain their irony. He was *always* a team player - but for HIS team.Though the movie retains its class by incorporating latest NASA technology and not explaining its jargon in childish asides, even Eastwood had to bow to the asinine Hollywood tradition of sound in space due to dumbed-down audiences feeling cheated if they don't hear gargantuan metal constructs creaking and clanking in a vacuum.To accomplish the mission, the acme of Heroism is attained &#150; Hawks self-sacrifice. In a grandiose scene that you'd never expect could be from an Eastwood movie, Hawk climbs aboard a jerry-rigged missile-transport, to bronco it to the Moon; he is their Icarus, who never makes it home alive.In a poignant final sequence, Eastwood's pullback technique is reversed, as Sinatra's *Fly Me To The Moon* accompanies a camera zoom to the Moon surface, to an outcrop of rock, behind which Hawk has spent his final living minutes facing earth. After 40 years dreaming of landing on the moon, however belatedly and tragically, this American Hero finally got his wish.A good-natured dig at critics who accuse Eastwood of being too old for an action star, *Space Cowboys* used John Glenn's trip back into orbit (in 1998) as impetus to plant this generation's greatest cowboy back in the saddle, to once more define the Clint Eastwood Movie idiom that even if they say it can't be done - a Hero will find a way.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"A film I never get tired of watching","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All the actors were great as well as the dialogue a movie that kept my interest and I never get tired of watching itOne of the best sci-fi-possible-reality films I've seen in a while sb "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I realize that this is not a movie for everyone.  However, it's a tremendous balance and is an excellent movie.  The pacing is good.  There's plenty of humor.  There are technical faults but few that a non-technical person would notice.  It builds characters well and I grew to care for them.  It doesn't hurt that the film is filled with Hollywood greats, adding to the nastalgia of the film.  But it also talks about dreams and realities, about life. Elements of the movie were also fairly predictabe, however this didn't detract from the total feel of the movie.  So, this is not rocket scientist deep, it's not delving into deep philosophical or societal issues but I don't like to watch movies for that.  There's plenty of news stories if I need reality.  I watch movies to be entertained and perhaps to step away from my day to day life for awhile and this movie did that quite well. Probably in my top ten.   "},{"Title":"Well worth seeing","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I would absolutely see this movie again, if only for one reason---SPOILER--- Nukes in space! Really, it's taken too long for nukes in space to get on the big screen. The scenes in space were very well done, and I really like the old guys in it, as I feel they were pretty accurately modelled. Overall this movie is worth seeing as it reinforces the idea that age is just a number. "},{"Title":"Team Daedelus Is Activated Again","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The story of Space Cowboys begins back in 1957 when each of our Armed Services had its own space exploration program. One of the reasons that the Russians beat the USA into space was that selfsame rivalry. The Eisenhower Administration sought to correct the problem by establishing the National Aeronautic and Space Administration and in fact it was future president Lyndon Johnson who pushed the bill through Congress. It's the reason why the Houston mission control center is named after him and why it's located in Texas.Our four would be astronauts which include pilot Tommy Lee Jones, navigator James Garner, and scientists Clint Eastwood and Donald Sutherland get done out of that trip to space because of those politics and some internal ones. But something goes radically wrong and 43 years later they're needed in one big emergency.One of the oldest of Soviet satellites is in orbital decay and the Russians are practically begging our help to get it down. It seems it has a guidance system so old that the current crop of NASA whiz kids just don't know what to do with it. Reluctantly NASA administrator James Cromwell asks for the help of the former Team Daedelus from the Air Force. Cromwell's got good reason to be concerned and Eastwood's help is especially needed for reasons that will become clear when you watch the film. Let's just say that the satellite is a bit more important than we're originally led to believe.The senior citizen astronauts show the young ones that they still have the right stuff. The team doesn't always function smoothly though because Tommy Lee Jones is still one reckless dude. But Tommy of all of them comes through in the clinch.Marcia Gay Harden as a NASA scientist and Barbara Babcock as Mrs. Eastwood contribute some nice performances in a mostly testosterone venture. My favorite though is William Devane, a tough but very fair minded NASA operations head who runs interference for the senior citizens a couple of times with Cromwell.Space Cowboys got an Oscar nomination for Sound, it might have deserved one or two more. It's great entertainment and that last half hour dealing with the orbitally decaying Russian satellite is very well done in the Special Effects department.It was like watching a real NASA mission. "},{"Title":"Four masters of the art.","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There is hardly anything original about the plot of this movie an unlikely crew being sent into space to fix a damaged communications satellite. However, in this case, that almost counts as an advantage! The story more or less is just there to provide a stage upon which four seasoned, veteran master actors can act out the finely textured drama of their characters' interrelationships. I always prefer a film with some action to carry things along, even if it's mainly of a character-study or thematic genre, so the little space adventure was fine with me. Nevertheless, Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner were obviously having a ball playing off each other, and that would have been a pleasure to watch regardless of the setting. "},{"Title":"A film by Clint Eastwood","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A Russian communications satellite is coming down, and because of its old technology, a team of retired astronauts are supposed to be sent to space to safe the day.These cowboys are Dr. Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood), Col. William Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), Jerry O'Neill (Donald Sutherland) and Tank Sullivan (James Garner).Space Cowboys (2000) is a highly entertaining film by Eastwood.He is a man you can always count on.This morning I saw him receiving an Oscar for best director from the movie Million Dollar Baby.My guess was it would go for Martin Scorsese from The Aviator and best actor award for Clint, but Jamie Foxx from Ray received that and Clint won the award for directing, just like back in 1993 from Unforgiven.It's fun to see him still thanking his mother Ruth, who's 96.Clint deserves all the awards they want to give him.But now back to this movie.The cast is, besides the legends mentioned earlier really amazing.There are people like James Cromwell, Marcia Gay Harden, William Devane and Jay Leno pops in as himself.The chemistry works great between the main characters.Clint, Tommy, Donald and James bring some comedy to this adventure sci-fi drama flick.Their dialog is something brilliant.The whole movie is really sympathetic. This isn't the best of Eastwood, but it's still something special.Space Cowboys should be seen by everybody who wants to see some papa power. "}{"Title":"Not Eastwood's best, but a pretty good science fiction drama","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen only a few of Clint Eastwood's films, I can't put this movie up against too many of his other films. However, considering the high quality of his other films, I was expecting a bit from this movie. I was pleasantly surprised. It was really entertaining. The plot is very good, very involving, and moves along at a nice pace. The acting is mostly very good, some of the minor characters seemed to be more or less miscast and not perfectly well-played. The four main characters all do excellent jobs in portraying their respective characters. I especially enjoyed the comic relief presented by Donald Sutherland's character. The characters are all well-written and their actions are credible, in nearly every scene. The special effects are pretty good, they look very real, and do a good job of convincing the viewer that it is actually happening, or, at the very least, it could happen. The end could be called poetic, without giving it too much credit. The actors all share very good on-screen chemistry. You believe that these people could have that friendship with each other. I recommend this to anyone who likes Clint Eastwood's directing style, dramas and science fiction. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Old guys are GO!!!!!","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In this era of the chick flick, it was nice to see the precise opposite -an old bloke flick! OK, I'm an old bloke, so I'm biased. Probably just as well they didn't cast the ultimate grumpy old bloke - Jack Nicholson - or it would all have been way too over the top. Insead we had excellent characterisations from four massively experienced actors, and those four guys they played gelled well, finding that the bond that united them, even after all those years, was stronger than the differences that divided them.And more than a few good bits of social comment, especially that of intrepid pilot Hawk who in the ultimate act of his life demonstrates that blasting out to the moon in a terminal blaze of glorious fulfilment of ambition is far preferable to extending life in order to wither away in a cancer hospice. Life is to be lived, and when we reach an age where we realise we may not have so much of it left, it is to be lived to the extreme.So the plot was always going to be a bit of fantasy, but in an era of wizards and hobbits on the screen, the suspension of disbelief at seeing four geriatrics in space was entirely acceptable.A really enjoyable bit of escapism for a quiet Sunday night on TV.Old guys are GO!!!!! 8/10 "},{"Title":"A really fun film to watch...","Date":"6 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" SPACE COWBOYSI thought this movie was a lot of fun.The movie is about a group of retired engineers who were due to go into space when they were young, but was replaced by a monkey. Now they are pensioners and they have been called to rescue a satellite that is heading towards Earth. Finally, they get to go into space.The movie had some really funny moments. The story was really good and even though this is a comedy, it also had some serious moments.The movie stars Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland & James Garner. The casting was brilliant. They seemed to have a great relationship and their connection was brilliant. My favourite character was Jerry, played by Donald Sutherland. He was so funny... blind as a bat, but always flirting with the girls that were half his age. He made me laugh.Right at the beginning if the movie, you saw the characters when they were young. Everyone dubbed their voices over these younger actors so that you could believe it was their younger selves... it was really well done. Toby Stephens played a young Clint Eastwood... and I have to say he did a fantastic job. The fake mole on his face looked terrible, but his facial expressions were spot on. He actually looked like a young Clint.The effects were not always great, but i think in this film that made it all the better. I loved it when they got to space and the views and landscapes were lovely.I also really liked the ending... it was a good finish.I will give this film 7 out of 10.A lot of fun to watch and it looked like everyone had a good time making this film. For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"A lot of fun","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's nice when a director still has that touch so many years down the line. Clint Eastwood has hit quite a few home runs in the 21st century will films like Million Dollar Baby which one best picture, Flags of Our Fathers and it's companion piece Letters from Iwo Jima, and other hits like Changeling and Gran Torino. However, his first film of the new millennium Space Cowboys was also a great little film that pleasantly surprised me. Clint stars as Frank Corvin, an aging engineer who is called upon to rescue a falling Russian satellite before it falls back to Earth. However, the only way he will take on the mission is if his equally old former teammates join him in space. The journey these four men partake from the Earth to space is fun, exciting, and wildly entertaining.Space Cowboys is a film that is great not because of its story or dialogue, but because of the collection of four great old timey actors it brings together for an incredibly fun ride. Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner form a group of geezers that are so entertaining to watch and are so utterly believable. We truly do get the sense that these four friends are just that, friends and partners who have been through so much together. It's an incredibly lovable group of guys that make this film as fun as it is. The four characters are a lot of fun and their interactions and clashing personalities are priceless, and the actors all do fantastic jobs. They work to make Space Cowboys a great ride.Of course, without the talent this film wouldn't be much. It's not a bad film, only problematic, and without the star power it wouldn't have amounted to much. The storyline in Space Cowboys is a lot of fun, albeit ridiculous at times. It's absurdities make it a farce in a way, being absolutely ridiculous to a point where it just becomes mindless entertainment. Sometimes I mind this yet other times I just take it for what it is and have a good time. That isn't too difficult to do with Space Cowboys as it really is an entertaining film. The dialogue isn't great and there are some sub plots that are pretty useless. It's so far from perfect, yet also so much fun. Space Cowboys is well worth the watch, but don't expect a masterpiece. Just look forward to great acting and an all around good time. "},{"Title":"A living legend","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" It's like the perfect gift for Clint, the screenplay of Space Cowboys by Ken Kaufman and Howard Klausner, isn't it? A story where he could be the hero the manipulative, individualist, arrogant know-it-all who will, in the end, save the day. Is Clint Eastwood really like this? I couldn't tell, but his movies carry the sensation that he's managing every little detail, so he might as well play the lead role. Besides, it's a role that fits him perfectly. The way he always find the right look, his raspy but characteristic voice and the understatement that defines him-even when playing the type of character I described that he portrays perfectly-make his Frank Corvin someone to love. Eastwood sets the mood with a nice color of shooting, taking us to the past. Once a star engineer of the US Air Force, Frank was replaced by a monkey that would travel to outer space when the NASA was created. But Frank had a team, the Team Daedalus, which Bob Gerson (James Cromwell, always great when combining good and bad in an unexpected way) kicked out. Now, as in any classic tale (Eastwood is always, fundamentally, classic), the NASA will request for Frank's knowledge, given that he's the only one who can solve a big problem they have, and he'll bring the whole team back. This team, underestimated by most people because of their old age, includes a womanizer played delightfully by Donald Sutherland, a pastor played by a humble James Garner, and a crazy pilot played by Tommy Lee Jones in a type of role we're not used to see him.It's a great setup, and a setup with knowledge of actors and situations they might generate by Eastwood. He also puts Marcia Gay Harden in the mix, to play the role of a strong woman that only she can pull off. All this established, Space Cowboys is a fun, unpretentious ride where the viewer doesn't know what to expect. In every scene these four 'cowboys' are together, a laugh can come from anywhere; and don't worry, that in this half adventure/half buddy movie, Clint leaves room for a few dramatic moments and a little bit of adult romance.The performances are key to the success of the film, and you can't try to figure out something else than what the screen shows, because this time the master filmmaker delivers one of his most straightforward stories. Intelligent as he can only be, he gives us a musical selection that includes a modern hit as Space Cowboys, by N'Sync. How about that? But going back to the script&#133;Did Eastwood selected it personally? Is this a movie to show that he is in command? That he likes, as I said, to be the hero who saves the day?I said it before. I couldn't tell, but the role fits him perfectly, and we can't imagine any other man on earth playing it. This is something that many young actors can easily achieve, but a seventy-year old man? To create such a memorable role in a movie he also directed, and making sure that the movie in question is good? Only Clint. "},{"Title":"A little weak on the science maybe, but a fun ride","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is just what it appears to be a movie about some old duffers out for one last shot at glory. No one should see this film with any expectation of scientific accuracy; many other posts have listed its numerous errors of basic science. But I expect most people are watching the movie with entertainment in mind, not a lesson in orbital mechanics. Space Cowboys provides that entertainment well.Much of the fun comes from the terrific chemistry between veteran actors Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner, and Donald Sutherland. The plot (four pilots from the earliest days of NASA are the only ones who can repair a failing Soviet-era satellite) is laughable. But the plot was never intended to be the strongest feature of this film. Eastwood (who also directed) was wise to let the humor come from the the interplay between the aging astronauts of the Mercury era and their more dispassionate, less seat-of-the-pants modern counterparts.As in the film, some of these familiar favorites are now a bit long in the tooth. Although Jones was only 54 when the film was released in 2000, he was quite convincing playing a much older man, but the others were all at least a decade older, with Garner the eldest of the group at 72. All four stars have action movies in their past, but just as their characters of Corvin, Hawkins, O'Neill, and Sullivan all believed their glory days of fast planes and fast living were over, the actors might well have expected that at their ages they would get no more action roles. It's greatly satisfying to see the guys back in the saddle one more time, neatly mirroring the storyline of four pilots grabbing their last chance to go into space.I must say, though, Eastwood missed one opportunity when it came to casting. When this movie was made, 22-year-old up-and-comer Josh Hartnett would not have been an expensive addition to the cast. Why then was Eli Craig used for the scenes of the 40-years-ago Hawk Hawkins? Hartnett looks more like a young Tommy Lee Jones than Tommy himself did at that age (see 24-year-old TLJ in Love Story for example.) If you're going to be anal-retentive about plot holes and technical oversights, steer clear of this film. But if you're looking for a light and entertaining story fleshed out by the talents of four old favorites, then Space Cowboys, while it may get a D in science, is a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Good space drama","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Space Cowboys is a space drama about a team of four retired pilots that stumble upon an opportunity to go on a space mission. Although NASA is initially hesitant to send them, the publicity wins them over. The task seems simple at first repair a Soviet satellite to bring it back into stable orbit. But unforeseen circumstances (typical of these space movies) make things more complicated.The key actors are Clint Eastwood and Tommy Lee Jones, who play two of the astronauts (Frank Corvin and Hawk Hawkins). Although part of the same team, they don't get along very well (at least, in their past history). But both are very likable characters. The other two members of the team are also fairly interesting and well acted. The rest of the characters (mission control, NASA officials, rival astronauts) are not as well acted, but generally work fine for their purpose.The plot is straightforward, with a couple small surprises. Since the main idea is creative, it works out. The special effects are good; I don't think space looked entirely accurate, but the satellite and space shuttle were done well.Overall, the film does not have any defining strengths or weaknesses, so it works great for a casual two hours. Nothing special, but if your interested in the genre or subject, then you will probably enjoy watching it. "},{"Title":"Good entermainment with the old boys in space","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Recently saw this again and it's quite simply good entertainment living mostly from the interaction between the main actors. The science is cheesy in places and I have to hold myself back to not rant about the ending, but this is balanced by some self-effacing humor and just enough realism to make it all work. "},{"Title":"Hilarious melo-drama...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What do you get when you put together 4-old geezers and a NASA space ship? Well you get Space Cowboys of course! LOL  This movie is just plain funny and so un-realisticly funny.  3 1/2 starts out of 5 for comedy and Clint Eastwoods bad-ass attitude. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a bunch of old gits!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The concept of four old actors coming together to make a movie about going into space is not a concept that appealed to me but i was pleasently suprised by Space Cowboys. I suppose i shouldnt be suprised considering the vast talent of the four actors and the brilliant films they have all starred in in the past. The first hour is the best part of the movie for me, not the actual space journey. We see some superb comedy acting and there are some genuine funny moments , it's only when we see the old boys actually go into space it goes a little down hill and it loses the charm of the first half of the film. What is very good is the beginning when we see all the men as youngsters but with the actors voices dubbed over and it does work. If this is not your type of movie you may be in for a pleasant suprise. 7 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"4 Masters at Work","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Admit it&#133;we all wanted to go into space when we were kids. We all spent time dreaming of being astronauts and exploring the outer reaches of the galaxy. As time passed, some of us actually succeeded in that dream while most grew up and went on to pursue more realistic dreams. What would you do if you were given that chance now, long after you had given the dream up? Clint Eastwood's newest production, Space Cowboys, explores that question with hysterical results. Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner were the best team in the Air Force in the late 50s. Jones was the top-notch pilot; Garner was the navigator, Sutherland the engineer, and Eastwood the team leader. Right as it looks as if they are going to get their chance, they are passed over in favor of NASA's newest pilot&#133;a monkey.The team breaks up and time marches on. Eastwood has long since retired from his job as a technical designer for NASA when his old company gives him an unusual request. They need his help with a Russian Satellite, which has somehow incorporated some of the designs from his SkyLab schematics, which is loosing orbit and will come crashing to earth within the month. Since this is a super communications satellite the Russians are afraid that without it the entire country will be broken down. NASA designers explain that even though he was ahead of his time then, the current crop of scientists and engineers have advanced beyond what he had invented and nobody at NASA could fix the system now. Eastwood sees this as his final chance and blackmails his old nemesis into sending him and the original team up into space to do the repairs themselves. The rest of the movie shows Eastwood and his teammates trying to get back into some semblance of shape, learning the intricacies of the Space Shuttle, and training for space walks. Eventually the team does end up in space and begins their attempts to fix the satellite.  The plot is slightly silly but works well. At the beginning it is established that all four were second to none and have all kept in some type of similar field. They manage to show that the guys aren't immediately able to do everything needed but as time goes their skills begin to come back. The weakest part of the movie occurs near the very end. This seems to have been one of those where they are going great guns with storyline and then hit a block while trying to figure out the ending. The stars make this movie. Garner, Eastwood, Sutherland, and Jones live up to the careers that all have achieved. The movie features four old pros getting together and hitting the mark each time. Eastwood plays his team leader as the serious no-nonsense character we are familiar with. Garner is stumbling along as a Preacher with a small flock who takes back the life he had lost. Sutherland is a womanizing roller coaster engineer and Jones flies a stunt plane for tourists. The training sequences would not have worked as well with other actors but these guys leave you laughing with their escapades. It is a toss up as to whether Jones or Sutherland is the funniest character. Both do their best to steal the movie and each one frequently comes close to succeeding.    "},{"Title":"Funny and well directed","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  My age puts me in the target demographic for Armageddon, yet I liked Space Cowboys very much. The slow editing and the lingering shots make this a very watchable movie. Good paced. It's good to have some SFX last longer than a split second; the earth from orbit is beautiful.The people that were watching the film with me on VHS laughed all the time - it's a funny ride. I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood and Tommy Lee Jones Make It Happen","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  About all I could make out from the trailer for this film was the fact that four old guys were going out into space.  OK.  What's the plot?  I honestly had no idea until I actually watched this film and saw what the problem was.  I'm glad I did.Clint Eastwood as Frank has been called by NASA to give them insight on what can be done about an airspace program that has failed in a sattelite.  None of the people at NASA could fix such an old program with modern equipment.  The head of the department hates Franks guts and vice versa since Frank's early days of flying when he was replaced by an ape to go into outer space.  Frank wants his team (the one he had back in the 50's and now its the 90's) to accompany him into outer space to fix the program.  His only problem that team has to meet the same requirements as the younger astronauts.  The rest of the movie keeps you on your seat in suspense since you can never really tell whats going to happen next in this film.Hey, its a 9 out of 10 rating for me.  Be advised there is one scene where you might lose your lunch!!! "},{"Title":"Fun, lighthearted, and humorous","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A friend of mine and I decided to get together and watch a video. Her son was in bed and we were just hanging out for the evening. Since the family received a DVD player for the holidays, we decided to try the thing out and watch one their three DVDs. That means that Space Cowboys won out over The Secret of Nihm and Stargate.On the whole, I enjoyed the film. It's not unlike Cocoon in the sense that 4 old guys find themselves training with a bunch of young kids - and somehow manage to keep up. The concept is strong enough to keep the plot going, but not exactly believable a Russian 'satellite' is about to crash into the earth, and these former NASA pilots (who never made it as astronauts) are the only men (still living) who have the antiquated technical knowledge needed to fix the darned thing. So, the hotheaded leader of the bunch strikes up a deal send us into space and we'll fix it for you.NASA wants them to train the younger astronauts and watch the events from the ground. The former NASA pilots insist that it's a hands on job and they have to do it themselves. OK, that part's pretty believable. So are the number of characters who they run into at NASA with some kind of tie to people these guys knew back in their glory days - most of those people are dead now, but their friends and family are still working at NASA.Enough plot description. Personally, I liked the movie because it made me laugh. The winter-spring romance that gets thrown into the middle of it all is annoying and unnecessary, but the arguments and ancient grudges are not.The fact that the retirees manage to save the day after one of the younger NASA astronauts manages to mess things up (in a BIG way), made the movie fun. It was a lot like one of those kids films where the adults can't seem to stop tripping over their feet and the kids are the only one's who can figure out why the ghosts keep coming back and things keep disappearing.It's sort of like a science fiction version of Scooby Doo with the Mystery Van being replaced by the Space Shuttle and four senior citizens (plus two young astronauts) taking the place of Shaggy, Scooby, Velma, Daphne, and Fred.That darned Russian and his pal at NASA would have gotten away with it too, if it hadn't been for those darned kids!Er, uh...old guys. "},{"Title":"An Exciting and Entertaining Space Adventure","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   You would think that the premise of four senior citizens racing into space after a 40 year wait would be highly unlikely. Not so. In the hands of producer-director Clint Eastwood, Space Cowboys turns out to be a very exciting and entertaining adventure into space. The fact that John Glenn recently flew a space mission at age 77, makes this story even more believable. Space Cowboys is blessed with a stellar cast of veteran actors. Leading the way is Eastwood as the designer of a satellite guidance system 30 years earlier, which is aboard a Russian satellite that will plummet to earth if Clint and the boys can't repair the system in time. Going along as Clint's crew are Tommy Lee Jones as Hawk, the veteran ace pilot, Donald Sutherland as an engineer, and James Garner as the navigator. Along for the ride are Loren Dean and Courtney B. Vance as two modern day astronauts. On the ground are James Cromwell as Eastwood's old nemesis, William Devane as the Flight Director and Marcia Gay Harden, Barbara Babcock and Blair Brown as the various women involved. The special effects are state of the art making the outer space sequences are very exciting and believable. I did think however, that Jones appeared to be too young to be playing a man supposedly in his mid 60s. I also thought that Garner's talents were not fully utilized. His gift for light comedy might have been better exploited in the training sequences. And you know what? There are no gratuitous scenes of sex and/or graphic violence. And you know what? You don't miss them. Space Cowboys is highly recommended as a good clean old fashioned adventure with plenty of excitement. "},{"Title":"Made for TV movie?","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  *contains minor spoilers*  Okay, maybe the term 'Made for TV' is a little harsh, but the Jay Leno scene didn't help things.  This film seemed like it belonged on NBC as a mini-series, with the exception of the CGI stuff at the end, which was above and beyond TV budget.  The majority of the film, however, crawled along at an after-school-special pace.  Sure, _Armageddon_ had an introduction of characters and their lives, but at least it was done at MTV music video speed.  There was no energy at NASA or in the facial expressions of the movie's stars when the story of the satellite's fate was revealed.  Everything seems to move in slow motion, except for the woman's relationship with Tommy Lee Jones.  Some will argue that this film was realistic in its slowness.  'This is how space business really goes down,' they might say.  Perhaps.  I couldn't help but laugh, though, at the calmness on Clint Eastwood's face as he was plummeting towards earth in a broken shuttle.  Nevertheless, the picture and sound quality on the DVD is fantastic.  Home theatre owners, test the short g-force simulation scene out on your woofers.  ** "},{"Title":"Cowboys they may be, but they give more than their money's worth.","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What is there to say? Four Wonderful actors having a wonderful time... acting to a great standard and giving two hours of engrossing, amusing, drama-filled and heart-warming entertainment.It's rare to watch a film and know that as well as being paid, the actors are having as much fun filming, as they are entertaining. This film exudes a sense of fun, a sense of bonding between the actors and a sense of 'family' from the word Go as four ex team-mates from the USAF supersonic programme are reunited to do a job they refuse to let anyone else do.Eastwood is engrossing as the leader of the pack, a typecast maybe, but one he fills admirably. Tommy Lee Jones is himself... Think the cool character from Men In Black, but with a personality conflict re Eastwood.... Very entertaining sparring between the two of them. Sutherland, as always, is a joy to watch. An undervalued actor in the UK, he gets more charismatic with time, and is entertaining as the adolescent stud +50yrs. Garner is entertaining, as the pilot-turned-preacher. His performance is subtle, and he doesn't seem to get as much airtime as the rest of the crew, but his presence completes the team.Filling a cavity that Mission to Mars, Armageddon and Deep Impact didn't even acknowledge, this film is a treat....  Get it on DVD before you overlook it in favour of something far less worthy and far more hyped. If you love any of these actors, you couldn't possibly regret it -) "},{"Title":"Geriatics in space.","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is on of those movies that was never meant for greatness. It's a sure-fire premise; get a few grumpy, charismatic Hollywood icons of past decennia and put them in an adventure that was meant for young hot-shots. The gags work, it's a lot of fun seeing Donald Sutherland play a horny old guy, and Clint Eastwood still has his dry wit. However, there isn't much more to this movie. Acting is solid, yet we never really get to know the characters. Furthermore there is a large number of unlikely developments in an already far-fetched story. Otherwise there are some nice special effects and a few catchy lines to keep us entertained. But that's about it.  "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood is brilliant ! *SPOILERS WARNING*","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first reason that I wanted to watch this movie because it has all my favorite actors  Clint, Tommy, Donald and James.The bad thing is that this movie is slow moving, the climax is in the last 15 minutes. This movie also has comedy in it which I can really laugh.The ending sequence is fantastic. It really beats Armageddon. And the last scene that they put the song Fly me to the moon. It can fit the scene that Tommy Lee Jones lying on the moon.Even though the ending is sad, but it is perfect.If you like space movies with drama, watch this film. "},{"Title":"fun movie about 2nd chances","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was almost exactly what i expected.  Good natured and fun.  At more than 2 hours it didn't seem too long.  The 4 stars are terrific as well as William Devane.The plot is pretty predictable, doesn't seem to bog down anywhere and has the one predictable twist where there had to be a glitch in the mission for the excitement at the end. i enjoyed it. "}{"Title":"Everything The Crew should have been, with many laughs and thrills. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's Space Cowboys details the lives of several modern day elders who were once great Air Force test pilots prepared to be the first Americans in space. These men, Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwod), Hawk Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), Tank Sullivan (James Garner), and Jerry O'Neil (Donald Sutherland), were replaced with a chimpanzee in 1958; they were not happy about this replacement.Frank once designed a system for NASA, a communications satellite, that is now in the hands of the Russian government. While he is not happy his work is in unconsented hands, Frank is willing to fix a failure in its navigational system if allowed to take his old crew to space for old time's sake. Since the satellite is too large to retrieve, reluctant NASA consultant Bob Gerson (James Cromwell) agrees to his requests, even though he feels the old men are incapable of accomplishing the task.Space Cowboys is everything Michael Dinner's The Crew should have been&#133;and more. That film, a spoof about four aging, former mobsters who get back into their old habits, failed to execute its concepts in an amusing fashion. Clint Eastwood constructs this production, part funny comedy, part adventurous drama, with just the right amount of enthusiasm, spirit, and timeliness to captivate audiences across the genre gamut. Because of the opportune release dates both Space Cowboys and The Crew near, I think it is appropriate to compare the two movies to show how they differ from each other. Here are some of this film's strongest areas I have noted compared with the weaknesses of The Crew.Space Cowboys starts on a solid note with a clear, entertaining introduction of its characters. The setup is careful, portraying only necessary motives, developing the conflict thoroughly, and forming involvement.The Crew has little development of anything. The characters are thinly introduced and because of the lack of decent prefaces, the character's intentions are unclear throughout the story, leaving the audience with little to concern themselves.The examination of the central characters in Space Cowboys is smart and clever. The story provides them with personalities we care about and enjoy observing. The movie takes advantage of the character's age and provides many laughs throughout. There is a sense of sly, clever humor that transpires in a variety of situations and interests.The plot in The Crew is not interesting or engaging because I never cared about any of the unexplained characters. The film's ideas are potentially amusing, but the implementations of those ideas are quite poorly accomplished. The plot is defective, and the only humor is stale sight gags and trite one-liners that are not really funny.Space Cowboys contains excellent casting of Clint Eastwood, Donald Sutherland, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner, as well as smaller roles going to Marcia Gay Harden, James Cromwell, Loren Dean (Mumford), and William Devane (Hollow Man). Clint Eastwood handles his role with style and flavor. He directs the material with a solid portrayal of comedy and drama.The Crew also contains an inspiring series of well-cast characters. However, the filmmakers do not take advantage of them. Instead of having some fun with the potentially funny characters, we receive plot heavy circumstances that force us to buy into the happenings, which are all uninspiring.Space Cowboys contains a conflict that provides a basis in which its characters can cut loose. It works well with no limitations on the characters or plot-heavy clichés. Here, we have a plot that is really about characters propelled by a motive and reason. This plot is also quite flexible, and when the film opens a new series of events in outer space, the atmosphere changes from comedic to tense and dramatic.Space Cowboys accomplishes two main things shows just how bad The Crew is and fully explores the talent of Clint Eastwood. Not since Unforgiven has he presented a movie with such striking qualities and involving performances. After the last several Eastwood features, including Absolute Power, and True Crime, I was beginning to think this classic director has lost his touch. But with Space Cowboys he proves me wrong. "},{"Title":"Clint carries it off","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Aging flight veterans, played by producer-director Clint Eastwood and his colleagues, are recalled by NASA to repair a Russian space satellite that uses an antiquated guidance system only the old-timers understand. They get to the satellite and things are not what they seem. Given the weakness of the story, it is a credit to the actors that they get through it without looking ridiculous. More than that, they are credible and engaging in this two-hour light comedy that puts Mission to Mars to shame. Not the greatest movie of the year, but a lovable and enjoyable one. "},{"Title":"Can I go home yet?","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yawn, yawn.  For a movie that is about breaking speed records, this thing really plods along with all but one engine non-functional.  The fault seems to lie with the director and lead actor, Clint Eastwood, as well as the plot itself, which has as many holes in it as the wrecked Soviet spacecraft.The only sparks of fun come from Donald Sutherland, believe it or not, who plays his role with grace and charm.  James Garner also makes the most of what he's been given, which is not much.  Tommy Lee Jones is a little heavy-handed with the hick thing, but, then, that's Tommy Lee.  But Clint Eastwood might just as well be named Clint Deadwood in the credits of this movie, because every line that comes out of his mouth which could have been funny or could have been dramatic lands as flat as his little astronaut-suited ass.These geriatric astronauts waited forty years to go up in space and they taught me one thing - perserverance.  Yes sir, I stuck this thing out, right to the dreadful end, just like our heroes. I was like them...I obviously didn't have anything better to do. "},{"Title":"Impressive Film That Works Because of the Characters","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is one of those films that could have been a pure disaster.  However, Clint Eastwood's direction and the show-stopping performances make Space Cowboys one of the best films of 2000 up to this point.  The film deals with four has-beens who are reluctantly assigned to repair a mysterious Russian satellite which is hovering in deep outer-space.  There is a great balance of comedy and drama which makes the film work as well as it can.  Clint Eastwood and Donald Sutherland are great, but it is Tommy Lee Jones who dominates the action in his own special way.  James Garner is sort of the odd-man-out here, but he still makes a lasting impression as well.  James Cromwell also does well as the villain that the audience will love to hate.  Overall a good film that plays about as well as it can on the big-screen.  4 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Not terrible, mildly entertaining","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hard to know where to start with this movie.  First, you have to applaud a movie that stars six men who qualify as senior citizens and resists pairing them with 22-year-old love interests.  Also, it's hard to argue with the casting; Eastwood, Jones, Garner, Sutherland, Cromwell, and Devane are all outstanding actors and wonderful to see on the big screen.However, only Eastwood and Jones are given much to do in this very formulaic and predictable movie.  After being introduced, Garner and Sutherland are used for little else but advancing Eastwood's and Jones' characters.  One of the six is even given the odious task of uttering the worst cliche in the past twenty years (and you just knew it was coming) I'm getting too old for this s**t.  The science of this movie defies belief, and is roundly lambasted in the Goofs section already.  The odd plot device of having the satellite be Russian was totally unnecessary.  A secret American satellite would have eliminated the need for the stupidity involved with the (completely undeveloped) spy sub-plot.** SPOILER (of sorts) **After it is made clear that Cromwell's character had something to do with transmitting the guidance system to the Russians, he would NEVER have been allowed to stay in the command center, and neither would the Russian.Anyway, the best I could give this would be a five.  Somewhat entertaining in a brainless way.  Wait for cable, you won't be missing much. "},{"Title":"Oh, please!  Not worth the effort.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie.  But you have to be able to suspend belief in this one.  I mean REALLY!  Scientific facts just seem to get in the way, so why bother with them, right?  (The imdb goof section is already full of items, and the movie has been out for only two days!)It's one thing to send a bunch of old codgers into space with minimal training, but it's quite another to believe that the US intelligence network has absolutely no clue what's in the Russian satellite they are trying to fix.  By the way, how did that stereotypical joke of a Russian general outwit our entire military intelligence team?  Their multi-million dollar space gambit makes the $500 toilet seats seem like child's play. There's clearly some fun dialog among the four guys, but the story is pretty lame and character development is weak.  And the fact that Tommy Lee Jones (in real life) is 16 years younger than Clint Eastwood when he is suppose to be about the same age brings to mind the Keaton-Kudrow-Ryan sisterly age difference in Hanging Up.  Great special effects, however.  You really did think you were out walking in space with Clint and the boys. Marcia Gay Harden had an interesting role.  She played a brilliant NASA engineer with an incredibly bad haircut and a crush on Jones and who seems to have time in the midst of an international crisis to give tours to elementary school students!  Now, that's talent!Save this one for video if you are really bored on a long winter night&#133;  "},{"Title":"Don't believe the hype","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing this movie, due to the stellar cast and favorable reviews.  I should have been concerned when a friend told me that it was basically 'Armageddon' with Senior Citizens.  He was right.  Space Cowboys may have much better acting and direction than that odious asteroid flick, but it's every bit as silly, contrived, and full of mile-wide plot holes.Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner are all fun to watch as over-the-hill former test pilots who are improbably chosen to helm a satellite rescue operation.  But the story rapidly degenerates into an endless string of cliches.  The major plot twist is easily predictable.  All of the space scenes are badly edited, and it feels like about 15 important minutes of the film were removed by committee.  The acting of the supporting cast is often inappropriate to the situation at hand.  And while a certain suspension of disbelief is necessary in any science fiction movie, the ending of Space Cowboys is simply ridiculous.There are several funny moments, and plenty of enjoyable banter among the stars.  On the whole, however, Space Cowboys was a real disappointment.         "},{"Title":"The worst Clint Eastwood movie in years","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Mister Eastwood had make some pretty good movies in the 1990's. Something that was warm, realistic, with strong characters. Here, we're in face of just an Hollywood formula movie. When it's suppose to be funny in the first part, it ain't. When it's suppose to be thrilling in the second part, it ain't. Even worst  the cliche about those bad bad bad communists soviets, and the primitive patriotism. The veterans Jones, Garner and Sutherland do the best they can, but we can't relate to them. The fact that these old men, out of service for years, learn to be astronauts in 30 days... please stop!I hope that the next Clint Eastwood movie will be a ... real Clint Eastwood movie. Not Hollywood entertainment. "},{"Title":"You want me to believe WHAT???","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I thought most of the acting was good, some of the special effects were very nice, and there were some rather suspenseful moments.  But I didn't find the film very funny, the plot, especially in the second half, was very sloppy, and the science was terrible.  I like the movies I see to acknowledge that some small part of my brain might possibly be working while I'm viewing them.  There were too many distracting, totally unbelievable elements for me to really enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"Better off renting The Right Stuff","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was disappointed in this one.  Its one bright spot is its lead cast Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner. Unfortunately, the movie spends an hour screwing around with the aged astronauts in training, and then when we finally get into space, everything is woefully ridiculous and predictable.  And this is coming from a guy who's a softie for astronaut movies.  I even felt a twinge by the astronaut self-sacrifices in the maudlin Deep Impact.  But no heart in this movie.Rather than disappointing yourself with a poorly directed (Eastwood) fictional look at NASA, just rent The Right Stuff (which also doesn't monkey with history the way this one does) or Apollo 13.I also thought the movie was a comedy, but the laughs were regrettably few and far between.  "}{"Title":"Occasionally Funny, but fairly uneventful","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went into Space Cowboys expecting to like it, but came out fairly disappointed. First of all, it seemed to be confused, trying to be an action/comedy/drama film, and failing at each of these. Although very funny at times, even the good performances of D. Sutherland and Tommy Lee Jones can barely give the audience reason to care about this group of geriatric astronauts, and Eastwood is a non-factor. "},{"Title":"Loved the actors, script writers should keep their day jobs.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was actually somewhat entertaining, as I think it would be difficult to get Tommy Lee Jones, Clint Eastwood, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner in any movie and have it not be entertaining.  The problem is that the story is so ridiculous, that it can never really rate as a great movie.  If you saw Armageddon, you have some idea as to the plot of this movie.  Pretty similar and ALMOST as ridiculous.  However, if you like these actors, it is worth going to see their performances, and you will get a few good laughs.  Your high school physics teacher will be turning in his grave, though. "},{"Title":"So surprised on second viewing","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I must have watched this on an aeroplane flight the first time, after it first came out - OK, never recommended!Gave it a second shot tonight, and it's one of Clint's best. Not a spectacular 10/10, but good solid entertainment. Good script and great effects. I enjoyed it far more than 'Interstellar' and 'Gravity', though they were both good. I really don't look for deep meanings in movies any more, like many reviewers, but simply want to be entertained, and this did just that. Thankfully, it appeared in some internet list of the top ten space flicks, and I think it deserves to be up there. "},{"Title":"I was expecting more, four great actors but two get to much time.","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie had its moments of humor and seemed like it would be pretty good. Unfortunately to much started happening at the end typical of a movie of this type. It went from a rather light kind of movie to a movie with cancer an Armageddon type plot and it just did not work after the initial training scenes. Clint Eastwood and Tommy Lee Jones take to much time as well, they are both great and all, but I wanted more Donald Sutherland and James Garner. The plot basically has guys who had a chance to go into space taken away from them thanks to the antics of one. Flash years later and a satellite that one of them designed needs repairs. He is asked to train people how to fix it, but he is determined to not only get himself into space, but also the others who missed out on the last launch they had a chance for. So we get to meet our other astronauts and see what they are doing now. One giving rides to people in a plane, one designing rollercoasters and another becoming a minister. The training scenes then ensue and it is these moments that the movie was at its best as it was very humorous. Then they add a plot point that really tells you where the film is going basically giving one of our four astronauts incurable cancer so you know if there is sacrifice to be made who is going to do it. Then add to that a strange plot point involving Soviet nuclear missiles and the fun film is now getting like a typical disaster movie or something. You know what is going to happen next and there are no surprises the rest of the way. Though one thing that did surprise me was the somewhat creepy ending...I mean I was waiting for his visor to pop open and he would be one of the undead. "},{"Title":"A great story idea with greater flaws","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Oh, Hollywood, so close. So close. Space Cowboys could have been that one sci-fi film which had it all fine characters, an intriguing premise, adventure, snappy dialogue, comic relief ... but, as with many science fiction movies, the writers bungled the technical details. Goes to show--if you want to write, learn all you can about everything! Anyway, I'll just list the errors I foundCorvin talks about the IKON probe coming home in a hurry, but he uses Imperial units while the NASA employees use Metric; did he convert the figures in his head?The Shuttle mission is gets a nice, neat, STS-200 designation ... why not 189 or 214 or 223?The Shuttle is also named Daedalus, the name of the original pilot team from the late 50s; c'mon, would NASA rename a Shuttle for a mission?IKON is a HUGE weapons array; seems about as big as the current Space Station Alpha, which from the ground appears as a bright star crossing the sky; *nobody* noticed that huge Russian satellite for all those years?Command pilots appear to be in the wrong seat (commander sits on left, pilot right, just like an airliner).Those pretty, starry backgrounds we ALWAYS see in space movies, but never see in actual photos/films from space (well, Kubrick was close); stars are just too dim given sunlight and the bright Earth below.Donald Sutherland's character ejects injured astronauts as he casually rides out a careening Shuttle re-entry; nope, he's not even thrown around! (Why would he toss them out, anyway?)NASA's top astronauts (Courtney B. Vance, et. al.) seem at least ten years too young to be the seasoned test pilots NASA requires to fly the Shuttle.An astronaut sneaking out on an EVA to finish Corvin's job? Surely the MOST insulting error!Flight directors like William Devane's character don't speak directly with flight crews.There are other flaws--I just listed the most annoying and misleading. It was a good attempt, but Hollywood suffers from a lack of technical understanding about space flight. Most of the mass media does. Too bad, 'cause it just makes for silly entertainment. "},{"Title":"brilliant script , terrific actors, and one of the best film of the year 2000","Date":"20 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Space Cowboys is similar to the movie Armageddon.If you like the movie Armageddon you will definitely like this terrific movie.between those two movie i like way more space cowboys because the was a little more interesting then Armageddon.This movie is in my top 10 movies because of its four brilliant lead actors that did a terrific job in this movie that could not have been any better then this.When I first saw this movie I did not know what to expect.I was asking my self if I really wanted to stay there and watch the movie because it did not look to good when i saw the commercial on t.v.When the movie started I was asking myself is this movie going to be actually good or bad because the beginning was kind of cheese but it turned out to be one of the best movie i've seen in years and I was happy I watched it.Anybody who like Armageddon would like this one for sure and if you didn't like Armageddon, space cowboys is still worth watching "},{"Title":"Superior Adventure; A Great Team Returns for One Last Hurrah","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One not-so-curious fact about film-making is that a very good film usually happens when someone personally shepherds such a film into being. Realistic fiction requires categorizing definitions, which means holding real knowledge of one's subject. One such project, the result of one man's decades of interest in space, culminated from Clint Eastwood's directing of Space Cowboys. It is rare especially since 1972 to find four good parts for older actors, a dozen for contributing supporting actors, a satisfying set of characters, good dialogue and a bang-up climax and memorable ending in the same film. In my judgment, Space Cowboys delivers all these hard-to-find elements. The plot and storyline of what seems at first to be an adventure film are well-interwoven. Four hard-to-control astronauts are deprived of a chance to go into space in 1958 by a dictatorial NASA functionary (James Cromwell) who dislikes their attitude. We find them in the present living different lives of no real consequence. James Garner is a priest, Clint Eastwood is retired with his beautiful wife (Barbara Babcock), Tommy Lee Jones is a daredevil crop-duster pilot and Donald Sutherland, their design specialist, is a womanizing fellow who designs roller- coasters. Their control-freak boss is now a senior leader at NASA. it is learned that an old Russian communications satellite is about to crash back into the atmosphere; in some way, technology designed by Eastwood's character has ended up as its guiding system. So, only the original team can deactivate the satellite's programming and save the day. As Cromwell's character is working with a Russian general on the deactivation problem, the viewer know there is something nefarious about the satellite. After many struggles to get the team of four to be able to pass their physicals in less than 30 days, the veterans working (unhappily) with two young assigned types (Loren Dean, Courtney B. Vance) are launched on the space shuttle to fix the satellite. Dean's character has been subverted by Cromwell; and his action causes a disaster which leads to become a disaster and creates the crisis and climactic action sequences in the film.--the upshot of which is one of the team cannot return to Earth...The technical merits of the film are very fine in my judgment. The script by Ken Kaufman and Howard Klausner was realized by Jack N. Green as cinematographer, Jack Taylor as art director and Henry Bumstead as production designer with many other outstanding contributions by artists to a very attractive film. All the principals are fine, aided by a large cast including Marcia Gay Hardin, William Devane (outstanding), and Blair Brown. Like all Clint Eastwood's films, the film has a clear, spacious look, a pace suitable to its action and performances from people who know what they are to do. This is one man's answer to a world of control-freak bureaucrats and government officials demanding team-play from victimized individuals as the price of their being allowed to do what they do superlatively. Many films have been made on this precise theme, the them of what has gone wrong with the United States in then20th century; this unpretentious adventure has demonstrated the importance of the individual over the collective as well as any, in my opinion. When was the last time you as a viewer thought a film was estimable, memorable and great fun? This one is. "},{"Title":"Space Cowboys brings yesterdays technology to today's viewers","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" As a child of the '60s and a young adult of the '70s, I love to see our t.v./screen idols in redeeming roles that bridge the gap of the generations. What greater examples are there then Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner. This movie offers many opportunities for discussion between the two. There was a pre-world Pokemon technology that lead to today's realities and possibilities. This film brings the reality of yesterday's technology to today's reality. It is important for techno-teens to realize that even though an adult can't master a Nintendo controller, they can by-pass a N.A.S.A system. This is great entertainment without impossible believability. I own the DVD; watch it frequently, and recommend everyone to view this movie at least once. "},{"Title":"Eastwood does it in outer space!","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Space CowboysThis is a sci-fi movie - but it is also thorough Clint Eastwood. A combination that for me can only win. Made well after Unforgiven, it is a mix of the old and the new Eastwood (as demonstrated in Unforgiven).The movie has both charm, some good laughs, lots of cool savvy and a surprise, if not a formula finale. But Eastwood, as is his unerring mature signature, pulls it off in a way that makes it solid drama and credible. The interesting plot, in combination with Industrial Light and Magic effects make this a riveting drama - sucking you in. You are on board and it all happens with you right there. Another winner from Clint. I can only say if you like thrillers - sci-fi or otherwise, see this movie. For a thoroughly fine professional critique of this movie go to the review by Bob Graham, Chronicle Senior Writer - Friday, August 4, 2000 in the San Francisco Chronicle. No need to try to repeat what this pro says.** You can also link there from Roger Ebert's review. "},{"Title":"Pretty damn good for a lot of old guys","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Loved it, I am a huge Eastwood fan, and partial to Tommy Lee Jones and Donald Sutherland, and reasonably fond of James Garner and James Cromwell.This was a great show, funny, and easy to watch.Its not deep, nor is it spacially authentic, it is not Citizen Kane or The Robe, but it is a good film.  It is not Clint Eastwood's best film,(High Plains Drifter) nor is it the best film by any of the other Actors, but is well worth watching.Tommy Lee Jones saying, 'America would be the first country to launch 4 dead bodies into space' is worth the price alone.Funny, Entertaining, and very watchable.Give it a go.       "}{"Title":"Charismatic Crew is fun to watch","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  These four guys are great.  This film has wit, charm and heart as well as a great adventure.  Well-written, directed and acted, this film is a joy.Talent and class like this will soon be in short supply.  In today's crop of actors, I don't see any of the potential for lasting charisma that these four actors have with the possible exception of Nicholas Cage.  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable as both light comedy and suspense in space","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, I loved it. None of the actors is particularly a favorite of mine(though I do have a soft spot for James Garner), but I found the camaraderie very warm, the humor enjoyably silly, and the suspense in outer space edge of the seat and wonderfully presented. One quibble is the assumption that Tommy Lee Jones or Donald Sutherland could possibly have been chosen for the NASA program in the late 1950s -they are just way too young - Jones looks a generation younger than Garner. I'd have chosen, say, Cliff Robertson and Charlton Heston to go off with Garner and Eastwood.I can also understand women feeling that the movie's assumption that  Blair Brown, Marcia Gay Harden and Barbara Babcock would naturally be drawn to men over a decade (or two?) their senior, is pretty chauvinist.I disagree with points made in other reviews a) the men are not shown holding useless occupations now - Garner as a Baptist minister, Jones as a flight thrill pilot for hire, Sutherland as an engineer of roller coasters, and Eastwood as retired - nothing useless there. (In fact, was it Buzz Aldrin who did become a minister?);****SPOILERS**** b) we are told how the Skylab plans were stolen (*** spoiler***) they were downloaded by the NASA bureaucrat to his personal files and the Soviets had stolen them. Moreover, that the Soviets would load the satellite with nuclear weapons seems entirely believable. With both chemical and biological weapons, the Soviet Union went into massive production upon the signing of the treaties banning them! (Production facilities Americans are now dismantling at our cost). **********The movie could also have established better the Garner and Sutherland characters as young men - they just seem to appear. Moreover, the initial scenes of the plane going out of control is simply stolen straight from The Right Stuff (Shepherd's plane goes out of control in just the same way and for the same reasons). But these are quibbles - the movie is charming, the cast warm, believable and very likeable - the last third of the movie is wonderfully dangerous and thrilling.   "},{"Title":"you can see why those who have oscars, have oscars","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Donald Sutherland is ... grand.  Tommy Lee Jones is ... grand.  Even Clint allows himself a twinkle in the eye more than once.  Poor Jim Garner, though, is wasted.  I guess his brand of laid-back loner cool isn't the right stuff for this sort of teamwork star turn.  I enjoyed it, though -- lots and lots of charisma and star power, even now.  These guys fill up the screen, make watching them fun and interesting, and I'm a happy little movie-watching camper.  It's even nice to blame it all on the Russians once more, just for old times sake. "},{"Title":"yee-ha!","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I tried this movie on with a little trepidation.  But I was happy to discover a fun, tongue-in-cheek gem that is sure to please.  It's got action, comedy, romance and a stellar cast.  The name of the movie is a little lacking.  When you put James Garner, Tommy Lee Jones, Clint Eastwood, and Donald Sutherland as the headliners its gotta be good. The plot is a bit thin, stretching the belief to the limit, but the story is really more about the interaction of aging aviators, victory over past wrongs, and old-fashioned moxie.  If you're looking for a nice bit of patriotic escapism, this is a good place to kick off your boots. 8 out of 10 stars (rent it) "},{"Title":"Has it all-romance, revenge, redemption.","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Another in Clint Eastwood's crusade to show that getting older does not mean the end of love, passion, romance and competence. As I get older I really appreciate movies that have heroes who have lived long, full lives and are proud of having done so. "},{"Title":"An acknowledgeable odyssey for Eastwood .","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is an inspired vision for Clint Eastwood to bring to the screen.He's directed it quite involvingly,and he and the other actors do quite a good job acting in it.The film is involving when it needs to be,touching when it needs to be,thrilling when it needs to be,and,reassuringly enough,funny when it needs to be too.The one place the film may have tripped up in filmic stupidity is by the characters not realising that having a Russian in the NASA intelligence team was obviously going to be a hinderance at some point.There is also a lot of swearing in it for a PG movie,and a fair bit of phsyical violence too,which the younger viewers may imitate.Still,this film dosesn't appear to be aimed at the younger viewer anyway,so this should'nt be something to worry about too much.Those with an intaking mind,a nostelgic sense of time and place,and a relishment of seeing personal dreams come true,even the genuine movie conniseur,should have no reason not to enjoy this.*** "},{"Title":"Houston...... we have a problem","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys touted to be one of the better movies in 2000 did not quite live up to this hype. Just because a movie has four of the finest actors in Hollywood does not necessarily mean you will get good results. Clint Eastwood, James Garner, Tommy Lee Jones and Donald Sutherland did their best to save this movie but they failed.Space Cowboys is filled with nothing but 90 min. of dialogue that seemed to make no sense and a story that seemed to be flatter than the ground we walk on. The second problem I found with this film was there seemed to be zero character development created for the audience to have feelings for. I found this out at the end when I didn't care what would happen to them one way or another.The plot was so stupid I had to wander if this was the best the writers could come up with and what made four fine actors choose a script that was obviously a joke. With the talent of Eastwood, Jones, Garner and Sutherland, Space Cowboys had the potential of good movie; however, with the lack of direction and plot it was nothing more than a time waster for me. At the end I just didn't care what would happen I wanted to get out of the theater. The worst thing about this experience was that there were no performances that stood out.There really isn't much more to say other than I expected a lot better from these four actors. My advice is to stay away from this movie as long as you can for your own good. "},{"Title":"quite the wheezy little entertaining comedy/thriller","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Clint Eastwood's Space Cowboys is a good project. Not great, but hey (as the character Eastwood plays says), the clock is ticking, and I'm only getting older. The characters are played so well, the few (if any) plot flaws are just forgotten. These characters are joined back together after a 40 year absence, when they were a air space team. There are 4 of them- Clint Eastwood, Donald Sutherland, James Garner, and Tommy Lee Jones. All of these guys are good at what they do and they show off they're acting skills here. Like Unforgiven, this film shows about people who come out of retirement to do something good. Eastwood hits the marks just right as a thriller in space and as a endearing drama. Not to mention comedy here and there (the best is a one liner by Sutherland that he makes on the Jay Leno show). Fun for young and old alike, not to be taken too seriously, but also shouldn't be forgotten (just like the actors and they're performances) like some of Eastwood's lessor 80s projects. B+ "},{"Title":"Hysterically Funny!","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've worked in this industry so I know a lot of this is real. All the jokes and digs at each other regarding age is a common practice. I like watching this film over and over.It makes me laugh a lot. They couldn't have picked a better cast. It would be nice to see a few more films which handles the aging process of the old guy in todays society. I think this is a film that will live on for a very long time.People are always going to getting older and pushed aside by society so I think it has a lot of value through humor.I like it almost as much as the old western's.Great cast can't miss with these four super stars. My wife even likes the film.It's a rare movie that both husbands and wives can enjoy together.We both laughed out loud a lot. The Nasa footage was great! I'm sure they enjoyed working with all of the equipment. I highly suggest you watch this film next time it's on,or go buy it. "},{"Title":"Touching movie.","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I've seen this movie 5 times and I can't get enough, If you like space stories, then this is your best choice. Fill with drama, action and real heart touch Space Cowboys is one of the best works from Mr. Eastwood film carrier.Great performances from Donald, Tommy and James, make this story almost real and gratefully.Another point to rescue from the movie are the scenarios. All the training equipment for astronauts, shuttle, suits make-up etc., they really give structure to the movie.But the most important message that remains from the film is that we should not forget the incredible amount of experiences from our grand fathers, specially on moments of crisis, they already drove over our path and we should get their advices often to our livesI really suggest you to go and buy this DVD.Great Movie "}{"Title":"Fine entertainment with big stars to boot!","Date":"24 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Any film that had all these big stars would be worth watching no matter what the movie was about----This movie has it all--comedy--suspense--action and fine special effects---The interaction between the actors is great---Being a big Clint Eastwood fan i feel he has done it again as a director creating a very entertaining film---fine acting by all the actors especially the veterans is a treat to watch--I must say however i enjoyed the first half of the movie the best because of the back and forth dialogue of these fine actors.I can not think of any other veteran actors who could have have done a better job. overall very good entertainment without a lot of sex and needless violence. "},{"Title":"Positive comments","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Good film, much better than expected. The four main characters are a very good mix. Good believable effects. Hawk's final ride is the way to go! "},{"Title":"Armageddon Older Every Minute","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  MAY HAVE SOME SPOILERS HERE - WHO CAN TELL?Wait a minute. This formulaic re-hash of previous space movies seriously assaulted the senses of my group of middle aged men with both its lack of an intelligent script and embarrassing acting. We started cringing from the opening scene. Younger actors play the roles of hot-dogging pilots and when they speak - get this -their voices are dubbed by Tommy Lee Jones and Clint.  And dubbed Godzilla badly.We giggled like cheerleaders.  Was that an intentional choice made by mature filmmakers? From what I read, the critics would have you believe it was.Flash to the present, these guys are older now, responsible citizens in society.  They are rounded up by NASA and are needed to save the world from a decaying Russian space station which is plummeting to earth (sound familiar?).  At this particular moment in movie time, NASA is being run by a character played by James Cromwell, a character so incompetent that he speaks in a southern dialect for every other line reading, thus giving us the impression that he only intermittently remembers which region of the United States he was born in.  What in the Sam-hell is that about?  Can a legitimate script writer really use words like Sam-hell and think he's getting away with it?We, as a group, are gagging by now.  Rob has already finished his popcorn and is having gas pains (could it be a cardiac event?)Then, the movie chooses to focus heavily on its Number one offender - the woman who played the NASA Space Administrator- (Sarah in the movie, though IMDB does not credit the character name).  She is so damned awful that every time the camera closes up on her overheated expressions, the entire audience gasped as one tortured animal. No kidding, it wasn't just us. Then, well,,,,Is it possible that anyone in the audience didn't expect the sequence of events as they unfolded. Old men teaching the young men a thing or two.In my day, people had to steer their own planes.  Ok, no one actually said that, but  CLOSE,  REAL CLOSE.And the ubiquitous threat of mass destruction And the romantic subplot.  YUCH. and the Dr. Smith type bad guy along for the ride.Twenty minutes into the movie, we placed bets. Four old men going up into space, which ones don't return.  Get this, we all were right.Understand this The writers (and I heard there were hundreds of them) for Armageddon should sue.  This was Art Buchwald-like too close for comfort.We stayed for the end. Although Neil and Rob slept through half the space flight (Everything took a laboriously long time to develop- especially since we are forced to view the events through the eyes of over-eager Sarah - YUCH AGAIN).Not a single element of surprise. Not a single unexpected plot twist. We left before the credits rolled. Rob's gas pains got worse. He admitted that he has diverticulitis. So did this movie. "},{"Title":"'Fly Me to the Moon' - by gravitational attraction??","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This review covers an 'emotional' event at the climax of the movie 'Space Cowboys' which, I believe, reveals either the creative team's woeful ignorance of a few basic principles of physics or their contempt towards their audience with a 'well - they are too ignorant to know the difference so let's include it!' mentality. This relates to Tommy Lee Jones's character, Hawk, falling towards the Moon due to its gravitational field before dying, propped up against a rock, having finally achieved his long-awaited goal of reaching the lunar surface.It is implied that, once the spaceship was closer to the Moon than the Earth, namely just past halfway through their journey, the greater gravitational field of the Moon would cause him to fall towards it rather than towards the Earth. This, however, is manifestly untrue, due to the significantly greater mass of the Earth than the Moon. Given that the Earth's mass is approximately 80 times that of the Moon and gravitational field strength is directly proportional to mass and inversely proportional to distance squared, it is a simple mathematical exercise to show that the point where the two field strengths are equal is actually the square root of 80 (approximately 9) times further from Earth than the Moon. In other words, the spaceship would need to be 90% of the way from the Earth to the Moon, with only 10% of the distance still to go, before the gravitational 'pull' of the Moon upon an object exceeds that of the Earth's 'pull'.A simple analogous comparison can be made between this and the gravitational attraction on Earth compared with that of a small permanent magnet. Because the former is much stronger than the latter, a small iron paper clip, on Earth, would fall downwards rather than 'leap' upwards towards a small magnet held 1 metre above it. If, however, the magnet was only 1 centimetre above the paper clip, instead of 1 metre, the greater strength of the magnetic field, due to the smaller distance between the magnet and the paper clip, than the gravitational field exerted by the Earth would cause it to move upwards.Therefore, the spaceship needed to be much closer to the Moon - and therefore further from the Earth - for Hawk's fall to be physically possible, but I assume that this would not have fitted in with the simple 'oh they are halfway there - that will be close enough!' idea employed in the movie.This leads onto a second problem that I have with this part of the movie Hawk's landing on the surface of the Moon. He uses an escape pod with no apparent facility to control its rate of descent to travel in, which would make the experience similar to plummeting towards the surface of the Earth without a parachute. On the positive side, the Moon is lighter than the Earth, so the rate of acceleration during the descent would be less than if the mass of the Moon was equal to that of the Earth; however, on the negative side, as the Moon has no atmosphere, there would be no air resistance to act against the acceleration caused by this gravitational attraction. There would therefore be no terminal velocity reached and Hawk's craft would probably hit the surface of the Moon harder than if he had fallen and landed - without the benefit of a parachute - from an aeroplane 10 miles above the Earth's surface. A much faster death, admittedly, than slow death by cancer, but not the version shown at the end of the movie!In fantasy or Sci-Fi movies I am happy for the laws of science to be modified, and for wormholes in time, spaceships moving at warp speed and men able to fly wearing red capes to proliferate, but for a plot ostensibly set in the 'real' world - Armstrong, Glenn and Shepard all get a name check after all! - the 'real' laws of science need to be obeyed for the story to be credible. In my opinion, when this is not the case the movie as a whole suffers as a consequence. "},{"Title":"Spaced Out Cowboys.","Date":"19 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Space Cowboys (2000) Dir Clint Eastwood / Cast Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, James Garner, James Cromwell Comedy full of clichés and a shiny new paint job, which makes it very pleasant. It regards the old and the new where four astronauts are replaced by a chimpanzee. Forty years later Clint Eastwood is called by N.A.S.A. to correct a problem regarding a Russian Communication Satellite heading towards earth. He is an ex-fighter pilot who agrees fix the problem but only with his old team. They include Tommy Lee Jones as a stunt pilot; Donald Sutherland who manufactures roller-coasters; and James Garner who has entered the priesthood. James Cromwell plays the project manager and it becomes clear that Eastwood doesn't share much liking to him. Hilarious training sequence falls under predictable formula with a disappointing conclusion. Eastwood as director concentrates on humour until veering into technical elements. Here he translates the old and the new with veteran actors within the advancement of technology. Eastwood himself has always been gifted whether in front or behind the camera but rarely has he been backed by such a group of supporting players of his own age group that are able to equally hold space with him. It works well despite predictable elements but it contains a strong theme regarding age over technology. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"some comedy some drama","Date":"8 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In 1958, 'Hawk' Hawkins crashes the test plane while recklessly breaking the altitude record almost killing himself and Frank Corvin. Manager Bob Gerson takes away the guys' space mission and replace them with a chimpanzee. In the present day, a Russian satellite is going off course. NASA would rather let it fall but the Russians want it fixed. Bob Gerson (James Cromwell) is the project manager eager to fix it for political reasons. The guidance system is ancient and is a copy of one written by Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood). He tells Gerson to send up Team Dædalus which is himself, Hawk (Tommy Lee Jones), Jerry O'Neill (Donald Sutherland) and Tank Sullivan (James Garner). There is something underhanded about the Russian having US tech during the Cold War and Gerson has no intention of letting the geezers into space.There are some old people jokes but the movie is not as jokey as one would expect. Surprisingly, the four guys don't get the I'm too old for this s*** line. It's great to see these old guys together. I was hoping for snappier dialog and sharper exchanges. The comedy could be much better.The story is pretty preposterous. There are lots of things that struck me the wrong way. The action seems to be halfway between the realism of Apollo 13 and the wild action of a Michael Bay movie. It has some exciting CGI moments but it's always tinged with a good handful of manufactured fiction. Two human interaction scenes seem wrong to me. First, I don't understand why Hawk is the one who rides the rocket to the moon. It seems that he's the crazy reckless pilot that's needed to land the shuttle. Frank is much more reasonable to be sent to the moon. Second, I don't understand how Gerson isn't arrested for allowing technology to slip to the Russians. Quite frankly, he can't guarantee that he isn't actually a Russian agent. And I won't mention all the crazy space maneuvers. "},{"Title":"Old geezers in space","Date":"26 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Maybe not the best movie directed by Clint Eastwood and maybe not the best space movie but certainly enjoyable enough to watch. The scenario is not highly believable but then again it's just a movie. I seriously doubt that those elderly men would pass any of those NASA tests, but Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner are apparently cut out of another wood then us. I thought all actors did their job like they should. There are no Oscar performances here but it doesn't really matter. It's a nice adventure movie where you don't have to think too much. The story is simple and I wasn't expecting much more out of it. Old guys sent to space to save the world. Mission accomplished... "},{"Title":"Nice goofy story with a weird twist at the final conflict","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The story is so Clint Eastwood in nature, especially so when he is playing a role himself in it. It has the elements of old characters, military backgrounds, culture clashes, and some funny moments here and there. The movie nicely builds up the story at the first act for the first hour, being funny at every culture clash and pride of older generation meeting the younger people. But I feel that the second act's surprise twist, although very much predictable from the presence of the Russian general early on, is really unnecessary. The twist puts the focus to a shift from a somewhat funny story of old people to a story of doubted old people saving the world. The acting is a really great job in overall. Having Clint Eastwood at the lead role is a great choice for this kind of character background. Putting Tommy Lee Jones at his side builds up the story and character relations even better. The presence of Donald Sutherland and James Garner adds the complete angles for the character diversity. Ultimately having Marcia Gay Harden, James Cromwell and William Devane completes the story. "},{"Title":"You are never too old to have fun","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" What movie with Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones. James Garner, James Cromwell, Donald Sutherland, and Marcia Gay Harden wouldn't be worth a look. This one has it all, but mostly laughs. This Clint Eastwood produced and directed movie is great simply because the cast doesn't appear to take it seriously. They are just having fun. And special effects? They are better here than other movies like Armageddon and Deep Impact. If you like movies where people are considered outdated or replaceable and prove the experts wrong, then this is the one. I watch it and keep getting reminded about all those COBOL experts who were back making the big bucks just prior to the millennium change. "},{"Title":"four now-elderly former test pilots fly into space to rescue falling satellite","Date":"28 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I should say upfront that I don't especially like Clint Eastwood that well, either as actor, or as a director, for various reasons I won't go into here.That said, Space Cowboys isn't a bad film despite some problems in logic, or plausibility. Basically, Eastwood(Frank Corvin) is called upon to help keep a falling Russian communications satellite, ICON, from plunging to earth. Having been part of Project Daedalus in the late 1950s, test pilots who were to have been the first U.S. astronauts until policy was changed, and NASA officially formed, Corvin insists on his old teammates being brought into the mission as the price for his help.ICON turns out to be in reality an orbiting nuclear missile platform left-over from the Cold War, and after near-disaster in orbit, Hawk Hawkins who has just learned he has terminal cancer, manages to fly the missile platform all the way to the Moon disposing of the missiles into deep space, apparently, on the way, as the last scene shows his body on the lunar surface amongst the ICON debris.There is also some doubt about whether Eastwood and Co. can return or not as their shuttle was damaged in orbit, but they do, of course. This film was produced before the shuttle Cloumbia disaster, so we now know they would not have been able to return safely with that much surface damage in all probability.Ther are some other problems, as I'm not entirely sure there was enough rocket thrust on ICON( and the extra oxygen tanks as well? If I understood Hawks answer right) to break out of earth orbit. It is a movie, of course, and we're willing to make some allowances for the sake of the pathos this action by Hawk gives the movie.I'm not sure if Daedalus itself actually existed, but I believe it is correct that the test pilots of the various rocket planes, and such of the late 1950s were, indeed, meant to be our first astronauts until the policy change.In any case, James Garner, Tommy Lee Jones and Donald Sutherland all seem to have enjoyed doing this film a great deal, and there have been far worse such made. "}{"Title":"A Clint Eastwood Home Movie With Benefits","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There are two kinds of Clint Eastwood movies--the hard, intense, high-energy driven films that create box-office buzz, and the easy-going creations such as Bronco Billy and The Bridges of Madison county, where the old pro relaxes and lets his adult viewers do likewise. This film about four old pals recruited to zoom into space on an emergency mission is likable, easy-going, and its fun to see guys like Tommy Lee Jones and Donald Sutherland relax and let us enjoy a film without cars exploding every five minutes or pools of blood collecting every time a door is opened. This is a movie that Eastwood probably could have directed in his sleep, but it will keep you entertained and awake. "},{"Title":"Good news/Bad news . . . even though the good outweighs the bad","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are some movies that are so well-done, and so likeable, besides, that a person can feel like more than a bit of a heel for criticizing anything about them at all.  Space Cowboys definitely falls into this category.  (In fact, I'm already feeling so lowdown that, once done here, I'll probably go out and pick a blind man's pocket.)The good news in this film -- and it's very good news -- is that Eastwood the director sublimates Eastwood the actor, allowing Tommy Lee Jones the central focus.  Jones, a superb actor in virtually every assignment he undertakes, is more than up to the task here, giving one of his very finest and balanced performances.The bad news, however, is that in putting the focus on Jones (and upon the decades-old rivalry between Jones' and his own characters), Eastwood largely wastes the talents of co-stars James Garner and Donald Sutherland, both of whom are allowed to only tantalize us with glimpses of what they might have brought to the table with their characters in a more balanced approach.The result of this oversight is disappointment.  Expectations which the simple presence of Garner and Sutherland automatically raise go largely unfulfilled.  A better approach might have been the casting of two lesser name actors in their roles.But is the movie itself a disappointment?  Far from it!  To be sure, it's fairly predictable, yet when predictability's done even half so well as here, when the result is a truly amiable, engaging and ultimately satisfying movie, then predictability is hardly a crime.  If the various heavies of the piece (James Cromwell and William Devane, principally) and their motivations become at times fairly muddled and convoluted, so be it; Eastwood, Jones and co. still manage to hit all the high notes in perfect pitch.Now then, where's that blind man . . . ?   "},{"Title":"Very good.","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I really thought that this movie was going to be stupid. I mean old guys going into space, how exciting is that? Well it turn out that it is very exciting! Clint Eastwood is awesome. The man is 71 years old and he is still the ultimate badass. The man has not stared in a bad movie. Also I am a big fan of Tommy Lee Jones and James Garner. Besides being suprisingly action packed, the movie is also funny. Those glasses that Sutherland wears are hilarious. The funniest part is when they are on The Tonight Show. I really think that this movie was good, with good direction by Clint. The movie holds your interest for the 2+ hours that it runs. I highly suggest that you see this. It was really good. I don't think that you will be dissapointed. 10/10! "},{"Title":"Good, but had some problems.","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed Space Cowboys. All in all, I liked it. But the casting was poor. In the opening scene, it said 1958. I was thinking about it, and realized that in 1958, Tommy Lee Jones would have been 11 or 12 years old. Even though Jones' face makes him look older, he doesn't pass for 65. The guy is only 54. Plus, does Tommy Lee Jones have to play the same screaming jerk in all his movies? The only emotion he can play well is anger. Ever since he won his academy award for 1993's The Fugitive, he hasn't been able to stop yelling. This movie is no exception. Between his age and his acting, I didn't like him as Hawk. Donald Sutherland and Clint Eastwood were good in their roles. Sutherland's was the best in the movie. Unfortunately 90% of the screen time was devoted to Jones and Eastwood. James Garner was another problem. Garner, who happens to be a terrific actor, was too old. Watching him try to exercise was downright painful. There is no way on Earth that Garner's character Tank passed the physical requirements required for the mission. In one scene he needs help just to get out of his chair. I don't mean any disrespect, but he had trouble keeping up with the other three. Of the four he was the oldest, at 72, 18 years older than Jones. "},{"Title":"A Nice Surprise","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  By the looks of the trailer and title of this movie I thought that this was another stupid movie; boy was I wrong! It has a very good cast, a good story (may be hard to imagine!) and is funny at the same time. You might not think that this a good movie but go take a look at it, you may get a nice surprise like me!7,3 out 10  "},{"Title":"Good Effects.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys was a commonplace action movie enlivened by very good special effects.  Acting was good and the story though predictable was fast paced and entertaining.  I would have liked more time to be spent in space and maybe more time spent on the script but overall it is a worthwhile movie to watch. "},{"Title":"Great Storytellers, Dumb Story","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With a different cast and a different director, `Space Cowboys' might've been an appallingly bad film.  Under Clint Eastwood's direction, though, and with a cast that simply exudes a lot of respect and charm, it becomes enjoyable.  This would never be a great movie, no matter who was in it &#150; the cliché-riddled script is laden with too much preposterous schmaltz &#150; but the characters are so engaging, that almost goes unnoticed.  Almost.  `Space Cowboys' is proof of the fact that good storytellers can make any story entertaining, even the bad ones.`Space Cowboys' opens with the discovery that a satellite formerly operated by the Soviet Union is out of control and slowly falling to Earth.  In order to bring the satellite back under control, an old on-board computer needs to be reactivated &#150; unfortunately, this can only be done by manually punching in a nearly forgotten computer code.  This code, which the Soviets stole from the U.S. military, was originally written by Dr. Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood) &#150; as it turns out, he's the only one who knows exactly how to shut down this Soviet satellite.  (Implausible?  Keep reading.)  Instead of teaching the code to a qualified astronaut, Corvin insists on going into space to personally enter the code into the Soviet computer, and also insists that some of his friends and colleagues be sent with him &#150; seems Corvin was part of a military group training for space flight back in the 1950s, and no one in that group ever got that chance to travel into space.  Corvin wants to give his old group, despite their advancing age their long-denied chance to fly into space.The movie's definitely a `feel-good' story &#150; it's got the obligatory training montages, the geriatric `Grumpy Old Men'-style jokes, the rivalries that flare up after being buried for so many years, a May/December romance, and nearly a dozen other predictable moments that you'd expect from a film like this.  There's very few genuinely innovative or novel moments in `Space Cowboys' (except for the very end, which is original . . . but said ending also borders on hokey and ludicrous).  However, this actually doesn't matter much, as Clint Eastwood and the rest of his outstanding cast so effortlessly make their characters likeable, you find yourself caring about them and what they're doing, even though what they're doing is incredibly predictable.  Eastwood is terrific as the gruff, intractable Corvin, but what's truly amazing is that as director, he lets his character step to the side to let the others breathe and flex their charm. Hawk (Tommy Lee Jones) is a perfect match for Corvin &#150; both are passionately fierce warriors, and because they're so similar, they hate each other.  (I'd personally love to see Mr. Eastwood and Mr. Jones together in a better film).  O'Neill (Donald Sutherland) is funny as the aging self-styled Casanova of the group, and the pilot-turned-preacher `Tank' Sullivan (James Garner) is equally as fierce a warrior as either Corvin or Hawk . . . he's just more understated in how he goes about his business.  The four actors exude so much screen presence, it's amazing &#150; and the performances they put on make `Space Cowboys' a lot of fun.Still, despite these great performances, `Space Cowboys' is, at its core, a poorly written movie.  Great acting can only mask this simple fact to a limited extent.  `Space Cowboys' is still kind of fun, but dumb fun.  It's good watching if you're in a mood for a light, pleasant comedy, or if you're a fan of Eastwood or any of the other actors involved in the film.  Grade B- "},{"Title":"Good show","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys brings four great actors onto one stage.  Clint Eastwood (Dr. Frank Corvin), Tommy Lea Jones (William Hawk Hawkins), Donald Sutherland (Jerry O'Neill) and James Garner (Tank Sullivan) bring some good magic to the screen. The chemistry between them is good and it makes the movie enjoyable.  The plot is good as well but not terribly original.  The plot takes some liberties from a made for TV movie called Meteor but not many.  This is easily forgiven.  However, the idea of sending four older astronauts up to fix and old sat, regardless of short time required to train younger personnel is a little bit of a stretch.  It does make for a some interesting situations though.  The one major draw back to this movie is the amount of time they actually are in space attempting to fix the main problem.  It is short.  Too short for my taste.  It almost seems the problems they encounter on the ground are more difficult and were considered to take priority in the movie than the problem in space, which only takes about 20 short minutes to fix. Over all, this one is worth your while (7 out of 10).  "},{"Title":"Yippee-ky-yay!","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think it's safe to say that Space Cowboys is the movie Armageddon wanted to be.  The plot elements, come to think of it, are rather similar.  But, unlike Armageddon, it's a lot of fun, it doesn't take itself too seriously, there's no stupid romantic subplot, and the characters are actually likable.  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't expect a lot from this movie. I knew it was directed by Eastwood, one of our generations' most underrated directors, but it still looked hokey to me. But finally upon seeing the DVD, I was surprised. It was very entertaining. Sure, it was totally predictable. But it was still fun. The four old guys are perfectly cast and played very well, especially Sutherland, who was hilarious. And it's good to see two of the original Kelly's Heroes together again. This is a fun movie. "}{"Title":"Donald Sutherland in sunglasses? Oh what fun!","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a good movie.  Not an epic, but it's an average good movie.  I loved it.  Although the first half hour is boring, the next half hour is slow.  But the last hour is more fun than I've had in awhile.It isn't a perfect movie though.  Doesn't much say what happens to the characters.(SPOILERS)Such as, what happened to the dip shark who ruined it for everyone.  Or the black guy (Roger??)  William Devane & oh whats her name (the girlfriend of Hawke)were a distraction, and unimportant to the movie (in my opinion). We've got plot holes as thick as that last pan style pizza I had. Despite alllll that.  It was fun to watch.  And getting to see Donald make an a** of himself was also quite the jolly.  Him I actually liked watching big ol time for once.  Oh sure Donald is a fine actor but for once he let the unserious side out for a day.I'm not totally sure all the old folks will be jumpin at the chance to see this, or fans of Tommy Lee Jones meeting the same fate he did in Under Siege.  (I know my grandpa doesn't appreciate seeing Sean Connery being killed off in Untouchables, so he hates the movie and won't watch it.  Not sure about the hate part, but he won't watch it.But it's up to them I'm sure. )7/10 "},{"Title":"Grumpiest old astronauts","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Take four elderly acting legends, add the space program (a good hot-button topic in the movies, as always), sprinkle in some action and romance (however unbelievable), and you have yourself the genesis of Space Cowboys, a movie that veers a little from broad comedy to gut-wrenching tension.Frank (Clint Eastwood),  Hawk (Tommy Lee Jones), Jerry (Donald Sutherland), and Tank (James Garner) were supposed to be the first men in space in 1958, but they were screwed over by a petulant supervisor, Bob Gerson (James Cromwell), in favor of a chimp. Imagine the slight! You've worked extra-special hard at your job for so long, preparing for a Great Big Important Job, only to have your promised position handed over to a monkey! You can see why Frank might be a tad upset over this.More than 40 years later, the boys are long in the tooth and are doing just about anything but working for NASA. Frank's enjoying retirement. Hawk is a cropdusting pilot. Jerry designs roller coasters. And Tank's an ordained minister. Ah, but NASA needs them! Seems Russia has this old satellite orbiting Earth that's going to fall to terra firma in about a month. And since it's such an old beast, it has design plans that came from Skylab - which, conveniently, Frank designed. And, also conveniently, he's the only one who can fix this satellite and bring it in safely, rather than have it crash to Earth. (Apparently, that would be bad. Don't ask why.)Bob Gerson reluctantly asks his old nemesis Frank to help him out, and Frank says he'll fix the problem - but only if he can go up. Oh, and his team. Gerson agrees, and the Daedulus team - Frank, Hawk, Tank, and Jerry - train for their mission. Did I mention they're really, really old? So you get your share of Ensure jokes and false-teeth hee-haws. Granted, it's a one-joke premise, but it's such a darn good one.And the characters are fun, too. Hawk's a devil-may-care tough guy, a persona Tommy Lee Jones has played many, many times. Frank's a cranky old man, cantankerous and crotchety ,but a true leader. Jerry's a womanizer - and my goodness, he's gotta be over 70. Only the character of Tank seems a little less detailed than his compatriots, although I'm not sure if this is just slacker writing or an intention of the screenwriter.The plot is a little predictable, and if you've seen any movies over the past 20 years or so, you'll recognize a lot of twists before they become twists. See Armageddon, Deep Impact, Mission to Mars, and Red Planet for some ideas - or go into this one a little fresher, with wide-open eyes.Either way, you'll be entertained. The four leads in this movie are a LOT of fun to watch, and if you've followed their careers at all, it's a hoot to see how the actors have evolved since their early days. They have gone from iconoclasts of society to plaster icons (a phrase that was once used to describe The Beatles, only in reverse). Sutherland played a lot of rebellious sorts during the turbulent 1960s-1970s, and had achieved leading-man status by the time Klute came out in 1974; now he plays authority figures, such as in JFK and The Puppet Masters. Eastwood got his start with spaghetti Westerns, then shot to the bigger time as Dirty Harry - but he remains a tough guy, doesn't he? Revered by society, but he still looks like he doesn't give a damn. Garner went from Maverick and innocuous Doris Day movies to the tough but urbane stylings of Jim Rockford; now he plays dignified, intelligent characters. And Tommy Lee? Ok, so he's still the barnstorming, hell-raising fool he's always been. I didn't even think he was old enough to be in this movie, although he sure had me convinced by the time the film was over.In short, good solid fun.  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best movies I have seen in years. Laughter, excitement, and even sadness. The interaction between the starts was great. Sure it wasn't a big budget film like Gladiator, but it was what it was designed to be, entertaining. very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Ridem Cowboys in Space","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not a space western but an interesting story.  Ridem cowboys!A great Cast.  Great Characters.  Great Special Effects.  Somewhat believable at first.  Clint, Donald, James, Tommy were great as always. Especially Donald Sutherland.  Some great space effects. The ending was over the top and not believable but I guess they felt they had to do something special to remember one of the crew.Saw it once. Might watch it again free. "},{"Title":"A real hoot","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's refreshing to see four (well, O.K., three and a half!), of Hollywood's more famous &#145;senior citizens', Eastwood, Garner, Sutherland, and the junior member, Tommy Lee Jones, obviously having so much fun.Clint Eastwood has produced and directed well over twenty five films in a career spanning around fifty years. He's appeared in countless more. His first directorial effort, `Play Misty For Me',  was, to my way of thinking,  a near perfect piece of film making.  In his latest, `Space Cowboys', Eastwood proves that he is able to tackle any subject matter he cares to take on. Though there's never been any doubt about that in my mind.Eastwood himself, is rather wooden an actor. That, however, is not why I go and see an Eastwood film. I go because I know I am going to spend the next couple of hours, being thoroughly entertained. And believe me, `Space Cowboys' is a very amusing film. All the cinematic/story, cliches are there, but who cares. As soon as the film starts, you're swept along so fast, you could be forgiven for thinking your in the supersonic planes the guys are flying in the film's opening sequences.A special mention should be given to William Devane, who plays the man in charge of Mission Control - to the hilt.  "},{"Title":"yee-HAW!!!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A terrific movie on all counts. Great cast (Mr. Eastwood, Mr. Jones, Mr. Sutherland, Mr. Garner, et all), great lines, great writing, great acting, and a fun movie to watch as well. The four forementioned actors are the only people who can fix a broken, out-of-date sattelite and give it their best shot.This film is for all types, and you will like it. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Decent But Could Of Been Improved.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A great cast and Clint Eastwood as director made this film look very good. It was an average picture, not as good as you may expect, but enjoyable enough.Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood) was lined up to be the first American man in space, but lost out to a monkey. Forty years later he gets his chance when a satellite using the guidance system he designed starts to drop out of orbit. He insists on taking along his original team of old timers and NASA has little option but to accept. There are generally more bad things than good about Space Cowboys. It is over-long, far-fetched and the two main actors, Tommy Lee Jones and Clint Eastwood, are overused, leaving the two supporters, James Garner and Donald Sutherland, with very little dialogue. Still, this is a good attempt at a sci-fi action comedy, with great art design and effects and a script that occasionally rocks the house. There are also some outstanding scenes of hilarity, including one when Lee Jones takes a teenager for a horrifying ride in an aeroplane and he ends up flying his food all over the plane.Overall, Eastwood has directed a film that is good, but, with a little more effort, it could of been great.I rate Space Cowboys 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Despite what some may think, this ain't no boring 'oldies' flick","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I know there is no one out there who will question the acting abilities of these 4 &#145;oldies', for all of these guys has got some qualities and are known to have them, otherwise they would not have been in the business so long. They showed those qualities too, I must say and I was quite pleased with this film, for it was funny, entertaining, well paced, had enough action, good characters (I liked all4 &#145;oldies', though I felt James Garner was the least funny and therefore worst) and an especially good opening sequence (the best I've ever seen featuring the young guys and than the older guys, for that dude really looked like Eastwood and had the same voice too WELL DONE). I could go on like this, but the point I am heading to is, that the only downside to this film was, that it was too predictable 3 or 4 times in the movie. For the rest I got nothing to complain about. Good space flick (10000000000000000 times better than Mission to mars anyhow).7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood did it again!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" NASA is sending into space four aged men as astronauts on                  a super important mission.                  These geriatrics, one of them who even had all his teeth replaced with false teeth,                  must pass the well-known high physical requirements for astronauts.                  As implausible as it sounds, you will be amazed how this film will make you                  willingly suspend your disbelief when the screen persona of the four aging men in                  the lead roles radiate into the film theater.                 In less capable hands, the story material will be one of those corny comedies or                  could even turn out to be a hi-tech yawn a l  Armageddon.                 But Eastwood, a living legend as a film actor, succeeded to make the film tickle                  audiences' sense of humor in a grown-up way. As an action film, Space                  Cowboys' outer space scenes are heart-pounding.                 Eastwood may be a road worn actor but since he is also gifted with directing                  skills, he can say 'no' anytime to retirement and stars in his own films where his                  age can fit in.                                    The film has a moderate pace in contrast to recent action/comedy movies                  directed by young filmmakers who are more familiar with shooting music videos                  and TV commercials. It takes time to flow but it takes off the ground from the very                  beginning.                  The film, however, does not spend much time to develop the characters. Most of                  the film's key characters are as thin as a piece of paper especially Garner's. But                  the film is not supposed to be taken seriously.                 Eastwood and Jones who are still in very good shape are almost believablein                  surviving the NASA hard physical training, but Garner and Sutherland arenot.                  The authenticity, however, comes from its outer space segments which                  were filmed with a cooperation of NASA and were shot at the Johnson Space                  Centerin Houston, Texas, and the Kennedy Space Center  in Orlando, Florida.                  The special effects by Industrial Light and Magic are also awesome plus replicas                  of a space shuttle interior and an early experimental jet.                 Overall, Space Cowboys is a good, enjoyable film.                 Eastwood is having a good time and fortunately, he shares it with us.  "},{"Title":"The chimpanzee was smarter than they were","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's 1958, and a group of the finest aviators the airforce has to offer known as team Daedalus, are on the brink of being the first Americans to be sent into space. Due to some backroom politics and the intervention of their moody commander, Gerson (James Cromwell) the team is grounded and replaced by a chimp.Jump to modern day, and a crippled Russian communications satellite is in a degrading orbit with all systems offline. Gerson, now a NASA bureaucrat has no other option than to find the retired Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood), original Daedelus team member and designer of the guidance system that has somehow found its way onto the satellite, and ask his old nemesis for help.Desperate to have one last shot at space, and eager to rub Gerson's nose in it, Frank agrees on the condition that he can re-unite the team and take them all with him. Enter Hawk Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), Tank Sullivan (James Garner), and Jerry O'Neil (Donald Sutherland), combined age 250years plus, for the most ridiculous yet enjoyable space romp since Capricorn One.The team have to settle past differences, pass a rigorous NASA medical test and embark on a training course which should take months, but of course our wrinkly heroes only have a few days....The cast really milk the OAP gags in these earlier scenes, and it's all done with tongue firmly in cheek. Sutherland's character is blind as a bat so he cheats the sight test by memorising the sequence of letters, and there's generally lots of one-up-manship as the old codgers attempt to impress various female members of the technical and training staff by behaving like they're 20 again...The plot is fairly ridiculous, as it gradually transpires that Gerson has some hidden agenda behind his reasons for wanting to rescue the satellite, and subsequently has no intention of actually sending the team up to do the job until there's a press leak, and the whole project becomes a John Glenn-esque media circus. The fogeys instantly become national heroes and the vice president HIMSELF insists they're the right stuff.The space scenes themselves are extremely accomplished, and although director Eastwood decided not to film aboard the 'vomit comet' which produced such excellent effects in Apollo 13, space has nonetheless rarely looked so detailed and realistic.Needless to say, nothing on this particular mission goes according to plan, and what starts out as a relatively routine salvage job turns into a fully-fledged disaster requiring the astronauts to perform above and beyond the call of reasonable duty.It's cheesy, it's very American, and there are more out-and-out gung-ho heroics than a dozen Top Guns, but eastwood keeps any saccharine sentimentality to a bare minimum and concentrates on keeping the story moving along at a decent tempo.It's not an essential movie that will change your life, nor is it as good as The Right Stuff, but it is a lot of fun, and if you want to spend your five quid on two hours of unpretentious straightforward entertainment, you could do a lot worse than checking this one out.  "}{"Title":"OLD FARTS IN SPACE","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film did take a while to get moving. But once the four astronauts are finally brought together, the movie begins rolling. Although we have seen the unlikely lads-going-through-astronaut-training-to-get-into-space theme enough times before, it was still better than the awful Armageddon!!!SMALL SPOILER ALERT!Tommy Lee Jone's Hawk was cool. When he takes his (drunken) teenage passenger up for a flight on his biplane, it results in one of the most graphic vomiting scenes I have ever seen in a movie! Characters are developed well, but is focused more on Mr Eastwood and Mr Jones. The four seemingly grumpy old men might be old in body, but they're still young at heart! This film is a feel-good movie more than anything. (You're reminded of Cocoon, actually)Mr Eastwood, who played in and directed this flick, did borrow a little from other movies. Toward the end it becomes Armageddon-like (fix a broken satalite turns into save-the-world), but the space scenes are really nice and the space walks are pretty cool. CONCLUSION? A little boring in parts but, overall, a pretty good film. "},{"Title":"A typical Eastwood work","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I go to a film where Clint Eastwood is the director, I expect nothing less or more (depends of your point of view) than a solid work, and this is no exception. Sometime I like what he does, sometime I don't and here I liked what I saw.Is it his best work? probably not, but it's not his worst one. The movie is fun and seems not to be more than that.The script is fairly good although not very deep and there are the predictable things that you learn to expect from Hollywood films. Eastwood prove that he does only things he likes and in today's Hollywood that's quite a lot. Go and see the movie if you want. It's not a must but it's solid work and a fun to watch. "},{"Title":"Likeable geriatric romp","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw this movie at the cinema last week, it was in rather unusual circumstances. I was the only one there! Had I not turned up, they wouldn't have shown the film at all during that session. While these circumstances would suggest the film was a lemon, I found it was certainly not a movie to avoid. I have attended many a worse feature like Lost in Space or The Avengers where attendance was very good, so I use this case as an example of how audience attendance at a film is not a true reflection of its quality.Admittedly, I did find the first half-hour rather slow and found my attention wandering (mainly thinking what a golden opportunity it would be for someone to murder me!), but once the film caught up with the four main characters, Frank, Hawk, Tank and Jerry, the film had my full attention for the rest of it. One thing I've enjoyed about Clint Eastwood's movies in the past decade like In the Line of Fire and Absolute Power is that he acknowledges that he is indeed getting old and doesn't pretend to be a spring chicken like Barbara Streisand did in her The Mirror Has Two Faces. In Space Cowboys growing old is the subject of soft comedy when our heroes are attending the NASA training camp. Donald Sutherland and James Garner, as Jerry and Tank respectively, show while they may not have youth, they still have charm on their side. Clint Eastwood and Tommy Lee Jones demonstrate that they are still able to stand up to people (including each other in a bar) when things don't go there way.Besides the slow opening, the only other factor I could find in the film that could possibly turn off an audience was the sharp change of mood the film takes, once our heroes are in space and saving the satellite becomes a case of saving the world (or the USA which is the same thing, isn't it?). Otherwise there was really nothing wrong with it, certainly not deserving an audience of one. What I enjoyed most was the acting of the four leads, especially Donald Sutherland and Tommy Lee Jones. Clint, James and Donald demonstrate well why they are still appearing in movies some 30 years after their hey-day while for Tommy it is another example of him getting his best roles in middle age.  "},{"Title":"Great fun on the ground, in space it´s a different story","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys proofs a lot of things How much at ease Mr. Eastwood is with all his professions within the film-industry (star, director, producer, mc...). How much it does help that Mr. Eastwood gave up his reluctance to hire other name-actors to act next to him (just imagine Cowboys without Jones, Sutherland and Garner - and Devane). And how much Mr. Eastwood believes in that special american machismo he helped to establish, even when having his tongue firmly in cheek. Since John Glenn made it again at 77, these things aren´t that easy to dismiss, but it´s great fun to watch our beloved oldtimers trying to match NASA´s physical fitness tests - and thus Mr. Eastwood bashing Hollywood´s ongoing youth-craze. In space it´s a different story. There Mr. Eastwood starts acting like this was a serious adventurer, with real people and real conflicts in it. The more Space Cowboys starts resembling Armageddon for the elderly, the more ridiculous it gets. The well known fact that Mr. Eastwood tends to be satisfied with the second- and third-best take of any scene and his ever prevailing goal to stay below budget add to the imperfect look (even editor Joel Cox couldn´t save it) and feel of the film´s last thirty or so minutes. "},{"Title":"Light but enjoyable.","Date":"24 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, it's a little corny and silly, but take it in a light heated way and enjoy the movie.  It is indeed refreshing not to see endless car chases, people getting shot, and things getting blown up.  A lot of funny lines by the four old timers. "},{"Title":"You pays your money...","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film with a cerebral friend. He complained that the outer space scenes lacked authenticity. I had to point out that if you go to see a film about four seventy year old men going into space you sort of had to suspend your disbelief somewhat. Generally enjoyable, totally disbelievable. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable romp even if the stars all appear to be on auto pilot","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a film where you get exactly what you expect- fine polished performances delivered in a fun if professional manner. You get the sense that the boys had a great time making this. One or two minor complaints- there is far too much of Clint which may be due to the fact that he is the director- and not nearly enough of Jones and Sutherland- who are particularly good. This is recommended if you are tired and just want a bit of visual popcorn- you don't have to think too much and you get fine performances from a truly great if very aged cast! Rent it and enjoy. "},{"Title":"A different yet familiar Clint.","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With all of the natural landscapes of a Clint Eastwood setting and rugged aspects of a Clint Eastwood character, this film shows that there is more to Eastwood than one could imagine.  I like the fact that Eastwood in recent years has shown his characterizations to be vulnerable and aging, hence faltering in their humanity starting with the aging gunfighter/killer beyond redemption in 'Unforgiven' and the tortured secret service agent in 'In the Line of Fire' and now as the grumpy yet competent space engineer/astronaut in 'Space Cowboys'.  All of the major characters, Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, James Garner and James Cromwell shine in their own individual ways.  Certainly an unlikely story yet Eastwood gives the film's major twist a compelling edge and inverts the story to make it seem more like an adventure when you actually realize it's more about the concept of working together for a greater cause than one's personal achievement.  In recent years, Eastwood seems to make every one of his recent filmsas though it were his last and they have all been admirable achievements. "},{"Title":"Avoids reality by showing emotional shots, but worth seeing","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Because of the cast alone, it is worth seeing.It seems that rather than allow incorrect sequences (with respect to reality) they decided cut away to emotional shots. I found this a little irritating.Very enjoyable, could have been longer, or could have included out-takes in the credits -- I'm sure they didn't because this cast would cause the out-takes to be hilarious and more memorable than the film (and the film IS good!). "},{"Title":"What Armageddon wishes it was","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Armageddon in theory should be a decent movie.  But you add in all of the forced marketing, mundane humor, sappy love story, woefully scientific impossibilities, and lame acting the story gets lost along the way.  Space Cowboys accomplishes what Armageddon wasn't able to do.  It is a story of 4 would be astronauts who got screwed out of their chance to go into outer space 40 years ago getting another shot.  The movie is extremely well cast with Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner as the astronauts and in supporting roles Loren Dean, Marcia Gay Harden, and James Cromwell. "}{"Title":"What Armageddon was not ... smart and entertaining.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Great Job by the team of veteran actors. Keeps you engrossed till the last minutes. And unlike Armageddon, the space scenes were not stupid and farcical, they actually rang reasonably true. One of the better movies this year.  "},{"Title":"Old fashioned entertainment on a grand modern scale.","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Four veterans of the 1958 space programme finally get their chance to fulfill dreams of going into outer space, originally denied them. Clint Eastwood is the only engineer in the United States capable of understanding how a computer programme written forty years ago works. This is now floating around in space in a stranded Russian satellite which NASA desperately wants retrieved. Without giving any more of the plot away, this highly improbable situation is an excuse to bring together what amounts to the magnificent four!   As most film plots are improbable anyway, this does not really matter as movies should be made to entertain, and this film does just that on a grand scale. Clint Eastwood, with his tongue firmly in his cheek, has mounted a wonderful cast, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and a favourite of mine, James Garner (who regrettably has too few scenes), along with Marcia Gay Harden ( a nice balance of tough, no nonsense professional at NASA, and sympathetic love interest to Tommy Lee Jones).   There is also a charismatic performance from William Devane as the flight director on the ground, every bit as good as Ed Harris in Apollo 13.  James Cromwell is also very good as Clint Eastwood's adversary at NASA, who recruits him for the challenge. Everything else about the movie is first class as one would now expect from Clint Eastwood as director.  Very funny in places, exciting too, with characters we can care about.   Splendid photography and sharp editing, in all, great entertainment. "},{"Title":"Good Movie With A Predictable Ending","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I thought this movie was well directed and written.  I loved the casting of the movie, they couldn't have found four actors better suited for the roles than Eastwood, Jones, Garner, and Sutherland.  It's as if the movie was written for them personally.  My main disappointment in the movie was the ending, it was predictable with no surprises.  I really enjoyed Donald Sutherland's character with the eye glasses, that was hilarious.  This movie won't win any Academy Awards but it did win me over.  Has anyone noticed this summers movie selection has been a dud compared to last year?  It seems they are saving the good movies for the fall this year instead of summer. "},{"Title":"Great fun, let down by the ending","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I can't imagine it appeals to anyone under 25, but anyone past thirtysomething will enjoy this great last roundup from the pick of the 70s TV and movie idols.  A shame the stars couldn't have got together 20 years ago, although in the end we were probably spared the nightmare of City Heat 2.They're old, there's no getting away from it, and let's face it that's the gag in this movie, but ambling through most of the 2 hours of Space Cowboys the 4 leads are still a joy to watch.  Mercifully there are no signs of ego or line-counting, everyone gets a fair slice of screen time and Clint Eastwood's trademark leisurely direction just gives you time to savour.It is such an improbable romp, though, its single fault is not sticking to the end with a simple laughs and thrills formula.  There's a late entry from a badly judged serious plot strand that adds nothing and spoils the fun.   "},{"Title":"Hats off, hands clapping, mouth open entertainment","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood proves in his latest film that, despite being now in his Seventies, he is still on top on the world.  Mind duel, he was still a force to be reckoned with during the last decade of the previous century, churning such films like Unforgiven and In The Line Of Fire.  Well, now he has rocketed into the 21st century with Space Cowboys and he's just as smooth and fine at his craft as he's always been.  As an actor and director, Eastwood is still an unmatched presence.You can probably guess the story of Space Cowboys just by looking at the poster, reading the taglines or by the cast.  Eastwood is former freight pilot, Frank Corvin, who finds himself, along with his devoted fifties flying crew, called back by NASA to fix an error with a communications satellitie, which he designed.  The thing is, is that these guys (Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner) are circling or past their retirement days, and they have to go to space to do the job. But that doesn't worry them in the slightest - but it does shake other NASA officials - and so they begin their long, rigorus training regime bound to take them out of this world. Clint couldn't have picked a better film to launch himself into the new millenium with.  Its totally different from anything he's ever done before but totally excellent.  The whole cast has a whale of a time and the four stars deserve a huge pat on their back - their characters are wonderfully humane, funny, warm and unforgettable.  Watching these great veterans doing their business up there on screen, and all in each other's presence, brings a great ring of security to the film.  And they've been given a hell of a screenplay.  Although it ( to be fair) seems to take ages before the foursome finally blast into space, us the audience are having such a great time that we wouldn't mind if they suddenly just cancelled the mission and called the whole thing off.  This is all down to Clint's direction, the cast and, of course, the script.  Its wisely and neatly structured and shifts remarkably well between comedy, drama and action, which is very much how the film goes.  The final furlong in space does end up as a cliche but its spectacular and exciting so it more than makes up for it.  Besides, an old cliche doesn't hurt now and again does it?I, and i'm sure other IMDB users, could go on for a lot longer about Space Cowboys.  It goes along with Toy Story 2 and Gladiator as the cinema gems of the year.   Just take this advice (which is a bit of a cliche).  Don't miss it!   "},{"Title":"Very Clint!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was an Eastwood film down to the ground, plenty of cheesy lines and some dubious acting at times was well covered up by a good tale, a top cast and some excellent special effects.It was a rare pleasure to see Jones, Eastwood, Sutherland and the superb Garner in the same film, and they were all enjoyable - with Sutherland and Garner being the stars for me.  Clint was just Clint, and Tommy Lee played pretty much the same character he always does.But he does it well.  This is fun, a good Saturday night escapism flick. "},{"Title":"I enjoyed it.","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys was pretty good. It had some very funny scenes.  However, the ending was way too predictable. At least I thought that it was. But I still thought that the movie was worth watching. I give it a 6 out of 10, taking off 4 points for the predictable ending. "},{"Title":"Loved the older men as heros","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Despite the films fine professional reviews, I found it to be somewhat disappointing.The entire movie was predictable with few surprises. For awhile there, I wasn't sure if I were watching Star Wars or James Bond. Nevertheless, seeing four such magnificent, older actors playing the roles of heros, was worth the price of admission. Perhaps, as a mature senior myself, it was good to see that older people can still be considered healthy, brilliant and unique. Thanks Clint Eastwood!  "},{"Title":"Not bad...I guess...","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, it was funny where it wanted to be funny, and touching where it wanted to be touching...but I just didn't get as much out of this movie as some people do.**slight SPOILER WARNING...though you'd have guessed as much from the trailers and other people's comments anyway** I hope I'm not just getting jaded but I found the space scenes closer to the end of the movie had absolutely no suspension of disbelief factor whatsoever. The wirework is clearly evident and the actors/wirework never gave me a feeling that they actually might have been in space.**End of Slight Spoiler - You can open your eyes now ^_^**Overall, I can't really say anything terribly positive or negative about this film. I'd recommend as something to see when you've seen the movies you already wanted to, and there's nothing good playing.  "},{"Title":"Ignore the science goofs and just ENJOY THE MOVIE","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Two reviews (newspaper) I've read poke at the film for taking an impossible concept too seriously and being full of violations of physical laws.  Leave your slide rule at home and just have fun for a few minutes.  The ensemble cast of Eastwood, Jones, Garner and Sutherland does a first rate job of acting out their roles as former Air Force test pilots, once jilted by NASA getting a second chance to make it to space with just the right mix of action, humor and humanity.  The room was packed when I saw it tonight and judging by the laughter and applause, most were enjoying it as much as I did.   "}{"Title":"Very entertaining space movie with a quirky twist that is surprisingly well presented.","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I think that probably the biggest problem that the writers had with Space Cowboys was trying to come up with a good reason to justify sending a bunch of retirement age men into space, and in my opinion, they did that very well. The lifelong rivalry between Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood) and Bob Gerson (James Cromwell) provided an excellent opportunity for an old man to wheel and deal his and his old friends' way into space after waiting for forty years. They both provided a perfect portrayal of a couple of elderly men jaded by nearly a lifetime of bitterness held for one another.Donald Sutherland, in my opinion, should be especially noted for his impressive acting ability. To point out only a couple of examples from his extensive list of films which he acted in, think about the insanity that he portrayed in Backdraft, and the almost evil military officer he played in Outbreak, and then look at his fun-loving character here in Space Cowboys. Sutherland plays Jerry O'Neill, a fun loving and extremely sexually confident old man with a sharp sense of humor. He was probably the most amusing part of this entire film. One particularly good scene that comes to mind is when they are all going through their physicals. As they stand naked, a female nurse walks in, and they all scramble to cover themselves. But not Jerry! He stands there proudly with his hands behind his back, ear-to-ear grin on his face. Funniest thing I've seen in a long time.How about Clint Eastwood? Is there anything he can't do? Think about this guy's career. He's made thousands and thousands of movies, and he's been doing it for hundreds of years! That's what it seems like, anyway. He started out making western films (and he is also best known for his efforts in that genre), and has moved on to modern crime films (two in particular that come to mind are Absolute Power and the spectacular True Crime) and now even science fiction space films, and he's directed at least half of the films that he has starred in. This guy is well into his seventies, and he is still just as intimidating as he was when he was in his twenties. He has that rare quality where he is a badass whether he tries to be or not. In Space Cowboys, he and three other noted actors, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner, and the aforementioned Donald Sutherland, portray old men who are finally given the chance to travel into space, something they have all dreamed about for all of their lives. Besides the excellent acting from all of those involved, the quality story, and great directing, the special effects were particularly well done. In The Perfect Storm, virtually every outdoor shot in the film was horribly fake-looking. You'd think they could at least have had a FEW shots that were taken in a man-made water tank of some sort, but there were none. In Space Cowboys, we are looking at SPACE, and it was made to look more realistic than any of the ocean shots in The Perfect Storm. Sure, there were some space scenes that were obviously computer generated (come on, they were ALL computer generated), but at least half of them were startlingly convincing.However, despite how much I enjoyed this film, there was a little bit of weakness in the story towards the end of the film. (spoiler) Virtually every element of the film was very well thought out or at least complemented the story in some unique way, but I am growing tired of space movies that end with one character making a noble sacrifice of their own life to save the rest of the crew, leaving an emotionally overloaded female loved one back on earth (Armageddon and Mission To Mars, to name a couple of recent examples). Even though the ending was less than spectacular, the rest of the film more than made up for it. The directing, the acting, the casting, and even some hilarious bits of dialogue in the script (My only hope is that whatever doesn't burn up in the atmosphere lands on Bob Gerson's house!), all came together to make up a satisfying and very entertaining space film.  "},{"Title":"Armageddon + Firefox = Space Cowboys","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood's Space Cowboys is certainly fun, but it certainly isn't smart.  An odd mix of Armageddon and Firefox, Space Cowboys is better than both, but that's not saying much.  Likeable, fast-paced, with a predictable climax and a good cast, but very slight.A recent plot from Hollywood has been setting over-the-hill protagonists in one last chance at redemption, one last big caper, etc., and has had some terrific entries, most notably Eastwood's Unforgiven.  Michael Dinner's new release The Crew falls into this genre, too.  So we get the inevitable old age gags about failing eyesight, horny old men, old friends are now dead, and so on, but for a comedic action movies, Space Cowboys falls short on both points.  It's not that funny, and it doesn't have much action.  Okay, but nothing memorable.If you're interested in Clint, rent Unforgiven or 'The Beguiled.  If you're interested in this genre, rent Don Siegel's Charley Varrick with Walter Mathau.  But see Space Cowboys only if you're in the mood for something very, very light. "},{"Title":"See this movie for the fun of it.","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is a joyful romp into the adventures of some of the most fun-loving stars to ever hit the screen.  Each of the stars brings their most beloved talents to the screen in a way that could only be described as 'chemistry'.The plot is a good one, but there lies a lame edge in the script and its direction in regards to the aspect of the story relating to how the Soviets got their hands on the guidance system developed by the United States.  In my opinion, this could have been developed better by the four 'cowboys' having one or two ponderings over this matter on their time together, away from the other contemporaries in the film.Aside from my wife coming out of the theater feeling pretty old, it was definitely a good time at the movies. "},{"Title":"Better than Armegeddon!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is a terrific film and is everything Armegeddon should have been but couldn't. This is a fun movie, and the characters work together superbly.That is probably because the actors seem to have worked so well together. It is obvious that they were having a lot of fun making this film. That joy carries over to the audience. When I left the theater, I kept thinking about the wonderful time I had just had.There are funny moments in the picture. I personally thought that the best funny bits were with Donald Sutherland. He is as good as ever!Clint Eastwood did a great job directing this one. He provides plenty of screen time to each of the actors/characters. I always enjoy seeing Tommy Lee Jones and he is very likable here. James Garner is also quite likable. There is a scene where Garner's character is supposed to be with Eastwood's character in 1958. The actor playing the younger Eastwood really looked like him. I suppose if they ever do a film about the making of Rawhide, this guy could be the one to be Rowdy Yates.I recommend this film. Old actors never die, they just make great films like Space Cowboys. "},{"Title":"A fun ride","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood continues to amaze me. This movie was an enjoyable ride from our introduction to Team Daedalus in their heyday to their present-day characters. One of the principal characters at NASA is a feisty female engineer, played very well by Marcia Gay Harden. Donald Sutherland has the funniest lines of the Team Daedalus crew, with James Garner being an unfortunate weak link. His character wasn't given a strong role for a wonderful actor like Garner to work with. Tommy Lee Jones put in an excellent performance as a fearless and somewhat reckless man whose dislike for Clint's character is made quite obvious. Overall, a fun film. "},{"Title":"Great movie! Even if a lot of facts are a little off.","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a great movie. I look forward to the DVD. The special effects were most entertaining, if somewhat unrealistic. Why is it the studios have to have us hear the rockets firing in space? Wouldn't it be more dramatic to have absolute silence as the rocket roars into the distance? "},{"Title":"Buy it - Just for the scenes from space!","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This might be the first movie that I actually buy. The scenes from space and the closing scene were terrific. Since I am also a 60's child I felt like one of them and the anti-establishment piece of me was really having a great time.A great wet Sunday afternoon flik from a guy who also plays jazz piano. Go Clint! "},{"Title":"Good Fun","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Finally!!! A movie you can walk out of without scratching your head. The age humor in the first part of the film was priceless and side-splitting. The later action scenes and special effects were first class. Don't expect any acting Oscars, but just a good time. "},{"Title":"Improbable, but an enjoyable romp regardless","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Septagenarians in Space?  Why not?  Hollywood has fed us less probable lines before, and at least this time, they've got some talent capable of pulling it off.  Clint Eastwood, Donald Sutherland, Tommy Lee Jones, and James Garner star as aging astronaut candidates who get one last chance to go into space and make history.  The plot twist near the end is almost predictable, and the rest of the story is pretty fluffy as well, but it still ranks as one of summer 2000's better films.  Definitely worth a look! "},{"Title":"Fun movie with favorite heros of the past, very enjoyable!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I like all the main characters in this film, so I knew I would just had to see it.  I was not disappointed.  The story was believable and held my attention throughout.  Good movie, especially if you like Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner.  They are the best! "}{"Title":"So its not rocket science...these guys are stellar!","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, let's be honest. Space Cowboys is not going to win any awards for technical merit or scientific accurancy. Some of the premise is a bit far fetched. And yes, some of the dialogue is a little trite. But hey, getting this foursome together on-screen and having fun is worth the admission price alone.Eastwood, Jones, Garner and Sutherland are former members of Team Daedalus, which was shut down in the late 50 when NASA came to be. Their dreams of going into space died. But they never forgot. When a seemingly harmless Russian communications satellite needs retrieval (with a design constructed by Eastwood years before), their former boss Gerson (played by James That'll do, pig Cromwell) calls them back. The whole Eastwood/Cromwell relationship (Gerson pretty much skunked Eastwood's chance to go into space) could have been played up more but what we do get isn't half bad.Watching this foursome try to pass the physical is hilarious. I wish Garner had been given more dialogue but I'm glad he was even there. And Sutherland's ladies' man persona is a killer. Tommy Lee Jones has always had my heart so he could do no wrong. Someone complained that they couldn't pass the physical tests but geez, if John Glenn can do it, why not this crew?At the crux of all of this, you have a team of four aging atronauts who, despite their differences, are a team. While Eastwood and Jones are at the forefront, they wouldn't be there without Garner and Sutherland. I'll take watching these guys together than Mega Mel Gibson or Mr. Costner any day. I was also impressed that most of the women in this movie were actually over the age of 30. SHOCK! If I'd had to watch Eastwood pucker up with some silicone super model I would have gagged.The whole Russian situation, of course, turns out to be more than NASA bargained for and that's when the suspense level goes up. And some of the believability. For once, I'd like to see Hollywood portray a Russian military leader as more than some mustachioed automaton wearing a dismal, medal-covered uniform. But still, I was on the edge of my seat with everyone else to see how it would end.I didn't know until the end that Eastwood had done the directing as well. It shows. If this is how he handles comedy, I'd like to see more. Much more!So call up your father and go see Space Cowboys. He'll love it and so will you. And you won't have to worry about filthy language or nude scenes.  "},{"Title":"Professional all the way around.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ok, I will admit I was not running off to the box office the day this film was released. In fact, it was one of those times  nothing else was playing that we had not seen. It took some good hearted persuasion from friends for me to go. I'm so glad I saw this movie ! I thought the acting was superb, Clint Eastwood, James Garner Donald Sutherland and Tommy Lee Jones worked perfectly together and made this movie a pure pleasure to watch. I especially enjoyed Sutherland's performance, it gave the movie a perfectly placed touch of comedy where it needed a lighter moment. The technical aspects of this production were flawless and amazingly authentic. I place this one in my top five of the summer. "},{"Title":"a real surprise","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing the preview, I was prepared to like this movie. Unlike so many trailers these days, the preview to Space Cowboys did not give away all the best parts.  I thought this film would be a light comedy, using the talents of 4 of the best actors ever to come out of Hollywood.  WOW!  What a wonderful surprise! Not only was there light comedy (done to perfection by these four very funny, sexy men), but the special effects, and drama were also excellent.  Eastwood has done it again! The direction was taut and lean---just like it's director.  Marcia Gay Harden was a sweet surprise. Her portrayal of an incredibly intelligent NASA engineer was right on target. Her character was totally lacking in arrogance, with just the right amount of femininity. James Cromwell came through AGAIN with a performance that set my teeth on edge.  This movie has much more substance than anyone would guess by seeing the trailer.  This one should be a classic!  "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood proves he still has it.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In a summer of disappointments and misfire blockbusters, Clint Eastwood leads a group of geriatric astronauts in one of the few good movies of the season.  In Space Cowboys, Eastwood has assembled a cast of Hollywood legends.  Donald Sutherland, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner, and Eastwood comprise Team Daedalus, a group of hotshot former Air Force test pilots summoned out of retirement by NASA to travel to space to fix a damaged Russian satellite.  The mission seems simple enough until the team gets to the satellite and realizes something is wrong.  At 70, Eastwood is still a strong director and continues to prove that young Hollywood has a long way to go to live up to the veterans. "},{"Title":"Mundane but great last scene.","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very minor film. However, it has one scene at the very end of the movie which will provoke a frisson of instant recognition to those devotees of 1940-50's pulp science fiction. "},{"Title":"Rock solid entertainment!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood is back in form as actor and director, and he's brought some friends with him.   In Space Cowboys, Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner are aging  astronauts who have the chance to fulfill their dreams.  Their mission fly into space and fix an  aging Russian satellite that somehow has a guidance system that Eastwood's character  designed, and that's all I will say about the plot.  Half the fun of the movie is watching the  story unfold and seeing these guys in action.  Eastwood, Jones, Sutherland and Garner mesh well  together and the real fun is in the training sequences.  We see them put through the rigors of  astronaut training, we see them put up with barbs from the younger astronauts and we see them  come through with flying colors.  What I really enjoyed about Space Cowboys, is the notion of  team work.  Eastwood won't go into space without his crew, and once these guys get into space,  the fun really begins.          "},{"Title":"Fun movie, you need to see it. GO NOW!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is full of surprises. I didn't really know what to expect from the previews of this one. Was it a comedy or a special effects film? The answer is it's a comedy, for the most part, but it's a comedy with heart. I really had no idea Clint had such a knack for directing comedy. He's done comedy in the past, but this movie is hysterical. I can't think of a movie in recent memory where I laughed this hard. Not at all what I was expecting in the least. The interaction between the characters was so good on the ground that when they finally went into space it almost seemed cliche at times. It was all very well handled, and of coarse they had to go into space for the big finale, but by that point we're interested in the people, not whether or not they can fix some satellite and save the world. On the other hand, Clint handles the space scenes extremely well, something I was sceptical about going in (I don't believe he has ever directed an effects film, but after seeing this I think he could give Michael Bay lessons. Sometimes less is more, Mike).This movie is just plain goodness. Old Clint does not disappoint in the leading roll. Tommy Lee Jones shares the spotlight and does a great job too. His performance is very sweet, and I really enjoyed his relationship with Marcia Gay Harden. Donald Sutherland (very funny) and James Garner have mostly supporting roles this time out, the main focus being on Eastwood and Jones. I think William Devane is an interesting actor, and I hope to see more of him (I know he's done a lot of television work, but his only film work that stands out in recent memory is last years' Payback). James Cromwell is good, but he isn't really given much to do here. If you're like me and are a huge Eastwood fan, but aren't really sure what to expect from this I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. 8/10 stars for this puppy. G'night! "},{"Title":"An exercise in incredulity","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  SAVE YOR MONEY!!  It is disheartening to know that Eastwood CAN make a decent movie.  For some reason, he chose to make this AWFUL film, which tests the limits of one's ability to keep one's stomach contents inside. We are asked to believe in an enormous number of ridiculous premises, not the least of which is that young, well trained, astronauts with double majors from MIT are simply unable to comprehend electronics from 3 decades ago. It gets MUCH worse from there.  NASA, apparently, fells it unnecessary to inform these grumpy old spacemen of something I think would be EXTREMELY important to know, and THANK GOD they built in a convenient chair for Tommy Lee Jones to save the day... Oh, my God.  I won't even get in to the acting, or lack thereof. Oh, well...Donald Sutherland is semi-entertaining.  Don't buy it...Don't believe it...Go see Chicken Run.  It's far more believable.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining Movie","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys(2000) is a very good film with some good performances from the four lead actors.  Its nice for a change to see Tommy Lee Jones play a heroic person instead of a mean villilan.  Not as good as True Crime(1999), but is still an enjoyable movie to watch.  This is the 23rd movie directed by Clint Eastwood and that's an amazing accomplishment considering that he gets more get as an actor than a director.This is one of many movies that should give Clint Eastwood consideration as the best director of his generation behind Martin Scorsese.  This movie can be considered as a followup to Firefox(1982).  Donald Sutherland and James Garner add humor to their roles.  If Firefox(1982) was the movie of the Atrari generation then Space Cowboys(2000) is the movie of the Sony Play station generation. "},{"Title":"Eastwood Flies Again","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am not certain if this is a comedy that happens to be based around NASA, or an astronaut film that happens to be very funny. It is funny, and also has some pretty nice drama and space special effects. Eastwood directs and thereby controls most every scene in the movie. His geriatric flight crew consists of an underutilized James Garner (with an inside joke of a nickname Tank - remember his awful turn in the movie Tank), Donald Sutherland in a wisecracking role similar to his M.A.S.H role, and Tommy Lee Jones in yet another well acted, consummate professional role, although he does seem significantly younger than the others.  The plot has some holes such as teasing us with a U.S. / Russian spy subplot that could have turned this movie down a totally different and fascinating road.  The stabs at love interests are forced at best.  The movie wasted a great deal of time with the training sequences, when in reality, probably not one of our aged heroes could pass the physical endurance tests required.  James Cameron is cast as Eastwood's lifetime nemesis, and a revenge motive is tossed about, but seems out of place.  As in most space movies, the female roles are secondary at best, and mostly there as a concerned loved one during the dramatic sequences.  The movie must be taken at face value to be enjoyed ... don't think too much! A couple of my favorite scenes are when Donald Sutherland is testing his self-designed roller coaster, while dictating and munching a banana; and the 'friendly' exchanges at lunch between the real astronauts and Clint's team.  Eastwood always manages to allow music to be a key part of his movies, and I walked out of the theatre singing Sinatra's Fly Me to the Moon. I did get a kick out of seeing his daughter Allison listed as the performer on a soundtrack song.  Would she have a career without Daddy? This is a very enjoyable movie, although one must suspend reality for a 2 plus hours.  Not at the level of The Right Stuff or Apollo 13, but definitely more watchable than Armageddon or any of the other end of the world flicks. "}{"Title":"Average film with Distractions","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film seemed a little long and somewhat boring.  Some parts seemed distracting.  For example every time the flight control leader was talking he was chewing gum, In another part Clint Eastwood was chomping on ice while talking...seemed kinda unnecessary to have those distractions added to the dialogue.Acting seemed a little canned and stiff.  Plot seemed kinda weak and a little far-fetched.Overall just average.  Not really that exciting. I'd say wait for the video.  My score  5.5 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"So outrageous...you have to love it","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  How this movie got made must have been somewhat of a paradox Clint Eastwood probably wasn't the ideal director for the job, but without Clint Eastwood's involvement, it wouldn't have been made. We should all be glad it was, because it's one of the high points of a summer movie season that's been pretty disappointing.Eastwood gives the film too leisurely a pace in the beginning. The first half is devoted to setting up the story and I picked out several scenes, good ones though they were, that could have been cut without harming the story. There are moments where you can really appreciate the way Clint lets his scenes breathe and develop slowly. Most of the time, though, it's hard to watch, especially when the scene is just a bunch of people talking in a room.On the other hand, he's handled the special effects-driven scenes very well. This is a pleasant surprise, given that Eastwood's never done a film like this before. The opening scene for example, sets the film's stage perfectly. Shot in black and white, it's a scene in which a young Frank Corvin (Eastwood) and his co-pilot Hawk Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones) break the sound barrier twenty miles up in the sky. Unfortunately, the plane wasn't built for Hawk's flying style and the plane's engine fails in mid-air. I've seen scenes like this before, but never one that was shot and cut together quite like this one is. It's maybe the best aerial action sequence I've ever seen. I'll never forget some of its imagery. Eastwood chooses to present the entire sequence without music and that's what makes the difference you feel like you're there, experiencing it firsthand. When your plane just went into freefall twenty miles up, there isn't any orchestra there to enhance the drama of the moment.  I suppose that's what the director had in mind. Either that or he didn't want the audience to be deprived of one bit of the sequence's spectacular, unnervingly real sound design.Corvin and Hawkins, along with two other pilots, Tank Sullivan (James Garner) and Jerry O'Neil (Donald Sutherland) were Air Force pilots training for the first mission into space. When the space program was handed over to the public sector with the formation of NASA, Corvin's team lost their chance. Forty years later, the Russians are having a problem with one of their communications satelites, one whos guidance system Corvin designed. NASA goes to Corvin for help. He'll do it, but only on the condition that he and his buddies, all of them now pushing seventy, get to take their long awaited walk in space.The old fart jokes just keep coming, but really only at the expense of Garner and Sutherland. Both have small, incidental roles and seemed out of place in a space suit. If it hadn't been for these two, though, the movie's novelty wouldn't have worked. I had no trouble believing either Eastwood or Jones as astronauts. When it comes time for the physical stuff like fistfights and space walks, Eastwood leaves it to himself and Jones to carry these scenes. It's a relief to finally see Eastwood cast himself in a role that's right for him. He was much too old to play his characters in True Crime and Absolute Power, especially the former. An old pilot/would-be astronaut the right fit. Almost as good as, say, a retired thief and murderer in the old west or an aging secret service agent who was with Kennedy in Dallas. It'll be interesting to see what he casts himself as next.The film's final chapter, in which the team goes into space, is stunning. There is one shot in particular, where Corvin and O'Neil are floating in space, looking down at the Mediterranean Sea that is about as breathtaking as anything you've seen in a film. Not everyone who sees this film will be able to suspend their disbelief enough to really get a kick out of it, and I feel sorry for them. The action sequences, the effects, the sound, are all great. It's not your typical space movie Eastwood takes it a step beyond. He even goes as far as (I'm almost positive) filming an actual Space Shuttle liftoff AND landing so he didn't have to fake it digitally. Today's audiences can spot this stuff a mile away and he knows it. Of course, if realism were his concern, he wouldn't have made this film.That all of Space Cowboys is complete hooey is what makes it so much fun.Grade B  "},{"Title":"Possible Spoiler-extremely soft core SF","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm 55 years old and have read sci-fi since I got out of grade school.  So you'd think I would have been interested to see this.  Wrong!  What I like is imaginative work that didn't get its start right out in clear view, like John Glenn, for heaven's sake.  So I only went because it was the only game in town.In the first place it was pure fantasy, not any real kind of sci-fi despite it's trappings, the kind of thing I would expect extremely good writers to do when they don't know science worth a hoot.  Also, as you would expect out of very good writers and fine actors it was entertaining.  It was worth the money as comedy not sci-fi.Speaking of a hoot.  Now that Science Fiction has clearly become the literature of the hour, despite the last ditch stands by all the critics--you know those guys who can't do but can talk about--it is extremely funny to see all these hard drama writers trying to jump on the money making machine without knowing much about the subject. "},{"Title":"Not bad, some odd mistakes","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit that when it comes to NASA, space and aviation I'm probably not exactly the average theatergoing public to which this movie is aimed-- I've been reading books about space exploration since I was a kid, and I'm a private pilot with my own plane.  So some things that sort of bug me probably wouldn't mean anything to other people.But one mistake that I just cannot understand is Why the heck do they have the pilot of the space shuttle flying in the right seat?!?!  The pilot absolutely always is in the LEFT seat, the co-pilot in the right seat. Was nobody willing to be the one to tell Eastwood he was goofing up?  Was there not one technical advisor employed?  I just found that really hard to understand.  Really to me that seems an embarrassing mistake.  I can understand having to bend or break the laws of physics for dramatic effect, but that just seems like sloppiness.On the whole, the movie isn't bad.  James Garner was and is a mediocre actor so that performance wasn't a surprise.  Eastwood is only above average in my opinion, but this was an above-average performance for him.  Kiefer Sutherland and Tommy Lee Jones are both superior actors and turned in good performances.  The plot is swiss cheese, but not in a way that sets my teeth on edge, so it didn't really bother me.  And the effects, particularly the opening scenes (which really pump my pilot nads) and the climactic stuff were superb.  The closing scene of the film was absurd from a science standpoint but very appealing on an emotional level nonetheless.  If you gotta go... "},{"Title":"Excellent romp, but...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I did enjoy this film, a lot, but... As noted in another review, the first half of the movie is quite a comedy, as Eastwood, Jones, Sutherland and Garner show off their extensive comedic talents. My wife and I laughed till we cried. The supporting cast were quite good, as well. The unique (in my experience anyway) technique used to de-age the stars was very ingenious, and worked well, for the most part.The second half, once the actual mission begins, is quite detailed, and if fanciful in story line, extremely well done from a special-effects standpoint, which I found surprising since the focus of the first part of the film was mainly on the lead characters.I guess the problem for me (and I still rated the movie a 7) was that the transition from the breezy, mostly light-hearted first half to the very intense and serious second was too jarring and abrupt. It didn't help that the plot became very transparent at this point, too.Somehow, the first and second segments look more like two very different movies, and the overall result was disappointing.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, almost 3 movies in 1.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The opening sequence indicates that the desire of these Air Force test pilots is to get into space.  This film is not a magical and awe inspiring real life occurance such as Apollo 13 or The Right Stuff, it starts off as a comedy.  Clint Eastwood brings a very comical and appealing action of rounding up the ole' buddies as they now appear in present times.  Next is the NASA training routines.  Again, very funny to see these out of shape older men  attempt fit the regime of the NASA space program.  Finally, the men venture into outerspace for a worthy action movie style ending that does have a decent amount of suspence.Asside for some misguided love interests, and some strange dialogue Space Cowboys is a good movie worthy of at lest three different ypes of audiences, but guarenteed to entertain all. "},{"Title":"A fun movie","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For baby-boomers who grew up during the space race, this is a fun movie, from the opening b&w scenes of the early test flights to the launch of the shuttle with its geriatric crew. The casting of the younger versions of our heroes was well done; Toby Stephens in particular deserves mention for his ability to mimic the Clint Eastwood squint.  Tommy Lee Jones and Clint Eastwood are certainly believable in their parts, and Donald Sutherland is quite funny as the ladies' man.  James Cromwell and William Devane also do credible jobs as the project manager and flight director.  The only one who seemed out of place was James Garner -- I like him as an actor, but I don't think he really fit the character.Most of the movie (about 80 minutes) is spent in leading up to the space mission -- the political maneuvering, the hidden agenda, the training of our geriatric heroes and the tension between them and the young hotshots.  The actual space mission only occupied the last 40 minutes of the movie.  And while some of the scenes were extremely well-done, others pushed the bounds of credibility a little too far.  Still, when the movie was over, in spite of several very-predictable scenes, I felt that I had enjoyed it -- and the final scene (no spoilers) had several people in the audience laughing and cheering.Rating 7 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining-- 7 out of 10.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  GOOD POINTS  Excellent acting, Heartstopping action ( the opening sequence is GREAT!), and Fun dialog.Bad POINTS  Scientific flaws, plot problems.I am quite critical sometimes of space movies, but this one does just about everything right.  The characters in this movie are 3D with feelings, and life long goals to accomplish.  We like almost all of them and we are willing to just go along for the ride.The Plot flaws found in this one weren't many, mostly to do with hollywood for realism issues.  I am willing to let them slide since they managed to make the first outer space movie of 2000 in which I wasn't constantly laughing at the plot flaws and poor dialog.  The directors and writers of Mission to Mars and Titan A.E. should look to this film as how to do it right and throw the reels of film they wasted on those to pieces of garbage where they belong.Clint Eastwood again shows us how GOOD a director he is.  Movies do not have to be perfect to be good, and do not have to be earth shattering to be entertaining.Thanks CLINT!To everyone else Go see this one.  You'll like it. "},{"Title":"Charming at first, cheesy at end.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Eastwood is Frank, a happily retired man who wants nothing to do with NASA after being replaced by a monkey forty years ago. But when one of his satellites needs repairs, he gets his former crew up and running again. Now only one question remains What were the Russians doing with it in the first place? Excellent characterization in the first half makes for a well done comedy hour that borders on what made ARMAGEDDON originally good. But getting serious is where the movie falters. The final half is ripe with the type of stuff common sense laughs at and as a result, you will want the comedy back as you are falling asleep. A good movie any way you look at it, but do not expect anything more than TRUE CRIME mixed with  ARMAGEDDON. "},{"Title":"What a Romp!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Easily the most enjoyable movie of the summer, with standout acting by Donald Sutherland and William Devane (William Devane!!), and extremely competant ones by everyone else. (Even the women have well-rounded roles and play them to perfection; good going, Clint!) Surprisingly director Eastwood shows himself more competant in the comedic sequences than with the action.  He graciously gives Tommy Lee Jones and Donald Sutherland the showiest roles.Clever use of Eastwood's fighter pilot footage from TARANTULA leads to a question.  Why not colorize it rather than shooting the 1958 sequences in black and white?  THEN Clint could have used James Garner's test pilot footage from TOWARD THE UNKNOWN. Nevertheless, the black and white footage is exquisite.I DO have some real historical quibbles with the movie.  By 1958 the Air Force was using B52s, not B29s as drop planes, and they were well into the X-15 Rocket Plane program, not testing high altitude twin seat fighters for space exploration.  In fact several X-15 obtained their astronaut wings by flying into space in X-15s.  Nonetheless, this is the most enjoyable movie of the summer. What a romp!  "}{"Title":"A script full of black holes","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  So, um, what IS Frank Corvin's design doing in a Russian satellite?  The question is asked twice in the movie, but never answered.  I'm guessing that an answer may have given some kind of dimension to the bad guy, and we don't want that screwing up a movie like this, now do we?Also, there was a 20 percent chance of living if they jumped.  So what do they do?  They throw out the two UNCONSCIOUS guys and we never even hear what happened to them!The tense moments are well done.  A few of the main characters had some depth.  That's about it.  "},{"Title":"Tough Guys in Space","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys A satellite sent up in the 1958 is in danger of falling back to earth, not a problem, it's a routine mission, just use the space shuttle to capture it and fix it.  Simple except for one minor complication  because it was built before microchips and transistors, no one at NASA knows how to fix.  The only person who does is seventy years old and he's still really bitter that the mission which would have seen him as the first US astronaut in space was given to a chimp.   Thats the beauty of karma - things always seem to have a way of working out...When Andrew Lazar first pitched his script idea in 1997 about a team of senior citizens sent into space, it was deemed too preposterous for any studio to take a nibble.  I mean I couldn't qualify for the space program on my best day, so how would someone twice my age manage it? Apparently, quite well, as John Glenn proved in his trip aboard the space shuttle in 1998 at the age of 77 (maybe someone at NASA got a peak at the first draft).  The script no longer seemed ridiculous, and the problem of who to cast was short-lived  &#150; Clint Eastwood liked the idea so much that he agreed to star in it and direct. With him on board, the rest of the project quickly fell into place.There are several problems with the movie.  First and by the far the worst, the voices for the two characters who play Eastwood and Jones in their test pilot days have been obviously dubbed &#150; they are far too young to sound that old.  Second, the movie takes about 45 minutes to gain momentum, and could have easily been trimmed.  Finally the movie is predictable - even more so because of the trailers (they should be required to include spoiler warnings) - from the beginning to the end. So, why would you even bother to go see this?  The cast.The main characters are well written, the dialogue is natural and the actors gel extremely well.  I had no problem believing that they were lifelong friends (Eastwood and Sutherland were working on Kelly's Heroes when the first moon landing took place, so it's fitting that they be together for a `space movie'), which is a tribute to the talent of the actors involved and the writers.  Also important is the portrayal of older people - they are shown to be productive, vibrant, libidinous and funny, contrary to standard depictions, something I haven't seen since Tough Guys.  One of the great lines of the movie is when the director of operations, tells Eastwood's character You've been a senior citizen for five years.  Eastwood turns around, gives a menacing grimace and says Four years.  The amazing thing is that it's true - senior citizen is the last phrase I would associate with Clint Eastwood.  Finally Loren Dean is appropiately annoying and whiney as the young whippersnapper who thinks he knows it all.Although I have some reservations about the script, the characters definitely rise above their material, and it is obvious that they had a lot of fun making the movie, which makes this one worth seeing.  Oh, and the special effects aren't bad either... "},{"Title":"Very entertaining film!","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a VERY entertaining film. Yes, some of the science doesn't make much sense but that's beside the point in a space opera like this. A great cast all around. I'll certainly see it a second time. The final scene should credit Robert Heinlein's fine short story Requiem "},{"Title":"Rehashing of the Cold War","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Director Eastwood, who also stars, brings his predictable, plodding style to this would-be thriller.  The gorgeous cinematography cannot save this anachronistic, political throwback to the Cold War.  Remember the good old days when the Soviets were the enemy?Garner, Sutherland, Jones, and yes, even Eastwood are wasted in this weak vehicle of a film.   "},{"Title":"A bit clunky but still worthwhile","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those great-premise movies that so often falls flat. In this case, the film stumbles but never crashes completely. Tommy Lee Jones and Donald Sutherland are very enjoyable, Clint gives his usual squinty-eyed teeth-clenching performance (which he does better than anyone), but James Garner looks like he's just along for the ride. I would have enjoyed this more had the script been stronger (how many times do we need to hear about being a team player before we get the idea?); better dialogue and editing might have made some of the sillier logic gaps easier to swallow.Still, I'll give a round of applause to any movie that showcases the space program and people over 40, and manages to go two hours without injecting sex and violence. See this for the familiar faces, a few good moments and some cool space shuttle action.  "},{"Title":"Never too old to save the world","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  No spoilers here, just teasers.  Move over X-MEN and MISSION IMPOSSIBLE II, definitely the best movie of Summer 2000.  Thanks to Clint Eastwood for hanging up the six shooter and Smith-Wesson.  Donald Sutherland still shows that rogue-ish humor he demonstrated in THE DIRTY DOZEN and KELLY'S HEROS (Sutherland and Eastwood's other movie).  James Garner added just the right spice as a born-again astronaut.  Tommy Lee Jones is the classic good ol' boy Texan who shows that a young man's dream lives on into the golden years.  Who cares about plausible plot lines!?  I go to see movies like this for the adrenaline rush and it delivers.  Hey, it could happen!  This film proves that you're never too old to save the world.   "},{"Title":"Finally, The Right Stuff","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's nice to see so many heroes in one movie who are eligible for AARP membership.As a 50's guy (decade and age), I'm glad Hollywood is making movies where older people are portrayed as they are in this movie -- having fun at the expense of lame bureaucrats and young, less experienced hotshots. Just kidding.The plot is (of course) very contrived and (technologically) improbable. And the principal players play the roles they have developed in many prior appearances, so there were no stretch assignments here.But who cares? It's pure entertainment, and on that scale, it's a 10.This will fly out of the stores when it's released on DVD. "},{"Title":"an excellent movie","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Should you see this movie? Well, let's see now folks. For starters, there's Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner, Donald Sutherland, William Devane, James Cromwell. What's that add up to, a boatload of awards and accolades spanning something like FIVE decades? And THEN there's a good movie to boot!The most notable point I found to this movie is that none of these veteran actors seem to mind getting older! In fact, they all seem to have a good time pointing out that very fact. And that point really struck home when a man sitting a few rows behind me made the comment (about Clint Eastwood) Jesus, I hope I look that good when I'm hitting 70! Too true, too true. Hey, a lot of us wish we looked that good NOW!The movie is a delightful romp through NASA, all the while poking fun at themselves for being as old as they are, AND at everyone else for NOT being as old as they are. Kids in the candy store. However, when the story turns serious, as it does at times, these guys also make sure you know who they are. Real bona-fide-Hollywood-movie-stars with the acting skills and credentials to back up their long careers.Kids (under 35!) may not get the point to this movie. But if you're middle-aged+ (all of us aging baby-boomers!), you'll get it, sure enough. You're only too old if YOU think you are.Go see this movie. A few solemn moments, a bunch of laughs well done special effects and a few twists. But mostly, go see it because it's Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner & Donald Sutherland. Not often you put a team like that together. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining! Even if you aren't a senior citizen.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was a bit skeptical at first about seeing a movie dealing with guys twice as old as the space program going into space and saving the day. The title alone is enough to make one avoid paying money to see the film.  And being the youngest person in the audience by at least 30 years (I'm in my mid-20s), I had some doubts.  Yet, despite some flaws (mostly in the 3rd act) this film was quite entertaining.Clint, Tommy, Donald, and James G. are great as the four aging heroes who must travel into space to fix an ancient satellite that is malfunctioning.  Both funny and poignant, the first 2/3rds of the movie give the four actors plenty of moments to make each one stand out.  Some pretty good lines, great interaction scene after scene, and moments of reflection give them ample reasons to shine.The third act, however, is when the movie start going downhill.  Like dentures without polygrip, things start to fall out of place.  The action starts off well enough, but then tapers off with no real suspense or excitement to keep it going.  The story starts to become sappy and very predictable.  And Garner and Sutherland are little seen and wasted.  They are pretty much forgotten throughout the last third.  Only near the end do they finally get more screen time.Something else I didn't like, nor did I find believable (and it seems to be in many films lately) are the old geezers becoming sex objects to much younger female characters.  Now, I know these guys are astronauts and that alone is enough to attract pretty ladies, but come on... that just doesn't make sense.  I've never heard any of my female friends say they thought my grandfather looks hot.  These guys are old enough to be dead.  Their characters aren't even rich, yet the ladies swoon over them.  (Sigh) Apparently woman just find dirty old men attractive (so that's what I'm doing wrong... I'm not dirty enough or old enough).All in all I found SPACE COWBOYS more enjoyable than I originally thought I would.  I actually found myself laughing through most of it.  If not for the third act and women longing for old men, this one would be brilliant.  "},{"Title":"It will make your day","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Ahh............Nice to have you back Clint. Put 4 top stars in a movie, sit back and enjoy. Though there are no real surprises and you can see the predictable ending coming a mile away, the humor and slick direction by Eastwood makes this one of the most pleasurable movies of the summer. Not that Eastwood does everything right. Remember City Heat? Didn't think so. "}{"Title":"first half is hysterical, and helps carry through the shift in the movie","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The movies is great.  I laughed hysterically during the 1st half, and that helps carry you through the second part when the movie shifts from comedy to adventure.  The second half is good too, but the tone of the movie changes quickly as they go into space.  All in all, I thought it was very good and worth seeing in the theater.  ILM did an excellent job with the special effects. "},{"Title":"The old men show how it's supposed to be done.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The four principal actors in this movie have a great time poking fun at their advanced ages.  Younger audiences might avoid this one, thinking that a quartet of senior citizens aren't believable as action heroes, but they will miss out on a pleasant surprise.  Older audiences will especially appreciate this movie, since many of them are turned off by the hijinks in other action movies.  The testosterone level is high, and the women characters get shortchanged as usual, but Barbara Babcock, Blair Brown and Marcia Gay Harden do well with their characters. The first part of the movie is very amusing, especially the bantering between Jones and Eastwood.  The second half turns serious after the Gray Team reaches the problematic satellite and discover a deadly secret.  The only major problem in this movie is the ending, which if you really think about it, would be impossible.  Otherwise, this is a good value for your money. "},{"Title":"FUNNY...BUT FOR THE WRONG REASONS","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While the novelty of Tommy, Clint, Donald, and James on the screen together is mildly entertaining, I found this particular film to be rather boring. Featuring a particularly annoying opening black and white sequence with bad dubbing and wrought with every space-themed cliche' imaginable, I was extremely disappointed. This film borrows too heavily from other space-oriented films like Contact, Armageddon, and Apollo 13. It's only the occasional bouts of humor (given mainly to Sutherland) that kept me from walking out. Also features James Cromwell (a great actor!) who is absolutely wasted in this film playing a character we have already seen him play many times before. All in all, despite having a great talent like Eastwood behind it, this film never rises above its genre. Personally, I'll stick with my two Eastwood favs Midnight In The Garden of Good and Evil and Unforgiven. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fun!  A must see!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Some reviewers have trashed this movie because of its plot flaws and lack of reality check.  But that's just not the point of this movie!  Come on, people!  Four geriatrics going into space is not supposed to be taken seriously!  IMHO, the plot line was one of the best this summer.  It left me wondering what was going on at every turn!  It wasn't American Beauty calibre but still worth the watch.  Clint, James, Donald and Tommy put on brilliant performances and almost made me believe that they were like that in real life.  No more playing the middle-aged hero for these four!  They were grumpy old men on a mission and the comedy of it has you rolling in the aisles!  I was laughing so hard that I couldn't care less about the weaker elements of the movie.  At one point the whole audience broke out into cheers and applause.  (SPOILER AHEAD...) and that was when the team got one over on the youngsters in the cafeteria.The special effects were well done, the plot line was interesting if not completely sound--it was predictable with the shuttle simulation and the cancer thing what would happen in the end.  The acting was great, even though Tommy Lee did his usual monotone fast-paced run-down thing and Clint was as quiet as usual.  If you want two hours of pure entertainment, go see this movie.   "},{"Title":"2/3 Dramatic Comedy 1/3 Sci-fi save the world","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first two thirds of this movie I would have to classify as a dramatic comedy.  Dramatic in that the plot is cohesive and progresses in a serious manner and direction, comedic in that there are lots of jokes.  The jokes are of a more mature variety (and not just because they are often old jokes) than most comedies released recently.  The jokes are of the try to be truthful and not funny variety (like Bill Cosby used to say).So the astronauts train and try to regain their youth.  At least for the first 2/3 of the movie.  After that they go into space and it becomes a standard save-the-world type adventure.  Enough fore-shadowing (many would even say too much) allows the viewer to know the sort of thing that is going to happen when they get to space.  Of course that is kind of standard for sci-fi movies so...One thing that did impress me is the extent to which they tried to keep the science realistic.  Even to the extent of using the proper scientific terms like flying brick.  Of course they still have everyone in zero-g move super slow.8/10 "},{"Title":"Space Cowboys is one hell of a ride!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is not a good Armageddon.  This is so good it cannot be compared to that horrible movie.  Many critics think the story is unbelievable. Actually, I watched a special on the Discovery Channel, and, as it turns out, NASA thinks it is the most realistic space movie sense the Right Stuff.Overall, the movie is very enjoyable.  The first half is very funny, but it then drops into serious the moment they get into space.  Some may not like how the astronauts get all serious after being so funny, but that really happens.  Pilots are the funniest people in the world, but when the get to work, the act very professional (if you don't believe me, read the Right Stuff).  This is one of those movies that you come out of very refreshed and is very enjoyable.  This is the years last good summer movie.  While the movie isn't the greatest ever made, when it comes to space, this hits it right on.  Any fan of space who wants a good laugh should see this movie. I highly recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"A fun summer flick!","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There were lots of factual errors and gaffs aplenty, such as the on-and-off gravity inside the shuttlecraft once it got into space.  But if you can put this kind of stuff aside and just enjoy a film, then I recommend it as a go-see.  The medical examinations of the foursome is hilarious, especially the eye exam.  There was one scene that reminded me of Slim Pickens, who was in a simular position in another movie.  There was darkness at the end, but also hope.  I can envision another moonshot occuring, just to make *sure*....'nuff said.  See it!  Enjoy!! "},{"Title":"Most Enjoyable Movie of the Summer","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, a summer movie I enjoyed. This is exactly what it promises. You see four aging stars show what acting is all about. There are some interesting plot twists that keep this from turning into nothing more than a team-saves-satellite predictable yawner. I won't spoil them here. Enough to say that Clint Eastwood delivers again. The special effects -I think they were from ILM- were pretty good. The only thing that bothered me a bit was the final scene. It really, REALLY stretches credulity to assume Tommy Lee Jones or anybody else could reach his destination. However, it didn't ruin the movie. There are some weaknesses in the movie. It slows a bit in parts, mainly to play some more with the fact that all four astronauts are old, but it never pushes that button too much. There's a point where the jokes about old men stop, but most people in the audience wouldn't remember when, so the old men jokes aren't exessive. The ending is never really in doubt. You know there's no way Clint Eastwood will fail, but they do put enough doubt in it to make it thrilling near the end.Small item. In the credits, Clint gets credit for a song called Espacio, though I didn't catch if it's a vocal or instrumental, and where it comes in the action.  "},{"Title":"Great actors, funny lines, but too much of a cliche ending","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is a very cool (and perfectly titled) movie if only for the fact that you get to see four very cool actors in a single screen, having fun.  Clint Eastwood, Donald Sutherland, Tommy Lee Jones, and James Garner all deliver top-notch performances as four former Air Force test pilots who get to go up in space to fix a dying satellite.  (The satellite is SO old with obsolete technology that they are the only ones who know how to fix it.  A bit far-fetched, but hey, if it brings the four actors together, I'm all for it.) And they are funny, funny, funny!!!  I've never seen Donald Sutherland being such a riot!!  These veteran actors surely know how to do an ensemble performance.  The first hour-and-a-half of the movie -- during which the four space cowboys team up again after forty-some years, train to go up in space, and do some womanizing on the side -- is reason enough to watch this movie.  Quite unique, and very fun. Unfortunately, the movie takes a turn for a cliche once the space shuttle leaves earth to rendez-vous with the satellite.  All of a sudden, the four characters' unique charm and chemistry take a backseat to intrigue (which is only semi-intriguing), action (obligatory for a summer space movie, I guess), and special effects (which wasn't all that great, given today's high standards).  In short, the last thirty minutes or so of the movie just felt like an Armageddon plus Apollo 13 wanna-be movie with all the obvious cliche elements thrown in.  I could pretty much tell just about everything that was going to happen in advance, and that really killed all the joy of the movie.  Very disappointing. Thus overall, I can only rate this movie 6 stars out of 10.  If I had seen the movie only up to the point the space shuttle crew gets to the satellite, I would have easily given 8 or even 9 stars out of 10.  But the final thirty minutes of the movie was just so anti-climatic and cliche for me that it left me sorely disappointed. Still, go watch the movie because it is truly hilarious when the four actors take the center stage.  Just don't expect a big-bang ending. "},{"Title":"A Fun night at the movies.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Plot is not very plausible, hoping NASA's screening program is not like it is portrayed here. Eastwood, Jones, Garner and Southerland all played well off each other. Eastwoods dead-pan comedic style shined, as did Southerlands. Jones and Garner each gave the film what it needed to get it over the 5 mark. For what it is, A Fun night at the movies. "}{"Title":"What I thought (spoiler)","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I thought it was a really great amalgam of Armageddon, Apollo 13, and Grumpy Old Men.  I thought the interaction between Clint Eastwood and Tommy Lee Jones seemed fluid and natural.  And the visual image at the end was particularly striking. "},{"Title":"Clint Eastwood has outdone himself - he is true artistic integrity","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Each time I see a Clint Eastwood movie, I am more and more impressed with his directorial talent.  He is consistent to perfection, he is true to detail without being a slave to it, his music (I think he has written the music for this as well) is so beautifully classy and adds to any movie he makes.But what is so incredible about an Eastwood movie is that he is so true to total artistic integrity.  An example is that in this movie, the main characters when seen as younger men (the plot revolves around them as older) it is so consistent and typically Eastwood, that he uses the voices of the older actors when the younger versions of them speak.  I have never seen this done, and as I realized that was what was happening (and I wonder if others noticed this beautifully consistent detail) I was aware of what it is about Eastwood's direction that is so brilliant. I can't help but compare this easy going yet perfectionist style of directing to that of Malick, who when directing The Thin Red Line was so full of himself that his directorial self-indulgence went so far as to sicken his audience with overkill to the point of tearful boredom and anxiety which basically told the viewer, I don't care what you want to see, this is for me as opposed to the Eastwood film, which is so unselfish and giving to its audience.The movie was a total joy, while some of the dialogue may be predictable as well as the plot, it was nonetheless sheer enjoyment.  I would recommend this movie to everyone and anyone. Bravo, Clint Eastwood, you have done it for us again.  Thank you for your brilliance and contribution to entertainment. "},{"Title":"Four old timers having fun","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Enjoyable movie. Exactly what you would expect from four fun loving actors. Had the best 2 hours of the year watching them react with each other. Only disappointment was the ending. But otherwise, one of the funniest and watchable movies of the year. "},{"Title":"Clint is the man!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"      Clint Eastwood has had quite a career.  Nuking down a giant tarantula, shooting down countless cowboys, shooting down even more countless thugs, and becoming a nervous secret service agent hunting down a assassian.  So what does one do when he's seventy years old?  Why go into outer space, of course. But instead of doing things very cheesy or silly, Eastwood manages to pull things off rather well in his travel in his new film SPACE COWBOYS.      Back in 1958, some air force test pilots were testing new limits to see how much close could they get into space.  With their countless crashes of millions of dollars of jets, the Air Force commander and the government decide to send up their first American, a chimpanzee.  Flash-forward to fourty years later, a Russian communication satellite is orbiting closer to Earth's atmosphere getting ready to crash.  The Russian general (Rade Serbedzija) tells NASA that the satellite must be retrieved, and rebooted.  So they go to the designer of the satellite, former Air Force pilot Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood). Frank agrees to fix the problem on one condition, he goes up to space with his fellow Air Force pilots who were passed over fourty years ago, beside him.  So Frank seeks out his old crew, Hawk Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones) is a crop dusting pilot, Jerry O' Nell (Donald Sutherland) is a engineer designer for rollercosters, and Tank Sullivan (James Garner) is a minister. When Frank tells them the news, all are very excited to take that journey they have been waiting so much and long for.  However, they must overcome the shrwed NASA director Bob Gerson (James Cromwell), the doubtful flight director, Eugene Davis (William Devaine), and young astronaunts Ethan Glance (Loren Dean) and Roger Hines (Courtney B. Vance).      SPACE COWBOYS is a good old fashion fun adventure film.  It's not to be taken seriously, it's a fun movie.  Similar to Eastwood's other film, FIREFOX, it's high tech, silly, but it's very fun.  The first half of the film has some good humor as the four old men overcome their age difference between the other astronaunts.  And the second half is quite spectacular as the men go into space and hover over Earth.        I did enjoy the acting by the veterans, Jones, Sutherland, and Garner all give great performances and even some witty humor into their characters.  And the support from Cromwell, Marcia Gay Harding, Devaine, Dean, and Vance are all quite good as well.  But this is Clint's movie, all the way.  Eastwood has the best lines, and the most emotion out of the other characters.      And Eastwood also does a good job with the directing.  He has some fun scenes in the first half, with some slowing down scenes here and there for the viewer to catch up with their breath.  Then he full speeds the film with the exciting climax in space.  I never thought that I would see Eastwood direct a film like SPACE COWBOYS.  After doing westerns, romantic dramas, and action films, SPACE COWBOYS is part action and part science fiction.     Don't expect to see a APOLLO 13 or THE RIGHT STUFF here, although, Eastwood does manage to throw in some inside jokes of those classics.  But for a far fetched film, similar to ARMAGEDDON, SPACE COWBOYS is fun indeed!  A film that both the young and old will enjoy.  And the old will certainly enjoy it, since it's meassage is no matter how old one is, one is never too old to dream.  Great show!  ***** (out of five) "},{"Title":"A DELIGHTFUL TWO HOURS","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was an enjoyable movie though a bit too long.  The cast was very good with Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner & Donald Sutherland doing an outstanding job.  The only problem was people were laughing so loudly that you missed a lot of the lines in the movie.  The old men of the screen pulled this one off very well.  Go see it!! "},{"Title":"Geezer buddy film strikes just the right balance of comedy and drama.","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a safe lightweight project for Eastwood, Jones, Garner and Sutherland.  The geezer jokes are kept within reason and the film is funny with a decent mixture of drama and suspense thrown in.  Eastwood knows how to keep the film moving and even allows a larger than life ending that is bittersweet. It's a pleasure to see these Hollywood Icons enjoying themselves. "},{"Title":"Formulaic but fun","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys collects most of the cliches of a standard old-farts-do-good flick The flashback, the reunion, the fights, even the one-of-them-is-sick routine. But Eastwood and company pull it off with much finesse and fun, and the results are hilarious and touching. The film loses some energy once the geriatric foursome finally blast off into space, and the end is a bit of an emotional downer, but the overall flight is worth it. "},{"Title":"Comedy and Action, what else would you want from a summer flick?","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys has  a little something for everyone; from its opening sequence in Black and White, to its closing sequence with a great Frank Sinatra song, the movie tries to be a little something for everyone. As such, it is both its greatest strength and weakness.Told along a then and now plot line, we are introduced to our heroes, prosaically named the ripe stuff. We learn enough about their backgrounds to care about them, but not staggering deeply into their characters to lose interest.The mission, and what leads up to it there is too much exposition here, and the film could use a 5-7 minute trimming of thisare spread out leisurely, while the actual mission itself and how it transpires is quite interesting.Was this a great movie? No. Was it enjoyable and worth my $7? Yes.I enjoyed the movie, but as a caveat, I really enjoyed Bronco Billy and Every Which way but Loose, too. It is more along these lines than Unforgiven. "},{"Title":"Fairly good movie, entertaining.","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Basically these four guys are good together. Good  chemistry and lots of laughs. The movie is a mixture of The Right Stuff meets Cocoon. The geriatric jokes are a blast and great. The movie is very, very predictable and slows down at the end. All in all it was entertaining and fun. "},{"Title":"Not enough laughs, but quite an adventure.","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has plenty of action, likeable characters, and a fun, if unrealistic, plot premise.  What it doesn't have are enough laughs.Space Cowboys is an action movie about sending four old Air Force flyers into space to rescue a doomed satellite.  The premise could have made a great comedy, but instead we get some save-the-world action and a heavy story with a few funny lines.The laughs we do get are hearty chuckles, but they're simply spread too thin.  There's a Baptist minister with a Hawaiian hula dancer fetish, a little fun with baby food, and a wacky Jay Leno cameo.  Other highlights are the outer space segments, complete with lots of space lingo and the occasional feel-good moment.A few times, the drama verges too far on the heavy side, with predictably depressing consequences.  Confrontations between Frank Corvin (Eastwood) and Bob Gerson (James Cromwell) are tense but not explosive.  The enmity is just a bit flat, since we can never quite believe that Gerson is as evil as Frank wants to think he is.  Gerson himself is a walking contradiction, a sometimes-ally who would be a villain in any other movie but doesn't manage it in this one.  It was a difficult role, but James Cromwell makes the most of it, for which I applaud him.  Despite the contradictions, I almost always found him believable in the part.Tommy Lee Jones was probably the most sympathetic character, for reasons that I cannot divulge but which will quickly become clear if you see the film.  Moreover, his brisk, sincere style really developed his character, Hawk Hawkins, pilot extraordinaire.  I have nothing but praise for his performance.Clint Eastwood, James Garner, and Donald Sutherland all make the most of the old fogy stereotypes grumpy old man, kindly old man, and dirty old man. Sometimes it's funny, sometimes it's not, but most of the time it feels genuine.  They're oddballs, but they're real people.The same cannot be said for Loren Dean, who plays a competitive young astronaut named Ethan.  Ethan's professional animosity goes far beyond reasonable bounds, partly for the sake of the drama, but there should be more to it.  It's wooden, it's forced, and it isn't explained adequately.Overall, I recommend this movie as an action flick, but don't go in expecting a comedy or you'll be a little disappointed. "}{"Title":"Just what I was looking for -- a great popcorn flick!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Take four of the sexiest, funniest gentlemen of a certain age around, start out with the Happy Bottom Riding Club, a heavy dose of Tom Wolfe, some Chuck Yeager, and a little Viagra.  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie -- just flat good entertainment. I saw a sneak preview -- I really hope they don't tinker with anything before the official opening -- I liked it just as it was. Bring on the psychometer stimulus plates! "},{"Title":"It's worth seeing","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The four of us saw this at a sneak preview last night.  We all found this movie very  entertaining with no slow moments. Clint Eastwood was his typical go ahead, make my day self and fans of his will like this movie. Donald Sutherland played a well-endowed sex machine with parts that hadn't rusted yet always looking for action.  Tommy Lee Jones was crusty and wild as usual, and James Garner played the gentleman of the group.  It had a good message of younger isn't always better.The pace was good, and people in the audience were laughing consistently throughout the movie.  The story was a little bit reminiscent of Armaggedon, but then again, this movie had different people, different setting, different story...We had seen X-Men the night before, which was rated quite highly here (four stars).  Effects-wise X-Men was better, but I found Space Cowboys far more entertaining to watch.  There are good effects in this movie as well.  The good thing was you are able to get more emotionally involved in this movie (which you really weren't able to do in X-Men).  Go see it and cheer these guys on! "},{"Title":"Space Fantasy Leaves You Hungry For More","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I got in on a sneak preview of Space Cowboys over the weekend.  Now, this isn't really a science fiction movie.  Well, it is FICTION...but there is very little real science applied to huge chunks of the story line.However, that being said, there are some positives to this movie.  The biggest being the four main characters played by Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner, and Donald Sutherland.  Of all the elements in this film that are so unbelievable, these four characters stand out as being very believable, and very likeable too.  You really want these guys to wind up in space.There are some nice special effects brought in by Industrial Light and Magic too.  I can forgive the folks at ILM for making most of the space scenes move much faster than they would actually occur in space.  I mean, this is just a movie.Overall, Space Cowboys is like candy.  You enjoy it while you eat it...but afterwards you are hungry for some real food.  So, if you can accept this film as the fantasy that it is, you will probably enjoy it.  However, if you need a little reality as a foundation to your fiction...well, you might as well wait on Space Cowboys.   "},{"Title":"Good Acting, Poor Plotting","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I had high hopes for this movie since I first heard about it.  With a cast like this, I thought nothing could go wrong.  I was mistaken.  The characterizations and the acting were terrific, but unfortunately, the plot was given a few too many complications.  I would have been happy with a straightforward Daedalous team goes into space.  There are plenty of difficulties and dangers to be faced by rookies going into space.  They didn't need to add all of the additional complications which, in general, detracted from the film.All in all, I thought it was a great film until they actually got into space and started running into complications.  The interactions between Garner, Sutherland, Eastwood, and Jones were fun to watch and thoroughly enjoyable. The opening of the movie which tells about how the four of them know each other and the scenes showing them preparing for their mission were a treat to watch.  I was glad that I saw it but I would have preferred to have seen it as a matinee or even on video. "},{"Title":"Ok, but a disappointment from the talent involved","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is a well-made movie but nothing really happens and what does happen does not really make any sense. The movie is about the four members of Team Daedalus, the airforce's space flying project before NASA was formed, being called back to present day Houston for one last mission to repair, a Russian telecommunications satellite (or so they think). The whole plot about the satellite though is just the excuse for getting these four old guys into NASA training and up into space. There is nothing really original in this screenplay and key explanatory points are left out. And once the action shifts to outer space every twist and turn in the story is a textbook Hollywood cliche. The saving grace for this movie is the acting and directing, with Clint Eastwood falling into both of those categories. Every one of the actors gives a great performance, the biggest surprise being from William Devane as the flight commander. All four of the leads are good, but it is not good enough to save Space Cowboys from its script problems. The bad guy isn't even brought anywhere close to justice!!! The worst from Clint in a while, but still a fairly amusing, if slow, ride. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A really fun time at the movies, highly reccomended.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is well worth a look-see at the theater. The widescreen scenes will absolutely lose alot on TV. It's not just a silly comedy about four old guys who go into space one last time. (Well, it IS that but it has heart,humor, and no real marginal scenes that any parent should worry about. It could almost be PG instead of PG-13. Kids see worse things on regular network TV!) It's funny when it needs to be and adventurous when the time comes. Nowhere else in Hollywood will you get such a huge cast.Nowhere else in Hollywood will you get better outer space effects. (ILM really, really outdid themselves on this film.)And please do not be late because the first 15 minutes is pretty great. (Don't leave early either or you will miss one of the greatest final scenes of all time. And again, ILM, you guys are underpaid man, really!!!) Clint is in top form all the way on this. Tom Cruise should look so good when He hits 70! Small SPOILER ALERT****** The first half of this film is the gathering of the old farts for the mission, the usual but well done training sequences, and of course, the outer space scenes. But let me tell ya folks, there are a few curveballs thrown 'atcha and the film turns into a really fantastic adventure! Go ahead and spend the 8 bucks and treat yourself to a fun 2 hours and 15 minutes. "},{"Title":"Cool or what!","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Its a real good movie and kudos the director for using his wonderful knack of mixing the varied elements and coming up with space cowboys. Lee, Eastwood and Sutherland make up an interesting trio and have done their best in the movie. I had an opportunity to see a sneak preview of this movie and am GLAD i didn't turn it down. WE NEED MORE MOVIES LIKE THIS. anyone listening??  "},{"Title":"They are the best","Date":"5 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I was asked recently if I was left on an island with a DVD player and TV that worked which 4 movies would I take with me. This is one of those movies. You have Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner and Donald Sutherland doing in my option some of their best work. It is about four old guys getting a chance to go up into space when they really should not because of their age. BUT will they? Will they get through the NASA program or will they blow it - my bet is on them doing it but this is a movie so you never know. If they ever ask me as a Vet Tech that they needed my help in space because of some strange animal experiment I would jump at the chance to go into space but I think most people would have a problem with the NASA program as I would. This movie is a good example of what would happen if someone who gets the option to go into space would have to deal with.!!!! "},{"Title":"Health Warning - may cause unfulfillable hopes in O.A.Ps........","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Space Cowboys is rather silly and may well have resulted in the demise of several senior citizens who thought they could do sit ups,get off the floor unaided and pull a chick half their age.Sorry guys but it's only a movie.Believe me,I'm 68 and if I can still get out of bed in the morning it's a result as far as I'm concerned. So Mr Eastwood has done 99% of the male population no favours indeed by showing off his expensively maintained Hollywood body across the screen for the rest of us to envy. Hurtling around the skies in a Bell X 3 in 1958 is one thing,shooting into space 40 - odd years later quite another. Interrupted whilst canoodling with his wife in the garage - in itself quite a feat one would have thought - Mr Eastwood is summoned to Nasa where something has Gone Wrong and he is the go - to guy who can fix it. With a number of other old guys who have been in lots of movies,Clint gets the job done.Don't try any of these things at home.Especially not canoodling with the wife in the garage............. "},{"Title":"Funny, exciting, good visually","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is great for fans of these older guys. All 4 of them are great and the combo was hilarious. I absolutely love the Jay Leno interview and thought that the editors made a major mistake in editing it down from the full length. But the movie also shows that age need not be the barrier so many youngsters think it is.The movie is exciting, funny, and a lot about people who are head strong and that there is room in their hearts after all. Part of what made this so good was that all the people stayed true to their personalities. This goes for the hard nose government man, Tommy Lee Jones who is always in conflict, Donald Sutherland who was an excellent ladies man throughout the entire show and everywhere he went. The only weak player in the movie were a couple of the young astronauts, which was i\irritating, but perhaps necessary. "}{"Title":"Stellar cast with great concept","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" May be the best mix of cast and basic concept in the last ten years, even if a few of the stars' ages don't jive with the basic story line. Eastwood is one member of an Air Force team passed over for the space program. When his expertise becomes indispensable for a mission 40 years later he makes NASA take the rest of the old band along. Eastwood's crew and Devane are each entertaining enough that the old fogey stuff is fun if predictable, and Harden does a very nice supporting turn. Things get a little fuzzy towards the end, including crew with secret instructions and surprise satellites; made up some by absolutely breath-taking outer space scenery. The Columbia disaster gives a whole new perspective to the reentry sequence. That disaster may explain the scarcity of TBS showings since this movie's original television run. "},{"Title":"Very Very Excellent !!!","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Honorable Great Master Director Mr. Clint Eastwood has made avery realistic space movie.There is no fiction in this movie.What you see is possible today.I thank the Great Director for being so kind to future Generation of to be Astronauts. It is very inspiring movie.It is also shot in my home town Houston.Thank you very much for your kind considerations.With Very Best Regards "},{"Title":"Just a totally FUN film with 4 great actors, never mind the space inaccuracies!","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw Space Cowboys on DVD, and it is a good one. The picture is great and the 5.1 channel DD surround sound is used really well. I rate this film a solid 8 of 10 for total enjoyment. I am old enough to remember 1958, when the space program was just gearing up. And the premise of a 4-man team of astronauts being 'dissed' by a chimp is not far-fetched. Eastman, Jones, Sutherland, and Garner are great as the team of over-the-hill astronaut wannabees.CAUTION -- SOME SPOILERS FOLLOW --The flm starts in 1958 with Jones piloting an experimental plane, taking it too close to the outer edge of the envelope, going into a spin and he and his xo, Eastwood, jumping to safety. Even though they used young actors for this scene, the voices of Jones and Eastwood were dubbed in to make it very realistic.Cut to the present. A Russian communications satellite is falling out of orbit and they have just 5 weeks to do something. The Russian ambassador convinces NASA that loss of this communications satallite would be a disaster. Problem is, the computer code is 40 years old, actually stolen by the KGB from a US navigation software, and Eastwood is the only one still alive who can fix it. Instead of trying to train a younger person, Eastwood insists that he and his other team members train and go into space, to finally get their shot. The recent John Glenn space mission was referenced.There's lots of funny stuff during the training. My favorite is the physical examination by the lady doctor, the four old men are shown naked from the rear, and all except Sutherland is clutching a towel over their private parts. Sutherland's character just stands there, naked, and smiles.They get up into space, intercept the Russian probe, quickly find out it is not for communications but in fact has 6 nuclear warheads with an automatic aiming system for key USA cities. So, the mission becomes one to send the satellite into deep space. However, a miscue by the younger crew member damages the shuttle, and there remains only one possibility. Jones' character, who turns out to be dying of cancer, lights the rockets and pilots the Russian satellite into deep space, determined to get to the moon, finally!The 3 remaining old guys have to pilot the shuttle back manually and do it in a humorous sequence. Back home on Earth, Eastwood and wife are looking at the moon, wondering if Hawk ever made it. Then, the film ends in a touching and humorous scene , a close-up of satellite remains and Jones still in spacesuit draped across a boulder on the moon.One could nit-pick the implausibility of the whole situation, the accuracy of the science, the ending. But none of that is important, This was not made to be a factual account of what really might happen. It was made just for good entertainment with a little romance and a little drama thrown in. I think they succeeded and this is one of the more entertaining films I have seen in recent months. "},{"Title":"This movie respects the elderly","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I love this movie because when the man that Clint Eastwood plays is called up to fix that Russian satellite and he and his other friends show those people that they can do things at their age. I like it when they are in space and that young guy who thinks he knows everything because of going to M.I.T. makes the mistake of activating the nuclear missiles that are hidden inside the body of the satellite. It shows how the four older guys figured out a way to save the entire world from a nuclear tragedy that the younger guy almost caused when he would not listen to them. This is one movie that shows that the people who are older than 60 deserve more respect than they are shown. I think this movie should be shown to people who are in High School and told that they are to respect all people who are over the age of 60 and treat them with respect and what they could learn from these elderly people. "},{"Title":"It's good space shuttle science fiction, if you look at it that way.","Date":"13 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Keep in mind that this is science fiction, not docudrama, no matter how convincingly real it looks. Four guys, aced out of the new NASA program in 1958, manage by hook and crook to be sent on a shuttle mission 50 years later to rescue a russian satellite. Special effects genius, great acting and direction, make a very riveting tale. There are many personality conflicts, a little love (but none of the usual soft porn), and plenty of unexpected problems, even a little comedy to keep up the interest. In fact, one way to view the film, is that it is all comedy, with a bit of tragedy thrown in. You want to keep your eye on that russky satellite, though. It turns out to be rather large for a communications bird. "},{"Title":"A Fun Romp In The Cosmos With Our Favorite Geezers!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sure, it's a contrived plot, but who cares.  This film was one heck of a fun ride!  Adventure, pathos, humor, and some of my favorite actors combine to make this movie a keeper.  Try it, you'll like it!  (NOTE The rumors appear to be true - if you look carefully at the crowd in the bar scene, you can see Bill and Hillary Clinton in un-credited cameos.)   "},{"Title":"Unarmed and not very dangerous","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It's a shame to see Clint Eastwood slipping further into his dotage with this effort. Lame plot, wooden performances, glacial pacing -- even the purported twists could have been scripted by a 10-year-old veteran of the cartoon network. Oh yeah, and while it may be realistic for Clint Eastwood or Tommy Lee Jones (or, apparently, Michael Douglas) to be playing slap and tickle with women 30 years their junior, for the most part, these May-December matches just make the whole thing harder to believe (and that's going some). If you really love these guys and are expecting nothing, they prove that they can still get by on fading charm. It just could have been so much better in the hands of a director who was prepared to demand a bit more -- from his actors and his writers. "},{"Title":"Unbearable","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I find difficult to believe there's so much talent involved in this total failure. It cannot initiate even a remote interest to the viewer. Cliche, predictable, moronic, boring and that's just the first minutes! Then it gets worse. There is one thing though that you can enjoy if you go to this movie, sleep. "},{"Title":"some nice zero-g effects, but stupid and bad dialog","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are some nice special effects of zero-g activities, but that was about all I liked about this stupid film.  You can NOT really fly a spaceship by the seat of your pants, unless I guess you are an aging pilot with only 30 days of shuttle training, please.  Its loaded with technical stupidity (I won't put in spoilers though).  The dialog is also very bad.  The scene with the old guys on the Tonight show is mostly  funny as their lines throughout the movie aren't much  different then on the show.  No one talks like that.  And don't get me started on how stupid the ending is.  I like these actors, but they need a good script and better direction and how about actually hiring a real astronaut (even an old one) to review the script for technical flaws? "},{"Title":"Hmm","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Have you seen Armageddon?  If you have, then you have seen this movie. All you need to do is age the characters 20 or so years and substitute a space station for the comet.  A good watch if you love Armageddon and want to see it again. "}{"Title":"Squirming","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Oh, this was just so dreadful, I would have walked out on it in a theatre, but as I was watching the video at home decided to spare myself the principle of stalking out into a cold and wet February evening.  My loathing just overflowed when Donald Sutherland, when asked about his lack of nickname - unlike his multi-cobwebbed team members - said - at this point I was on my knees begging that he wouldn't make the all-to-obvious riposte, but no, he said it anyway - that the young lady could call him anytime.....I'm still squirming...  "},{"Title":"$2 is too much to pay to see this movie","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a fan of these actors.  Sutherland is one of my favorites, Clint has seldom disappointed me.  This movie disappointed me tremendously.  It's choppy, careening from one scene to the next with little support.  The actors are adequate none seem to really give a hoot.  The writing is outright BAD.Don't bother, just go see the Good Bad and Ugly again, or the Dirty Dozen. Or Animal House where Sutherland is that pothead-professor. "},{"Title":"There's a reason why the memorable quotes section is empty","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If I ever catch up with Eastwood I'm going to demand the two hours of my life he wasted back for this piece of utter tripe.Never before have I so completely and utterly failed to give even the slightest damn about the characters and what became of them.  Never before have I encountered a plot so contrived or unbelievable.  And never before has anyone tried to palm the viewers off with such a third rate resolution to the story, such as it is.If it wasn't from some fairly decent special effects (which, let's face it, are what we've come to expect from films of this ilk anyway) I would have not one positive thing to say about this movie.  I'd recommend Apollo 13 instead, or failing that a full frontal lobotomy.  "},{"Title":"You're Only as Old as You Are.","Date":"26 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Generally entertaining tale of aging astronauts in space. It seems this obsolete Soviet satellite is decaying in its orbit and may crash into earth somewhere and a team is needed to stabilize it. The problem is that the engineering is so obsolete that nobody knows exactly how to do it except the people who designed it thirty or more years ago. These include Clint Eastwood, David Sutherland, James Garner, and Tommy Lee Jones.Eastwood was chief engineer and is chosen to lead the others on a mission to fix the blasted thing. How -- you might ask -- did secret American plans wind up in the hands of the USSR? They were stolen from John Cromwell's files. He was head of the program and is the closest thing the movie has to a villain. Except for the Russian general who keeps urging us to fix the satellite in orbit because now all Russian communications depend on it.He's lying, of course. It turns out that this communications satellite is really a missile-launching platform with six nukes aboard. If this beast enters the atmosphere it automatically triggers a launch so there's much more at stake than making a phone call from Omsk to Kursk. The film embodies some obsolete Cold War sentiments as well. The American space shuttle that is sent to the rescue is immaculately white and brightly lighted. The Soviet satellite, Icon, is dark, ugly, forbidding, and -- without the Russian general's having bothered to inform our astronauts -- is designed to deploy its missiles and read itself for launch if anyone dares tinker with it.Eastwood's productions have a tendency to skimp on extras. They sometimes look kind of cheap. But in this case the effects are reasonably convincing and, if I, for one, didn't understand precisely what was going on at every moment, it's still a stimulating and sometimes gripping story with occasional touches of humor. And if it carries the burden of some clichés, it manages to avoid others. None of the aging astronauts leaves a copiously weeping family back home.It's a decent movie with a lot of action, much of it implausible. The last space shuttle fell apart while sailing over Texas because of some slight damage to heat-resistance tiles caused by a falling piece of Styrofoam. This one has been banged around by several tons of steel in outer space but contrives to enter the atmosphere without disintegrating.The title of the movie is admittedly pretty dumb. Space Cowboys. I can't imagine why someone would dream up such a drive-in oriented title. What kind of audience are they aiming for? John Wayne and the Cowboys was another instance of a fundamentally interesting late film from the Duke, but with a title that suggests not a film that would interest adults but rather fans of Abbott and Costello or The Three Stooges or, at best, Roy Rogers.There are a few other things that are slightly irritating. The humor is mostly verbal -- insults of the kind we've come to expect from male bonding. That's okay. But they lead to one of those pointless fist fights between Eastwood and Jones outside a bar with each winding up with a comical black eye. Best leave funny fist fights to John Ford. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and amiable story  with sympathetic characters by the veteran Clint Eastwood","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In 1958, during the Cold War four astronauts(Toby Stephens,Asher, Matt McColm) from project named Dedalus are retired and substituted by a new astronaut, a chimpanzee. In the post Cold War, when a Russian communications satellite orbit towards earth threatening to crash, a engineer(Clint Eastwood)is recruited by Nasa ruled by a despicable chief(James Cromwell) . He's living a simple life along with his wife(Barbara Babcock). He insists the reunion his old pals, a daredevil pilot(Tommy Lee Jones) , a parish preacher(James garner) and a roller coaster designer(Donald Sutherland).The four old men must to pass a strong physical examination. The four veterans get immense popularity and are interviewed by Jay Leno's Late Night. Meanwhile the astronauts fall in love with NASA scientific(Marcia Gay Harden, Blair Brown). Then they are accompanied by two younger astronauts(Loren Dean and Courtney B. Vance) and are ultimately launched on the spacecraft to fix the Russian satellite.This Sci-fi movie packs comedy, adventure, perceptible friendship and is quite entertaining. The film relies heavily on the relationship between the four protagonists but adding humor and spiritual fight. Barely credible situations and sometimes ridiculous premises, however is a good-natured fun. Good musical score by Lennie Niehaus and colorful cinematography by Jack N Green, both are usual of Eastwood. Spectacular production design by Henry Bumstead who worked for Alfred Hitchcock.After this movie Eastwood directed his greatest hits(Mystic River, Million Dollars Baby,Flags of our fathers, Letters from Iwo Jima). The motion picture is especially appointed for enthusiastic of the stars. "},{"Title":"Better To Suspend Disbelief; Then Okay","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film has a nice story, believable characters for the most part, a few running gags, significant humorous touches, and a tight story. For the techno-geek, there are noticeable scientific flaws, though.The idea is simple some proto-astronauts in the 1950s are pushed aside for the beginning space program (by a chimpanzee) and that's the end for their quest to reach space. For a while.Then, a situation arises that requires the expert knowledge of one of the former pilots, and the only way he'll share that knowledge is to go into space to repair an ailing Russian satellite's guidance system.Spoilers follow So the aspiring astronauts become astronauts-in-training, and with their training come a lot of humorous touches. Eventually, they go into space, and there they come across an unpleasant surprise the communications satellite really hosts a bunch of nuclear missiles, leftovers from the Cold War and the Soviet Union. These have to be dealt with, and, after some improvising, one of the astronauts (Hawk, the Tommy Lee Jones character) clusters the missiles and rides them out of orbit.Technically, this is possible, though unlikely. However, landing them on the Moon would have pulverized both rockets and the passenger astronauts. Additionally, the velocity imparted would have taken them well out of earth orbit and into deeper space than the moon.But that's a quibble, like the noise in all the space scenes (such as the sound of the satellite's panels as they rotate). If you ignore the technical gaffes, the story's a lot of fun. Not really a comedy, but with good comedic touches. "},{"Title":"Fun to watch flick","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Good use of character actor selection for a story line that was fun to follow.... Good use of technology that was present at that time. All of the actors were at ease with their parts. Nice message to young America that you learn from those who have life experience.I love the Asian culture who gives a tremendous review of this flick for that very reason. Good timing to show over the 4th of July Would suggest a purchase if one is interested in preserving the idea of honoring those who senior in age only.Had to be a fun project to participate in. "},{"Title":"Not bad...","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Watched this on TV while sick. Had wanted to catch it when it was released as Tommy Lee Jones & Donald Sutherland are two of my favorite actors. Well, I had the so-called surprise pegged during the opening press conference; Of course there was a warhead in the satellite. Other than that, the plot went along as expected. Some nice ensemble work from the 4 primaries, though it would have been nice to see Sutherland have a bit more screen time. I had known from the start (someone spoiled it for me) that Jones' character would die and it evoked a bit of tearing. I have seen a few comments comparing this to Armageddon. No way. This was actually good. That other film stunk like last week's fish. Sorry - my opinion. THIS film is worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Good Space Flick","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I know there is no one out there who will question the acting abilities of these 4 'oldies', for all of these guys has got some qualities and are known to have them, otherwise they would not have been in the business so long. They showed those qualities too, I must say and I was quite pleased with this film, for it was funny, entertaining, well paced, had enough action, good characters (I liked all4 'oldies', though I felt James Garner was the least funny and therefore worst) and an especially good opening sequence (the best I've ever seen featuring the young guys and than the older guys, for that dude really looked like Eastwood and had the same voice too WELL DONE). I could go on like this, but the point I am heading to is, that the only downside to this film was, that it was too predictable 3 or 4 times in the movie. For the rest I got nothing to complain about. Good space flick. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"4 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well I didn't expect too much from this movie but then again I was surprised. It's of course a lot better than .. say Armageddon (what a dumb flick). Sure this movie was totally unrealistic (99.9%) but the first half was pretty good fun, especially when the old men went through the vision test. The beginning of the second half surprised me again. It was kinda creepy and suspenseful when they had the rendevouz with that huge satellite. There are two things that were extremely annoying in my opinion. Firstly there is Gene (William Devane). His performances were so terribly bad they almost made me cry out loud. His whole character was so misdeveloped. Secondly there is the fact that you didnt see the actual atom heads blow up and you even saw Hawk (Tommy Lee Jones) in the end sitting there (apparantly dead), but in one piece. I mean, a crash down onto the moon bound to a huge satellite with six mounted atom heads...? Sorry, what the heck was that? Someone really has to kick the writer's butt. On the other hand the computer graphics animations and the CG and non-CG effects in general were absolutely breathtaking. Some of the space scenes were so extremely well done it was simply amazing me.My ratings story 5/10 (blablabla.. russian atom heads attacking the states), acting 7.5/10 (the four leading roles were okay but they could have done better. the rest was awful.), CG effects 9/10 (satellite scenes in space = magnificent), other effects 7/10 (above average), comedy 6/10 (first half).My overall rating 7/10 - DUMB BUT GOOD FUN AND ENTERTAINING!  "}{"Title":"Missed the mark to some degree","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I watched this film, I was a little bit disappointed.  Maybe I expected more action or more humor &#150; don't know.  But neither seemed have been Clint Eastwood's goal, rather more to portray a `realistic' film of four old timers getting a second change at space travels, after having lost the opportunity as young men.  The greatest downfall is that the film never really takes off.  Like the first part is to explain the second half, while the second half executes what was explained in the first half (not sure that makes sense!).  There are not many things that surprise you or even excite you; even the baddies are Russians, which I thought was just not done any more.  CGI in space was well done though I wasn't sure of the realism behind what they were doing there.  Of course the four old friends are brilliant, and always enjoyable to see them on the big screen.  That saves the film from being boring, and I'm sure that as these four great actors this film will age well, and it wouldn't surprise me that in years to come it will be remembered, despite its many obvious flaws.  7/10 "},{"Title":"works well as a comedy, partially as a thriller","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me say beforehand that I am very partial towards Clint Eastwood.  The man is a legend, and I consider him my favorite film star of all time.  Therefore, I will always look at his movies with good thoughts in mind while likewise raising my expectations for the movie significantly.  That being said, I think it is clear from this film that Eastwood, even at his advanced age, still is a worthy director and actor.  He is not likely to win any best actor oscars, but he will give a strong and consistent performance, and knows what to do when behind the camera.  The first half of Space Cowboys is film entertainment at it's best.  We have an exceptional cast made up of the 4 geriatric astronauts Eastwood, a brash yet sympathetic Tommy Lee Jones, a smaller role played with alot of fun by Donald Sutherland, and a barely noticeable James Garner that we don't care much about.  In one scene, the old timers go on Jay Leno's Tonight Show.  Leno quips about their military background North or South?  In fact, the first half of Space Cowboys is funnier and more consistent than most recent comedies.The second half of the movie, during which the boys finally do go into space, introduces a vicious plot.  We are taken by surprise by it, and it is fairly interesting, but it just isn't as much fun as the first hour.  Old guys going into space is funny, but them saving the day isn't so believable. Nonetheless, the space scenes look great, and the second half manages to hold our interest and invoke at least some emotion from us. Space Cowboys is required viewing for fans of Eastwood, and to a lesser degree it will appeal to fans of Jones and Sutherland.  But, while being a lot of fun, it falls well short of being in the great movie category. "},{"Title":"Flawed, but not badly. Enjoyable, but could have been better.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is hardly as bad as some of the worst user comments would have you believe, but neither is it flawless.It's an engaging story about four pilots from a canceled Air Force space program, reunited to save a Russian communications satellite. The biggest believability flaws I see are not in the special effects, but in  matters of personnel and procedures.In the real world, space has been called an old man's game. John Young, from the first Gemini mission, was the first shuttle pilot. Deke Slayton was one of the Mercury Seven, the only one who didn't go up on a Redstone or an Atlas, and after being grounded for years on a health concern, he flew on Apollo-Soyuz. So why is it that we see such a young astronaut corps here, and such a prejudice against age?Then, too, it's rather inconceivable that NASA has never once considered the possibility that a shuttle pilot might have to reenter and land on full manual control. Yet here, it's treated as something that can't be done, until one of our four old men demonstrates otherwise.Then, when our guys finally do go up, they've hardly had adequate time to train as anything but mission specialists, so what are the two experienced shuttle pilots doing on the mid-deck at launch, with four mission specialists on the flight-deck? As I recall, Glenn rode on the mid-deck.SPOILER AHEAD****************************************************It was rather obvious from the beginning that this communication satellite had to have some sort of a secret. It was too bloody big, and keeping it from crashing was too bloody important, for it not to.*************BIG SPOILERThe ending, with one of our guys buying it to save the world, kind of reminds me of the ending of Star Trek II, though not nearly as well-done.  "},{"Title":"I'd rather ride the Vomit Comet","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  It has been said that the four saddest words in the English language are What could have been.  Or wait, maybe it's the buffet is closed. For our purposes, I'll stick with the first one.  I was drawn to this film by it's all-star cast and the subject matter for space exploration has always been an interest of mine and I thought that this movie would be ginchy fun. Curse me and my thoughts.  This movie concerns a group of four pioneer astronauts, brought back into service to repair a Russian satellite whose orbit is decaying. The entire second act of the film follows the four as they weave their way through the NASA training program, dodging cliche dialogue (I'm getting too old for this s--t) and predictable plot devices (gee, will the old geezers really make it?)  The film's surprises and twists were practically broadcasted by the screenwriter with a megaphone. Only the performances by the actors make this even watchable. So if you want Clint, see Unforgiven. If you want Tommy Lee, see The Fugitive. Heck if you want James Garner, rent Tank for crying out loud. Save yourself!  "},{"Title":"Great humour, fantastic actors - pathetic action, laughable plot","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Eastwood (as the director of this movie) has a knack for humour. He has demonstrated this in his previously directed movies and this can be evidenced in this one as well. The first, mostly humour and introduction filled part of the movie was thoroughly enjoyable. It let the leading cast - Eastwood, Jones and Sutherland - shine and showcased some of the best warm empathic humour to come along in recent memory.I didn't mention the fourth guy, Garner, for a reason - his presence throughout the movie is completely and absolutely pointless. I guess Eastwood wanted to throw some work the way of his unemployed pal Garner but what you'll see is a lead character with absolutely NOTHING to say or do during the ENTIRETY of the movie. I guess that can be kinda interesting as well. Not.However, as the director of action sequences, Eastwood is completely subpar. The second part of the movie (that's when the four old guys go into space) is like watching two completely different movies at the same time. All outer space sequences are top-quality CGI work (probably directed more by the computer animation guys than Eastwood), all indoor sequences (on earth, in space shuttle) are absolutely pathetic.As the situation is serious, there's no time for jokes so gone is the humour that excelled in the first part. The more we are treated to the goodness of the computer generated sequences, the more we realize the crappyness of everything else around it. The command center on earth looks like its operated by four people out of a closet. The pathetic window backdrop in the director's room completely breaks the mood with its studio-like presence. The shuttle launch and descent sequences are a most obvious borrowing of NASA footage. The revealed plot involving the director and the Russian general turns out to be completely unprobable, unbelieveable and laughable.To the cast (except Garner), acting and humour in the first part of the movie and CGI sequences in the second part I'd give 9 out of 10. But to what turned to be the action and plot of the movie, 3 out of 10 must suffice. "},{"Title":"the most dramatic space movie I've ever seen","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I was kind of glad i didn't miss this one. Looks like it's the older men who do the best job and dramatism in space than just silliness like most other space movies.It wasn't really full of action but full of really good serious acting. It did have some eye candy scenes though but i wouldn't call it a blockbuster action flick. I would just consider it the greatest space drama. Still good to watch despite the shortening of action.8/10 "},{"Title":"eastwood's worst","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  i cannot believe eastwood directed this waste of time. the plot barely holds water. there were some cool effects but these space cowboys broke quite a few rules of physics. oh well i guess thats o.k. when bombs are falling towards the earth. this movie is good to laugh at as long as you didn't have to pay to see it. oh and whoever wrote 'brilliant script' in reference to this film must be insane.  they launch a man tied to a nuclear weapon to the moon.  yeah brilliant... "},{"Title":"As bad as a movie starring Eastwood, Sutherland and Jones can be","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are spoilers ahead, but since i don't recommend seeing this movie, that shouldn't be a problem.Space Cowboys employs all possible Hollywood clichés (including, you guessed it, depicting events through the all-seeing eyes of Jay Leno), and its so-called plot twists are painfully predictable. In addition, it piles nonsense upon nonsense in attempt to somehow let Clint Eastwood save the world. Here are some of the pearlsRussians secretly ask for American help in recovering their communication satellite (wink wink nudge nudge), as its collapse would lead to a civil war. Now, if the satellite is out of control, wouldn't it already cause all the chaos? Certainly, it couldn't be kept secret if it was so essential. No prizes for guessing that the satellite turns out to be a nuclear missile battery, and the mission is to save the planet.During the training, Sutherland, who has a poor vision, passes the medical test by memorizing the letters on the board. Pretty neat trick, except he kinda blows his cover by wearing bottle-top glasses the rest of the time.Jones character is diagnosed with cancer and says that he doesn't want to die a slow death, so once again, no prizes for guessing that someone will have to stay up there and sacrifice himself, and just who that someone will be.Once in space, the young astronaut (Loren Dean) does something incomprehensible, plugs some thing into a socket or something, for no apparent reason and against old guys' advice, causing all kinds of complications and nearly killing himself. Why? Because he's young, cocky and Listens To Authorities, and therefore is bound to do something stupid, leaving it to Eastwood to save his ass.I never quite figured why James Garner was in the movie (he's the 4th team member). His only personal moment was winning a teddy bear in a slot machine, and i spent the rest of the movie wondering where would it lead (i still am).Finally, Space Cowboys includes one of the bluntest pieces of product placement i've ever seen. As Eastwood is staring at some blueprints, there's a shameless close-up of his hand clutching a bottle of Bud Lite. "},{"Title":"Truly outstanding.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space will never be the same.In Clint Eastwood's latest film, Space Cowboys, it shows that some people will do anything to make publicity like when former Senator and astronaut John Glenn made a return to outer space a few years ago.The film stars Eastwood as Frank Corvin, a retired Air Force test pilot who gets a second chance to go into space when Ikon, an aging Russian satellite shows signs of re-entering Earth.  When Corvin brings up the idea of taking up the other members of Team Daedalus to Bob Gerson (James Cromwell), his former boss in the Air Force who's now in NASA.  Gerson isn't convinced at first, but gives Frank permission to do so.Besides Frank, there are only three members of the team and that means he'll have to find them and urge each one to come along with him.They are Hawk Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), a rival test pilot who now dusting crops; Jerry O'Neil (Donald Sutherland), a navigator who designs roller coasters and is a lovable ladies' man; Tank Sullivan (James Garner), another pilot who spends his days as a baptist minister.The training sequence takes up the majority of the first and second halves of the film.  Eastwood manages to mix in bits of non-offensive humor and a relationship between Hawk (Jones) and Sara Holland (Oscar-winner Marcia Gay Harden).  This happens despite the objection of Eugene Davis, the flight director, played by William Devane.  Like Gerson, Davis is critical about the idea and makes the propsition of sending two current astronauts (Courtney B. Vance and Loren Dean) up with Frank and his team.Before the launch, the news about Frank and his friends becomes front-page news and the bunch make a guest appearence on Jay Leno where Sutherland tells his ability of attracting woman.  The description of it is funny and it makes me wonder if Sutherland makes a better ladies' man than Freddie Prinze, Jr..Once the bunch makes their way into space, Eastwood throws in a few unexpected surprises with some perfect timing and the outcome is (I won't give it away) sad yet it's heartfelt.  Also, it shows why making a trip into outer space is quite an adventure.  Ron Howard's Apollo 13 and Stanley Kubrick's 2001A Space Odyessy both make a classic example.  "},{"Title":"A fantastic homage to some of the greatest!!!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" One of the few movies that I saw back to back, now that may not mean much to you but if you watch this movie you will know what I mean. It has a very, very good cast both in the leading in the supporting roles. It delivers some of the funniest (but also very true to life) lines. Like the one when Frank (Clint Eastwood) first meets Bob Gerson (James Cromwell) Clock's ticking, Bob. And I'm only getting older. I think the fact that everyone of us knows and understand the theme of the movie make this movie so enjoyable. We can correlate to the fact that we all are getting older and once we are older the younger ones will make fun of us. In addition there is a side of us men (sorry, ladies) that never really grows beyond teenage and that is also a very funny aspect/theme in the movie.Other factors that made me watch the movie back to back, besides the themes, the funny punch lines and all the irony involved you will get to enjoy a very stunning cinematography. The scenes in space are amazing, probably the best I have seen, the level of realism in costume and set design seem to be high. Of course the performances are nothing less than stunning and the soundtrack complements the movie very well. There will be people saying that the plausibility of the script is very thin but then what did you expect? It serves the purpose to make one of the most enjoyable movies I've ever watched. "}{"Title":"Highly Entertaining, Great Visual Effects","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  For pure entertainment value, this is one of the better films of 2000.  Although the plot is contrived and derivative, the comedy is endearing and the four veteran actors are as brilliant as they have ever been.   From a directorial standpoint, Clint Eastwood is excellent, wringing as much comedy, adventure and suspense as could be imagined from the screenplay and the cast.  I was particularly impressed with the realism of the space scenes.  The weightlessness is beautifully choreographed, and the visual effects, especially for the EVA's, are stunningly realistic.The acting in this film is wonderful.  Each of the four leads gives his part something unique and special.  Clint Eastwood provides toughness, James Garner gives it charm, Donald Sutherland offers mischievous humor and Tommy Lee Jones adds audacity.  You can't help but cheer for these guys, even though it is easy to predict how things will turn out.  James Cromwell and William Devane round out an experienced cast playing straight dramatic roles to perfection.  The Jay Leno interview is a scream, the climax of which is an infinitely funny line by Donald Sutherland.There isn't a lot to say about this film except see it.  I rated it an 8/10.  It is great fun and highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"Classic actors showing they still got it.","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  With the talents of Eastwood, Jones, Garner, and Sutherland, how could this movie go wrong. With a winning mixture of action, comedy, drama, and special effects, Space Cowboys is a film for all generations. Some foul language but not to the excessive amounts usually found in todays movies. i personally rate this movie as followsStory 10 Acting 10 Cinimatography 10 Over all 10 "},{"Title":"Very Light, Engaging and Enjoyable","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"     Space Cowboys pulls off a miracle. Specifically, not movie itself but Director/Star Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner. While the script of Space Cowboys isn't topnotch, the acting and directing are. Let's with the way Eastwood directs. The whole process is all very smooth and eventhough the story is 100% implausible, Eastwood somehow makes the story seem possible and maybe even likely to actually happen.   The aformentioned story is about how in 1958 four men get screwed out of going to space by Beaurocrat/NASA worker Bob Gerson(James Cromwell). Then in 2000 the same four men have to go to space to change the direction of a satellite which was invented by one of the old guys, Frank Corvin(Clint Eastwood). Along with Hawk(Tommy Lee Jones), Tank(James Garner) and Jerry(Donald Sutherland), Frank goes to space only to find out that everything isn't as advertised.   The acting is what makes this movie work. The four guys have such great chemistry it's just fun to watch them on the screen. Whether i'm laughing as they go through training or holding my breath as they try to survive in space, the whole time I was cheering for them.Led by Eastwood all four actors shine. I also noticed for the first time in any Eastwood movie i've seen(And i've seen almost all of them), Clint gives someone else the best and most well-written role. That role went to Tommy Lee Jones as William 'Hawk' Hawkins. Tommy Lee Jones brings real depth and skill to what, in the hands of a less capable actor, would have been just another cliched character. Jones is also the only one of the four whose given a real romantic subplot, which is comes off very well and mature. As his love interest Marcia Gay Harden was excellent. Out the rest of the cast Sutherland stands out the most in what is probably the most comedic of the characters.   Not with standing all the script problems and all that the whole movie is just watching four great veteran action stars saddle up for one last ride. And if the day does come when of these great actors passes on they will always remember this wonderfully enjoyable space movie. Hats off to you Clint. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Space film I have EVER seen!!!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen many space type films (incl. some sci-fi films like Star Wars) and this is the best one I have ever seen!  I think that Space Cowboys gripped me because it seemed to be reality based.  The older crew, led by Clint Eastwood, just seem to be facing so much trouble all the way to the end.  You will know what I mean when you see this movie, a 10 out of 10!!! "},{"Title":"Thrilling adventure!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is a most enjoyable and thrilling film.The best for me this year. The story may be a bit farfetched but that did not detract from the entertainment value. These old boys showed they still have it in them! They combined well together and wouldn't mind if they decided to make more movies together.The humour was good and not over done which is often the case. The twists in the story although very telegraphed still were entertaining.I took my thirteen year old son to it and he also totally enjoyed it.  "},{"Title":"Well...Well","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad movie but the thing that i do not like is the first part.Now, you don't change character voice. The four guys when they are young, the voices are not supposed to be the same. You don't change the voices and make it sounds like the main character. I feel annoyed when the 4 young talented guys' voice has been modified.Other than that, well, although the last part is quite demanding. It is a good experience for audiences to enjoy. great movie. "},{"Title":"Wow. The movie just gets better as it goes...","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts off as the fun little romp that the previews promise. I laughed and laughed at the various speedbumps of the four old guys trying to get approved to go up into space.And then, a little over half way through I guess, the tone of the movie changes entirely. Whereas before I'd been laughing, I spent the rest of the movie leaned forward in my chair, desperately wanting to know what happened next.There's two movies so far this year worth seeing in my opinion. This is one of them. Don't wait for it to come to the $0.50 theatre or for it to come out on video or DVD. It needs the big screen. "},{"Title":"Another great mega climax space movie!","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This film is exactly what everyone said it was, an Armageddon hybrid. Great special effects, great actors - fantastic cast list of Clint Eastwood and Tommy Lee Jones, James Garner and Donald Sutherland. This film is great for any day or night out, it has everything any film enthusiast could wish for, a great story line, great actors, mind blowing effects, humour and a gentle touch of sadness. Definately a movie not to be missed.  "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC MOVIE!!!","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is the best thing to hit the screen since Beverly Hills Cop in 1984!!!  The film is a laugh a minute. Never a dull moment.  The serious parts are serious and it makes you think.  I intend to buy a copy of this on VIDEO, and WIDE SCREEN VIDEO. "},{"Title":"gushing review","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  a great film. i've seen the main 4 actors in many movies but for the most part, this might be the most endearing of all roles for them. especially donald sutherland,who has played heavies and such but was funny in his role. a great buncha laughs throughtout the film, but was especially funny in the first half of the film. i would <and did> pay full price but would recommend this film to everyone. and i would pay full price to see it.  "}{"Title":"Great, relaxed, relaxing fun","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint has done it again. Just when you thought there couldn't possibly be anything left for him to surprise us with, he comes along along with this wonderfully relaxed space disaster comedy, the film the dreadful Armageddon had tried to be but never ever came close to being. In fact, Space Cowboys plays somewhat like a sequel to Philip Kaufman's glorious space opera The Right Stuff, which so far had been the only great space western. With the laid back, relaxing Space Cowboys, Eastwood has started the new millennium just like he ended the last one with a great piece of work. Considering the fact that he was the man of the 60's (with the spaghetti westerns), the man of the 70's (with films like Dirty Harry, The Beguiled, Play Misty for Me and the fabulous, hugely underrated Gauntlet) AND the man of the 90's (with masterpieces like Unforgiven, A Perfect World, The Bridges of Madison County, as well as the undeservedly neglected Rookie, True Crime and Absolute Power), Clint seems to be destined to become the man of the 2000's, as well. "},{"Title":"Grumpy Old Astronauts!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Space Cowboys is the latest motion picture from the great Clint Eastwood and it's the actor/producer/director's best film since his Oscar-winning Unforgiven. Eastwood co-stars with and directs three other veterans, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, and James Garner, in a story about four old timers who blew their chance to become the first astronauts in space. 42 years later, they get to redeem themselves by going up into outer space to repair a broken Russian satellite heading for Earth. The reason for this is that Eastwood's character is the only one with the knowledge to fix it. Space Cowboys starts off as a comedy with the four oldsters going through the usual training that all astronauts have to go through before heading to space. The comic moments here I totally didn't expect. The scene where Sutherland's dentures fall out as a result of some of the training is hilarious. Then the film turns dramatic once they get up into space. The special effects (not usually an Eastwood specialty though he did direct the 1982 movie Firefox which featured visual effects) are done very well. Space Cowboys is lots and lots of great fun and the actors seem to be having a whale of a time. Eastwood, Jones, Sutherland, and Garner are all excellent, and James Cromwell, Marcia Gay Harden, and William Devane have good supporting roles. Eastwood proves here once again that he's not only a good actor but also a good director. In my opinion, Space Cowboys and the disaster pic The Perfect Storm are the best movies that I've seen this summer (2000). **** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Great to see the old guys","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of the best good ol' boys/buddies movies I've seen in years. Enough twists and hurray for the old guys turns to keep you riveted to the screen. If you've grown up with these guys, you're guaranteed to see enough scenes where wisdom overcomes youth to feel the price of admission was worth it. Small connection with The Right Stuff and Apollo 13 to give the movie a documentary feel to it. Even with situations coming out like you might predict, this was an enjoyable movie! "},{"Title":"Move over Leo, Matt and Brad; some REAL studs are on the big screen.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  From the opening scene, set in 1958 and appropriately filmed in black and white, this film is instantly compelling.Clint Eastwood, Tommie Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner have 'The Right Stuff' and a whole lot more.Never was the term &#145;motley crew' more accurately applied to this aging group of has-been/wanna-be/never-was astronauts.  They range from a Baptist minister, to designer of roller coasters to an over-the-top stunt pilot and they are all great characters and completely believable characterizations.The photography and special effects are beyond superb -- they  defy belief &#150; you ARE on the launching pad and you ARE in space.One of the great lines delivered at precisely the right moment  `Notice how everyone seems to be dead?'The always versatile James Cromwell, who has played everything from characters in the television show `All In the Family' to Farmer Hogget in `Babe' and Dr. Zephraim Cochran in `Star Trek First Contact,' is his usual brilliant self as Bob Gerson the despicable head of the program that has to rescue the Russian `communications' satellite. He makes a good, understated, underplayed and self-serving villain.Though this film deals with what is potentially a very serious subject -- and there are some serious moments in the film -- much of it is laugh-out-loud funny.  But the humour comes from the dialogue and the way it is delivered there is little-to-no slapstick, farce or visual humour.  This is a thinking person's script.Space Cowboys is the best of the late-summer-season films &#150; do yourself a favour and be sure and see it.  "},{"Title":"An extremely entertaining, funny treasure trove!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The rest of the cast, when stood next to Clint Eastwood, Donald Sutherland, Tommy Lee Jones and James Garner, were like a crumb to the Statue of Liberty! With the exception of William Devane and James Cromwell. An extremely funny movie, the film carries a genuine package of sight jokes, word jokes, subtle jokes, and cliches to make this a wonderously entertaining film with some great actors still bringing home the Christmas dinner! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of 2000","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw this movie yesterday, and I was very tired when I went to go see it. I wanted to go to sleep during the movie...but I found that I just couldn't. It was too good of a movie. Sure, X-Men had you riveted and excited, but Space Cowboys had you holding your sides with laughter. This is the funniest and the best movie of 2000. It didn't have any hype before it came out, but then again, it wasn't based on anything. Maybe original movies are better than comic book movies, because for comic book movies, you've been there, done that. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Donald Sutherland is a riot! Just watching him on the screen makes you laugh out loud. We need more movies with him in them.  This movie appeals to those who don't need blood and gore to be entertained.  Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones and James Garner were great! I want to see more films from them! I don't care about their age!!! "},{"Title":"Armageddon laugh and drama and as riveting as Apollo 13","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Of course this film is is better than Armageddon (Armageddon is still good in my opinion) This film is much funnier than I expected (almost as funny as There Something About Mary) The cast is well done, despite of their age, their charm make you feel they are not old at all.  "},{"Title":"Clint, you've still got it!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie... The all-star cast was incredible.  Donald Sutherland was hilarious as a babe magnet. It was entertaining and deserves an Oscar(tm).  Even the romances that were thrown in were good.  A few plot holes, though, but I am going to see this one again.  "},{"Title":"Campy Fun!","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a hoot of a movie!  This is the kind of escapist flick that should be playing in all movie theaters.  It is pure fun and you have to view it that way.  It does not pretend to be something it is not.  It is not an action movie.  It is not an adventure movie.  It is a fun movie that pokes fun at the actors as well as the seriousness of NASA.  NASA itself loved this movie.  I saw an article where the guys at NASA were telling the critics hey, we all know it could never happen.  Why can't you guys just accept it for what it is and enjoy it? (paraphrased).  And that is exactly how you should go in to see this movie.Clint did an excellent job with this movie.  The pacing of the story is great.  There are no dull moments.  Every scene is there because it needs to be there.  The opening montage that takes place in the 50s where voiceovers were used was a creative advice and worked because then you know exactly who will be who.  There is no confusion when you switch to present day.  I appreciated that.I ALSO TREMENDOUSLY APPRECIATED THE FACT THAT CLINT WAS MARRIED TO A WOMAN HIS OWN AGE!!!!  Even though in reality he isn't, it was nice to see that onscreen.  Barbara Babcock is a wonderful actress and it was nice to see her again since Dr. Quinn was taken off TV.Sutherland, Garner and Jones were a riot!  The jokes were great, both the verbal AND the visual ones.  Sutherland was PERFECT with that sparkle in his eye and Garner was perfectly understated as the preacher.  Jones was the bad boy and was perfectly wicked!  Clint was Clint and no one wants to see him otherwise.My only comment regarding the ending...it needed a beer bottle.A wonderful sleeper of a movie.  Go see it and you will be glad you did. "}{"Title":"A Little Less Than Cowboys","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood attempts to direct yet again and  actually succeeds!!! Not only as a director but as an actor as well. Though Clint and Tommy Lee Jones are the main charactors no one is more funny or fun to watch than the girl crazy Donald Sutherland. He and James Garner(Baptist preacher!!!!) are kinda the two odd ones out who are always in the shadow of Eastwood and Jones. But when they do step into the spotlight they take it over completely save the film. Garner with his seemingly simple wit and Sutherland with his insane grin and huge glasses that are redefined before his trip into space. Still there is something missing that keeps you from being on the edge of your seat the whole time. Maybe something called realism? "},{"Title":"One of favorites so far this year","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was an enjoyable movie, except for the ending, but I accepted it as a necessary evil in the movie.  Jones' character got to be the ultimate hero, making the ultimate sacrifice. Eastwood did an outstanding job and the FX were not over the top.  While the last part of the movie may be more along the lines of Sci-Fi, it was still a very enjoyable film when mixed in with the whole.  The characters were believable and likeable.  It would be nice to see an ensemble cast like this to another movie.  I got my money's worth on this one.  "},{"Title":"Just a lot of fun","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  While this movie is not in the slightest bit plausable it is just about as much entertainment as you would expect from this very talented cast. After all why do we go to the movies? If you are looking for a delightful movie that is just pure fun and a great evening of entertainment--- this is a perfect fit. "},{"Title":"Very funny, well acted...","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Being one of many Eastwood fans I enjoyed this movie as usual. Supported by fan-favorite Tommy Lee Jones & Donald Sutherland, this movie attracted me more than many other Eastwood movies before I went to see the movie.  Well, I liked it, enjoyed it and am considering buying it on DVD when it comes out. "},{"Title":"The Ripe Stuff is the Right Stuff","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, there's implausible stuff all throughout this film. Just the fact that these guys, who've been out of the space program for 40 years, were able to pass the physical without any special training is enough to stretch the credibility factor. But, that's not what this movie is about and if you're looking for plausibility, you're missing the point. It's about the value older folks have in our society that us younger folks are too often willing to dismiss. About the best advice I can give for any watching this film who isn't over 35 or 40 is, if you live long enough, you get old enough to identify with lots of stuff in the first half of the film and you can really appreciate it. Watching Tommy Lee, Clint, James and Donald play them out on the screen so gracefully and hilariously is a joy to watch! "},{"Title":"Good to have an adult movie again, Thanks Clint.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Eastwood is a master. Space Cowboys confirms the fact that not only is Eastwood the greatest Hollywood star of the last 50 years he is by far the least selfish when directing. If I was an actor I would rush to work with Eastwood when he directs and stars in a movie because he does what Magic Johnson did for the Lakers. He enjoys dishing it off to make everyone better. What a team player. What a STAR.Writers you need to hurry and write scripts for this star before we lose him and fill it with characters for the other greats. Bring on Connery, Nicholson, Newman, Redford and Ford. Add in Hanks, Cruise, Willis and Arnold. "},{"Title":"If you don't enjoy this you better check for a pulse.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I pretty much agree with the review of Jason on 7-30-00. I would have liked to have seen a few things added at the end but I won't address them because of the newness of the movie and I wouldn't want to give away any part of the plot. All in all it was a thoroughly entertaining movie that I would recommend.  "},{"Title":"Solid enjoyable flick with six great stars!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Today when I got my local Sarasota paper I quickly checked out the reviews to see if I wanted to catch Space Cowboys. Sure enough, it got a lousy rating (C on a scale of A-D), which sent me straight to the theater.You need to understand the reviewers here have a bias that is very predictable.  If a movie is just a pure fun movie that you walk out of feeling great, but has no earth shaking morals, hidden under currents, or is different, then it gets panned.  On the other hand all the movies that play in the local art cinema always get great reviews.  If I had followed their advice, I would have spent my day seeing an Iranian movie in Farsi with subtitles, rated A by the reviewer.Thankfully, the local critics (an apt word) were sticking to form. I had a great time watching some of my favorite people having a good time on the screen and giving me a lot of laughs. I walked out feeling great so it meets my test for four stars!Sure, Tommy Lee Jones was better and more prominent in other movies like Double Jeopardy.  Of course, Clint Eastwood has made better movies.  James Garner is getting old and is hard to visualize as real clergy.  There is no doubt that James Cromwell was much better in The General's Daughter.  But the ubiquitous Donald Sutherland was in great form as usual and William Devane was at his best.But the whole point is that this is an ensemble piece and it flies like the space shuttle.  If you are looking for an Academy Award winner, skip this, but if you want to have fun at the movies, don't miss it!!!! "},{"Title":"Dirty Harry, M*A*S*H, Rockford Files, meet stereotypical Tommy Lee Jones role.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well, what can I say? Well worth the price of the $8.00 admission and perhaps even some popcorn, well... popcorn if I had forgotten to smuggle in my own feast.  Nonetheless, this movie was great.  One of the key factors that I gauge movie greatness on is if I never feel the need to actually look at my watch to see what time it is.  This movie never had a dull moment, and I forgot I had a watch on.  The comedy, suspense, drama, and action all seamlessly blended together in a fashion that basically tied the movie together into one of those unbreakable and zany sailor knots.  Go see it. All of the actors at their geriatric best.   "},{"Title":"Great Visuals and FX Decent plot with a few twists","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A very good movie with many solid cast members.  Great for most all people especially space buffs.  Several plot twists keep you in suspense until just before the end. Especially  liked the explosion visuals from space "}{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Great movie!!  It's one of the 'great escapes'!  The movie gives old geezers a reason to live.  I'd recommend it to anyone of middle age.  You'll enjoy the maturity of the characters and how ideals are not lost in time. "},{"Title":"If you like comedy, action and suspense you will enjoy this movie.","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you like comedy, action and suspense you will enjoy this movie. Clint Eastwood stars as a geriatric astronaut brought back by NASA to repair an obsolete satellite. Tommy Lee Jones co-stars and does his usual good job of playing Tommy Lee Jones. James Gardner and Donald Sutherland are just added window dressing and straight men for Eastwood and Jones. The movie has multiple phases, starting as a comedy and progressing into an action-adventure flick.This movie is one the entire family can enjoy, even though it carries a PG-13 rating.  The audience laughed so loud in several instances that I missed the follow-up line and later in the movie my knuckles turned white while gripping the arm-rest during the action sequences. The special effects are dazzling, I'll have to watch this movie again just for that factor if nothing else.  "},{"Title":"This one had it all...","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie.  I grew up with all these guys and it was great to see them showcased in this film.  Nit-pickers can say that the movie was trite, predictable and formulaic.  Who cares.  These guys are old and they played old.  They weren't trying to be 30-year-olds.  Every grunt, every wince, every little ache came across the screen so believable, because I'm sure they grunted, winced and ached throughout this whole production.  There was a little bit of everything in the mix rivalry, betrayal, good old-fashioned hatred, middle-age romance, melodrama, intrigue, action, heroics - everything.  It stole a little from The Right Stuff, Apollo 13, Armageddon and probably some more I can't nail down.  Again, who cares. It was an enjoyable film for all ages. "},{"Title":"very fun flick","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  there wasn't much hype surrounding this movie, so i wasn't sure of how good it would be. then i looked at the cast laden with excellent veteran actors and the fact that it was directed by clint eastwood and said to myself, it has to be good. i was right. it was a great movie laden with a good story,likeable characters, and excellent dialogue. i was surprised by the humor. this is a very funny movie. clint eastwood taps a comedic side rarely seen before in his previous films. james garner, donald sutherland and james cromwell all contribute to the film with stellar performances. i enjoyed the chemistry all these actors had together, especially the raport between clint eastwood and tommy lee jones. it's great fun and a great way to spend a sunday night with your dad. my mom's a huge fan of james garner, but she didn't go see it with us. i was impressed by loren dean and courtney b. vance in their roles as the younger astronauts, but feel that they didn't get enough screen time. neither did james garner for that matter. the first hour of the movie show such promise that i was convinced that it was the best movie of the summer. however, they don't dabble into space suspense on the level of 'apollo 13', but they do a much better job of telling a story in space, then say 'mission to mars' and 'armageddon'. clint eastwood serves up his best picture since his masterpiece, 'unforgiven' and does a great job as the lead character. the movie seems to peak too soon and feels sort of anti-climactic and also leaves a lot of questions unanswered. i'm not sure if that is what eastwood was aiming at, but he still churned out a great film far better than most of the movies at the multiplex this summer. great entertainment, doesn't disappoint. you'll enjoy it. you get your money's worth.***1/2 stars on a 4 star scale  "},{"Title":"Ride 'Em Cowboys","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Here we have it (almost) all -- solid dynamic male icons who succeed against all odds, including aging, youthful arrogance, widowerhood, and devious plots designed by long held opponents.  The bottom line -- clear from the preview -- is that age is no barrier to success.  The bottom line from the film is that age is the ONLY way to success.  This is news we can use.I recommend you see how this all plays out.  There are some plot twists, and a few unexpected turns, but the real pleasure in the movie is that we're safely shepherded along a path we know we will enjoy.  Patriotism, the thrill of exploration of space, and values of love, friendship, and family are all here.  The special effects are better than one could expect in what on the surface looks like an aging star vehicle.  Top notch visual stuff, blessed with a minimum of things exploding, unlike most other recent space films.As you watch, try not to dwell on the roles implicit and explicit relegated to women in this yarn.  Its all ok -- after all, they and we KNOW they are cowboys.......See it with someone who really enjoyed these actors in their prime. They'll see their stars haven't faded.perspectives "},{"Title":"Out of this world...","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I managed to catch this one at a sneak preview, and it blew me away!!!  The trailer didn't do it justice at all.  Take the humor of The Right Stuff, throw in Dirty Harry for good measure, add the space-related problems and love interests of Armageddon, and you get one extraordinary movie.  I highly recommend this film to anyone, old and young alike.  "},{"Title":"Truly a top ten movie in my collection.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am really impressed with the entire movie from start-to-finish. I love the personal grudges carried on throughout the years because it had a sense of realness to it. One thing that seemed exaggerated was the work-out on the bench press. I'm not sure two old geezers could lift up 225 lbs multiple times (one time - possibly/several reps - not likely), but maybe I'm wrong. This is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. With four famous all-star actors, this truly is a top-ten movie in my collection. I'm lost with words for the ending scene, but it was not bad at all. Actually, I could have not have imagined a better one. "},{"Title":"I can't fill up a space shuttle with geriatrics!","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Space Cowboys is directed by Clint Eastwood and jointly written by Ken Kaufman and Howard Klausner. It sees Eastwood co-star with Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, James Garner, James Cromwell Marcia Gay Harden and William Devane. Plot finds Eastwood, Sutherland, Jones and Garner as aged retirees from the American space program, who get asked to aid NASA in investigating something untoward in space. But can these old boys pass the medical requirements, can they get on with each other? And is this just a mission too far?Following in the slipstream of Armageddon and Deep Impact, it's a shame that Space Cowboys decided that for its second half it wanted to actually be one of those movies. Because with its excellent cast list, prime premise and much old fella comedy, it was shaping up to be a truly enjoyable piece of cinema. Characters are formed and the laughs flow thick and fast, but then Eastwood loses control of his movie and let it sinks into unappealing territory. There's some solid sci-fi threads that those so inclined will enjoy, but predictability sets in and there's even a pointless romance shoe-horned into proceedings. Production is very good, with the effects work of a high standard, and undeniably the four old pros at work in the leads make this at least worth a watch the one time.With the good just about outweighing the bad, Space Cowboys punches in at just above average. However, don't be surprised if you find yourself watching the clock at the hour and half mark. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Hit-And-Miss Ageing Astronauts Adventure With Stellar Cast","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Frank Corvin is an air force pilot in 1958 with aspirations of going into space, who gets sidetracked by a superior. Forty years later, when a guidance system he designed goes bad on a Russian satellite, he bargains for his team of now senior-citizens to man a repair mission via space-shuttle and finally get the chance to see if they have the right stuff ...If you can accept the hook - that NASA would allow a bunch of ageing flyboys to take control of a space mission - then this is an agreeable and well made action/drama with a whole cast full of great actors and interesting characters. It makes its points about youth versus experience with subtlety and good humour, but is never maudlin or phony. Frank's determination to get into space is absolute and he plays his hand for all its worth, often at the cost of clear-headedness. What it lacks however is the hardest thing to get right in a movie - evenness of tone. The earthbound first two-thirds are fine drama but for me the space scenes, despite fine detailing and excellent special effects, feel like a different film. A movie like 2010 really convinced me the actors were in outer space, and here that's not the case. It's still a lot of fun however, and the four leads obviously had a great time making it, although my favourite performances are Harden (with a truly bizarre haircut) and Devane, who is great as the no-nonsense flight controller and gives the slightly shaky script a real shot of authenticity. Watch too for a small part as a doctor by Blair Brown, a terrific actress (check out Altered States and Continental Divide) with a great natural style. Of course, there is a big credibility gap here in that Jones is significantly younger than the other three stars (there are eighteen years between the four). Curiously, despite having made at least forty movies each, none of this quartet had ever worked together before with one small exception (Jones and Sutherland are both in JFK). Perhaps a little derivative of both Apollo 13 and Cocoon, but nonetheless an enjoyable and interesting space adventure with a cast to savour. "},{"Title":"Happy 60th, Tommy!","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Since today (well, yesterday the 15th was; I think that it's already now the 16th) is Tommy Lee Jones's 60th birthday, I saw fit to review one of his movies. Space Cowboys is more Clint Eastwood's movie, but everyone in it does a neat job. It portrays some aging pilots teaming back up to stop a rogue satellite. In the team, Eastwood is the nominal leader; Jones is the nervous one; Donald Sutherland is the goof-off ladies' man; and James Garner is the let-whatever-happens-happen. Most of the movie is a comedy, but it levels out towards the end, and the final scene was a little ambiguous.But anyway, it's a pretty interesting romp. There may be some scenes that make you think OK, that's more than I needed to see. Overall, you're sure to like it. Also starring James Cromwell, Marcia Gay Harden, William Devane, Loren Dean, Courtney B. Vance, Rade Serbedzija, Blair Brown and Jay Leno. "}{"Title":"IL'  Beacons Mahone 'Ead back kin call","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Space Cowboys has a super ensemble cast starring Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner. The chemistry between them makes for a delightful film. The directing by Clint Eastwood is fine but I liked his directing of Million Dollar Baby better. The idea of an old nasa engineer getting his aging space crew to help him with an old satellite in orbit is not so far fetched because astronaut John Glenn went into space on the space shuttle as a senior citizen. The training pranks at nasa are witty. The special effects in space are quite good. If you play the movie in reverse a human astronaut from a moon ship travels to earth and reports to nasa upon landing. That script seems to hint IL' beacons mahone 'ead back kin call. To explain that old English saying, free human privateers from the moon contact the humans that were dropped off on Earth. Due to a bet with Aliens the humans on the moon ship were not allowed to contact the Earth humans until a certain level of civilization was achieved on earth. The moon ship humans send small life forms in a meteor that enter the arctic are passed to arctic wolves and then passed to earth humans with the message IL' Beacons Mahone 'Ead back kin call which is a rebroadcast of an earth human message beamed to the moon. The use of the song fly me to the moon certainly appeals to older audiences and I like that. The viewer really cares about the nasa astronauts and this fact adds to the suspense in the film. "},{"Title":"Great film if you are of a certain age...","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" You need to be an oldie to appreciate the comedy and wry humour in the film. 'Youngsters' probably would not see the serious side to the movie that an older audience does.I found the whole movie to be interesting, amusing and unusually for such a picture, the supporting cast were really good.The 'romance' was a bit strained in places, but the character of Marcia was well played by Sara Holland and she turned out for me to be one of the better 'finds' in the movie.Clint Eastwood and the others are pretty good interactively, and I didn't find anything particularly bad anywhere, unless you count the characters played by Loren Dean and Courtney B. Vance, they should have been more convincing in my view.Judge it by how many times you put it on the player, and the opening music is still a favourite snippet. "},{"Title":"Excellent start to Clint's sixth decade in movies","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  During his long, stylish and sensational career Clint Eastwood has played an amazing amount of different characters. He's been everything from cowboy, cop, radio disc jockey, soldier, prisoner, movie director and FBI agent to photographer and thief. Still, who would have guessed that at the age of 70 he would still found himself in an astronaut's suit? But it happened anyway. Clint plays Frank Corvin, one of the four aged astronauts who luckily get their another opportunity to fly into space in their retirement days. From four other senior actors Clint has already worked with Donald Sutherland (Kelly's heroes) and James Garner (television series Maverick). The most disturbing part of Space cowboys is the beginning of the film. We can see the main characters in the late 50's and it's true that the actors are pretty marvelous, for example Toby Stephens as Frank Corvin is a very believable young Clint lookalike. Nevertheless I can't get over the fact that the old actors dubbed their own voices to these young guys. Well that's a small flaw but I just find it so annoying. Space cowboys is not my favorite of Clint's works and I guess it'll never be. I have to admit that from his recent pictures I like Absolute power and True crime bit more than this one. Space cowboys may also not be a serious masterpiece but I guess Eastwood didn't even intended it to be the next Unforgiven - just an entertaining and amusing little adventure about a four old timers in space. Overall it's a great beginning to Clint's sixth decade in the movie business. I'm looking forward to his next project, an adaptation of Michael Connelly's novel Blood work. I just read it and I can only say that the story was excellent so I can't wait the movie version and to see what Clint can come up with it. "},{"Title":"Effects Rule, Eastwood Fails.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Effects Rule, Eastwood fails. The Best Ikon The Worst Clint Eastwood. But I mean, one is really good and the other really bad. By the time the space satellite Ikon appeared on the screen I was amazed, that's ok that it is a computer generated image (a damn good one) but it is really great, great design, great lightning, and all the special effects around Ikon were amazing. Clint Eastwood is an actor that never pleased me nor my whereabouts inhabitants, and once more he presents us a movie that could have been better without him, is acting his bad (my thoughts) and I believe that Sylvester Stallone's acting will be identical 30 years from now, probably they will make another movie around this being Stallone the lead. As directing is concerned, producers should have chose someone else, someone more competent to this kind of movies for example Michael Bay did a great job in space in Armageddon,  Jan De Bont did also great jobs on earth, when is anyone going to give him a shot at space? Also what bothered me so much was the music. Even in tension moments you almost couldn't ear it, and we all know what great music can do in great tension sequences, that's why Trevor Rabin, Mark Mancina and Hans Zimmer can put you on the edge of your seat. The other `Ripe Stuff!!' was good to watch with their great performances (exception made for Eastwood) and Marcia Gay Harden is always pleasant to watch. I'm not saying that this movie is bad... by all means NO, I had a great time watching Space Cowboys, what I wanted was a little more suspense and iron fist in the whole.  5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Great seeing the old guys in action again","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Really enjoyed the other space movies released recently, but there's something about the casting of Clint, Tommy Lee, Donald & James that made this movie much more touching.The whole background of them being replaced by a monkey and their mission being scrapped ... then to be needed again was a good pay-back for the boss...The other thing that was interesting to me was their chosen professions after Dadelus was scratched.  From Preacher to Roller Coaster Designer and everything in-between, quite a surprise.I've gotta say that this was a great view for me and mine ... we need more old actor movies ... of course these guys are still just as sexy as they ever were ...  "},{"Title":"contrived, longhaul comedy/drama","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  `Space Cowboys' is a geriatric, fantasy version of `The Right Stuff,' in which a quartet of aging, retired Air Force pilots are recruited by NASA to go into space and fix a Russian satellite that has fallen out of orbit and is hurtling back to earth at lightning speed (the leader of the operation is the designer of the antiquated system the satellite is using and is, therefore, the only person who, apparently, knows how to fix the problem). Although the film is heavy on special effects, it really isn't too many DNA strands away from the `Grumpy Old Men' comedies, in that here too, we are invited to laugh at the cutesy antics of a bunch of creaky senior citizens trying to act as if they are young again.  To put it politely, a note of condescension hangs heavy over this relatively torpid drama.I guess enough time has passed since the Challenger disaster to make it okay to use the Space Shuttle as a setting for high, explosive drama, for once the crew finally makes it into outer space, the film turns deadly serious, as the mission's members and an incredibly naïve NASA discover that the satellite actually holds a half dozen nuclear warheads aimed directly at key targets in the United States.  Thus, what starts out as a wheezing comedy, filled with folksy clichés and contrived situations, turns into an equally wheezing drama that tries in vain to align itself with the special effects extravaganzas of modern action filmmaking.  It doesn't work.  Despite the impressiveness of some of the visual effects, the pacing in the film's `action sequences' is as languid as that in the earthbound scenes. Moreover, the Space Shuttle setting is both cramped and claustrophobic, leading to a strangely static final act.Which pretty much leaves us with the characters and the performances.  As the leader of the group, Dr. Frank Corvin, Clint Eastwood gets to pull most of the dramatic weight, leaving James Garner and Donald Sutherland to be little more than ciphers, the former as a simpering, wimpy Baptist minister and the latter as a one-note skirt chaser who spends most of the time trying to hit on any woman who happens to wander through NASA's front door.  Only Tommy Lee Jones' Hawk Hawkins has been given anything close to a personality (though it is pretty well summed up by the name actually).  He and Corvin, of course, have a simmering score to settle and they even manage to engage in that oldest plot device known to this geriatric macho genre &#150; a fistfight at a local saloon (they don't call them space COWBOYS for nothing).  Yet, do we doubt that, in the end, these old fogies will teach those cocky young whippersnappers at NASA a thing or two?On the positive side, the film does have a few impressive examples of foreshadowing scattered throughout its narrative.  Unfortunately, that is small compensation for a film that is otherwise comprised of equal parts incredibility and predictability.  And that `upbeat' final shot of the film must set a new standard for queasy inappropriateness.  Better to remember these actors in their earlier glory days. "},{"Title":"Eastwood's clichés at maximum level.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As a big fan of Clint-Eastwood-as-a-director films, it was disappointing to see Space Cowboys.The plot is weak, the russian general seems to be as stupid as in any middle of the cold war holywood movie. Worst American Military ain´t very smart either.While I can enjoy watching an old guy dating with a young girl, watching four of them doing so, while also training to pass the physical test of an astronaut and surpassing all of NASA´s young promises was almost unbearable.You can have a good time watching it. It just is not a good movie. "},{"Title":"Starts out funny and enjoyable, but tires out in the second half","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am a loyal supporter of the four leads.  That was my primary motivation for renting this movie.  I expected to see some nice, funny chemistry between the four aging actors.  And the first half of the movie does offer a good deal of that amusing chemistry, with some funny one-liners by the screen veterans.  There's a nice scene where they appear on The Tonight Show and Sutherland flaunts his magic with the ladies, despite old age. As we approach blast-off, we have some melodramatic surprises and predictable setups for events in the last act.  For example, we have James Cromwell as the cliched I don't think they're gonna go through with it character.  He doesn't want any of these geriactrics floating around space.  Looking at James Cromwell, I really don't think he should be talking (haha, but he's still a cool actor).  Since you're pretty sure what will happen after the four old guys try to fix this sattelite (will they succeed or will they not? hmmmm) it's quite obvious what Cromwell's reaction will be by the end. The space scenes are nothing new.  I had a hard time keeping myself awake. Then again, I've never been fascinated by outer space and movies about space (As much as I love Stanley Kubrick, I could not get into 2001  A Space Oddysey), though I can't say the subject completely bores me and there have been films like Apollo 13 which I did enjoy.  But this one couldn't interest me.  Once the humor fades away, the entertainment level reaches a huge downfall.I guess it's a matter of taste.  I mostly saw this movie in anticipation of the four actors.  If you are a fan of space films and sci-fi, you might enjoy the second half more than I did.My score  5 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"Why this movie was only 'ok'","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Before I begin I might give away a crucial element so if you don't want to know it then don't read. I was kind of disappointed in this movie especially since my brother raved about it. It did have some pretty funny parts but I felt that it went in the same lines as Armageddon and Deep Impact. Why is it that someone always volunteers to stay back and die? I wish they could have come up with a better storyline or found a way to keep them all alive.  "},{"Title":"The great boomers!","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The ode to the great baby boomer generation.They did great wonders during their primes and this movie is just great for people who understand that generation's good qualities and quirks.Eastwood is a superhuman.The best looking 70 something I have seen.I did not like the casting of Sutherland and Garner but they did an ok job of it.Tommy Lee was portraying somebody way older but pulled it off splendidly.The directing,cinematography,special effects and script were good and the story was average.The screenplay was below average.What made thi movie a winner was the performances of Eastwood and Tommy Lee Jones.This movie is not really to be enjoyed as much by people who do not know those actor's earlier great works,as well as the history of the 60's space programs..... "}{"Title":"Very Disappointing","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  How can you go wrong with four such well-known and excellent actors? Well, Space Cowboys manages to do it. The keyword for this movie is trite. The acting was as good as it could be with such a lame script. I am really surprised such veteran actors wouldn't have chosen a better script. Don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"Good first half, strange change in second half","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Seeing the movie, I thought, I need to buy this movie right now !, great humor, fast and good Idea, but after the first half the movie starts to change, as if the producers would give an order to turn the movie into something more dramatic. Well the second part, is a try to turn the movie in something serious, and it fails a lot, the destroy the movie, and when the time for an end come, nothing but a weird move. I think that somebody told Eastwood that the movie must have a drama and he put it, forced and with no connection. Thanks. Eduardo. "},{"Title":"The Geriatric Armageddon","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worst attempts at a sci-fi I've ever seen. I knew what I was going to see before I even stepped into the movie theater, but I thought, Hey, this was directed by Clint Eastwood. This man's brilliant. He's 'Dirty Harry' for crying out loud! Simply because it was directed by Clint Eastwood doesn't mean anything. The thing that probably attracted most people was the jokes. All I see is four living legends that are sitting around and making old jokes about themselves. I never really thought of Tommy Lee Jones being that old, but I sure do now. Oh, and James Garner, shame on you! You should be ashamed of yourself. You've gone from Jim Rockford to a has-been. This movie's a stinker. The story almost exactly coincides to Armageddon. They try to throw a twist in there at one point, but I didn't care. It was as thought Tommy Lee Jones was Bruce Willis, Eastwood was Affleck, and the other two are supposed to be some sort of comedy relief, but they made me want to relieve my stomach of its lunch. If you're one of the mindless drones who the public is playing to and actually enjoyed Armageddon, then you may like this. The only good thing about this movie is that it's shorter than Armageddon, which is greatly appreciated. It's dumb. It's stupid. Don't watch it. Hey Hollywood, how about a good sci-fi every once and a while for those of us who actually think. 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Ripe Stuff","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" SPACE COWBOYS (2000) **1/2 Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, James Garner, Marcia Gay Harden, James Cromwell, Loren Dean, Courtney B. Vance, William Devane, Barbara Babcock. 'Grumpy Old Astronauts' and 'The Ripe Stuff' are suggestive titles (the latter actually inferred in the film) Four former ace military experimental pilots reunite for an unlikely space mission forty years after missing their window of opportunity for historical greatness. Eastwood, who also directed, and his three other crusty veteran co-stars provide enough sublime acting and self-deprecating humor to what could have been a heavy-handed melodrama and avoid any cloying moments usually attributed to the space hero genre. More divertingly entertaining than could be expected or appreciated. "},{"Title":"Boring, predictable, too long and bad casting","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I can't believe the rating this movie gets. It is by far the worst I've seen by and with Clint Eastwood. The movie is definitely 30 minutes too long, the funny parts are very predictable as well as the whole story. James Garner has not only become old as a face, but also as an actor. The leading female role is awful, she is so embarrassing (or is she realy playing the typical american woman?). The story is something between Armageddon and Apollo 13, but both of them are much better. 2 out of 10 is what this movie gets from me. "},{"Title":"Stale and utterly predictable","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was a bad first draft of a ludicrous story.  The actors somewhat redeemed it with their performances, but it's damned hard to deliver such hackneyed lines with believability, even for these folks. Normally I am not crabby about mediocre movies, but the reviews I read gave me no clue to how bad this movie was. Maybe it played better with a full house--no one laughed in the theater, but there were less than ten of us. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was such a horrible movie.  I was so excited to see it because it had such a stellar cast but I was bored 10 minutes into the movie and kept hoping it would get better.  It didn't.  My suggestion?  Pass on this movie if you have a choice in the matter. "},{"Title":"I love eastwood , but you gotta try harder than this","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I rarely leave a unfinished movie. but this sucked,just like the eastwood's heartbreak ridge.the story is too cheesy and thin.i mean if you watch the movie after half and hour it doesn't really matters because during that time nothing happens to affect the main story line.Their young selves are not shown in great deal so we know nothing about their friendship. Also how idiotically they all agree on this minute just waste of time and the movie didnot had to be that long ,this eastwood fully on autopilot . i am not even sure there was a proper screenplay, i think they just played it as they went on. all that i am old but i am good stuff.all that arrogant stuff. well i am pretty much over it. So i guess eastwood is dirty harry in all his movie. "},{"Title":"Entertainment for oldies","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a kind of gung-ho action comedy drama with heart, for pensioners.We meet a bunch of youngster hot shot pilots in the 50s who are all keen to go into space it never happens. Then, when something goes horribly wrong with a present day space mission, these guys are the only ones with the expertise to sort it out. The only trouble is that they are old and unfit, so they have to be got into shape first.This film breaks down into sections. There is the flashback to the 50s. Then there is the present day set up, including obligatory falling-out with supercilious NASA boss who has been overruled. Then there is boot camp training (the most comedic section as it plays on the ages of the 4 principal actors). And finally there is the mission itself.This is an odd one for Eastwood to have directed himself - in many ways it is a fairly passionless potboiler, delivered very much by the numbers, and I felt Eastwood's directorial skills deserted him somewhat in the mission sequence, for there were often times when I couldn't follow what was happening the jargon and the geography sometimes weren't clear.For all that, though, the chemistry between the four old comrades is good, and the film satisfies, particularly the poetic, bittersweet last shot. "},{"Title":"Standard Orbit","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie about a bunch of tough old Air Force codgers who were overlooked as astronauts in the fifties, now given the opportunity to go to space, is so catered to an audience you'll expect the actors to wink at the camera after each line.The premise is weak a dying Russian satellite must be retrieved, which mysteriously carried a now dated guidance system designed by Clint Eastwood's character, a world-weary rogue sporadically described as not as team player except when it comes to his old team he gathers for the trip James Garner as a lazy preacher, Donald Sutherland as a womanizing roller-coaster architect (the comic relief), and Tommy Lee Jones as a stunt flier, the most likable of the bunch.Prepare to root for the good guys; and with one-dimensional jerks played by James Cromwell and William Devane, you won't have a choice. And while it's Cliché City as our heroes show their Ripe Stuff while training for the mission, these are the best scenes, covering over half the film and including some genuinely funny, and even touching, moments.But once they go to space, with the exception of a rather poetic conclusion (with the aid of a lyrically fitting Sinatra tune), it's dull as watching paint dry &#x96; but some of the colors aren't bad.For More Interviews http//cultfilmfreakreviews.blogspot.com "}{"Title":"Worse Hair In The History Of Hollywood","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie wasn't too bad, I guess. Pretty standard All-American gung-ho escapism with Clint as the Ultimate Alpha Male who can handle any situation. The rest of the case were pretty good... BUT BUT BUT MY GOD DARLING, PLEASE can someone PLEASE explain......WHO on earth designed Marcia Gay Hayden's HAIR? Without a doubt, the most unbelievable woman's hairstyle in the history of Hollywood. Is that a WIG or is it natural? Did they wax those upturned tips or did they use Bryl-Creem? How about those incredible bangs too!! WOW!! How could anyone act in front of her and keep a straight face? How could you kiss someone with hair like that and not burst out laughing? Was this supposed to be the Butch Female Astronaut look? I know one thing, she couldn't get an astronaut helmet on with that! I am sitting her just WIGGING OUT, she looks so bizarre! Does anyone know where I could get one for a Halloween costume? "},{"Title":"pleasantly old fashioned, but lacking in thrills","Date":"21 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you are a fan of Clint Eastwood, you should probably check out Space Cowboys. Its a harmless way to spend a couple of hours. The plot is clichéd with NASA calling four grizzled veterans (Eastwood, Garner, Sutherland and Jones) in order to salvage an aging Soviet satellite. Naturally there's a twist! Its just an excuse to see these four elderly actors together. Everyone is decent with Tommy Lee Jones having fun as he continuously snipes at Eastwood. There's virtually no action and very few thrills. Probably best suited for older fans of Eastwood, Garner, etc.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Grumpy Old Astronauts","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Clint, James, Donald, and Tommy Lee prove they are still tough enough in Unforgiven director Clint Eastwood's Space Cowboys (**1/2 out of ****), an easy-going, feel-good, largely probable, science-fiction comedy thriller about four fearless seniors on a NASA mission to repair an ailing satellite for the Russians. Imagine Armageddon combined with The Right Stuff, featuring elements of Meteor, Dr. Strangelove, and Apollo 13, and you've got a good idea what to expect.Watching Clint Eastwood, James Garner, Donald Sutherland, and Tommy Lee Jones fight and fool around constitutes half of the fun. Happily, they work well together as an ensemble cast, and a strong sense of camaraderie develops as a result of their shenanigans.Sadly, Space Cowboys pokes along without any urgency under Clint Eastwood's laid-back direction. Despite the virtues of Eastwood's droll sense of humor, his celebrity co-stars, and the impressive special effects wizardry of George Star Wars Lucas' Industrial Light & Magic studio, this grumpy old astronauts epic takes far too long suiting our heroes up and sending them into orbit.When a vintage Soviet-era satellite called 'Ikon' malfunctions and plunges to Earth, the Russians fear that losing it will cripple their telecommunications system. NASA scrambles to launch an emergency mission.Things go haywire when they cannot crack Ikon's guidance system code. Reluctantly, slippery NASA bureaucrat Bob Gerson (James Crowell of L.A. Confidential) summons Dr. Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood) out of retirement. Gerson and he have been enemies since the 1950s. As the designer of Ikon's guidance system, Corvin refuses to tutor Gerson's astronauts. Instead, he blackmails Gerson into letting him perform the repairs himself in space with the members of Team Daedalus, an elite USAF breaking-the-sound-barrier bunch consisting of daredevil pilot Hawk Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones of The Fugitive), Jerry O'Neil (Donald Sutherland of M.A.S.H.), and Tank Sullivan (James Garner of The Great Escape).Originally, these hombres were scheduled to be the first to fly in space. Their chance for fame and immortality died when Uncle Sam chartered NASA, scrubbed their mission, and replaced them with chimps.Two factual events inspired the entertaining but superficial Ken (In the Army Now) Kaufman and Howard Klausner screenplay. Congressman John Glenn set a record as the oldest guy at age 77 to ride into space on a 1998 shuttle mission, while 61-year old Story Musgrave fixed the disabled Hubble space telescope on a 1993 mission.Anyway, Corvin and company blast off to the stars with two young shuttle astronauts, the shady Ethan Glance (Loren Dean of Mumford) and Roger Hines (Courtney B. Vance of The Patriot) to lasso the satellite. Meanwhile, back at Mission Control, Gerson confers with sinister Russian general Vostov (Rade Serbedzija of The Saint) who knows more about Ikon than he is letting on. What puzzles Corvin is how his handiwork wound up on a Soviet bird. Kaufman and Klausner answer these questions and spring a couple of surprises before fadeout. Shunning the standard high-octane heroics of summer movies, Eastwood directs the action as if on autopilot. You won't get into a lather watching Space Cowboys. Although its production values far surpass Space Camp, Space Camp contains more nail-biting suspense. Reminiscent of the moribund Mission to Mars, this amusing AARP propaganda rustles up little spontaneity or suspense during the more perilous parts of the mission. Nevertheless, the quartet of heroes is sympathetic and the villains get a kick in the butt. Space Cowboys won't make Eastwood's ten best listen, but it is far from his worst. Oldsters rather than youngsters will appreciate this sci-fi yarn with stars near the end of their tether. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but not a Keeper - Spoilers","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Overall, I'd say this is a pretty good movie, but there are some things about it that I think could have been done better in the script and in the execution.First of all, there's this weird hip-hop type music right in the middle of the movie, which is totally incongruous to the rest of the film. I was watching it on my couch and all of a sudden, where did THAT come from? The music is not played anywhere else in the film. It's jarring and distracting from the storyline. Plus I hated music of that particular genre. The music for the closing scene is out of character with the rest of the movie as well, but for different reasons. It's kind of bright and snappy when it probably shouldn't be.Then there's the whole conspiracy theory. There are questions in the film, How did this guidance system get into a Russian satellite? And the annoying boss and the Russian general are always talking in whispers like they have something to hide. So you're waiting for this huge revelation The bad guy is a traitor to his country! He's been sneaking intelligence into Russia for years! And when they find him out, he's going to suffer! HAHA! But no, that's not what happens. It's almost as if the filmmakers wimped out at the last minute and so they put this anticlimactic nonsense about the KGB stealing the plans from someone's files and then the bad guy gets glory, laud, and honor at the end of the movie because of the successful mission.And finally, the last scene I didn't like at all. One of the astronauts, played by Tommy Lee Jones, saves the world by blasting himself and some nuclear missiles to the moon. Just before the end credits, they zoom in on his space-suited body lying motionless as he stares back at the earth. I found it rather creepy, like that one episode of star trek where they found some astronaut's mummy in the bowels of a weird alien-constructed hotel. And all this is going on with happy music in the background. It was at this point in the movie that I realized I probably wasn't going to watch it again.It had some good points, too. I like the idea of a bunch of old guys who are still with it The baptist preacher with tattoos and the little Hawaiian hula dancer on his dashboard, the womanizer who is forever flirting with everyone, and of course the eye exam scene. The guys run off the letters on the chart in 15 seconds. I may be blind, one of them says, But my memory is as good as ever. It was a good touch.I found the movie exciting while I was watching it because I didn't know what was going to happen next. I enjoyed myself - I laughed, I cried, etc. But those few moments that I mentioned above tainted it, like tarnish on otherwise flawless silver cutlery. And for those reasons, I don't think I'll give this one a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Clint in space","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Was there ever a time when Clint Eastwood was young? As long as he has been acting, he appears to have been playing tough, grizzled outsiders waiting for one last chance to sock it to the establishment and to humble his more youthful competitors. In 'Space Cowboys,' a film he also directs, Eastwood could be said to be mocking his own persona; but it's also perhaps true that, now he's in his seventies, it would simply be impossible for him to play dead straight any more. In other words, a small measure of tongue-in-cheekness is actually a necessary tonic to allow him to carry on as much as possible as before. When there's a scene with a bar-room fight, precipitated by a woman but really all about male pride, I wanted to groan hadn't I seen the same scene in every other Eastwood movie I'd ever watched? A youthful love interest (admittedly for Eastwood's co-star Tommy Lee Jones, rather than for Eastwood himself), also strikes a false note. But in spite of this, the plot (a group of prickly pensioners, who once trained to be astronauts, is suddenly called up for a belated space mission) is full of comic potential and is entertainingly worked.In fact, the mission is set up very nicely, but the film falls a bit flat once the astronauts arrive in orbit. Firstly, the storyline about the Russians militarising space is uninteresting; when the Americans are developing 'Star Wars', it seems a bit strange that this film chooses to re-fight the cold war. More importantly, for all the high-tech action, the film never quite manages to convey the sheer enormity of the isolation of those in space from the solid earth below. Both '2001' and 'Apollo 13' succeeded in part by conveying just how remote from all external assistance a space-crew is; and both films (one fictional, the other a true story), also conveyed a real sense of wonder that man can enter space at all. But in 'Space Cowboys', in spite of state-of-the-art special effects, no such sense of loneliness and awe is generated; the men continue to bicker in much the same way as they do on the ground, and little tension or emotion is engendered in the viewer. The film ends with two twists, one utterly predictable, the other slightly more original. And in spite of it's famous veteran cast, overall this 'Space Cowboys' slightly disappoints, a movie more concerned with Eastwood's generic hero than its supposed subject. If only once, it would be nice to see Eastwood play against type; but I'm not holding my breath. "},{"Title":"A short review","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I generally don't take the time to write comments about middle-of-the-road movies. This one has its good moments, but at best it's OK.I actually write here because there are two great scenes in this flick, I mean really GREAT scenes.The opening scenes with the planes, fantastic dynamics, will be very difficult to outmatch.And the mindblowing final scene, unforgettable. Pure art. A must see for any real cinema addict.Something outstanding at the beginning, something outstanding at the end, this is a winning pattern... sadly the rest of the movie is, as I already stated, only OK. "},{"Title":"Vanity Picture","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Four ex-astronauts (Eastwood, Garner, Jones and Sutherland) now all in their sixties, are recruited by one of their number, Eastwood, when his services are needed to repair a wayward Soviet satellite that contains guidance systems with which he is familiar. Robbed of their opportunity for space travel in their youth by a corrupt NASA official, the same official now needs their support. So, Eastwood bargains a space trip for themselves.Very much a vanity picture, it seems that the actors are playing themselves playing astronauts. The humor of the four's escapades as they struggle to complete astronaut school is the best part of the picture. Once in space, the tension of the mission just doesn't really connect, and a couple of the human interest stories get a little too close to 'gidgets and geezers' creepiness.  All in all its just so-so entertainment, and make sure that you check your brain at the TV room door. "},{"Title":"Not Bad...","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  But not good. A lot of talent wasted on this film. Flimsy, improbable story of senior citizens shot into space to recover aging satellite. How ironic. Special effects are pretty good if you go in for that sort of thing. Eastwood should have seriously considered retiring after this one. "},{"Title":"a good buddy movie.","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Once again, Eastwood brings us a new old story about friends and comradeship, but this time with a bit of decline and nostalgia. Good performances for a somewhat flat plot. Good effects and some laughing guarantee. "},{"Title":"In spite of major flaws, a fun movie","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  OK. I do like to say when going to a movie, we occasionally have to suspend belief, like How can a small fighter ship have enough fuel to travel between galaxies? Well, the problem with a contemporary story is that we know the real rules, and it's harder to suspend belief.That's the primary flaw with this movie. I think some of the complaints about sending up 4 old guys is not reasonable, since it's well established now that older pilots can be in shape enough to do such a mission, and ex-pilots would be the type to do that. However, most of the other complaints people had were valid in the world of reality.****** SPOILER ALERT!!! SPOILER ALERT!!! ****** Note to readers I will try not to give away the farm here in case there are any glancing eyes to this section. However, this is not reality, and sometimes, you need to forgive a bending of the rules to increase suspense. I think the key decision at the end of the movie is a great example of this. Realisticly, it could go either way, and even with what we know now, there were options that made the decision valid, as it was taken with the younger pilots.... Get low enough and bail out! So the earlier decision did work. It's just that these old geezers were a bunch of show-offs who stuck together. That's what made this fun. It was about friends sticking together through life-threatening times, trusting on each other. ****** END SPOILER SECTION!!! END SPOILER SECTION!!! ******Anyway, this movie is about trust and friendship. In spite of disagreements, these men worked past it. The characters are fun, and it's just a nice movie. This isn't the best I've seen, but I would watch it again. Suspend beliefs. Escape reality and enjoy the story. "}{"Title":"Actually the true story of British Space Pensioners","Date":"23 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is the purported story of how the Americans captured a Russian communications satellite that was armed to the teeth with nuclear warheads. And since the real Russian satellite was captured by the British, actually, we know that the story is a work of fiction, even if the film says it is a true story.It's a pity that I can't award this stupid piece of Hollywood crap a big fat ZERO, for that is what it deserves! Hollywood re-writing history again ... thankfully this big fat blancmange doesn't get shown on TV as often as The Right Stuff (or The Right Propaganda) used to be...they share the typical macho duck stupidity when it comes to the action scenes and heroic phooey. I didn't actually manage to stay with this film until the end because it actually began to make me feel ill! I'm English and it truly annoys me when the Hollywood mob starts re- writing history to the extent where it's now America who saved the Earth from the killer Russian nuclear satellite. Everyone outside the land of lamebrains knows that it was actually British astronauts who saved the Planet Earth from Armageddon. And that's what the original screenplay, Space Pensioners, said, until Hollywood got their hands on it. Space Pensioners started out as a true story of British heroism and technological prowess. But no, Hollywood couldn't let the truth be known to the world that it was actually the British who invented the Infinite Improbability Drive and British astronauts who landed on the Moon in 1969. Once the American Ministry of Patriotic Propaganda heard about it, they demanded the script rewritten, or the writers would be thrown into jail. Don't believe a word of this tripe! Americans can't even rescue their own falling satellites, let alone a Russian one. If this satellite crashes on my home in Guildford tomorrow, I am going to be very, very put out. Britain has plenty of idle space pensioners sitting around in the Astronautics Guild Hall just waiting for work, like rescuing a falling satellite, or fixing the plumbing on the ISS. All the Americans had to do was ask politely for our assistance, if you please. Not bloody likely.My advice to anyone with at least half a brain (no, the other half), is to avoid this movie and certainly don't bother BUYING it! (even when it's on offer in the local supermarket bargain basket -- it tastes terrible.)Cheerio!--Please see my splendid reviews of U-571 and Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (2005). And a tip of the hat to reviewer pussytiddy of Wednesbury and his splendid review of U-571. Stay tuned for my review of Galaxy Quest. "},{"Title":"lacks something..... originality?","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  (might contain spoilers) Space Cowboys was a pleasant watch, but I couldn't get rid of the feeling that it lacks something. That something probably is originality. This movie is a funnier copy of Armaggedon. Almost same story - the Earth is in danger because something in space, and the protagonists have to save the day -, the same problems with the crew - in Armageddon Bruce Willis had nothing to do with NASA, here a bunch of old guys that never went in space, the same training issues, even the same ending - with the hero accomplishing his super-objective. The only difference is that this is much funnier. Still its lack of originality makes it a lot weaker than it really is. Vote 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Space Crinklies","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although the premise old guys still have a lot to offer is well worth pursuing, this film takes the suspension of disbelief too far to be enjoyed even on a superficial level. Indeed the more you think about this film, the more unintentionally funny it becomes. It was obviously a vanity project by director/producer Eastwood to show that there is life in the elderly yet but it quickly develops into old men's fantasies about their virility and competence.The idea that NASA or indeed the USA would allow a crew of 70 year old men up to perform the physically taxing task of saving a satellite is ludicrous. That these have not been part of the space program for 40 years but are deemed OK to fly after a few weeks training adds to the ridiculousness. We see these 4 sweating and wheezing their way through training, which apparently did not concern their supervisors but Jones' pancreatic cancer is sufficient to prevent him from the mission? Even this is then immediately brushed away.NASA does seem to be slack in its selection process. The poor eyesight of Sutherland is not picked up. At least he has the decency to show this and some other signs of ageing (ie false teeth) although inexplicably these make him absolutely irresistible to young women. The rest of the crew of pensioners are perfect (although their sagging physiques on display during an unfortunate nude scene suggests differently) with 20/20 vision etc until Jones' cancer is discovered.This cancer comes as a blow to his lover. She is the leader of the project, a woman at least 30 years his junior, who falls madly in love with Jones after seeing his nude sagging body in the changing room. No word of a lie.Next the Russian spokesman does not see fit to tell anyone that the satellite in question is armed with nuclear weapons, something which is a rather important detail. He apparently was hoping, with the cameras of the world watching, that no one would notice.Then one of the 2 young bucks allowed on board inexplicably saunters out into space and, defying direct orders, starts fiddling about with the satellite despite admitting earlier he had no idea as to what to do. At least he gets his comeuppance later when he and the other young crewman (both in comas) are unceremoniously thrown out of the shuttle. Since the survival rate for such a drop was estimated as 20% even among the conscious, one must assume they were thrown to their deaths.This does not impact upon the joy which greets the safe landing of the shuttle. And no one says whoops, do you think we should have thrown them out? "},{"Title":"About average as a movie, but enjoyable even still","Date":"4 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" While not as strong as some of his other directorial efforts, Eastwood still manages to portray his talent through this film. Because let's face it, the premise of a gang of aging would-have-beens going into space because of some half-assed excuse of only one of them being able to fix something is pretty ludicrous, yet the main man himself makes it work. The movie focuses on what it should, the camaraderie between these old men and not on technological scenery porn or intense action scenes. The latter two are there, of course, and the movie is heavily laden with good humour, but none of them are the main focus, the characters are, as they should.And what characters they are. We have Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner, how could it not work. All four are powerhouse actors and it's awesome to see them on the screen at the same time. I literally have nothing bad to say about them, although it would have been nice to see Garner's character a bit more. Now he has a really funny introduction scene and then he kind of fades into the background. The same can be said about Sutherland's character though to a lesser degree. Still, these four make the movie work.That being said, the premise IS kind of ludicrous and the plot never really rises above that. You're always aware that yeah, this wouldn't happen like that in real life, which isn't that big of a problem, but it is a problem. Does it make the movie bad? Not really, it's still fun to watch, but this isn't one of those films that will change your life. It's just a good popcorn flick with talented actors. For me that was more than enough. "},{"Title":"Watchable, slightly entertaining, but overall nothing memorable","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I originally saw Space Cowboys when it was released in 2000 and really didn't like it at all. It bored me to death and although I watched the whole thing, I often felt the urge to switch on something else.Well, I watched it again last week and found myself more entertained (perhaps because I was expecting too much the first time around). The cast is excellent and that's what attracted me to it the first time Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland and James Garner. It's the Freddy vs. Jason or Alien vs. Predator for adults -- veteran cinema icons pairing up and kicking butt. (Well, sort of.) Space Cowboys is about a team of ex-NASA astronauts who designed a special space satellite; when it goes haywire, they are the only ones who can fix it, so they're re-trained and sent off into space. The only problem is that they're all retired and in their '60s now.Space Cowboys is a movie for older audiences, for sure. It will appeal mainly to those who grew up on Eastwood et al and are familiar with the actors' work.I liked the acting, I liked some of the training scenes, but towards the end it just gets to be too much; an entertaining movie, but not particularly memorable. Worth watching once. "},{"Title":"cute fun","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  ok, so large portions of it didnt make sense and seemed fuzzed over on purpose so as the audience didnt realise the film makers had no idea what they were going on about. but it was fun, it was amusing and the special effects were amazing. however, the critic tagline for it should be MAKES ARMAGEDDON LOOK BELIEVABLE! "},{"Title":"Way too predictable.","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Dull scripts are nothing new to the Sci-Fi genre.  The thing is; this film didn't even have good special effects to distract me from the painful predictability of the script.It was a waste of 30 minutes of my time.  What can I say, I hit the ff about three minutes in and rarely needed to take my finger off the button for any scenes that were important or even funny for that matter.The sad thing is that all parties involved in Space Cowboys were capable of doing much better work.  This film fell way short of it's potential. "},{"Title":"Apollo 13 launchs from Canaveral Rest Home","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I liked the first half because it was amusing, but the second half was a bit of a drag. Lots of excitement and way out computer whizbangs, but in the end what we have is just another space rescue chiller. Still, it was worth seeing if space movies are your cup. "},{"Title":"video fare","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I was looking forward to seeing this movie as I adore Jim Garner, Donald Sutherland, Tommy Lee Jones and James Cromwell.  This movie, once again, reaffirms my belief that an actor appearing in the movie should not direct it.  The idea of the film is excellent, four old pilots going to space to save the world but everything in this movie from the slow moving character development to Tommy Lee's love interest is predictable and beneath these fine actors.  This being said, millions of men who love Clint Eastwood will roar in outrage at my opinion as every older male I saw leaving the theatre loved the movie.  My 14 year old son was bored stiff. "},{"Title":"An OK movie with a bad ending","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie starts off strong and finishes in a very unfulfilling mess.  The story is about 4 old astronaughts, now retired, who are called back to duty to fix a Soviet Satellite left over from the Cold War, that is in a decaying orbit.  Clint Eastwood's character designed the guidance system for said satellite and is (unbelievably) the only man alive who can fix it.  He must go back to work with James Cromwell's character, the man in charge of the NASA mission, who ruined Eastwood's career as an astronaught, by replacing him with a chimp as the first American to go in to space, in a humiliating press conference.  So the stage is set with the following problems waiting to be resolved  Clint Eastwood and his old comrades must redeem themselves and prove they are able to complete the mission and thus finally go to space.  Also, Clint Eastwood must overcome his differences with a mission commander who has it in for him to fail.  Third, what is the importance of this mysterious Soviet Satellite, why not let it burn up in the atmosphere?  And finally, how the heck did Clint's guidance system wind up in Soviet hands?  Well, obviously, the satellite turns out to be a nuclear weapon.  Duh.  I guessed that immediately, even though in the movie it is supposed to be some big mystery.  Naturally, the old folks rise to the occasion, along with some tasteless scenes of Tommy Lee Jones and the creepy Donald Sutherland hooking up with hot women that are way too young to be believable for them.  This was obviously thrown in to the movie to help out the geriatric demographic with the fantasy/escapism.  I could almost buy these guys getting in to decent shape, considering John Glenn did in fact go back in to space and obviously inspired this movie, but hooking up with the women...no. Now to the resolution of the final problem with the satelite.  Let me say, the movie is well done and interesting from a character driven point of view.  This is where all the comedy and most of the action takes place, primarily driven by the competitiveness between Tommy Lee and Eastwood's characters.  The special effects at the end are pretty good.  And through out the movie, the audience is reminded that there is something suspicious happening between the Soviet Military guy and James Cromwell's character.  But this is where the movie falls apart, not unlike the old men the story is about.  How did Eastwood's design get in to Soviet's hands?  We are never told.  We are simply left to suspect something happened between the soviets, and, whatever???  Come on!  That was a real let down.  Its as if they hurried through the ending because they were never able to come up with an interesting enough story about how the Soviets got the design.  Clint Eastwood's character throughout the movie keeps asking, How did this happen?  How did they get my design?  He will never know, and neither will the audience.  Its like they forgot to tell that part. And the final resolution to the Nuclear Satellite was not believable.  We know that Tommy Lee is dying of cancer, but his character is the only one that can land the shuttle manualy.  The shuttle must be landed manually because the computer was damaged in the collision.  He and Clint are space walking on the satelite, and one has to stay behind to destroy the satellite before it blows up America.  Obviously, the choice would be Eastwood, since Tommy Lee is the only one who can land the ship and save the rest of the crew.  But instead, Tommy Lee stays with the satellite and sacrifices himself to destroy it.  Meanwhile, Clint goes back in to the shuttle and everybody is worried because there isn't anybody left to land the ship! Another problem with the film, the plan for destroying the satelite and lifting it to a higher orbit was not made very clear.  They kind of glossed over that part with a lot of fast, disjointed and confusing technical talk in the middle of some fast cut arguing.  And the final ending, somehow, totally unbelievably, Tommy Lee makes it from a LOW EARTH ORBIT all the way up TO THE MOON with nothing but a crippled, mysteriously powered, nuclear satelite.  I am no astrophysicist, but THAT is IMPOSSIBLE!  I enjoyed the movie, but it totally fell apart at the end, and that kind of ruined it for me.  Strong performances by all players.  The opening black and white sequence was especially intriguing.  They had young actors with good make up believably playing younger versions of Eastwood, Cromwell, and Jones, complete with actor voice overs for dialog that sounded authentic.  I thought that was pretty cool.  Especially the actor that played a young Eastwood.  It looked just like him.   But those loose threads and goofy premises at the end of the movie were really too much to take, and that is the part of the movie that I remember the most.  That is, the part of not liking it.  Too bad, because I am a big fan of all the actors EXCEPT for the creepy, uncomfortable, Donald Sutherland.  The guy always comes off as a speech impaired, spoiled hippy.  He is like a guy who has no real talents, but somehow was lucky enough to get hooked up with some movies and became an iconic fixture in Hollywood.  He never fails to creep me out and I find it totally annoying to listen to that lisp of his.  How did this guy ever get in to movies?  I didn't care much for APOLLO 13, but if you liked that movie, you will probably like SPACE COWBOYS.  In my opinion, APOLLO 13 was a little boring because it was based on true events, and therefore, I already knew how it was going to end.  So if you are like me and you crave a movie that has a little more escape quality to it, then you will probably like SPACE COWBOYS.  But, be prepared for a sloppy, poorly done ending.     "}{"Title":"Space Kittens Go To the Moon","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the next installment of  Space Cowboys  our heroes are now Octogenarians and wouldn't you know it - Frank Gorvin has accidentally left the keys to the International Space Station on his key ring back on earth . NASA pleads with him to give back the keys but Frank wants to go back in space One More Time .And this time Frank needs to bring his kitty cats with him . Special Space suits will need to be fashioned for the Space Going Felines .Look for lots of Special Effects on this picture like Kittens floating upside down near Frank so that we'll all believe they're really in Zero Gravity . Forget about actual globules of milk floating in the cabin because the Producers of this film can make us believe everyone's weightless just by making the actors ( and kitties ) drift around really , really slow .Dialogue will make up for any production shortcuts on this one . Look for lots of reaction shots from kitties after Frank gives us priceless gems like  Does Whiskers want to go space walk ? Maybe the original  Space Cowboys  was an embarrassing romp in Space but look out for  Space Kittens Go To the Moon  for some real Out Of This World hijinks . "},{"Title":"Open the Airlock, I Want to Get Off.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A dopey Armageddon-esque romp for Eastwood, Garner, Southerland and Jones. The whisps of humor that escapes through these fine actors are mostly swallowed up by the large sucking sound made by the predictable storyline, questionable continunity and non-existent special effects (Why bother doing that weightless effect for the on orbit shots inside the cabin?)  Mail me your $8.50 and I assure you I will put it to better use than you watching this so-called movie. "},{"Title":"Obvious, corny and rather silly but also pretty enjoyable if you meet it on its own terms","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" In the 1950's Team Daedalus were a collection of top US air force officers &#150; a pilot, an engineer, a doctor and a navigator &#150; working on the planes involved in getting nearer space. However a change in direction of the space programme saw them replaced with a chimp. Years later they have all gone their separate ways although still pretty bitter about the whole NASA thing. So when a Russian satellite with an ancient operating programme threatens to fall to Earth, Bob Gerson is not too pleased about having to turn to Frank Corvin (as the designer of the system) for help. Corvin uses the time pressure on this mission to his advantage and convinces NASA to reinstate his team to go on the mission and repair/recover the satellite. Of course, this is all assuming that the OAP's can stay out of trouble and get through their medicals first.From the start of this film (pretty much a copy of the opening of The Right Stuff) we know where we are &#150; a mix of comedy, thriller and sci-fi adventure that is about as corny as it is enjoyable. In line with all other men with a mission films, this has a first half of training and bonding followed by a second half of the mission. The first half is amusing but perhaps tries to have too much of a story about it and it is rather slow and overlong at times. It could easily have been edited down by about 15 minutes and would have been more engaging and slick for it. The mission itself is rather obvious in terms of plotting (how many times we have to see shifty looks between the Russian and Gerson?) but it is still quite involving and tense &#150; sure, it is clichéd and does exactly what you expect it to do but it is still passable for what it is &#150; an American blockbuster. As such it will just about please those looking for laughs while also just about doing enough to satisfy those who have come to watch a collection of older actors do their thing. That it avoids sentimentality is a bit of a blessing and makes the mission and the training that much easier to get into &#150; if I hadn't gotten into the story I would make more of the sheer illogical improbability of the thing but I won't because I got past that.The cast are clearly not going to be giving their best performances here and you do get the feeling that a group of old pros enjoying a payday. The fact that they are all enjoying themselves is a plus but most of them at least do give reasonable performances. Eastwood carries a lot of the drama but he does it pretty well although he does have the burden of being in many of the scenes that seem unnecessary. Sutherland is enjoying himself and does OK but Garner seems to have been the afterthought of the script and has little chance to make his mark. Jones steals the show with his usual older tough guy routine and a good chemistry with Eastwood and it is fitting he is the one that gets the memorable ending. Support is good from Cromwell and Devane but Marcia Gay Harden could easily have been removed from the film; her only function seemed to be to provide the audience with an emotional connection to Hawkins but this wasn't really needed since Jones is good enough to make us care about him without her.Overall this is a corny movie that does just what you expect it to. In some regards it is tongue-in-cheek but then in others it takes itself a bit too seriously. However the familiar setup and the amiable performances help to make it more enjoyable than its parts suggest it well be. Nothing special or new of course but it works as a Hollywood star vehicle and a passable couple of hours. "},{"Title":"Space Cowboys","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is quite an alright film by actor and director Clint Eastwood. Basically in the beginning it shows Dr. Frank Corvin's (Eastwood) past with his of plane pilots. He has been given a mission to go to space to fix a satellite, and he says he won't go unless he can invite his Cowboy pals to help. He reunites with his pals Jerry O'Neill (Donald Sutherland), Tank Sullivan (James Garner) and cancer victim Col. William 'Hawk' Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones). I can remember some of the training sequence, but it is him meeting up with them one by one that is quite interesting to watch. It is a bit of a shame that Hawk gave his life to save everyone or whatever, but his body did survive to fall onto the moon. Also starring Marcia Gay Harden as Sara Holland, James Cromwell as Bob Gerson, Toby Stephens as Young Frankand and Jay Leno. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Sound Editing. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Entertaining Enough But Reminded Me Of Something Else","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" SPACE COWBOYS is a movie whose plot goes like this An object is tumbling to Earth which means a rescue mission staffed by unlikely astronauts must go up in a space shuttle to save countless lives . Where have I heard that plot before ?  you ask yourself . try a couple of years in the past where a bunch of oil riggers led by Bruce Willis went up in a space shuttle to destroy an asteroid hurtling towards Earth . Same plot more or less and you'll be able to shout what the scientific mistakes are too . They're so obvious you can't miss them Thankfully SPACE COWBOYS isn't as shallow or trite as Armageddon but I'm certain no movie could be . This effort from director Eastwood does manage to stand on its own hind legs though . You can believe that when they were younger Frank ( Eastwood ) Hawke ( Jones ) Jerry (Sutherland ) and Tank ( Garner ) did go into space which far more credible than anything you saw in Armageddon and the cast of this movie are genuinely able to make the audience like their characters - Hands up who thought the asteroid in Armageddon might actually be the good guy if not the best cast member ? By no means a classic SPACE COWBOYS is an old fashioned movie , perhaps a little too old fashioned since it's slightly predictable but is also old fashioned in a good way since it's a movie that is entirely carried by the veteran cast rather than the special effects or outlandish set pieces . In that case it's maybe incomparable to Armageddon after all "},{"Title":"disappointing at best","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I went into this movie with high expectations but came out extremely disappointed.I found the writing to be lackluster and boring most of the time.The talents of Donald Sutherland were wasted.It seems James Garner was there for his name and a few oneliners thrown in.The film just didn't do anything for me.I will say that the scenes of their spacewalks were great but the only high points of the movie.Rated 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Space Cow-pie  (Spoilers)","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" OK, that's not quite fair to the movie. The first half is quite entertaining as we get to see how NASA trains its astronauts with Eastwood, Jones, Garner, and Southerland cheerfully dishing out the fried ham. There are two big drawbacks in the first half James Cromwell and Marcia Gay Hardin. Cromwell's problem is pandemic in Hollywood the utter inability of any actor born north of the Mason Dixon Line to deliver a credible southern accent. Sure I live in Minnesota, but I spent 6 years in Arkansas and I can spot a fake twang a mile away. They're even more annoying than the real twangs.Hardin's problem is a bit more complex She's a lousy actress. I know she won an Oscar (obviously not for this piece of cine-manure), but based on this movie I can't imagine how. (Casting couch?) Watch her reaction to discovering that the secret mission is now on the front page of the USA Today Oh, sh*t! Well she got that right.I was willing to overlook those two horrendous performances because I knew that their roles would be greatly reduced by the time they got off the ground. But then we get to the next Big Problem shortly after liftoff of the Daedalus, the movie goes into full-time suck mode, perhaps as a result of their proximity to the vacuum of space. They made every conceivable scientific error. From the obvious (the re-entry scene, even before the loss of Columbia, was beyond ridiculous) to the obscure (astronauts go from the shuttle normal atmosphere, 14.7 PSI to EVA pure oxygen, 4 PSI without suffering from a crippling case of the bends), to just plain sloppy film-making (crew member in the shot, behind Eastwood, just after they get inside the constipated Russian satellite).I saw one reviewer here refer to the final scene as wonderfully artistic. Well, maybe it is. If your only knowledge of the space program comes from bad movies like Space Cowboys. I'll give this one 3 out of 10, but I'll only go that high because I loved Donald Southerland's line about a woman's infinite supply of orgasms. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I was consistently napping throughout this movie, it was hard for me to stay awake for the ending the plot is long and not very interesting, there are no real surprises in the movie, the actors were good though. Wouldn't waste my time in watching it again.Donald Sutherland is good (as usual) being more of the laid back humorous character, and his prescription sunglasses are cool. Eastwoods character is pretty boring, but i don't usually like his movies anyway. Tommy Lee Jones is good. The other actors in the shuttle and in Housten are good as well, especially William Devane and James Cromwell.This movie has nothing on other good space movies like 'Apollo 13', and right now i cant think of another good space movie right now. "},{"Title":"A Big Let-down","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was nothing short of a let-down. The casting was the worse I've ever seen. The only way Clint Eastwood ever gets casted in a movie is if he directs it himself. His acting had to be worse in this movie than any other film of his I've seen. Tommy Lee Jones did a rather good job though, as well as the other 2 old guys. Other than those three, most of the actors annoyed me one way or another. I was also distracted and annoyed by the black and white at the beginning. I can't explain what was so unusual about it. The best description I can give is that it was more of a blue and white. The space scenes were unenjoyably unrealistic and that whole love thing between that young annoying girl and Tommy Lee Jones who is almost old enough to be her grandfather is sick. I think I'm done with Clint Eastwood movies from now on. I can't give Space Cowboys any more than a 1 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Well-meaning, but misses the mark","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Clint Eastwood has directed and/or starred in so many entertaining movies that I have to give him a free pass on this dud. Space Cowboys is a well-meaning flick, but fails for a few simple reasons. 1) The script is pretty weak, with many scenes rambling on for too long. Clint even stumbles on his dialogue in one part. 2) 3/4 of the movie is spent on the ground. By the time the geezers get up into outer space, there isn't much time left for action. 3) The end of the film lacks true emotional weight, feels pressed for time, and is totally predictable. The final shot of the film, with Frank Sinatra's Fly Me to the Moon being played on the soundtrack, is completely bizarre and emotionally awkward, and gives you an idea of how nobody seemed to be in the director's chair for this one.Armageddon, by comparison isn't a perfect film, but at least Michael Bay gave us a full dose of action and Bruce Willis' sacrifice had some real emotional attachment to it. "}{"Title":"Why oh Why did I rent this?","Date":"14 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  How did these actors get suckered into this movie?  Awful.  I did not believe or care about the characters.  It was so badly contrived, I guessed the ending (and who was going to die) 10 minutes into the film.  Speaking of the ending - what pure nonsense.  Yuck.  If you are going to make a film about modern day space flight, then you should at least study up on what is possible and not possible.  This film has no redeeming qualities whatsoever.  "},{"Title":"A Signpost for the end of all imagination and creativity in film.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A truly awful film. Predictable and embarrassing to watch.These old 'Stars', should be left in the retirement home for once average actors, James Garner, Please! Once again a sign that the dollar is the bottom line.  "},{"Title":"Waste of Space.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  What the-?! Unforgiven was great. A Perfect World was good. This is garbage. Is Eastwood dying of some disease that degenerates his artistic competency? What I find so baffling is that this movie looks like it was made by a horde of people who had no idea what they were doing. The sound is awful, the jokes are awful, the editing is far too slack in the one-on-one scenes, the photography is boring and amateurish, and don't get me started on James Cromwell's ridiculous southern accent. This is a movie by a man who has made a great film, so excuse me for expecting a little something in terms of aesthetic quality, regardless of the movie's ridiculous premise. That is a common thread in this movie a movie made by people who used to be great, and are wasting their time in this trash. Donald Sutherland, for example, starred in numerous brilliant and original films like MASH and Don't Look Now, but here he phones in his performance along with the rest of the cast like one big conference call.  The only good thing about this movie is that Tommy Lee Jones is back playing a drunken good old boy instead of his usual federal agent character. He and Morgan Freeman could form a club of talented actors typecast in boring, one note roles that were only good the first time around.  "},{"Title":"STUPID STUPID STUPID!","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Those incompetent Russians have sent up a satellite that is now malfunctioning and threatening to fall back to Earth. Plausible so far. But the Russians are so useless that they can't even fix it themselves, so the Americans have to go and do it for them.Rather than send a team of engineers in good physical condition they send a bunch of old fogeys who have trouble getting upstairs, let alone into space. It's a gratuitous insult to the intelligence of every filmgoer. How stupid do they think we are?Did you notice the scene at the start where two USAF pilots have to eject from their plane when it breaks up, and start fighting with each other as soon as they land? How stupid! They would not last five minutes in the Air Force.I can't say any more, I'm speechless with rage. "},{"Title":"OUT OF THIS WORLD (NOT)","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Had to catch this, because I've seen every Eastwood directorial effort. This isn't vintage, but it's amusing enough. It's 20 minutes too long and far-fetched. Does it champion old age? Probably, and it makes a change from some stereotypical depictions. Worth watching on a rainy day. "},{"Title":"Skip It!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This has got to be the worst movie of the century.  Well, Plan Nine may have been worse but not by much.  All the main actors acted uncomfortable and they probably were.  This is a stumach turner.  This would have been a great movie for the old drive-ins.  Take you date there thinking you're going to see a good movie yet get into some smooching and never miss a dang thing!  Clint should have known better.  Yet anyone who could have liked Sandra Locke must have a screw loose anyway.  Well, it must have fell out by now. "}]