[{"Title":"A movie that strikes deep and stays with you","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"130 out of 144 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Changing the past to affect the future may not be a new concept in film, but Frequency handles it deftly and with heart. The acting is superb, and as far as I can tell the plot is nearly airtight. It keeps you on your toes as the story twists in what feels like six directions at once and keeps you in emotional sync with the characters. The past/present connections are stirring and intriguing, especially the single-flash cuts at pivotal moments. This is one of the few movies about which I can honestly say, I laughed, I cried, I was scared stupid. Truly the only good movie so far this year. "},{"Title":"Stand up and Cheer!!!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"108 out of 128 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You can't help it!! You have to cheer and applaud this movie.  I can't remember the last time the whole audience clapped at the end of a movie. It has been such a long time since a movie was made that warmed your heart, while keeping you at the edge of your seat. This movie will make you laugh, get a little misty in the eyes, and you won't even notice the time.  You're almost sad to see it end.  Dennis Quaid is excellent, this is his best movie in years.  This movie also has some new faces you won't soon forget.  Don't take my word on this, see it your self.  You will be thinking about this movie for weeks.  "},{"Title":"Frequency is the first good movie of the year.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"95 out of 108 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The plot in Frequency is hard to believe, but the movie's twists, action, and dramatic moments cover up its uncertainties.  The idea of how the past affects the future is not original, but the rest of the film is.When I first saw the preview for Frequency, I thought that the idea of a son talking to a his deceased father over a radio was original and interesting. I didn't think, however, that the film would be very good.  I was wrong though.  The movie is packed with action, mystery, twists, and emotion.  The love between the father and son is so real, as are the characters themselves.Frequency uses remarkable use of film's ability to stretch out moments of time and intercut between different events.  And as far as timing goes, this movie has stopwatch-precision.  As a result, it can produce tears, outbursts of laughter, or dropping jaws in the audience.I think the ending of the movie could be improved, but I still highly recommend seeing this film.  As long as you don't worry too much about the plausibility of the time-lapse details, you'll enjoy it.  After all, it's entertainment in its finest form. "},{"Title":"Good idea, great execution","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"55 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The idea of this film is pretty original; I don't think I've ever heard of a story so well-thought out about time-travel/alternate time-lines before. The idea is based on the main character being able to communicate with his father, who's been dead for 30 years. His father hears it then, 30 years earlier. They quickly do some things that shouldn't have happened back then, which then changes the future(or present). The movie deals very well with how they change the future back and forth. The plot is very good, the acting is superb and the characters are all believable. The special effects are very good. The very idea behind the film is very good, but the way it develops so much further is amazing. The ending, while it may seem corny too some, and is, by all means, a bit of a typical Hollywood ending(some might even call it a cop-out), but personally I just think it worked better than anything else could have. I'd recommend this to pretty much anyone who can watch a movie where they have to suspend disbelief, but especially anyone into time-travel or alternate time-lines, as this is, in my opinion, one of the best movies made, concerning this subject. 8/10 "},{"Title":"the characters make the difference in surprising Frequency","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"60 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Several films have deal with changing the past and the ensuing effects on the future.  Back to the Future, Timecop, and The Final Countdown come immediately to mind.  Director Gregory Hoblit (his Fallen (1998)and Primal Fear (1996) were both excellent) explores that theme again in Frequency.  But writer Toby Emmerich (in his first writing credit), puts a different spin on the theme.  In most 'changing the past' films, a character goes back in time.  In Frequency, one main character lives in 1999 while another lives in 1969--and you see the actions in 1969 immediately affecting 1999.  Sounds confusing, huh?  Well, it is.  But it works.The movie opens with the introduction of the Sullivan family.  Frank (Dennis Quaid) is a heroic New York firefighter, and escapes a harrowing situation to return home to his wife and his 6-year-old son John.  It's an exciting time in New York, as the 'Miracle Mets' have made the World Series.  Frank is a ham radio user, and a strange disturbance in the sky (solar flares, I believe.  I never took astronomy) in the sky has really increased the range of his radio.  I'm reaching people I've never reached before, he says. Flash forward to 1999, when young John has grown up into a 36-year-old NY homicide detective (James Caviezel) with relational problems (and possibly a drinking problem as well).  We learn his father died several years earlier in a warehouse fire, and it's obvious that John has never really gotten over it.  He ends up setting up the old ham radio (did I mention that the solar flares are back?), and contacts a fellow New Yorker named Frank.  It certainly won't ruin any big surprise when I tell you that it's his father Frank--in 1969.  After recovering from his astonishment and convincing his father who he really is (his knowledge of the 1969 World Series proves quite helpful), they begin a series of nightly conversations.  Unfortunately, their conversations change the past--and the future--in very dangerous ways. A serial killer who should only have 3 victims suddenly has more, and John must use his knowledge of the crimes (30 years old to him) to guide his dad in a 1969 pursuit of the killer.  And the chase is on.  Will they stop the killer?  Will the solar flares last long enough for them to finish their plan?  Will anyone in 1999 or 1969 believe them?That lengthy 'plot summary' really didn't ruin any of the suspense--or come close to explaining the whole story.  So, it goes without saying that the story is pretty convoluted and involved.  But it's not hard to follow, and the movie grabbed me and kept me interested throughout.  Granted, you will need to use a serious amount of 'suspension of disbelief'.  If you get hung up on there's no way they could be talking to each other or changes in the past wouldn't immediately appear in the future--they would have already happened and would have been there all along, you'll do 2 things (1) you'll give yourself a headache, and (2) you'll miss out on a very entertaining film.  The reason I gave this more stars than last week's U-571?  I cared about the characters, and I found Frequency much more entertaining.  Also, the story was quite original--with great use of the Miracle Mets and the 1969 World Series throughout.Speaking of the characters--Quaid and Caviezel both do great work.  Their conversations via radio are very touching and authentic (once you accept the general premise, of course).  Although Quaid is a 'movie star', don't let that fool you--he's a very good (and probably underrated) actor.  Just watch him as Doc Holliday in Wyatt Earp (1994), Remy McSwain in The Big Easy (1987), or Gordo Cooper in The Right Stuff (1983) if you don't believe me. And Caviezel's a real up-and-comer (1998's The Thin Red Line).  He does a great job as a grieving son who is reunited (in a way) with his father, but watches his joy dissipate in the face of the mess he's created.  He also believably portrays a character who has memories of the way things were, but is now bombarded with 'new' memories of the way things have become.  The other characters are definitely secondary, but Elizabeth Mitchell as wife/mom Julia, and Andre Braugher (TV's Homicide, 1998's City of Angels, and 1989's Glory) as Frank's policeman friend Satch are both solid.This film has some decent action/suspense scenes, and 1999 John's radio conversation with his buddy Gordo (in 1969) is very funny.  There have certainly been better action/suspense/serial killer movies (the action scenes weren't amazing, the story has some holes, and I thought the ending was a little cheesy), but the heart of the film is the relationship between Frank and John.  I bought into that relationship fully, and that's why I liked this film as much as I did.  And that's why I definitely recommend seeing Frequency. "},{"Title":"Wow! A thriller that warms your heart!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"48 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An excellent movie, what a pleasant surprise.  I can't remember the last time I was in a movie where the audience applauded at the end, and at scenes during the movie, too.  It could be called a thriller, but that's just a part of what the movie was about.  It was filled with well placed sentimentality and timely humor.  Not a moment in the movie was there a wasted scene or a time when I lost interest.  Yes, a Hollywood ending, but like most good things, it's the journey not the destination that makes it worth while.  I saw it at a sneak preview, and I will go see it again in general release.  I highly recommend it.  It's not an epic, but it is the best movie I've seen in years. "},{"Title":"Unique and interesting premise","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"43 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This unique and interesting film is actually more of a suspense thriller than a science fiction, although I think fans of both genres will be pleased.Dennis Quaid plays a heroic firefighter who was killed trying to rescue a runaway from a burning warehouse during the days of the Amazing Mets' World Series victory in October 1969. Jim Caviezel (The Thin Red Line) plays his son, now a cop, thirty years later. Through some quirk of physics involving abnormal solar activity and the Aurora Borealis, the two make contact with each other across the 30-year span over a ham radio. The son is able to prevent his father's death, but changing the past also turns out to have unexpected consequences with which the two must deal.The film really works on all levels with good action sequences and suspense, a nice dose of humor and some very touching exchanges between father and son. It explores the what if scenario of one's being presented with the opportunity to change an event in the past and the way in which those affected must deal with the consequences in a very intelligent and thought-provoking manner.The acting is uniformly strong, with Quaid very appealing as the courageous firefighter and loving father who has an almost-childlike love for baseball (he even pulls off a Brooklyn accent nicely!); Caviezel is equally good as the present day version of Quaid's character's son. Caviezel brings a subtle sadness to the character, a quality one might expect from someone whose life hasn't quite worked out quite as well as it might have, possibly due to a void created by the absence of his father. One of the strongest aspects of Caviezel's performance was a subtle shift in personality following the changing of events in the past (a change which left him with memories both of his father's death and of time spent with his father in the intervening years).I have a good feeling about this film and think it has a chance to be a real surprise hit. It's certainly one of the best films of the year thus far.  "},{"Title":"Touching Father-Son Fantasy Thriller","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"51 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wow, what a suspenseful film! This is a combination crime and fantasy story, a time-travel theme employed as a son is able to talk to his father 30 years in the past and help change history for the better. Far-fetched? Oh, of course, but it's not meant to be taken seriously as something that could happen. Like Field Of Dreams, it's pure fantasy but a nice father-and-son vehicle that makes you - or at least it did me - bring a tear or two to your eyes.The young guy is played by Jim Caviel and his dad is played by Dennis Quaid. Both are excellent and likable guys, as they usually are in the films they play. They talk to each other through an old ham radio. Through it, the son helps save his dad and mom's life on a few occasions and catch a serial-killer in the process. Well, you have to see it because explaining it just makes it sound silly. It's not; it's a fine movie and great escapist entertainment. Once you get into this story, it is impossible to put down. For New York City folks, and fans of the New York Mets, I would imagine this movie has added sentimentality.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"And the summer starts off with a bang!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Going into this film I had no idea what the true story line was. Is it a time travel film, is it a sci-fi film or is it a murder mystery? Well it's a little of each of these. Put behind you images of flying Delorians traversing through time and just let the film soak you in it's original story of what if. What if you could change history and bring back the ones you lost long ago. What if that power came with a price. Is it better to leave things as is or if given the chance to change the world you live in would you? These questions and more rise in this film that ask, would you, could you, should you. Dennis Quaid, in one of his best roles, is a fire fighter from New York in 1969. His hobby is ham radio when not rescuing people from near death in the line of duty. His son John is just a child and dreams of being a baseball player when he grows up. But in the realities of life somethings were not meant to be. John grows up and becomes a police officer working on the homicide squad in 1999, and his father never made it out of a burning building in 1969. On October 10th 1969 sun spots rise up the day before the fatal day in the warehouse. 30 years later the same event happens on the same day in 1999. John finds his fathers radio and begins to play with it and finds a man who seems to have the same call letters and last name. The sun spots allow his radio waves to traverse 30 years into the past to his father. He can save his life with the knowledge of the future and have him back in the present. This comes at a deadly price for in 1969 there is a serial killer who preys on nurses. Johns mother is a nurse. Together John and his father must stop this killer from taking more lives in a game of cat and mouse that unfolds, reverses, and progresses over the 30 year gap. Memories disappear and new ones open in there place, people survive and others die. All this leads to a fantastic final battle of old and new.This really is a film not to be missed. Fans of thrillers, sci-fi and action will all be pleased with this film.  "},{"Title":"A complex, thought provoking thriller that is well acted and directed. ***1/2 out of ****.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"38 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  FREQUENCY / (2000) ***1/2It' 1999. Jim Caviezel stars as John Sullivan, a detective whose life is falling apart. Recently, he has split up from his girlfriend, he and his police partner Satch (Andre Braugher), are unable to solve a serial murder case that has been reopened due to the discovery of skeletal remains of a past victim. The thirty year anniversary of the death of his firefighter father (Dennis Quaid), is also approaching. John is beginning to sink in a pit of despair.One night John stumbles upon his dad's old ham radio. He makes an effort to get the machine to power up once again. When he does and begins conversations with another operator, however, he realizes the person he is communicating with is his long dead father. Somehow, due to the presence of the Northern Lights, John is able to transmit back in time to 1969 and literally alter the course of his existence. The concept of time traveling communication may seem far-fetched  to some, and Frequency is a little hard to grasp at times, especially when the film never directly explains why the father and son are able to talk with each other through time. Notwithstanding, the production works as a science fiction thriller with supernatural overtones. While the filmmakers do succeed in convincingly constructing Frequency, most audiences might have to leave logic at the theater entrance before viewing it.Frequency is a well-structured motion picture; the movie is focused throughout. Although its story changes pace at different periods,  for the most part the audience can follow along with the characters. This is a movie with a complicated and challenging story. Because of the film's complexity, we are enormously involved, if slightly confused. Screenwriter Tobias Emmerich links original and fresh feeling material here. Gregory Hoblit produces the right amount of action and suspense, combined with gentle emotions, to generate a film we have not seen before. Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel are the perfect choices for the principal characters. Quaid performs with intriguing tension and appropriate receptivity. Caviezel dazzles with intricacy and dexterity. Offering refined supporting roles are Andre Braugher (City of Angels, Get on the Bus) and Noah Emmerich (The Truman Show) who furnishes some light-hearted material as John's best friend. Director Gregory Hoblit (Fallen, Primal Fear) clearly executes topics on screen. This film is overflowing with ideas and contains enough plot for a television series. However, Frequency is not without flaws. Sullivan's chaotic life is only vaguely portrayed. Although we do care for the character, more development would increase the relationship between the audience and he.  Some of the make-up effects depicting age differences were disgraceful. Andre Braugher appeared as if his make up artists were straight out of junior high, slapping too much pancake cream plaster on him. The film's contrived climax concludes with a formalistic fight instead of continuing its battle of wits. Despite a few unacceptable external problems, internally this is a very effective production. As a whole, Frequency contains a very encompassing story and places interesting characters in engaging circumstances. The movie is definitely worthy of recognition, but do not view it unless you plan on thoroughly discussing it afterwards.   "}{"Title":"Twister","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"36 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How far we've come! In the old days a final plot twist was a surprise, with the best being a surprise insight. Remember `No Way Out?' More recently we've had end twist insights that reinterpret the movie. In that case, what you learn at the end has you going over the whole film as you leave, wondering about which of your prior understandings need to be modified `Sixth Sense,' and `Usual Suspects' come to mind.But in those cases, the film is a story apart from your perception of it. Here now we have a story where your reinvention of what you know changes the story from the perspective of both you the viewer and the hero in the film. And it doesn't just happen at the end, but all through the last half. A new high in self-reference and experimentation with the role of the viewer in the narrative.Worth seeing for this step in the evolution of the art.  "},{"Title":"A real treat from an unknown director.","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An atmospheric phenomenon over New York City allows a firefighter to communicate with his son 30 years in the future via a short-wave radio. Once they establish who they are, they have little time for small talk since lives are about to be altered as they seek to influence the past. Not only that, but a serial killer known for what became known as the Nightingale Murders is now back on the scene. What have they done? What can they do? And more importantly now, who will get hurt? I personally have been delighted to find on line reviewers of this film to have been as pleasantly surprised as I was. Many have focused on the fact that they didn't know what to expect, and thus got rewarded for being in the dark as it were. So with that in mind, I'm not about to start delving into the film too much, because if you are a potential first time viewer then you really are better off going in with no expectation level. What can safely be said is that Frequency achieves a rare feat of successfully blending genres and thematics. Sci-fi, mystery, fantasy, thriller, crime and drama all come into play in unknown director Gregory Hoblit's film. Nicely written by Toby Emmerich, the film also benefits from its fine cast of actors. Leading man is Dennis Quaid, who might just be one of the most safest go to guys in his generation, and support comes from a pre-Jesus James Caviezel, Andre Braugher, Shawn Doyle and Elizabeth Mitchell.Frequency is heartily recommended to those who don't need head twisting cinema before they can proclaim a film to be worthy of their time. Yes some things of course defy logic here, this is after all a fantasy led film. But with so many interesting themes going on amongst the cross time molded core, Frequency rises above any charge of being merely popcorn fodder. Smart, warm and exciting, see this one if you can. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"1 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie opens with the introduction of the Sullivan family. Frank (Dennis Quaid) is a heroic New York firefighter, and escapes a harrowing situation to return home to his wife and his 6-year-old son John. It's an exciting time in New York, as the 'Miracle Mets' have made the World Series. Frank is a ham radio user, and a strange disturbance in the sky (solar flares, I believe. I never took astronomy) in the sky has really increased the range of his radio. I'm reaching people I've never reached before, he says. Flash forward to 1999, when young John has grown up into a 36-year-old NY homicide detective (James Caviezel) with relational problems (and possibly a drinking problem as well). We learn his father died several years earlier in a warehouse fire, and it's obvious that John has never really gotten over it. He ends up setting up the old ham radio (did I mention that the solar flares are back?), and contacts a fellow New Yorker named Frank. It certainly won't ruin any big surprise when I tell you that it's his father Frank--in 1969. After recovering from his astonishment and convincing his father who he really is (his knowledge of the 1969 World Series proves quite helpful), they begin a series of nightly conversations. Unfortunately, their conversations change the past--and the future--in very dangerous ways. A serial killer who should only have 3 victims suddenly has more, and John must use his knowledge of the crimes (30 years old to him) to guide his dad in a 1969 pursuit of the killer. And the chase is on. Will they stop the killer? Will the solar flares last long enough for them to finish their plan? Will anyone in 1999 or 1969 believe them? That lengthy 'plot summary' really didn't ruin any of the suspense--or come close to explaining the whole story. So, it goes without saying that the story is pretty convoluted and involved. But it's not hard to follow, and the movie grabbed me and kept me interested throughout. Granted, you will need to use a serious amount of 'suspension of disbelief'. If you get hung up on there's no way they could be talking to each other or changes in the past wouldn't immediately appear in the future--they would have already happened and would have been there all along, you'll do 2 things (1) you'll give yourself a headache, and (2) you'll miss out on a very entertaining film. The reason I gave this more stars than last week's U-571? I cared about the characters, and I found Frequency much more entertaining. Also, the story was quite original--with great use of the Miracle Mets and the 1969 World Series throughout. "},{"Title":"A Fantastic Movie &#150; go get this if you haven't seen it yet!","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie. It is a smart, sweet, suspenseful story. I've always loved time-travel stories. This one doesn't have classic time-travel, but it's similar in that there is the ability for father (in 1969) and son (present-day) to communicate and effect change in the future. It's a strong story with twists and turns as the son tries to save his father's life (in 1969) and accidentally messes up things in the present day.When I first rented the movie, I had never seen the trailer. I am very glad, because the trailer gives away a big plot twist, which occurs halfway into the movie and I think it is more exciting if you don't see that coming (so I won't elaborate on that part).This movie has authentic characters that I really cared about, which makes the suspense so much more real because I felt invested in what was going to happen to them. The strong directing and cinematography (atmospheric) ties this story together into the perfect package.I also loved the small hints and moments that are sprinkled throughout the film that tie back into the larger time travel-ish story, which makes it great on repeat viewings. I thought the moments of how the past affected the future were all plausible except for one moment toward the very end of the film, which was clearly done for dramatic effect, (so I'll let it go).Overall, one of my favorite movies! "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"20 April 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" First of all, I am not one of those writers who try to sound so superior in their comments. I am just an average person who liked this movie and felt compelled to recommend it. My review will be short and sweet.All I can say is.... watching this movie makes me think of my father and my relationship with him. Without giving anything away... the movie has good drama and a very unique story about the relationship between a father and a son.Quality acting all around. Quaid and Caviezel were very believable.It is definitely worth it to watch.Underrated.9/10 "},{"Title":"A Most Unusual Fantasy-Action Film","Date":"28 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie moves fast. There are so many things thrown at you that watching the movie with subtitles is almost mandatory. First we are told that it's because of solar flares and the Aurora Borealis. Somehow, that event and a ham radio enable a father and son to talk to each other through the time gap of 30 years. It's a time travel movie without anyone actually traveling through time! The son tells his father what to do to avoid dying in a warehouse fire and that sets off a series of ripples in time that change everything. His dad lives on but his mother dies. She is killed by The Nightingale Serial Killer. That's not supposed to happen! Through a series of actions,dad is able to thwart this otherwise inevitable event. But as one thing is changed, it sets off an unpredictable chain of events that could not have been anticipated. Extremely well written until the happy climax where everyone lives and only the murderer dies, in two time periods, simultaneously! That is the paradox of the movie how can the same person get his arm shot off in the past yet survive and die 30 years in the future? Wouldn't he have bleed to death? At that point, the movie wraps up with breakneck speed and we are left both dazed and confused, watching everyone play baseball! My theory is that the radio was somehow the time-link; more so than the atmospheric phenomenon. However, the movie manages to satisfy on several emotional levels, especially the ability to speak to a loved one that we miss so dearly. There is a haunting quality to the film that makes you want to watch it more than once. Cutting-edge special effects. Rated PG-13 graphic and intense content. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Underrated Films I've Ever Seen","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember watching this movie the first time. I knew nothing about it and my dad told me it was a firefighter movie. So I just watched it and I was blown away. I always thought of that movie as one of my favourites and nobody else seemed to agree with me that it was that special. So I watched it again today. Although I knew that watching it again I would not get the same feelings since this is a movie where once you know the twists and turns you won't forget them, I thoroughly enjoyed it once again. This is simply an amazing movie that never lets up. This is one film where there was not 1 minute I SWEAR!!! One minute where it got boring or I lost interest. The acting is solid for a movie with superb writing. Dennis Quaid is like his normal self doing a good job and Jim Caviezel also does a decent performance. What makes this film is the superb writing behind it the storyline is very well developed and like I mentioned earlier never lets up. It also has emotion throughout that makes it sad at parts and happy. Trust me, watch this and you won't be disappointed. I don't want to mention anything about the plot since I don't want to spoil it but I will say it is a phenomenal mystery and sci-fi that will leave you thinking for days. THIS IS WHY WE GO TO THE MOVIES!!! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Good film!","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Going into this film I had no idea what the true story line was. Is it a time travel film, is it a sci-fi film or is it a murder mystery? Well it's a little of each of these. Put behind you images of flying Delorians traversing through time and just let the film soak you in it's original story of what if. What if you could change history and bring back the ones you lost long ago. What if that power came with a price. Is it better to leave things as is or if given the chance to change the world you live in would you? These questions and more rise in this film that ask, would you, could you, should you. Dennis Quaid, in one of his best roles, is a fire fighter from New York in 1969. His hobby is ham radio when not rescuing people from near death in the line of duty. His son John is just a child and dreams of being a baseball player when he grows up. But in the realities of life somethings were not meant to be. John grows up and becomes a police officer working on the homicide squad in 1999, and his father never made it out of a burning building in 1969. On October 10th 1969 sun spots rise up the day before the fatal day in the warehouse. 30 years later the same event happens on the same day in 1999. John finds his fathers radio and begins to play with it and finds a man who seems to have the same call letters and last name. The sun spots allow his radio waves to traverse 30 years into the past to his father. He can save his life with the knowledge of the future and have him back in the present. This comes at a deadly price for in 1969 there is a serial killer who preys on nurses. Johns mother is a nurse. Together John and his father must stop this killer from taking more lives in a game of cat and mouse that unfolds, reverses, and progresses over the 30 year gap. Memories disappear and new ones open in there place, people survive and others die. All this leads to a fantastic final battle of old and new. "},{"Title":"Review of Frequency","Date":"11 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Director Gregory Hoblit brings us Frequency, an intriguing science-fiction tale that was as thrilling and shocking as it was heartfelt and emotional. The movie is about John Sullivan (Caviezel) a Cop who has never recovered from the death of his father, Frank (Quaid). However, after a series of miraculous cosmic events, John is given a chance to communicate with his father in the past. Now, when I initially examined this film for what it was - a movie with a respectable premise, but directed by a guy I had never heard of, and starring a group of actors who aren't really well-known - I was rather apprehensive about watching it. Though, after actually watching Frequency I can say that my expectations were pretty much demolished. What threw me for a loop was the direction that this movie took. All I expected Frequency to be was a long, drawn out reunion between a father and his grief-stricken son (which sounded to good to me. . .but didn't really sound spectacular). But, about a third of the way in, Frequency turned into a very intense crime thriller. That being said, the film excels at interweaving thrills and poignancy without making the transitions feel jarring. The acting was very well executed I'd say, for you learn to feel for both Frank and John Sullivan as Frequency's intriguing plot thickens. The script was pretty well-written too. Overall, I'd say that Frequency was an entertaining sci-fi flick that offered a variety of gratifying elements within it. "},{"Title":"stays with you for years after you forget what it was about","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a nice and in some ways unique movie. It is closer to myth/fairytale then SF, and it's premise may turn off some audience. It also starts slow and at some points it's better to not reason about its events. Nonetheless, it's very well told movie with great suspense, heartwarming moments and some unexpected turns. It also has subtle hints about an importance of a proximity and about how we take many things for granted, while they may in fact change in any moment.You will probably not remember its plot, but you may feel good about it for quite long time. "}{"Title":"A Standard Yet Consistently Good Time Paradox Movie","Date":"21 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's hard to really describe this movie as a time travel movie and its more in the subgenre of a time-effect/time paradox sci fi movie in the manner of **spoiler** Paycheck (2003)**spoiler** and yet as a time-related sci fi movie it is one of the better efforts at looking at time paradoxes in a consistent manner and has the similar impacts as one might find in The Butterfly Effect (2004) or even the more comedic version Back To The Future (1985) and much more manageable and intelligible than the more recent, serious and independent art movie Timecrimes (2007). What is interesting about this movie is that combines an action thriller in the mode of Backdraft (1991) and a crime thriller with a sci fi twist as well as a mainstream, popular full-film feature. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably happy ending","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Indeed one of the happiest endings and completely satisfying movies I have ever seen in my entire life. I wept like a baby, honestly, for a good thirty minutes after I saw this movie.I remember when it came out (having a real thing for the whole concept of time travel and the butterfly effect) saying to myself that it was a must-see movie. I didn't see it at the theater, did not see it on PPV or DVD and I don't think I even tried to watch it on the movie channels, that is, until last month.I love Dennis Quaid in almost anything he's ever acted. As a matter of fact, I dig most of the actors that were in this movie, but let me just tell you, it was a thrill of quantum impossibility, banking on the general lack of education about and understanding of the aurora Borealis in the first place, when the bad guy took a shotgun blast to the chest and John looks up to see his aged father standing there. I was absolutely stunned to silence.I realize it's not a blockbuster by any means, but when I can leave a movie happy and content with my happily ever after ending, it makes me feel like the writers and directors and producers and actors earned their keep. "},{"Title":"Frequency is something everyone should tune into.","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Dennis Quaid leads the great cast in this rocking' tale about how one event can shape the future for destruction or construction.Frank Sullivan an amazing veteran firefighter enjoys watching the thrills of the 'Mazin Mets in the 1969 World Series with his wife Julia (Elizabeth Mitchell) and his son, John. In a flash forward to 1999, John (Jim Caviezel) a 36-year old detective who gave up baseball when his father died in The 1969 Baxton fire. After his neighbor Gordo (Noah Emmerich) and his son force John to set-up his father's old ham radio, John discovers that he can talk to Frank. He eventually warns his dad about the Baxton fire and thus, his father survives. The result of the change causes the Nightingale serial murderer (Shawn Doyle) to target Julia as his next victim. Frank and John have to work together to change the past in order to save the future.The story, similar to Back To the Future, is incredible. It grabs a hold of you and keeps you on the edge of your seat while it twists and turns you around. The characters are real and inspiring. The acting is superb. There's romance, comedy, action and sci-fi; something for everyone. It's a great film and shows us what heroes are made of. Another legendary performance from Dennis Quaid. "},{"Title":"A classic sci-fi mystery premise with solid delivery","Date":"18 June 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frequency is a film that finds a really easy way to your heart and keeps you captivated with a great mystery premise. If you're a sucker for time-travel films, you'll like this one right away. There's something about a son getting to talk to his dead father 30 years in the past and getting a second chance that is unavoidably likable.John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) is a homicide detective who comes across his father's old hamm radio. He makes a friend only to find that friend is actually his father (Dennis Quaid) 30 years ago, the same year that he died. After some convincing that it's all real, John explains to his father, a firefighter, that he dies trying to save someone on one particular job. When John saves his father's life, however, it alters the future and all of a sudden the Nightengale murders John has been researching become a bit personal.The premise is unscratchable. A father and son speaking to each other through some strange time discrepancy, working together for a second chance for their family that was devastated by the accident. Caviezel and Quaid are great actors and they sell it well, even in their talk of of the 1969 Mets. It's a great father and son film, to say the very least about it.The mystery element is nothing completely original and special, but for what this movie is really about, it doesn't particularly matter. This is just a really well-executed movie that understands what kind of film it is and doesn't try to go beyond that. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully engaging, even on repeat viewings","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is very underrated!  I loved this movie when I saw it in theaters.  I saw it twice on cable, and now that I bought the DVD, I watched it again.  I was just as intrigued as when I watched it the first time!  Needless to say, the premise is extremely original.  I seem to always connect well with films involving father/son relationships, since I don't have an ideal relationship with my father.  So it was really sweet to watch a film about a guy communicating with his deceased father, and watching them bond and chat about the All-American game.  Not only is it a touching drama, but it's also an exciting thriller.  Director Gregory Hoblit and writer Toby Emmerich couldn't have done much to make the film better. Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel both deliver great, spirited performances.  I always notice more and more flaws in Quaid's New York accent in repeat viewings, but his acting is terrific nonetheless.  Andre Braugher gives another strong performance as Satch.  And the actor who plays the villain is quite creepy.  I would expect that after seeing the movie a couple times, the ending would no longer make me cry, but the ending STILL chokes me up!  As a matter of fact, I'm about to cry just thinking about it.  I'm by no means a fan of country music, but I felt Garth Brooks' song beautifully fit the film's tone.  Tired of seeing movie's with the same plots and the same outcomes?  I promise that won't be the case when you watch Frequency.  Sure, some elements of plot may be hard to swallow, since they range from a little far-fetched to very far-fetched, but at least the writer showed great imagination.  That's more than I can say for most of the Hollywood screenwriters out there.  My score  9 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"The best SCI-FI MovieI'veever seen.","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Close Encounters comes second in the Sic-Fi department. So , now what , it drops to second place on my top ten video library?Well not to worry , I'm sure FREQUENCY is not the BEST Sci-fi movie ever made , but MAN did I like that movie. The movie seemed to have a well developed plot. A zenith of entertainment. The adrenaline was rushed to my veins and to my brain. A rushed heart pounding experience and at the same time an eerie feeling I've never felt before.But what made this movie so great? *******Spoilers ahead STOP when red lights flash*******I really enjoyed when the aurora borealis was tied to time travel. The conspicuous event extremely grabs the audience's attention for what was next to come. It was never predictable. Even though I  knew that his dad would be fine ,  I was interested to find out how! Great pieces of history and the background old time music gave me a feel that I was in the 60's.  (before my time) I kept me on my feet as to what would happen next. Very very entertainment. It is the 7th game of the world series and the game is tied.  There were a lot of special effects that played a mayor role when developing a sci-fi movie , and every piece of it fit the puzzle.The way John Sullivan's dad made a connection with his son made for some amazing chemistry that really hit the spot! Not only communications , but also reality. This movie shows the reality on how even without physical contact the future can be changed. Unlike Back to the futurewhere people made human contact this movie. Best of all this movie was so UNIQUE to other Science fiction motion pictures.The ending was heart warming , and I'm a guy and I won't be shy to tell you I , yes cried when his father came home as John shouted Dad ----and the northern lights disappeared.....    ***1/2 out of **** stars! But I subtracted half a star on the movie for a few minor errors. Not sure if I should call them errors , but if someone were to predict what would happen in the future , especially with sport events , wouldn't that interest anyone for a financial wealth being. Wouldn't some actions of gambling be involved?  "},{"Title":"Smart, funny, and utterly frightening - a masterpiece in the field of escapism","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Here is a movie that, at the time of its release, was beaten to death by critics saying that it was just another clone of The Sixth Sense. Such statements caused me and a whole lot of others to avoid this stellar film at all costs. After the disappointment I faced when seeing The Sixth Sense, I was pleased to see someone get the ghost-horror genre right with Stir of Echoes, and after the blunder of What Lies Beneath, I had just about had it with ghosts.But this is not a ghost story. It's more of a science fiction movie, and a very original and intelligent one at that. It starts off poorly, leaving the viewer to expect some kind of mindless fireman action film, dropping you head-on into franticism that follows characters that you know nothing about and, therefore, could care less for.Thankfully, the characters in this film soon become the focus, and the action takes a major step back in order to allow the characters to bounce one another and, in a span of less than ten minutes, this film transforms from a third rate action flick into a marvelous display of emotion and intellect.The plot is hardly believable, revolving around the aurora borealis and an old radio that allows Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid) to communicate with his son exactly thirty years in the future, long after Frank's untimely demise. The explanation for how and why is delivered through news flashes on the television, explaining that the aurora borealis cannot be fully realized because it completely defies all the laws of physics, making an intelligent and interesting case for the believability of the plot. But how believable the plot is is not important by any means, as the characters are so stellar that you will be simply on the edge of your seat waiting for certain characters to interact with one another. The dialogue in this film is VERY believable, and at times it is both beautifully touching and horrifyingly intense.The given science of changing the future is a little bit muddled throughout (especially toward the end) but the characters' individual evolutions are incredibly real. For instance, in 1969 John's mother is a beautiful and free-spirited nurse, where in 1999 she has aged so realistically and yet retains her core characteristics as a loving mother and an overworked nurse. The physical differences are real as can be, right down to their voices.I should also mention that the villain in this film is one of the most despicable characters in fictional history. I usually find the sympathetic and tortured villains that act out of desperation to be the most memorable--however, the villain in this story is relentless, soulless, and terrifying--not to mention REAL. He shadows the heroes in both time frames with an unparalleled intellect, cold and calculating brilliance, as well as a sadistic personal life that extends beyond the Sullivan family. His character provides the backbone of this story, making it quite possibly the most intense and suspenseful movie in history.Lastly, the directing seems a little mindless at the start, but as the film progresses the director takes a major turn, making the film more dreamlike and artful. The simultaneity is portrayed flawlessly between the two timelines, and at times the images displayed in this film are quite magnificent.Never has a film glued me to my chair in the manner that this film did. Joy, love, hate, sadness, and fear will run deep throughout every bone in your body--this film is able to bring out all of your emotions at once. While being a film designed mostly just for entertainment and escapism, it's quite possibly the best of its kind--if not, it's certainly better than The Sixth Sense. "},{"Title":"Really Great Movie!!!!","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are five movies which i consider really great Contact, Apollo 13, Gataca, The Matrix, and this movie Frequency. It really should have gotten an oscar. Too bad it was so overlooked.To sum it up, it's a sci-fi time travel murder mystery, so it gets the best of three genres! it also involves ham radio, an aspect not usually shown in movies. Now I may be biased since I myself am a ham, but I am very glad to see this fun hobby portrayed in a movie.So the sunspot radio-wave time travel scheme is probably not adherent to your college physics book, but who cares? movies that mess with the space-time continuum are rarely this entertaining. if you suspend your disbelief, this is just one great story! It is action-packed and full of surprises but also emotional and touching.The fire scenes are very well done and the film keeps you on the edge of your seat right up to the shocking conclusion. If you are headed to the video store tonight, I would strongly recommend Frequency. -Rox "},{"Title":"This touching thriller keeps you on the edge of your seat with a tissue in your hand.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There are not enough movies that you can leave feeling touched, refreshed, and enlightened. So many films today don't bother to build strong characters that have a lasting effect. Frequency is such a wonderful movie because it incorporates a realistic father-son bond, and raw emotion into an action thriller. I must admit that I am not particularly drawn to action movies, but after seeing Frequency I have tried to change my attitude.Jim Caviezel and Dennis Quaid are extremely believable as a son and his long-dead father. Caviezel's character cried when he first talked to his father that had been dead for thirty years. I cried, too, as he so believably yearned to be with his dad.Another great thing about this movie is how intriguing the action sequences are. Not only are the usual chase scenes exciting, but the interesting psychological aspects of the movie also work extremely well.If you have not seen Frequency, please do so, it is an excellent movie and I doubt you will regret seeing it. Although seeing it in a theater is the ideal place, the DVD is almost the same. You should enjoy this movie, it is a true classic, and I know I will never tire of watching it. "},{"Title":"A Good Sci-Fi Film","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is about John Sullivan who can communicate to his dad, Frank Sullivan, 30 years in the past. Having manage to save his dad's life, the two must fix all the bad things that have resulted from the saving of Frank.This is a good sci-fi thriller that is like a father and son movie. Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel's performances are great, including others.I like how the time effects used in this film in which two people in two different time periods (reminds me of The Lake House), changing things in the past which changes the present and creating more problems.This film has mystery, action, thrills, and emotion between the father and son. It has great performances and is a good sci-fi thriller. If you like these kinds of films, watch it. "}{"Title":"If I Let Myself Go, This Film Was Pretty Good","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An accidental cross-time radio link connects father (Dennis Quaid) and son (Jim Caviezel) across 30 years. The son tries to save his father's life, but then must fix the consequences.Let me preface this review by saying this film is loaded with anachronisms and time travel flaws, if we assume time to be logical. These holes were glaringly obvious. But if I disregard these things and just look at how well the film entertained me, it is definitely one of the better time travel films out there.Dennis Quaid is the father, Jesus is the son. Perhaps that makes Quaid God, but I think that might be a stretch. He is Joseph at best. Initially, the goal is to save the father from dying in a fire... but once that goal is accomplished, why not do more? Save more lives, maybe read off some winning lottery numbers. The plot shifts drastically about a third of the way in, but then gets actually better.The best parts of this movie are the father tracking down a killer, trying to stop him before he kills nurses (thus gaining himself the nickname the Nightingale Killer). Using facts from the crime after the fact, he is easily able to know where and when the killer will strike. The film then becomes an interesting detective story as well as a heart-warming family tale. (Some of the family stuff is a bit hard to believe... way too much love going on here.)Look close (not too close) and you will see a young Michael Cera as Gordo Junior. This is three years before Cera broke out with Arrested Development (and went on to much bigger things from there), though he had done previous acting roles by this point in things you probably never saw.Of course this film is recommended. If you are too much of a stick-in-the-butt and you can only focus on the flaws, you will be frustrated with this film. But, come on! Sometimes fantasy is just fantasy. Why let science ruin a good story? "},{"Title":"Blending Back to the Future with pot-boiler murder mystery","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film I've seen at least three times and always found myself enjoying it immensely each time. I gave this film a 9,but in truth,I would've probably rounded up to either a 9.5 or 10,my only reservations being that this being a time-travel movie(or type thereof),it causes some amounts of credibility to be stretched due to an almost linear sense of coincidence. I'd elaborate on this,but that would give away this flick,and I'd just as soon NOT give away any spoilers to this or any film I'm reviewing. Not if I can help it anyways.Det.JOhn Sullivan(Jim CAviezel,who,regardless of what you think of he personally,NEVER over or under plays his characters in film,and this movie is one of the best showcases of his talents) stumbles upon a old ham radio in his folks' house that he now lives in since his mother retired. He finds out that not only does the radio work,but that he can communicate with his father Frank(Dennis Quaid,here excellent), a NYC fireman who's been dead for over thirty years. NAturally skeptical at first,when Sullivan discovers that he can communicate through time to his dad,he figures a way to save his father from the way he dies(which happens to be on the job,rescuing someone from a burning building). The joy of bringing back his dad from an unfortunate fate unleashes another terrible fate,this time to his loving mother(a warmly beautiful and sympathetic Elizabeth Mitchell),and now Sullivan has to again team with his dad,through space and time,to correct that outcome as well.A stirring supporting performance by Andre Braugher(one of my faves from TV's HOmicide)as a longtime family friend of the Sullivans,mixed with a deft script and alert,capable direction by Gregory Hoblitt,is able to make this film into something a little more than a sci-fi/fantasy tale OR a murder/thriller suspense caper. It is one of those rare films that is as good to see on a big screen for main price or as a cheap rent! Contrivances aside,I really got my money's worth watching this movie and highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"For a movie I hadn't heard of, this was quite good","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Pseudo time travel thriller manages to *almost* be believable while delivering an exciting story which grips the viewer.Dennis Quaid and Jesus himself (Jim Caviezel) star as father and son in a movie about causality. Frequency's vehicle is that the 2 manage to communicate through time, the father being in 1969 and the son in 1999. The idea put forth to explain this rather implausible phenomenon is that Aurora Borealis (The Northern Lights) are managing to interfere with radio signals somehow allowing signals from different time periods to come together.Using this useful tool, the son, John Sullivan, tries to save his father's life by telling him he will die in a warehouse fire in the line of his duty as a fireman. The father, Frank, takes his advice to avoid death and is amazed when it works.Obviously causality isn't finished and proceeds to add more layers of events to the story meaning that when you mess with the future, you change more than just what you think you affect.This movie is great fun. It never takes itself especially seriously, and everyone appears to be having a decent time here. Dennis Quaid's Frank has a quiet authority which suits him well, and although his overly southern accent seems a mite contrived to start with, we get used to it. Caviezel, as his grown up son from the future, is pretty decent here too. He comes across as a man who's a bit lost, but when he gets a chance to talk to his father (Who died 30 years ago, hence saving his life) through time, he suddenly seems to have a purpose.All the other players contribute pretty well as well, but this is really the Quaid and Caviezel show.The direction is pretty good too, never getting in the way of a good yarn. It aids the flow really well and manages the old 'edge of your seat' effect well.The only *real* flaw in this is the quite appallingly sugar-sweet ending. It's so sentimental that it incites nauseum. A feel-good ending is only going to work when it's not overplayed and when it uses subtlety. Trying to force the old 'this is a good ending, folks' motto on the viewer leaves a sickly taste in the mouth.But fortunately the rest of the movie's quality lets it stand on its own 2 feet, and the ending fails to ruin it.Overall, not bad, not bad at all. "},{"Title":"Great film that takes unoriginal concept and makes it its own (**contains spoilers**)","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Frequency' is a really good movie, much better than I had expected. I saw it for the first time yesterday and I loved how the film played out. It was like watching two films in one. The first half of the movie, when John discovers he's talking to his long dead father on the ham radio, deals purely with the love between a father and son. Cue many scenes of Frank bonding with both son in present and son in future, full of warmth and feeling that make the viewer think 'Ahh, how nice. This is going to be film filled with plenty of I love you son', I love you too Dad tender moments.' Then suddenly, the film changes direction, from a family drama to an exciting thriller, where John and Frank have to deal with the (inevitable) consequences of their actions.The idea of 'change one thing, change everything' is certainly not a new one. It has been done before in time-travel films like the 'Back To The Future' trilogy and 'Peggy Sue Got Married', and more recently the (far inferior) 'Butterfly Effect'. All the unexpected surprises are there &#150; John accidentally saves his father's life, which should surely be a good thing except that this sets off a chain of events (naturally!) that in this case leads to the murder of seven women, including John's mother; John and Frank try to put right their mistake, and it seems to be working, up until the point where Frank is arrested for one of the murders. But what is good about this film with its not-unfamiliar plot, is that it resists the urge to go in the direction that the viewer anticipates. When it appears that John and Frank's good intentions are not working, and everything they do just seems to be making the situation worse, I was anticipating an unhappy, unresolved ending, one that certainly involved Frank's death. A sort of 'the only way to put the universe right is for Frank to die again, to make up for not dying in the first place' kind of ending, where the lesson is clear don't mess with the past. However, happily for me, 'Frequency' resisted this idea, and ended in such a way that it transformed the whole movie into a feel-good experience.Whilst John and Frank are certainly punished for their actions, incredibly they manage to sort it all out and everybody's happy &#150; although I'm not sure if I agree entirely with the ethics of the subplot involving John turning his friend Gordo into a multi millionaire by giving the 8 year old Gordo the idea for Yahoo! I thought this was rather out of keeping with the rest of the film and the character of John he has learnt the hard way that it is a bad idea to try to change past events, yet here he is consciously altering the destiny of his young friend's life! Other than that, I'd give this film 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Quite unique","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" How many movies have I seen in which the relationship between a grown man and his parents is the main focus? Probably none before this one. For that alone I give this movie high marks. The plot is a little far-fetched but I have to tell you the cast, with its superior acting, pulls it off. Dennis Quaid is entirely believable as a veteran fireman and Jim Caviezel, as his policeman son, doesn't seem capable of making a wrong move . The two men have real chemistry. Andre Brauger is excellent in his supporting role. The women in the film aren't as developed but they're real enough that you care about them.I highly recommend Frequency. I give it 8 on 10. "},{"Title":"A frequency worth tuning in to...","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Father and son reconnect after 30 years, re-establishing the bond lost so long ago. Not exactly an exceptionally novel idea, but here it is given a new twist &#150; the connection comes via a ham radio that links 1969 with 1999. Father Dennis Quaid exists in the past, but perhaps not for long as his number is supposedly up in a fire to occur. The son, in sudden rushes of ancient memories, warns his father of the event, and of the mention by another firefighter that his father made the mistake of turning the wrong way as he attempted to exit the blaze.The film manages to utilize themes already explored in films such as `Peggy Sue Got Married' and `Back To the Future' and even `Field of Dreams' can be said to have provided some input. Even so, while not entirely original, `Frequency' manages to offer much that is fresh and entertaining, as well as cause a few lumps in the throat.The inherent problem with time travel films &#150; especially those that manage to alter events that occurred in the past, is that old `suspension of disbelief' requirement. If events aren't moving fast enough, the implausibility almost surely will dawn on the viewer.The film almost gets away with it, only at the very end does it trip on its own contrivances, but this viewer was able to forgive it as the human element, the way the characters so endear themselves, made the transgression forgivable if not plausible. Dennis Quaid, a native Texan, does a rather remarkable job of capturing the intonations of a lifelong Queens, New York resident. Being one myself, I think I'm qualified to make such an assessment.  James Caviezel is less successful in that regard, but still he is ingratiating as the son grown to manhood who must come to grips with the forces unleashed by having tampered with time. Because dad was spared on the day of the fire, his wife &#150; a nurse &#150; didn't have to leave her job owing to the emergency, and thus was there to prevent a dosage error that would have proved fatal to a patient. The problem is however that this patient just happens to be a serial killer who is now still managing to provide victims even in 1999.Did I mention that the killer stalks nurses? Unfortunately, now the one who managed to save his life is scheduled to become his next victim.Alright, that's as much as you're going to get in terms of spoilers, as it would be unfair to spoil the rest of the story as father and son in their respective eras must keep the killer from increasing his count of victims. But, in doing so, both men become prey for the killer and both are subject to disbelief by the family friend who is investigating the crime in each era. Andre Brougher plays this character, now the son's supervisor on the 1999 police force. He's practically replaying his role from the TV series `Homicide Life On the Street' but that's not necessarily a bad thing &#150; Brougher is excellent in that role.Sure there are some gaps in logic, and even in presentation, but they didn't dawn on me during the viewing, nor did they detract during a second viewing. As a bonus, the background of the New York Mets winning the 1969 World Series provided a most fascinating subplot that even manages to lend credibility to the claims made by Quaid to Brougher as he is trailing the killer in 1969.Quaid once again gave me reason to wonder why he has never managed to make it onto the `A' list of performers. He's done consistently good work for over 20 years, but has trailed behind the likes of Harrison Ford and Michael Douglas &#150; even though he's probably the better actor. James Caviezel's stock has risen somewhat since this film, and rightfully so. While only in the same scene together once, we can still believe that they are related. A standout performance is also given by Shawn Doyle as the killer &#150; in both eras, and his make-up as the elder version is always convincing.Credit must also be given to scripter Toby Emmerich despite the lapses in logic as his dialog always rings true and his characters really do seem to exist &#150; which had to help immeasurably to what Quaid and Caviezel bring to their performances. "},{"Title":"feel-good with an added bang","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I occasionally get sick of romantic comedies, but the other kind of chick flick--namely, the kind having to do with that pure, gushy family love--I just can't get enough of.  Plus, they managed to weave this one into a suspense/thriller, and threw in another one of my favorite fictional concepts for good measure time travel, in this film represented by the parallel dimension through which a son speaks to his father before his death 30 years ago.In fact, anyone who loves Back to the Future for the same reasons I do will gobble up the brain candy in Frequency.  The ways in which the film deals with the thought-provoking concept of changing the past, while certainly blasphemous to the field of physics, sparks some interesting conversation after the credits.  The eerie curlicues of smoky clouds shown in the sky at various intervals attest to the fact that the makers of Frequency do not pretend to have a logical explanation for how two men can be using the same radio at the same desk in the same house to be speaking to each other over a distance of 30 years.  I was so captivated by the secondary plot, an old unsolved murder case that quickly becomes personal when father and son play G-d, that I didn't have a chance to care about the unidimensionality of most of the characters, the flavorless dialogue or the predictability of the action.  My jetlagged eyes were glued to the poor reception I have for a screen for the duration of the film.  Retrospectively, it was no piece of art!  I can safely say that movies like this are much better while you're watching them, but what are movies for?   This one was great.   "},{"Title":"Simply brilliant","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a simply brilliant movie.  It had me interested from beginning to end, mostly on the edge of my seat.  I couldn't guess what was going to happen next, I loved the story and all its twists and turns, and the ending didn't let me down.  I will be watching this one again. "},{"Title":"Shout at the screen!! I did!!","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had never seen any trailers or read any reviews of 'Frequency' so when it was there to be watched on a Saturday evening on a satellite movie channel, the synopsis sounded interesting so I settled down to watch 'another movie'.Boy, did I get a surprise.  My wife was working in the other room and half way through the film came in to see why I was standing up shouting at the screen!  SATCH! LOOK AT THE BASEBALL GAME ON THE TV FOR THE SHOE POLISH BALL... NOW!!, I shouted! I have never got so wrapped up in a film before that has caused me to react in such a way.A month later it was repeated and my wife and eldest child sat and watched it with me to see what all the fuss was about.  Like I had been (and was again) they were completely engrossed and openly declared 'frequency' to be a massive hit and 'one of the best they had ever seen'.After scanning some reviews on IMDB I cannot understand what some people expect from a movie.  If I want to be factually informed, I watch a documentary or read a book.  If I want to want to watch something that accurately reflects reality, I watch a 'fly on the wall', or read a biography.  If I want to be entertained, I watch a movie.  One thing for sure is that 'Frequency' entertained me thoroughly and moved me too and, unlike the grizzlers of this world, I am not ashamed to say it.It has suspense, emotion, plot twists, characters you like and an enjoyable ending. What more could you ask for. Its a sad reflection on our society that some people actually wanted a different ending.Its an excellent movie that will be in my DVD collection by lunchtime Monday.  Amongst my top three ever, I will watch it again and again. "},{"Title":"Extremely entertaining","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A word of warning don't get caught up in the quest for an explanation about how a man could possibly speak to his father in the past.  Obviously this kind of exchange is impossible so take my advice and don't worry about it, just watch the movie and enjoy it at face value, you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Gripping TIme Travel","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  	Time travel movies are always confusing, sometimes fun, and definitely raise a lot of questions as to the validity of the story line. They aren't always entertaining though. Director Gregory Hoblit's movie is all of the above and raise some interesting questions&#133;such as, if you could do something that would save your father's life yet doom you mother what would you do? 	The movie jumps back and forth between the present year of 1999 and 30 years earlier. Detective John Sullivan, James Caviezel, is on the eve of the 30-year anniversary of his fire-fighter father Frank's, Dennis Quaid, death. A scientific phenomena known as The Northern Lights, Aurora Borealis, is once again shining bright above John's house.  	When John's buddy is over checking on him they stumble across Frank's old ham radio. John sets it up in a bout of nostalgia but is unable to get it working. Later, much to John's surprise, the ham radio clicks on and he begins receiving a message from someone in the same city. John begins talking with the man but decides his friends are playing a trick on him as the man claims to be Frank Sullivan. After some discussion John finds he is telling the truth. It seems something in the lights has caused the circuits to do something out of this world and allow John to talk with his father from 30 years before. 	John realizes his father is about to die in an accident and tells him how to avoid it and survive. Frank is at first skeptical but follows through with John's advice and survives the fire that is meant to kill him. As they are talking later that day, John discovers to his horror that his mother is not in a picture that she was in the day before. Something that Frank and John did has caused her death. As they discuss more things they realize that John has reopened an old case, `The Nightingale Murders' which originally only had three victims and now is up to 10&#133;and the most important woman in their lives, John's man and Frank's wife, is one of the next victims.	John and Frank work together to stop some of the murders and identify the killer. Between the three decades they are able to find the killer, stop him, and save the woman who is most important to both of them. 	I liked this movie a lot. As directed by Gregory Hoblit it is surprisingly easy to follow in its jumps back and forth. They keep a very good tie on both decades and make certain to have things that happen in Frank's decade show up almost instantly in John's. This attention to detail is better than most. It even includes broken windows appearing where they weren't before. 	The story is great on two levels. At one we have a son re-connecting with his father. Frank died when John was six and they spend much of the movie getting to know each other. There is so much joy evident in them that it seems as if they have always known each other. It also works as a thriller. As the story goes on, John is instructing his father how to capture the killer. We get tense as the fire fighter is trying to figure out what a cop would be doing. Even here we have father and son working together and teaching each other though the decades. 	The actors are great. James Caviezel portrays John as a sad man who isn't able to connect with others and constantly pushes all away but his mother. As he gets to know his father he is able to connect with more people and opens up on many levels. Dennis Quaid has long been thought of as a highly underrated actor and he shows why here. Frank has two loves in his life, his wife and his son. You see him as a father when John is six and you also see how well he connects with his son as a man. Dennis also successfully passes him off as the man struggling to catch a killer before his wife becomes the victim. 	This movie works. It is a fantasy, thriller, and relationship story with actors you long to see more of. It grips you with its intensity and uplifts you with its love. I strongly recommend this one.     "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this far more than I expected to!!","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'd never heard of this film (so I guess I have to agree with the comments about bad marketing) and only watched it because I'm an Elizabeth Mitchell fan.I had absolutely no idea at all what it was about, never really liked Dennis Quaid and had never heard of James Caviezel.So consequently....I have to say that I was extremely pleasantly surprised to enjoy it as much as I did. I know its not a great movie, I know you could pick holes left right and centre in the plot and I know the ending was incredibly corny. I'm afraid I'm too English to recognise the bad accents that I see a lot of other people complained about - though I daresay some of the Americans reading this didn't notice that Antony La Paglia's accent as Daphne's brother in Frasier was not only horrendous but horrendous cockney when Daphne's meant to be from Manchester!!) but I digress... The point is (in my humble opinion) that unlike many of todays movies,by the time the plot started to get a little wobbly with its time weaving, you were totally engrossed and cared about the characters. There's not enough effort put into making the audience care about the characters nowadays.In terms of acting - I thought Quaid was fine, was impressed by Caviezel and was disappointed by the under use of Mitchell although she was good. I wonder,does anyone know how she broke her nose during the filming? and does anyone know why filmmakers make fair actresses wear dark wigs that don't suit their colouring? Its beyond me.N.B. was interested to read the possible spelling mistake screen and hope you don't mind if I stick to the English spelling of colouring, recognise and centre ;o) "},{"Title":"Heart-warming and entertaining","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this film simply because it did what it was supposed to - entertain me. The way that past and present were presented blended perfectly so that it wasn't a distraction and the plot was good enough to keep me watching. The ending was a surprise, I really thought the race against time would be lost in this one, but they pulled it together in a believable manner, again without breaking stride, ending with a wonderful triumphant moment. A good family film, some may need that box of tissues near the end. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Movie","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is simply a work of art.  Unlike most other sciencefiction movies, this one gives no explanation, because it needs notany words.  This movie appeals to all, just ask my 13 year old sis! Iwould strongly recommend this movie to all science fiction lovers. "},{"Title":"exceptional reminder of the power of love and of film","Date":"11 July 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I waited to add my two cents until I had seen this film several times to see if the overwhelmingly positive effect would wear off. I am pleased to report that it doesn't. Remarkably, the effect gets stronger with each exposure. This is without a doubt my favorite recent film. The performances are wonderful. This is Quaid's best after his early bloom and nothing he's done since can compare with it. Jim C, well, he is luminous. Indeed, every role is well and truly played. This one is special because it does what the Fountain and a number of other, recent high concept and message films try but usually fail to accomplish in any meaningful fashion. Frequency moves the heart through the experience of film. It teaches love and does so without relying on the tension of plot because as I discovered, it still works after ten viewings when the end is not in doubt and what happens next isn't why your eyes are fixed on the screen. The reason you watch yet again, still eager, is simple. It is because,well, because, there is never, never enough love and this is a way to find a bit more, every time. "},{"Title":"Good movie overall","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a good movie and quite enjoyable. There are a couple of technical goofs in regard to the actual Amateur Radio equipment and its use in the flick, but those are things that only an ham or someone else familiar with such equipment would notice. The idea of having a radio communication across time, between father and son, is unique and quite innovative. The entire premise of such communications could probably be developed into a large story in and of itself but the fact of a crime being solved and the life of a family member being saved just adds to the plot. And the actors do a great job as well. This film is worth viewing! "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable and well worth seeing (review has spoilers)","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very enjoyable entertainment. I have read a few of other viewer comments and am taken aback by people getting upset about the central idea behind the time travel communication (the aurora borealis lets Frank Sullivan's ham radio in 1969 communicate with his son John Sullivan (using the same ham radio in the same house) in 1999). People - it's a PLOT DEVICE - get over it! It's just there to get the story started and to add drama. When the writers put in a plot device like this, that's OK - you have to willingly suspend your disbelief. What counts next is, are the writers being internally consistent with the rules they have set up and the conditions in the movie? In Frequency, yes, they are. (Other movies aren't so good about this - don't get me started about Independence Day, where Jeff Goldblum is able to hack into the alien ship's computer system - apparently the aliens use Microsoft Windows too! Come on! They're aliens!)The rules of the plot are that there is the ham radio communication between eras; that it's October 11, 1969 on one end and October 11, 1999, on the other end, and that the two eras are running simultaneously (in a sense). That is, if Frank Sullivan (the father)spends 7-11 p.m. on Oct. 11 in 1969 talking with John Sullivan (his son), this happened for John at 7-11 p.m. on Oct 11, 1999. If something is changed in 1969 at 300 p.m. based on information sent from 1999, then the world of 1999 doesn't update till 300 p.m. of that same date in 1999. This is set up and reinforced by the good editing, constantly flashing back between one era and the next. So the writers set up these groundrules, use them as a basis, and then go into a very moving tale of father-son love, growing up, redemption, and second chances. I found the contact between the two men very believable. At first they're just chatting together on the radio; Frank says something about You think the Mets will win Game One of the Series tomorrow? John, of course, knows that the Mets lost Game One because it was 30 years ago for him, and makes some comment about that. (It was all over after Buford's homer in the second inning.) Then, of course, the ham radio loses contact. But the next night, Frank asks John, How'd you know about Buford's homer? And John says, It wasn't hard, buddy, it was 30 years ago. Then John gets more information (Frank's name, call letters, etc) and realizes who he is talking to. He desperately wants to warn his father about Frank's upcoming death in the warehouse fire which is going to happen tomorrow. But Frank doesn't want to listen, thinks John is crazy or a stalker or something - just can't believe it. John says If you had just gone the other way in the fire you would have gotten out - if you had just gone the other way! Then, of course, the ham radio stops working.Frank is pensive the next day, because everything so far has turned out as John has said it would (Al Weis hits a game-winning RBI in the 9th)and he is thinking, Is this guy for real? Might I be going to die today? When the climactic moment in the fire comes, Frank does go the other way, and saves his own life. John is sitting in a bar drinking with his friends in memory of his father, 30 years after his death. There is a very effective sequence where Frank is making his decision and escaping from the fire, and John is in the bar and getting new memories of a life where Frank lived on. I particularly like the intercutting where John drops his glass in the bar (in slo-mo), Frank has thrown his fireman's hat out of a window and that is falling (in slo-mo), and Frank and the person he saved from the fire are going down a warehouse chute (in slo-mo)away from the fire, into the river. The editors cut from shot to shot with very moving music from Michael Kamen, the composer, here. At the end of the scene, Frank is outside the warehouse watching it burn and realizing he is alive! and that this guy on the radio is for real; John is in the bar with his friends realizing that his father didn't die in a fire 30 years ago, but died from lung cancer 10 years ago, and John has memories from both of these timelines. That evening, Frank comes home, and talks to John. He realizes that hey, this is not a fake, it's really my son from the future (wow!)and they have a long talk together. This, to me, was the best part of the film. In the beginning of the movie, John Sullivan is a bitter, jaded, cigarette-smoking alcoholic cop who is breaking up with his girlfriend. As he talks w/his father, you can see him smoothing out old bitternesses and fears. His father is there for him now and that makes all the difference. You see the two of them chatting about various topics, sort of guy talk that is a coverup for their deep joy in being able to communicate with each other. At the end of the scene, Frank is able to say, I love you, son, and John responds, I love you too, Dad. I've missed you so much! and Frank knows what he means/meant to his son. Of course, up to this point is only half the movie, so they still have to continue the plot with the serial nurse killer stuff. That was well-written and a good thriller, but to me, not as moving as just the quiet conversation between the two men on the ham radio, the father and the son connecting. Advice to the viewer be sure to check on EVERYTHING in the background - photographs (who's in it right now? Is Dad missing? Is Mom missing? Is the dog missing?); newspaper headlines (Fireman Dies In Warehouse Fire is changed to Fireman Saves Runaway From Warehouse Fire); radio and TV commentary (note that the physics professor talking about the aurora borealis is on the Dick Cavett show in both 1969 and 1999!) and even the decor of the house in 1999. At first, when John's father died 30 years ago and his mother is living in an apartment somewhere, it's a rather gloomy cop dwelling. Then John changes the past & his father didn't die; John comes home from work, and notices that the lamps have changed, things look different. Next, it turns out that his mother has died in 1969, and again the house looks more bachelor-ish and less like a woman has done stuff to it. At the end, (SPOILER WARNING) in the future where both his parents lived, there is a major morph, and things look shipshape, tidy, and well-decorated. This is the kind of thing that you have to see the movie a few times to pick up on. It's also not always obvious due to camera angles, editing, etc. The ending is a major cop-out (no pun intended) in terms of being internally consistent to the rules that were set up. (SPOILER WARNING) In 1969, Frank has managed to expose Jack Shepard as the serial killer, so Jack comes to Frank's house to kill him and his family. In 1999, before Frank exposes Jack Shepard, John Sullivan meets Jack Shepard in a bar and tells Jack that he knows that Jack is the serial killer. So now Jack Shepard in 1999 is coming to the house to kill John. There is very effective and exciting intercutting between the two confrontations (Frank vs Jack, John vs Jack 30 years later) but if you think about it, it doesn't hold water. Frank shoots Jack in 1969, (shoots off Jack's right hand), and then you're supposed to believe that a one-handed ex-cop murderer fugitive from justice was able to hang around for 30 years to come and mess with John? If you listen to the director's commentary on the DVD, the director does make note of this and suggested a different, internally consistent ending be filmed. However, apparently test audiences reacted so positively to the current ending (SPOILER WARNING) (Frank is still alive in 1999, comes in and blows away Jack Shepard with his shotgun) that the other ending was never filmed. I have to admit that the ending as it is right now, is pretty satisfying emotionally, though. I'm a sucker for a happy ending and this movie does have one (SPOILER WARNING) It's a neighborhood softball game in Queens. Frank is still there, alive and well, having neither died of lung cancer or in a fire; Julia (Frank's wife) is also there, happy and healthy; John gets a game-winning RBI hit to knock in his father; John's wife (his girlfriend that he broke up with at the beginning of the movie in his alternate history) is there with their son; Frank has quit smoking, John either never started smoking or quit smoking, and nobody is an alcholic; life is good. I thought it was a tightly edited movie as well; John and Frank talk on the ham radio; Julia, John-as-a-6-year-old, and John's friend Gordo-as-a-6-year-old also talk on the ham, but the only one who knows that this is the future talking, is Frank. The writers could have had it that other people know, but they maintained the dramatic tension by having it be just Frank and John talking to each other. (Frank does tell his cop friend Satch, but Satch doesn't believe him and the radio is broken so Satch can't talk with the 1999 John). I'm the kind of person that asks hypothetical questions about movies, so now I'm wondering, If Frank comes in in 1999 and saves his son John, and the ham radio is still active, does Frank in 1999 talk to himself in 1969? Does he tell himself, Hey, we've gotta be here at this date and time to save John - write it down in your dayplanner? What would it be like, talking to your future self, anyway? Did Frank in 1969 ever tell Julia (his wife) about his conversations with their future son? As Frank lives through 1969-1999, does he ever talk to young John about talking with the 1999 John? Or does he just know that he can't talk about all this till it happens for John in 1999? (He does know some things that will happen to John - e.g., John blows his arm out, can't be a baseball player, goes to the police academy, becomes a cop.) At the end of the movie with all the changes that have been made in John's life, does he have three sets of memories? (one with Frank dying in 1969, one with Frank living and Julia dying in 1969, and one with both of his parents living through to the present day). Or does the current reality gradually supersede the old memories and the old memories fade away? Or do they remain? (hey, in my previous life, I was a single, alcoholic, bitter, jaded cop and now I have a family)?I guess that both Frank and John could look at it this way We each came close to death and cheated it by an amazing set of coincidences; let's make the most of the life we have left. In the end, that's good advice for all of us.  "},{"Title":"All heart, no brains","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Who wouldn't want to talk with their father, as he existed 30 years ago? This movie understands that we, as adults, want to be pals with our own parents, as (young) adults. We want to go out drinking together. We want to watch the World Series together. We want to team up on some worthwhile project together.Well, it ain't gonna happen. sorry. It only happens in this movie because logic is not allowed a foothold in the script.Time travel stories are all inherently contradictory--if you travel back in time and kill your own grandfather, how can this event be explained? But Frequency seems to glory in its lack of logic. Characters (especially John) who should remember things, given the new past, don't. Past events affect the future in realtime (like the changing photos in Back to the Future--but that film was fantasy from the start; this aspires to be something different). It's all a crazy hash of inconsistencies, and we're supposed to nod in muddle-headed agreement.No thank you.  "},{"Title":"How desperate are you for sentimentality, Chicken Soup for the Soul and slow motion?","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I must have missed something when watching this film, because I am a bit surprised by the number of people that seem to have outright enjoyed much of this film.  I must admit, that there were some enjoyable aspects of Frequency but overall the film makers were so desperate to get the audience to cry (or have the sensation of sentimentality) that they submitted to some bad cliche's of film making.  There are many who like to separate the film as art from film as entertainment, but I believe that is difficult in this case, because there were too many parts where the director used artsy film making tactics to get his message across.  The OVERuse of slow motion and repeated shots from different angles was an example of pretentiousness at it's worst.  I couldn't help but roll my eyes on several occasions, especially during some of the dialog between the father and the son.  The writing, at times, was very poor.  It just seemed as though the film makers were trying too hard.I have even enjoyed some sentimental type films of the past few years (Shawshank Redemption, Good Will Hunting, Life is Beautiful) but this movie was lacking the skill that those film makers possess.  There was also the problem of once you lose the audience here, that we start to notice other intricacies, such as the problems with time travel. I think Back to the Future handled the genre much better because normal logic allowed those films to work.  In those movies Michael J. Fox's character was himself traveling through time, so the audience could accept when he changed events, and arrived back in time that they would change. (They also provided an explanation)  In Frequency the logic was terribly flawed.  Most of the time when an event in the past changed everything surrounding it changed.  But sometimes when something in the past changed, only some things in the future changed.  It just didn't make sense, especially the climactic end scene, which was ridiculous. Again, I did think at times the suspense was done well, and I was interested, but overall there were too many flaws for me to recommend it.  If you are a sucker for movies that are like Chicken Soup For the Soul then you might like it, but if you are knowledgeable in film and a cynic....beware. "},{"Title":"best to separate the movie .... from the ending","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love time travel movies. If you were to break my IMDb contributions into categories, I believe that time travel would show a disproportionately higher bias, especially given there are so few time travel stories to begin with. (Some I will not review, based on the archaic notion that, if you have nothing nice to say, don't say anything. Christopher Reeve's work in Richard Matheson's Somewhere in Time/Bid Time Return falls into this category -- Matheson was a genius, the book was superb, and the film was horrific). Which brings us to Frequency. If you ignore the Hollywood ending -- which is a huge if -- you have one of the most enjoyable, most hypnotic, and one of the sweetest films ever. Who among us (after a certain age) has not looked backwards and realized that we should have said something, or done something, different with a parent? This may be the only TT movie I have seen (and I have seen many, including some in foreign languages) that touches this. The 32 year old Caviezel is perfectly cast (long before he made the transition to TV, successfully), really selling his sincerity factor. What is most astonishing is that the movie maintains the initial suspense, and the sweetness, for so long. Right to the climax, where the Hollywood writers simply COULD NOT resist turning this into an action film, and the BIG REVEAL. A must see. "}{"Title":"Great, just great","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This has remained one of my favourite movies. Time and time again, I have really enjoyed coming back to it.What a great story too; due to a freak of nature John (Jim Caviezel) is able to talk to his dad Frank (Dennis Quaid) from almost thirty years in the past, on an old short-wave radio. Unfortunately, this is back when his dad was just about to have died, giving his life as a firefighter while trying to save someone trapped in a warehouse fire. While they're able to prevent this from happening, some unanticipated and undesirable changes in the time line also occur as a result.The focus of the story is the relationship between father and son. While Dennis Quaid played his part well, for me, Jim Caviezel really stole the show. He plays the son, saddened by the loss of his father so many years ago, to perfection. Once they've realised who it is they're actually both speaking to, the look in his eyes during the more emotional scenes really says it all. Brilliantly done! "},{"Title":"excellent science fiction/suspense thriller","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" for me,this movie was an excellent science fiction/suspense thriller.it's well acted,has a good story,and is well paced.i found myself riveted to my seat for the whole movie.i won't give the premise away,but i will say i thought it was creative.the characters are very well written,and sympathetic,so you really root for them.at least i did,anyway.the movie is also very touching.you also have to do a bit of thinking to keep abreast of what's going on.i'm sure some of the science is implausible,but this is after all,a movie,and not a documentary.i only wish i had seen this on the big screen;it would have had a bigger impact.regardless,it's still a very good film.for me,Frequency is a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Solid entertainment from start to finish","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" FREQUENCY Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDS1999 During violent solar activity, a young cop (Jim Caviezel) is able to contact his long-dead father (Dennis Quaid) through an old ham radio which picks up frequencies from thirty years earlier. But their reunion prompts a number of historical 'alterations', with potentially tragic consequences...Gregory Hoblit's seductive movie plays fast and loose with its 'bridge across time' scenario, throwing logic - and caution - to the wind in pursuit of an audience-friendly storyline. Brain-twisting narrative conundrums aside, however, this is a nifty little offering, sparked by Quaid and Caviezel as the father and son reunited by magical circumstances which allow them to correct the mistakes of their distant past. Toby Emmerich's screenplay throws everything into the mix, including large-scale disaster set-pieces (Quaid plays a fireman), family drama, a serial killer, the 1969 World Series, and a sequence of events which lead to Quaid being suspected of first-degree murder. The ending may seem a little contrived and outlandish, but who cares? Cracking entertainment, beautifully filmed. Also starring Andre Braugher, Elizabeth Mitchell and Shawn Doyle. "},{"Title":"a great movie!","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie and I've enjoyed the great ability of dennis quaid, one of my favourite actors, a beautiful plot made by great ideas and a fantastic direction. Jim Caviezel is, in this movie, author of a great recitation too, he enters perfectly the role of the son that has lost his fantastic father. I think Frequency is one of the best movies of the last years thanks to its great rhythm and the way with give a great number of emotions to everyone is looking at it, is a typical movie that is capable top make the audience cry.  I think that this movie is ok for every tastes, because it has science-fictional, dramatic and very sentimental elements.9/10 "},{"Title":"What a great idea.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Having seen this film only a couple of times (which is unusual for me!) I think this is an excellent movie. The partnership of Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel was superb. I like films that are thought provoking and this was one of those. I'm a bit of a sci-fi nut and the plot really appealed to me, the idea that you could change a past event must appeal to a lot of people. I know some of you will say 'yes but what about the big picture...what happened to all the other things that would have to be different because of their act of prevention?' but I think it's just nice not to think too deeply sometimes and just enjoy. let's face it having Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel on the same screen is not a bad thing!  "},{"Title":"Is it ham radio, or a quincunx?","Date":"26 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In this unusual suspense yarn that allows a father and son to communicate via a parallel universe, Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel discover not only has the impossible occurred, but possible things that DID exist in their time-space continuum CAN be altered.Try not to ponder the complexities of quantum physics and the existence of a quincunx via an unusual ham radio communication during an intense solar flare. Rather, enjoy the film whose merits are based on the surprisingly well scripted story by Toby Emmerich, and solid acting of Quaid and Caviezel whose destinies are flung together in a way rarely seen in a film.It is  in watching the interplay of these individual destinies, relayed via the ham radio, that will keep you absolutely entertained.I don't know why this film didn't get better press/critical review upon its release (2000), but it certainly is a cut above the usual sci-fi genre grappling with time-space, parallel universes, and the like.I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Dial into this frequency and enjoy","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ladies and gentleman, boys and girls prepare to take a magical journey through the heart and soul of mankind. Dennis Quaid, Jim Caviezel, Andre Braugher and Elizabeth Mitchell star in this magical journey that will leave each member of the viewing audience in awe and breathless.Frequency joins Love Story, Men Of Honor, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and Finding Forrester as six of my favorite films, which deserve the title of masterpieces. My reasons for making this statement are the unique concept of the film, superb writing and strong performances.Congratulations to the writers for creating one of the best scripts brought to screen since Titanic. I kept smiling throughout this film because it explored the unbreakable bond father and son share with one another. I knew Frequency would become a powerful and special film as soon as I saw the trailer for the first time. I was in shock when Frequency was left off the academy award ballot.Frequency is laced with storylines that would light up a dark room and brighten anyone's dark days. Frequency contains intense, adrenaline pumping action with edge of your seat suspense, excitement and drama.Frequency is a unique film that ranks in the top ten movies I've seen all year. Frequency is a unique film that will never be made again and if the chance arose this type of film is made; it will never measure up to the greatness of this film.Quaid, Caviezel, Mitchell and Braugher come together to bring one of the finest films to life. In the spirit of Ghost, Frequency is an epic story about father and son who reunite over the ham radio 30 years after Frank's death. However, throughout their conversations, they unintentionally alter the past and become thrust into a serial murder investigation. The cast support Frequency receives is powerful and rich.Quaid is one actor everyone can count on to give 110 percent in every film he stars. Frequency is one in a long string of films that keeps me in shock and asking the question why he hasn't had the opportunity to win academy awards since his performances were deserving.Caviezel's resume may not be high in quantity but it is high in quality, yet he is a tremendous asset to each film he stars in. Caviezel may not be a Hollywood veteran quite yet; but with his charisma, screen presence, integrity and intensity he deserves the title of veteran.Braugher provides great support in his role as Caviezel's partner and Quaid's friend in Frequency. I have always enjoyed Braugher from his role on the television series, Homicide Life On The Street because his presence is felt with each scene was in; a fact which holds true in every film he is in. I look forward to each film he is in because like Quaid he gives 110 percent.I know I have consistently said music and soundtracks are one of the most powerful selling points of a film. From Trisha Yearwood's rendition of 'How Do I Live' for Con Air to Celine Dion's 'My Heart Will Go On' in Titanic comes a song so powerful and touching it will leave you in tears. Garth Brooks rendition of 'When You Come Back To Me Again' put icing on the cake and made me watch this film.Upon listening to this song, everyone will get a sense of what this movie is about. This is one the top five soundtrack songs that I've heard in my life because it is the perfect companion to an already perfect movie.Only one word comes to mind when describing my overall feeling of this film EXCELLENCE. Every part of Frequency is excellent. From the powerful and moving performances to the edge of your seat drama, Frequency will delight and amaze every viewer.It is my honor to let everyone know Frequency is one of the best films of 2000. I have seen Frequency so many times I've stopped counting after 10. Frequency is an A+ in my book.  "},{"Title":"Very Original, Great Unpredictable Dark Fantasy","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is an original and compelling dark fantasy with lots of twists and turns.  Completely unpredictable, it tells two stories simultaneously across 30 years.  The heart of this picture is the father and son relationship between Frank and John Sullivan (Dennis Quaid as the father from 1969, Jim Caviezel as his son in 1999).  You can't help rooting for them, they are both decent people caught up in something completely outside of their own experiences.  Shawn Doyle is especially creepy as the villain, his performance is liked a toned down version of Andrew Robinson's Scorpio character in Dirty Harry.  Always watchable and never boring, the two-hour runtime seems to go by in 90 minutes.  If Toby Emmerich ever writes another screenplay, I'll be in line to see the movie!  This is really worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Troubles in Time","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In the movie Frequency John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) has been haunted by a tragic event, the death of his father.  It happened thirty years ago. John finds his fathers old ham radio and plugged it in.  Then a man came on it and John realized he was speaking to his dad in 1969. Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid) John's father was finally convinced after some things John said would come true did, that he was speaking on his ham radio to his son in 1999, yet neither knew how it was possible.  They really didn't care.  They were just happy for their luck. John then tells Frank that he will die in two days if he goes to work that day.  Frank took precautions that day and lived.  John had all these new memories of his father, but then realized that he couldn't remember anything to do with his mother. John, being a cop found out that his mother was brutally murdered thirty years ago.  He got on the ham radio and told his dad.  So through mixture of cunning and well acted scenes, Frank and John work together in the past and present to get the killer before he gets their wife/mother. The movie makes us realize that sometimes we wish that we could change the past but that sometimes it is better left untouched, everything in life happens for a reason.  If we could change the past, we could be destroying the future. I loved this movie.  I thought it was moving, exciting, and well thought through.  It left me fulfilled in the end. "},{"Title":"One of the best releases of 2000 and a father & son movie that complements Field of Dreams that will stand the test of time!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just saw Frequency on its so called network premiere on ABC.  This is the first time I've seen it since I saw it in the theaters.  And I liked it almost as much as the first time.I'm a 34 year old guy and I look back on the year 2000 and its movies and music with sentimentally like no other year since my high school & college years in the 80's.  And this movie was one of the reasons for my sentimentality.  Like Field of Dreams, it has as part of its many themes, baseball and the bond between fathers and sons - and its just as effective in helping us appreciate how important the (unfortunately underappreciated) father and son bond is through cinema.  But that's just for starters. Imagine trying to pitch this movie to a studio head.  The practice is to encapsulate it into a couple of words - a sound bite  sort of  - to make it 'sellable' for the studio head.  Like a buddy comedy, for the female demographic, dramedy, sci-fi/adventure, mystery/thriller, etc. There is no way to do that with this movie.  Its part Sci-Fi, its part nostalgia/sentimental pic, part cop/mystery, part thriller, part family/father-son pic, part tear jerker, & I'm sure you can find more elements.  There is simply no other movie like it - its an original.  It complements Field of Dreams quite well in that it covers the same emotional territory but 'mines' it more directly.  I will never forget where and at what time of my life I had seen these two movies when they were released in the theaters and how thoroughly satisfied I was - they were magical experiences.  The Bravo channel did an episode of  their From Page to Screen series on Field of Dreams, and they spent a lot of time talking about how that movie brought grown men to tears when it came to the heartfelt subject matter of the father and son bond in this movie. Playing catch with your father for a boy is so much more than most women can probably understand.  This movie evokes the same spirit.It was good to see Dennis Quaid again in a crowd pleaser like this - the last time was in  Inner Space with Martin Short and Meg Ryan.  And it really seems to have launched the careers of the actor who played his son, James Caviezel, and the screenplay writer Toby Emmerich.  Before this film, according to IMDb, Emmerich had been the soundtrack executive on many movies.  After Frequency,  IMDb shows, he apparently became producer of many mainstream large budget movies.  But he hasn't written another screenplay.  Makes me curious as to how the screenplay came about and the writer's inspiration and why Emmerich hasn't gotten another on screen.The only objectionable part of the film was the graphic, sadistic visuals of the victims of the Nightingale Serial Murderer.  If they were much more tame with that part of the story, it would have become more appropriate for entire families to enjoy as a classic for many years to come.  In other words they should have gone for a 'PG' rating, instead of 'PG-13' rating, which IMDb says is for intense violence and disturbing images in the case of 'Frequency'.   Otherwise it would have been a movie with something for all kinds of movie goers.  I have a suspicion that New Line and its history of horror film making had something to do with it or that history has made them used to OKing and making that sort of story.  Too bad.  When I know in advance that a movie has those kind of scenes, I vote with my dollars and make it a point not 'patronize' them.  Luckily, I don't think they used any of those scenes in their promotions.  On those grounds I give this movie a 9 out of 10 stars (which is only 1 more than the average voted by IMDb voters at this time).Actually, I don't remember it having much of a massive ad campaign.  I had seen very little about it on the entertainment and talk show circuits - oh yeah - I didn't have a TV that year (with the quality of television & media in general it actually was a blessing really).  It was good thing because, I imagine I had the kind of experience that people in the 1930's & 1940's did. Walking into a movie theater back then you had a totally novel/virgin experience of a film because you didn't get bombarded with commercials and trailers that give away half the movie as you do nowadays.  I always treasure those movie experiences in which I discover it for the first time when I walk in the theater and I'm blown away by the experience of being immersed in a unique world.  That was the kind of experience this movie was - leaving me walking on air afterwards for an hour or so.  This movie deserves to stand the test of time like 'Field of Dreams'. "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie!!!","Date":"16 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was just wonderful. There wasn't a moment where I lost interest. It keeps you trying to figure out what is going to happen next. It keeps your breath holding on. What can I say? It was a perfect movie great actors and great theme. I give it a 5/5. Great Movie!!! I just can't stop saying that. "},{"Title":"Well filmed","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Like reviewers said -- got heart & feeling in that everyday Joe, Frank Capra style. Maybe it's the post 9/11 thing but seeing the NYC fire scenes, esp around the harbor downtown, certainly made me wish there really wassuch a ham radio to use.  I'd be somewhere else when I heard thatfirst jet bomber come in fast, loud. and low in midtown. memories are a key to this film.  Put the rational half on hold and just kick back with some real people in a story. This is a definite one for the Ages.  Most likely candidate to be 21st Century's It's a wonderful Life.  "},{"Title":"A bit of magic.","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I fell in love with Frequency by accident. The film's original promo played up the 'change your destiny' aspect of the plot more than the father-son bond, and I guess I thought there'd be some souped-up DeLorean auto waiting in the wings to whisk people somewhere every 10 minutes. But this film is nothing like that. I lost my mother sixteen years ago and have only bonded stronger with my dad since then, and as such, relate to the film's subtler message of re-affirming ties with those you love the most. It doesn't hit on this immediately. When  detective Caviezel first speaks to fireman Quaid, they are understandably confused and pseudo-annoyed with one other. Later, of course, the confusing 30-year paradox is revealed and a new relationship emerges. The 'duo-logue' which follows between father and son over the radio is a breathtaking scene, and when it comes to an end (I'm almost afraid to turn this off- like we won't get this back), I'm in tears (of joy) every single time. It seems that many critics were less than impressed with the story's sentiment (not surprising), but it's a wonderful little story which celebrates the nobler side of the human spirit. Buy. See.  "},{"Title":"My #1 favorite movie","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As an EMT/Firefighter and an embracer of public safety - of course I'm going to love this movie because it involves my favorite things.  A firefighter, a cop, father & son - a little realm of the outer edge with suspense building throughout - how could it not be a hit?  This movie kept me on the edge of my seat and requires you to pay attention to the details so you can grasp the concept.  Once your in their world, it's an amazing trip that kept me guessing all the way to the end.  It is my all time favorite movie!  And I recommend it to everyone! "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"        I love this movie! I watched it for the first time a few days ago and I must say, my breath was taken away by it. I'm not really big into sci-fis or anything like that, but this movie was excellent. It has Sci-Fi, action, drama, thriller, suspense written all over it, all bundled into one great feel-good movie of the decade. One of my new all time favorites. Get it today! "},{"Title":"What would you do if you could change your past?","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Almost everyone at one stage or another has fooled around with a transistor radio, hoping that someone else is on the other end that they can talk to. In Gregory Hoblit's &#145;Frequency' we are given even greater hope in a story that I found to be captivating to say the least. This movie uses the notion of time travel in a clever way, and shows that love cannot be held back by any obstacle.On October 11, 1999 one day before the anniversary of his father's death, 36 year old jaded cop, John Sullivan comes across his father's old ham radio. It is a night of bizarre weather with the aurora borealis dominating the night sky and, as John plays around with the radio, he finds himself talking to a man who sounds strangely familiar.  When he discovers the man is in fact his father talking to him on the same day but in 1969, John realises he has the power to save his father from dying and create the future that might have been. It is a chance no loving son could pass up, but one that might ultimately plays with destiny, bringing with it another terror for John's family to endure &#150; one that must be fought on both sides of the time barrier.Frequency is a movie that has many strange elements within it. The story written by Toby Emmerich, has such feeling that you have to like it. But what I found most fascinating is the way the story toys with certain circumstances, making things &#145;just happen', that normally would not be able to happen. Toby incorporated some great themes into the movie as well. The ideas of time travel in Frequency, while unbelievable, were interesting having the father and son being able to communicate via an old radio, 30 years apart. Then there is the themes of family, communication and support, which are all vital to the final make up of the story. The movie stars Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid), a 1969 fire-fighter who dies while trying to save a life in a warehouse fire.  Frank's son, John (Jim Cavizel) has broken with family tradition and become a policeman rather than a fire-fighter. The pair miraculously start to communicate, when John finds his father's old ham radio. Initially, they cannot believe what is happening, but after some facts are spoken by John, they both realise they are &#145;father and son'. In &#145;Frequency', the relationship that Frank and John share is a highlight of the movie and crucial to many of the events that happen as you get deeper and deeper into the film.Other stars include Julia Sullivan (Elizabeth Mitchell), Frank's wife and John's mum, who is totally unaware of what is happening while Frank is on his radio. What happens to her character is of major importance to the story. The bad guy in the story is a crooked cop Jack Shepherd (Shawn Doyle), who fights both father and son in a two separate battles 30 years apart. These two characters and others such as Satch DeLorean (Andre Braugher) are young characters in 1969, but made to look older in 1999.This reminds me of the &#145;Back To The Future' movies. &#145;Frequency' does copy many of the elements from those movies, including the way that time paradoxes can be changed in the present, if interfered with in the past. I will never forget &#145;Doc Brown' continuously warning Marty of such disasters in &#145;BBTF'. The &#145;Frequency' story sounds partially like that of the new movie release, &#145;Minority Report', where they can find criminals, before they actually commit their crime. What is also interesting are the little coincidences that seem to happen when both Frank and John play with time so they can be sure what is happening is real. For instance, Frank communicates with John via writing on the same desk in 1969 &#145;I'm still here chief', when it suddenly appears in front John in 1999. Now normally those burn marks would have been there for 30 years, but not in this movie. Frequency suggests that any action in the past or the present changes the other timeline, making the future something new and in most cases, better. There are many strange circumstances throughout this film, which although it did get confusing many times, were brilliant to see being played out.&#145;Frequency' was released a few months after the M. Night Shyamalan supernatural phenomenon,' The Sixth Sense'. If you loved that movie, than you will love &#145;Frequency', as these movies share one thing in common, real human emotion. I know I felt it all the way through the entire experience of this film. Sure some parts of &#145;Frequency' have to be questioned, but that is the reason why I feel it is a supernatural kind of movie. Frequency can be accused of trying to do too much, which in most films would distract from the final product, but not here. This film is quite a unique &#145;sci-fi, drama, thriller', with a different twist. Would this story ever happen in our lifetime? No, but it would be freaky if it could....CMRS gives &#145;Frequency' 4.5 (Very Good - Brilliant Film) "},{"Title":"Very, Very Good Film","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spacey, soon-to-be-divorced cop John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) is toying with his deceased fathers old HAM radio one night, when, through some odd twist of fate so common in sci-fi films, he contacts his father Frank (Dennis Quaid) 30 years in the past.Hold on, it gets much better.Frank, who is a firefighter, died in a flaming building when John was 6.  So, John helps him change the past so he doesn't die.  There's one problem - now John's mother has been murdered by a killer John has been tracking in the present day.  They must now race against time 30 years apart to stop this killer before he can kill John's mother/Frank's wife, and several other women.A lot of people think this sounds cheesy, but this is actually one of the best film's of the early 21st century.  The film is plot driven, and what a good plot it is.  I couldn't say any more without spoiling it.  Quaid is great, as is Caviezel.  Some people thought he slept-walked through the movie, but that actually seemed right for the character.  Honorable mention to Andre Braugher.  I've never seen him turn in even an average performance. "},{"Title":"a very different movie!","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i personally love this movie. it's one of those movies that you wouldn't really think of watching it on the theater. but when it gets shown on HBO, it is considered as a rare find. Frequency is a more serious combination on Back to the Future ) it's all too impossible to happen, but the movie made you feel that it COULD happen.there's a lot of emotional moments here and there, but there's also a mix of suspense which is surprisingly just right. this a great film, if there are flaws, i didn't bother listing it because the story itself shines. great actors too. "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just watched this one again.  Damn it's good.  A lot of people seem to have problems with possible plot errors, but I really wish they would look past those and see a great movie.  When I saw this one in theaters I was so excited that my heart was racing.  This movie really has just about everything.  And the Garth Brooks song at the end is a nice finishing touch. "},{"Title":"Unusually well put together time travel yarn","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I should begin by saying that I am prejudiced in favor of time travel stories, even if, as  in the case of Frequency, it is only radio waves doing the time traveling. However, I was more than usually pleased with the way Frequency came together overall.When I first saw the previews, I was intrigued, but at the same time, I was skeptical that the  premise being presented would make a good full  length movie. It would have been a nice half  hour Twilight Zone episode, but I would initially  have thought that it would drag if it were even  made into a one hour TV special. Yet I was  pleasantly surprised to find unusual depth and  reflection. Father and son Frank and John  Sullivan gain the unexpected boon of being  able to twist the flow of history to their  mutual favor, but in doing so learn that it isn't as simple as it at first appeared and the consequences are suitably more involved that either could have foreseen. The  complications that arise are well quite well put together, and the ending, I felt, came together in a satisfyingly neat climax.Frequency manages to have enough depth to  make it worth sitting through a feature  length film without becoming so absurdly  convoluted that you need a PhD to understand  the plot; that is a rare combination that  makes it a winner well worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Ham Radios, Time Warps, and the Northern Lights","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  *** 1/2 Frequency is at times a flawed film, but not fatally so. If you can sit back and take it at face value, it is a rich, suspenseful fantasy, helped along by strong performances, and by a story line replete with many twists and turns. Through the technology of a ham radio, and with mysterious aid from solar flares and the Aurora Borealis, 36 year old John Sullivan (touchingly played by James Caviezel) speaks to his long deceased Dad, Frank Sullivan (a great acting turn by Dennis Quaid), who is communicating from 30 years back, two days before he is supposed to be killed fighting a warehouse fire. From the future, John is able to communicate his father's impending doom and helps Frank avert the disaster (by the way, this isn't exactly a spoiler, since it takes place within the first 20 minutes of the movie). A sad ending is turned into a happy one, right? Not quite. Frank's survival changes the course of history (at least, the personal history of his family) and sets an entirely new chain of events in motion. The result is a roller coaster ride of a film. Let the high-minded critics pick at the one or two holes in the plot--the rest of us can thumb our noses at them, see this film and have a great time. "},{"Title":"Shockingly good.","Date":"8 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Very few films are that memorable, and certainly many disappear from your mind the moment you stand up and brush the popcorn off your clothes, but this is an exception.What starts out as a slow film with a ridiculous plotline full of over used charicatures, quickly turns into a gripping, tense and thoroughly enjoyable thriller.The twists and turns are wholly unexpected, although you may be able to guess the final conclusion well before it occurs.The acting is admirable, the dialogue interesting, and overall this is one of the best films I've seen this year.  "},{"Title":"Was expecting this to be stupid... I was pleasantly surprised!","Date":"30 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For some reason, I thought this movie was going to be stupid. I don't know, the concept of communicating with your son 30 years in the future just seemed too far out of an idea for it to be believable. But I'm a Dennis Quaid fan and when I saw it was on television one day, I decided to record it. I didn't get around to watching it until today and I am SHOCKED -- I think this is one of my newest favorite movies -- yes eleven years later.Everything about it was done so well. The storyline made sense, I didn't feel TOO confused, but definitely intrigued enough to be on the edge of my seat. Scene to scene, I seriously couldn't wait to see what was going to happen next because I honestly had no idea. Not a lot of movies make me feel that way. Even though I wanted to know what was going to happen, I also didn't want it to end it was so good.I thought Quaid did great in this... 2000 proved to be a good year for him, I suppose. Didn't The Rookie come out then, too? Both fantastic films and Frequency is one that I will continue to watch throughout the years now. I am so glad I decided to check it out. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of all times","Date":"8 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Just watch it, You will not be sorry, It is a great all around solid movie that I can and have watched over and over again..... The acting is very solid and the suspense along with the Si-fi is just great, which even if you are not a Si-fi fan I think you will still love this movie. Any movie that Dennis Quaid has been in with very few exceptions is a pretty safe bet and for me this is some of his best work an certainly a movie he can be very proud of. This movie makes you wish it could be true and that something like this really could happen and to my remembrance does not have bad language. It is really a family friendly movie. I would really be surprised if you did not like this movie, maybe not on the level I do but I cannot think you will say after having watched it that you wished you had not.... "},{"Title":"an exciting and sentimental yarn about a deceased dad and his grown-up son","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Anything can happen in a science fiction movie. Characters can cheat death, and tomorrow can alter yesterday. Inferior sci-fi epics depend entirely on these narrative gimmicks to lend credibility to their far-fetched escapades, while the best use this inherent flaw largely as a means to launch their plots. Typically, too, the human element qualifies as the first casualty in many sci-fi films. Happily, director Gregory (Primal Fear) Hoblit and screenwriter Toby Emmerich have avoided these characteristic pitfalls in Frequency, an exciting and sentimental yarn about a deceased dad and his grown-up son who bond 30 years after the father's death when a weird weather phenomenon allows them to contact each other on an antique ham radio. Not only do they catch up on things in general, but also they pursue a depraved serial killer (Shawn Doyle) who has been slicing and dicing nurses since 1969.Nothing seems to be going right for moody 36-year old N.Y.P.D. Det. John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel of The Thin Red Line) as he struggles to crack an on-going, unsolved 30-year long serial killer case. Worse, his girlfriend (Melissa Errico) has just dumped him, and he is drowning his despair in the bottle. Everything wrong in Sullivan's life stems from the accidental death of his firefighter father. When John was age six, Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid of Any Given Sunday) died in a warehouse blaze trying to rescue a girl. John misses a father he barely knew. Frank was an heroic fireman who selflessly risked his life in every emergency. Eventually, Frank's luck ran out, and John cannot reconcile the loss until he tunes up his dad's ham radio.Initially, Frank and John think somebody is playing a prank on them. We must be talking off the mother spot of all time, marvels Frank. The common interest they shared for the 1969 New York Mets baseball team convinces them that each is on the level with the other. John warns his dad about the ill-fated warehouse fire and suggests that Frank take a different exit. Frank follows his son's advice and survives the conflagration. Unfortunately, changing the past triggers a domino effect of complications. A murderer stalking nurses on the streets of New York claims John's mother Julia Sullivan (Elizabeth Mitchell) as one of his victims. Suddenly, history takes a turn for the worse as John attempts to unravel the past and resurrect his mom. Although Frank knows nothing about police work, John coaches him. Together they try to thwart an evil, ingenious villain who winds up incriminating Frank.The emotional chemistry between actors Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel makes this memorable saga worth watching. Shrewdly, director Gregory Hoblit gives neither of them an easy way out of any predicament. Toby Emmerich has penned a superlative time travel tale that combines the best elements of Field of Dreams with the James Stewart classic It's A Wonderful Life. "},{"Title":"Very involving","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'Frequency' is a fascinating multi-faceted film that will keep viewers on the edge of their seat from start to finish. The film sees John Sullivan, a New York detective, still struggling to come to terms with the loss of his beloved father Frank thirty years previously. However, a rare atmospheric phenomenon (some sort of solar flares) allows him to communicate with Frank thirty years into the past over their HAM radio. But when John uses this freak chance to warn his father of his death, he inadvertently changes his own time resulting in a serial killer roaming around, murdering various women including John's own mother. Working with a gulf of thirty years between them, John and Frank must find a way to stop the killer without changing history too radically.The leads of James Caviezel and Dennis Quaid, as John and Frank respectively, give excellent, strong performances in their roles. Caviezel perfectly depicts John's grief over the lasting effect his father's death had over his life, his joy at being able to speak to his father and prevent any harm befalling him and his despair and helplessness of the consequences his actions have as they ripple through time. Equally, Quaid gives a great portrayal as Frank, a decent honourable man who dearly loves his family even if his son is an adult thirty years in the future. They not only leave audiences caring for their plight but create a realistic father/son bond despite the fact they are barely appear together in the same room and age-wise there is only about ten years between them.'Frequency' is a film that strikes a nice balance between cop suspense, sci-fi, family bonding and emotional turmoil. The interesting characters and a plot that is well-paced and involving keep the audience engaged through the whole film. It manages to convey what is a very unique idea very well, dealing with trivial things such as John having to prove who he is to his father and even managing a chat to the child version of his long-time friend, wrapping everything up in a manner that is satisfying, albeit a tad too sentimental.This is definitely a film not to be missed for those who enjoy detective thrillers and want to see one with a difference. "},{"Title":"Nice One","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) a cop who lost his father (Dennis Quaid) in a fire 30 years ago, finds himself talking to him across time using his dad's old radio. Before either of them realise it they have altered the course of historic events and brought the nightingale (A Serial Killer in the 60's) back into circulation, his tally of 3 has risen to 10 and John's mother is one of them. Now John and his father have to foil the killers plans before they lose the connection across time.This movie is a race against time, and it delivers in style.9/10 Also try - The Butterfly effect and Donnie Darko and see what you think. "},{"Title":"I was surprised how great this movie is","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  OK.  I give this a great rating partly because it really hits a lot of areas that I, personally, enjoy.  The emotional focus is on the father-son relationship, and the idea of being able to contact your deceased parent.  That alone would make me at least interested inthe movie.  It also deals with the space/time continuum idea not all too far removed from Back to the Future, but certainly not ina comedy sense.  These types of movies are a guilty pleasure.  Italso manages to weave in a semi-interesting murder mystery.  The fact that there is the backdrop of the 1969 World Series is just an added treat for a baseball junkie, such as myself.  It's sort of a Field of Dreams meets Back to the Future with a side of murder mystery.  All in all, I really enjoyed it.  I have watched it again, now that it'son video, and it holds up to multiple viewings.  It will probably be one of those movies that I watch periodically to make me feel better.Anyway, I'm not going to give any plot lines or rave about the performances (they were all fine).  The true value of the movie came from the story and the direction.  Just watch the movie, I doubt you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Incredible movie... even having seen it many times!","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Didn't see this in the theater, but a coworker told me about it. Wound up buying it on DVD & watching it with my girlfriend and buddy. One of the best movies of its kind! The plot was very good, and flowed well. The action was believable. Many questions undoubtedly, but we have not been able to prove what an actual time shift act would result in. Definitely a movie to keep you on the edge of your seat, and when the timelines converge at the end, it was a total surprise and brought the end in just like a story should!Very few other movies top this... and i am eager for this writer to write something else with this kind of creativity! "},{"Title":"On the right channel","Date":"19 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Whenever we lose someone we always carry the painfully subconscious need to want to hear their voice one last time, just to know they use to exist or to know if somehow their still around.This is a sci-fi that I feel is a bit under the radar, I wouldn't say it's entirely overlooked but it's been forgotten.It's true that there in inconsistencies even some holes in logic but this film isn't concerned about about it, this is more pulp sci-fi, like with most of those stories and TV shows they were always focus on story, adventure, and fun while leaving most to all logic on the shelf. And that's great because it really gives the film a throwback feel because in a way this whole film is a Twilight Zone tale which were always about ordinary people thrown into extraordinary circumstances beyond their control.The production value I think is great despite very few special effects, which to me just adds to the film's throwback feel and I feel is another example of sci-fi working without minimum to no effects, even the TV show The Twilight Zone had almost zero effects and that show is legendary. Music score I think is very good, it really fits the film because in some places it has an emotional sensibility or even in the suspenseful situations intensity.However two of the things that stand out for me for this film are the use of both the suspense thriller and time travel format. I really love how both of them are just a beautiful combination and most time travel stories by their nature are suspense thriller because it's about stopping something before it occurs. For the time travel aspect I really like that they did something different with it for once, where instead of traveling in time it's communicating with another time period. Personally I think it's a interesting and creative idea, and it really works as we see certain cause and effect physics where in the past the desk gets burned and then suddenly you see that same spot in the present knowing it wasn't there before. Yeah, I know a real head turner but that's what makes it fun.Also what they do with the suspense thriller format where in most usually were always a step ahead of the protagonists and the suspense is hopping they figure it out sooner than later. But here for once the protagonists are a step ahead, they have the means and the tool for the job. It's still really suspenseful because it's all based on the cause and effect principle, where something happens in one time period will affect what happens in the other, it's all a matter of how the protagonists utilize the principle to their advantage.However the other thing that really makes this film stand out for me is that it has a lot of heart because it has characters you actually feel a deep sense of pathos for. You literally want the protagonists to win because you actually feel the outcome really does matter.It really does have a really solid cast most TV alums, like Elesbeth Mitchell from TV's Lost and Once Upon a Time which is ironic since those shows are mysteries based on cause and effect. Andre Braugher from Broklin Nine Nine, Jim Caviezel from Person of Interest which I'll admit is really ironic if you've ever seen the show. And of course Denis Quaid whom I think is an underrated actor to me this is one of my favorite roles from him.I really like the dynamic between both Frank (Denis Quaid) and John (Jim Caviezel) Suliven. The father son dynamic is interesting because it's mainly both of them in the same room and radio but in different time periods. It's really touching and even a bit sad since we already know Frank died, or even as we see in a really sad scene another tragedy occur with the mom. But this is just all the more motivation for the protagonists to win, you could say what's happening isn't just a coincidence in nature but it could be God or fate giving them a chance to right what once when wrong.I really like how they interact and work together in the situation their in. Even how they react toward the whole phenomenon of communicating with each other in different time periods, it feels like how anyone of us might react. Their in the same boat as us they have no idea why or how this is all really happening.But I really like the certain amount of depth both have like the fact Frank is a Baseball fun which is cool since I like Baseball. Even certain things that happened in their lives like Franks smoking and John's marriage problem and both actually help each other out. I really like those scenes when both are just simply talking to each other which is touching because it feels like the kind of conversations you have with you own father or parents. Which in a way makes the film as a whole more of a story on the love of a father and son as well as parents and siblings. And of course the film is actually gives me a good feeling at the end which I don't get enough even from the sci-fi genre.This film is loud and clear.Rating 4 stars "}{"Title":"one of the most original movies ever done.","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frequency is one of the most unique stories ever told. A young cop whose life is falling apart starts to talk on his father's old ham radio. His father has been dead for 30 years. When John Sullivan starts talking on the radio during a unique solar storm he actually speaks to his dad. together they change the course of their lives John by saving Frank's life during a fire. But in doing so they change history. John's mother is murdered. and Together Father and Son must find a way to prevent this. and bring the killer to justice. Not your typical Sci-Fi movie It is however a movie with heart. and as a result because of it and o f the original story. It stays with you. Even now more then 14 years later I still watch this movie fondly. Cherishing it. The characters are not cardboard cut outs they act like real people. In a weird situation. It's set against the back beat of the 69 world series and the miracle mets. Baseball is important in this movie and there is more then one reason for it. I love time travel stories but this is so much more then that. The Premise is heart tugging. If you could speak to a dead loved one for three days and knowing you can change the future what would you say to them? Would you try to save them? What could you do in this situation ? This movie is a classic of the highest order. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"6 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Found this film by accident one night when channel hopping enjoyed it so much i went and bought it on DVD. Dennis Quaid is always really good and all the cast are equally well matched. The whole film is so quirky and the concept of time and lives being changed is so interesting. It shows that every action has a consequence and must be thought about before making that action e.g the bar scene when he interferes and makes it worse for his wife. How their lives are so different when the father survived the fire and how justice triumphed in the end. Loved the whole concept and the ending,a great film and a must see if you haven't seen it yet, no sex swearing or much gratuitous violence. "},{"Title":"Superior time-warp story","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This addition to the long list of time-warp fantasies is better than most in two waysFirst, it stays focused on its preternatural premise. Instead of waiting for the viewer to raise the inevitable questions about such a premise, it proceeds to raise them and supply its own answers in an accelerating whirl of complications until most of us have no choice but to suspend disbelief and follow the filmmakers' lead. In this devotion to the theme of revealed fate, it somewhat resembles Rene Clair's It Happened Tomorrow.Second, it differs from most fantasies of this kind in quickly eliminating the chance that reality will be restored to its original state in the end. It's not telling too much to mention that there is no power of time travel here, no way of looping back and resetting events. Events can only move forward. Knowing this, we watch all the more raptly to see how the characters will manage. There's no need to become a believer in time-warp theory. The narrative maze is all that really matters.Unlike It Happened Tomorrow, Frequency is not a comedy. It may have structural elements of farce, but the substance is a combination of grim suspense and touching personal drama. Again unlike It Happened Tomorrow, this is not a classic. It's ultimately banal entertainment with a common problem confusion about the place it will occupy on the movie-viewer's menu. It ought to fit neatly into the category of civilized family-oriented melodrama, but parents who remember how things look to a small child will probably want theirs to be spared seeing the uglier moments in this film. Those moments are not many or extreme, but they're enough to compromise the position of Frequency as fare for absolutely the whole family. Still, think of it as appealing to young adults, however you may construe that term, and you won't be far wrong.Frequency is worth seeing once in any case, and more than once if you really must understand how the plot ticks. "},{"Title":"Interesting factoid on house address","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While watching the film, I was immediately surprised to notice that the Sullivan house address number was 343, a number held in high reverence by firefighters across the USA--343 fire personnel lost their lives on 9/11/2001 at the World Trade Center collapse. I looked at the date the film was made to find it was released in 2000, a year prior to the attack. Interesting that the main character is a FDNY truckie... This is a very good film that involves a little twist on the whole space-time-continuum theory. The characters are believable, emotional, and humorous. Good for families (PG-13 for the suspense I would assume) and yes, even a good date movie. Good special effects make the time difference well--very detailed. "},{"Title":"Time talkers","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Once you get over the plot device that drives this movie, you'll find a surprisingly interesting and intriguing story.A son talks to his father 30 years into the past via a ham radio that is transmitting thru time due to an atmospheric disturbance.Unlike many movies where glitches in time can cause the past to change, and people are wary of that, the idea of not altering the past doesn't even come up in this film.Can the son, by talking to his father in the past, save his father's life? His mother's life? Stop a serial killer? You'll find out, in a very well acted and suspenseful movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat and keeps you guessing how the meddling in time is going to next effect events.The ending is satisfying on two different levels. Just watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"rarely does one see a movie link these different kinds of things","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Since the 21st century began, there have been several movies with several interconnected stories (Traffic, Syriana, Babel). In that sense, maybe Gregory Hoblit's Frequency was a sign of things to come. Granted, it focuses on one story, but uses two other topics (aurora Borealis and baseball) to move the plot along.Of course, it's probably not too important that aurora Borealis and baseball play the roles that they play. The movie brings up the paradox of time travel, all the while understanding that this is a fictional story. It's not a great movie, but you gotta admire how they lay everything out, with the changes in the past and present. Worth seeing. Starring Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel. "},{"Title":"well along the lines of Gregory Benford's SF novel Timescape","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This story sends information back through time, via radio waves but, presumably, assisted (just this once) by tachyons. In this, it walks the terrain of the justly famous, major science fiction novel Timescape (1980, got Nebula award) by Gregory Benford (physicist and writer). And, of course, the past is altered, and, of course, this has consequences for the logical consistency of the time from which the message was sent. But Benford split the universe into two universes, while here, in this movie, something quite other happens.A solid SF movie, though much burdened by the sugary local American patriotism.Andre Braugher plays exactly the same cop as in Homicides and Hack - - the same role, continued through several films and series. Is there a word for this type of continuity? "},{"Title":"Time twist","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Awesome piece of writing, even if it requires the audience to suspend belief. Time-twisting threads can either leave one in amazed wonder of the possibilities or laughing on the floor at the ludicrousness of it. Here, Toby Emmerich (it's his only screenwriting credit of his career; he's a studio exec/producer predominantly) lays out a credible, well thought out story that's as tight as any time-twist tale could be.A sweet but seemingly inconsequential line between the young parents of Johnny, frustrated at his failures in learning to ride a bike, came back to explain why the adult John may have been difficult to live with as a husband. He just needs to know that you're behind him, (paraphrased) says the mother to her husband. Well, the father wasn't because he dies the next day, and the vacuum is felt by an adult John.The science of radio transmissions into the future/past can be suspended because there is sufficient poignancy and pathos between father-son, husband-wife, and between friends. It draws its strength from the Dennis Quaid-Jim Caviezel exchange as father-son -- two sympathetic, heroic characters attached at the heart.Kudos to writer Emmerich and director Gregory Hoblit for pulling off one of the most satisfying movies I have seen.  "},{"Title":"A True Father and Son Film!!!","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"      I love my father so much that we have this tradition of some sort.We watch a film that has a pure sense of a father and son movie.At the last mintue when the film was at the show still I picked this one out and by our shock it was ten times better than what we ever excepted.    John Sullivan(Jim Carviezel)has had a hard life since his father's death,Frank Sullivan(Dennis Quaid),in 1969.Now 30 years later,he is able to talk to his father by an old radio communicater,just a day before he dies.Now thinking he has change the past can make deadily results for both of there futures.    This is a perfect father and son movie with a scifi thriller thrown in it.The acting is great thanks to Dennis Quaid,Jim Carviezel,and Andre Brauger.I recommended to anyone who loves thriller,drama,and father and son films. "},{"Title":"Fun at the OLD ball game","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best film I have ever seen about the New York Mets.  Using their amazing 1969 World Series as an underlying thread tying the father and son's times together truly pays homage to what baseball once was.  In spite of the flaws that many of the other viewers have pointed out (which I certainly don't want to simply overlook) I thoroughly enjoyed this film.      I'm not quite sure exactly why.  Things should make sense logically in science fiction, or at least be plausible.  I'm not sure if all of the time travel stuff really does, but using baseball, for me at least, was the one thing that made this movie work.  Hearing Curt Gowdy's play-by-play brought back childhood memories for me. "}{"Title":"Okay, so it won't ever win an Oscar...","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie. Yes, it is a fantasy-type movie, but who wouldn't like to go back and save the life of a loved one, even if it meant an alternate reality? I would try to save my aunt from cancer and a couple of friends from a car crash if I could. I know some people think it's a waste of time to fantasize, but I love getting lost in a movie, even if it would never ever happen to anyone in real life. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming movie with a sci-fi touch to it","Date":"31 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit to being biased when it comes to this movie, so if you read this comment and see the movie and don't like it, I'm sorry. I absolutely loved this movie because it adds a bit of fantasy to what becomes a murder mystery. James Caviezel, who portrays a disillusioned cop and the son of a firefighter, is terrific in the role of John. His character lost his father (Dennis Quaid's character, Frank) in a fire 30 years ago and at a low point in his life finds himself in a bizarre situation. He is somehow able to communicate via ham  radio with his deceased dad and the first conversation between the two sparks a strange and dramatic turn of events as John tries to change his past by saving his father's life. Now, the two men must race against time and fate to save John's mother, Julia, (Elizabeth Mitchell) from the sick and twisted hands of a serial killer. This movie is one of my favorites and now, James Caviezel is one of my favorites too. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie. Basically a man talks to his Dad in the past and then all hell break lose when events in the present start changing, which directly affect the main character and his family! Jim Cavezal star with Dennis Quaid in a great, entertaining movie. Go check this out I think you will really enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Great film despite it's unrealistic premise. POSSIBLE SPOILER","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great film about human kind and how people need each other.  I don't want to spoil anything, but the way in which people communicate (the ham radio, through time) in this movie is a little far-fetched.  I find myself thinking throughout the movie, Wait a minute, if he's talking to his dad 30 years ago, his dad NOW would remember it but it just happened! Aye yi yi....a big headache ensues. "},{"Title":"This is a great film","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this on vhs probably a year ago but something the other day reminded me of it so i decided to come here and see what other people thought of it, i thought the movie was well scripted and acted, and the constant changes made for an exciting movie. I think it wasn't as popular as it should have been because it involved thinking to realise what was going on. "},{"Title":"Well done, exciting and touching; a different father and son story","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In 1969, the people of New York can see the Northern lights, and Frank Sullivan is one of the firefighters called to a tanker truck accident.  I won't say whether he survives, but the next scenes, which could be  flashbacks, show him with his wife and his young son John.In 1999, the Northern lights are once again visible in New York City, and homicide detective John Sullivan is about to get a very complicated case, which will soon grow even more complex thanks to a discovery made by some of his friends  a ham radio used by John's father before his death 30 years earlier.  After he and his friends fix the radio, John starts talking on it and finds someone else out there.  He later realizes that he is talking to his own father 30 years in the past.  Both men believe someone is playing a prank, but Frank has an accident with a cigarette, and all of a sudden John sees a burn mark that wasn't there before. John convinces Frank he is real by telling him what happened in the 1969 World Series, and then John warns his father about the fire that killed him.  It is quite exciting to watch history change, because we go back and forth between 1969 and 1999 and then, at the precise moment things change, we see flashbacks of scenes that may or may not have happened the first time.Frank is very appreciative, and he and John develop quite a relationship.  Frank enjoys life more and appreciates what he has, but John must deal with memories he didn't have before, which result in unpleasant dreams.  And then the 30-year-old murder case he is working on takes a disturbing turn.  With Frank's help, he has the chance to stop at least some of the murders, and to catch the person who may have committed them.  It's quite interesting, and somewhat like the 'Back to the Future' movies, when Frank passes along evidence to be used in the case.This was an exciting movie, and it had a number of tender moments with a unique father-and-son relationship.  I particularly enjoyed a scene where John as an adult talked to his lifelong friend Gordo as a child. Both lead actors were quite good, and so was Andre Braugher, who played one of the detectives on the murder case in both 1969 and 1999, though I didn't think he looked that much younger in 1969.  There were exciting scenes of action, and chilling moments where the movie moved slowly but still kept my attention.  It was funny sometimes to watch both Frank and John try to convince people they were not crazy.  I always enjoy these situations where someone who knows the future can change it. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Beautiful","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this for the first time on TV with commercials and everything and it almost kills me that I didn't rent it when it first came out.  This is Dennis Quaid at his absolute best in a wonderful heart pulling movie about reconnecting with the past.  I love this movie and I think Quaid is the most underrated star actor in America.  I think the other lead, sorry I forgot his name was excellent as Quaid's son.  His misery is palpable and he is a great newcomer that I expect will go on to great things.  A fantastic film and a lost treasure.  I give it a ten. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly well done movie!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very surprised by this unheralded movie.  It was wonderfully scripted, acted, and edited.  What could easily have been just another time-altered movie, is instead very clever with lots of twists I didn't see coming.Dennis Quaid is an underrated actor and James Cavriezel is excellent. Frequency is a bit long but not due to editing.  The writer just had so many great plot points! "},{"Title":"a Science Fiction tour de force","Date":"18 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie did more to explain, use, and get characters out of, time travel paradoxes then anything I have ever seen on the screen.  This movie BLEW ME AWAY with how it handled what had seemed like a goofy premise when the flick had come out.  I have now watched it from beginning to end on three occasions, and it continues to blow me away.  The casting of the father and son in 1969 and the present day are great, and watching the son unfold with every change in the past is wonderful.  Why this movie didn't even get nominated for a Hugo Award (the awards given by the World SF convention each year) amazes me- it should have won the award. "},{"Title":"Keeps You Guessing Right Till The End","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, i'm not going to wreck the movie for those of you who haven't seen it, but Frequency had to be one of the best Sci-Fi/Mystery ones I have seen in a long time. The movie is well acted by Dennis Quaid & Jim Caviezel who are stuck in 1969 & 1999 respectively, we see John (Caviezel), a NYPD Homicide officer who is still traumatized by the death of his dad (Quaid), a heroic firefighter. After coming across his HAM radio, he decides to plug it in, and comes across his dad, John manages to rescue him but with serious consequences. The film also boasts actual history events from the 1969 World Series and a finish which will surprise you, it's a movie that you really have to pay close attention to, but it's worth the lenght of the time duration, overall this film gets a 9 out of 10 "}{"Title":"This was good","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This wasn't Emmy/Oscar/Academy Awards winner but it was good.Regardless of it imitating Twilight Zone (Poltergeist did as well)it was not nonsense. I thought it was very sweet and it kept my attention.  "},{"Title":"I'm so glad everybody agrees with me!!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is fantastic!  And I think the comments here prove that.Disregard the comments of people who say it has inconsistencies or it's unbelievable.Unbelievable??  Of course it is.  I'm sure I'm not the only person who thinks time travel is impossible.Inconsistent??  Seeing that nobody knows what happens when time is distorted, how can you say that there are inconsistencies with the premise of time travel?I've seen this movie three times (first time at the drive-in on a rainy night - perfect!!) and each time I pick up on things that I didn't notice the time before.Definitely worth seeing if you want a movie that encourages you to think and plays on your sense of adventure. "},{"Title":"that's a good movie !!!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've never heard of this movie on tv or anywhere. I've seen the name somewhere on internet (p2p...) and I've checked  here on imdb to know more about it, it sounded interesting. Now I've seen it and I put this movie in the top 3 of all movies I've ever seen ! It's amazing, from the start to the end you'll never get your eyes off of the screen. The actors are wonderful, there's really nothing bad to say about this movie. Go buy/rent it it's fabulous ! "},{"Title":"Back to the Future with a heart!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Touching, sad and brilliant. I just can't believe how this movie received so many underrated reviews? Absolutely fantastic idea not to mention the touching moment with both father and son talking to each from different time spans (1999 - 1969) and eventually re-uniting under strange circumstances. Jim Caviezel and Dennis Quaid really do pour their hearts out playing their roles to perfection. I don't care what many may think, I'm just glad I added this to my collection of DVD's.All I have to conclude is go get it, you won't be disappointed. 9/10 "},{"Title":"What if?","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'What if?' was the question posed on the advance posters for Frequency, a rare breed of film.  Most movies made these days lack heart.  Maybe it's too weak to produce a movie that makes the audience feel, I don't know.  I'm a sentimental guy, so, this one went straight to my heart.  The second time I saw it, I dragged my dad & mom to the theatre with me.I love the concept of time travel and the way that films glorify ordinary men as outstanding heroes.  Frequency is the epitome of both.  The underlying message in this story is the way one man's entire world changes after the loss of his father.  I'm biased in this review because I think Jim Caviezel is one of the greats of the new actor breed.  He has a soft spoken intensity that fills the screen.  He was ominous in The Thin Red Line and just as good here.  Also, I'm a huge Dennis Quaid fan.  I noticed a lot of women in the theater were really charmed by him, too.  Even my mom.  Anyway....I do believe that all the points of this film were explained but, for me, I just liked the personal feel it gives off.  There is a lot of magic in the presence of 'Dad' in a young boy's eyes.  To make him a firefighter made him even more great.  Quaid's Frank Sullivan was a true blue American of yesteryear, a real patriot who loves baseball, his family, his neighborhood and being a fireman.Flash forward 30 years, and we find the grown version of Frank's son Johnny struggling to be a good man.  He's bitter and dark, searching for a taste of hope.  This being a movie, he absolutely finds it via an old ham radio.Frequency isn't fluff, though.  No, it's a clever twist on the murder mystery genre and works very, very well.  Lending great support are the amazing Andre Braugher, lovely Elizabeth Mitchell and a variety of interesting characters who set the mood for 1969 New York.I won't spoil this film by revealing anymore, but, I will say that the woodburned message really got me.  Frequency is living proof that the magic of movies is not lost.  Please, please check out this movie.  I guarantee you it is worth it! "},{"Title":"A step above your normal time travel flick","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Clever, well-conceived story about a son communicating with his dad in 1969 via his father's HAM radio.  Of course, the normal riffs in the space-time continuum add to the whole thing, but, through these, the story becomes quite riveting and exciting, not only as sci-fi/action, but also as an entertaining story of a son trying to get closer to his long lost dad.  Enhanced by top-notch performances...I especially enjoyed Dennis Quaid as the father, this is definitely worth checking out, and I would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As an avid film buff I dont know how I missed this film when it was in theaters, but I am kicking myself for it now.  When I finally got my eyes on this film I was amazed.  Not only was it thoroughly entertaining, it was mind-opening.  When the movie is over you are flooded with millions of what-if's?  To me, the true test of a movie's greatness is whether or not you still think about days or even weeks after viewing.  Frequency, and the ideas that it brings come to mind all the time.  This movie is a rare gem and one that everyone should see.  I have recommended it to countless friends and have yet to receive a negative review.  One word for this movie, WOW!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Great, just great!","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had wanted to see this when it came out, but I did not have the chance to. I eventually bought it on DVD, and I just watched it the other day. It was really good. I never lost interest in the whole two hours, and that is sometimes very hard. The plot was great. Imagine if you really could talk to your long lost relative that died and then change the problems that caused their death. I really enjoyed the way that the movie jumped between the decades. Dennis Quaid played a really good part. I have always enjoyed his work. If you enjoy good movies that warm your heart and keep you excited, then this movie is for you. Hell, even Mancow liked it, and he usually only likes horror movies. I highly suggest that you see this. I don't think that you will be dissapointed.10/10!! "},{"Title":"Tune in to this Frequency for a  true masterpiece","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ladies and gentleman, boys and girls prepare to take a magical journey through the heart and soul. Dennis Quaid, Jim Caviezel, Andre Braugher and Elizabeth Mitchell star in this magical journey that will leave each member of the viewing audience in awe and breathless.Frequency joins Men Of Honor, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and Finding Forrester as my five of my favorite films, which deserve the title of masterpiece. My reasons for making this statement are the unique concept of the film, superb writing and strong performances.Congratulations to the writers for creating one of the richest scripts brought to screen since Titanic. I kept smiling throughout this film because it explored the unbreakable bond father and son share with one another. I knew Frequency would become a powerful and special film as soon as I saw the trailer for the first time. I was in awe and shock when Frequency was left off the academy award ballot.Frequency is laced with storylines that would put light in a dark room and brighten anyone's dark days. Frequency is laced with intense, adrenaline pumping action with edge of your seat suspense, excitement and drama. This unique film ranks in the top ten movies I've seen all year. Frequency is a unique film that will never be made again and if the chance arose this type of film is made; it will never measure up to the greatness of this film.Quaid, Caviezel, Mitchell and Braugher come together to bring one of the finest films to life. In the spirit of Ghost, Frequency is an epic story about father and son who reunite over the ham radio 30 years after Frank's death. However, throughout their conversations, they unintentionally alter the past and become thrust into a serial murder investigation. The cast support Frequency receives is powerful and rich.Quaid is an actor you can count on to give 110 percent in each performance he gives. Frequency is the latest in a long string of films that keeps me in shock and asking the question why he hasn't had the opportunity to win academy awards since his performances were deserving.Caviezel's resume may not be high in quantity but it is high in quality, yet he is a tremendous asset to each film he stars in. Caviezel may not be a Hollywood veteran quite yet; but with his charisma, screen presence, integrity and intensity he deserves the title of veteran.Braugher provides great support in his role as Caviezel's partner and Quaid's friend in Frequency. I have always enjoyed Braugher from his role on the series, Homicide Life On The Street because his presence is felt with each scene was in; a fact which holds true in every film he is in. I look forward to each film he is in because like Quaid he gives 110 percent.I know I have consistently said music and soundtracks are one of the most powerful selling points of a film. From Trisha Yearwood's rendition of 'How Do I Live' for Con Air to Celine Dion's 'My Heart Will Go On' in Titanic comes a song so powerful and touching it will leave you in tears. Garth Brooks rendition of 'When You Come Back To Me Again' put icing on the cake and made me watch this film. Upon listening to this song, everyone will get a sense of what this movie is about. This is one the top five soundtrack songs that I've heard in my life because it is the perfect companion to an already perfect movie.Only one word comes to mind when describing my overall feeling of this film EXCELLENCE. Every part of Frequency is excellent. From the powerful and moving performances to the edge of your seat drama, Frequency will delight and amaze every viewer. It is my honor to let everyone know Frequency is one of the best films of 2000. I have seen Frequency so many times I've stopped counting after 10. Frequency is an A+ in my book.  "},{"Title":"one of the best movies i ever seen, truly a must see.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film has everything, it is exciting, heart warming, scary, the script is almost perfect, the acting is great and the director won't  even let you get up for a p**s. I watched it once and just had to see it again. The best thing I feel about this film is that it really makes you think, for me especially because my fathers dad left when he was small and he died before he could find him. I hate films that don't tell you everything or leave problems unsolved or it ends bad like Arlington Road but this one is a whole film it makes you feel really nice and you'll wanna hug your dad or son.  There aren't many films like this around that mix so many emotions at one point I was cacking myself then the next minute I was nearly crying. If you haven't seen this film, go and get it on DVD and see the out takes, the trailers and the commentary.  Another triumph from New Line Cimena.  "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Nowadays due to DVD and home cinema, an average movie will become better, especially if the sound is exciting etc... And recently I've watched quite a lot of these movies.But Frequency is one of those movies where you don't care about the sound and stuff, after 30mins, you just don't care. This film remains interesting from the start,  and never lets up.Sure, scientificly it isn't correct, on the DVD the writer even says so. But it's more about the characters, and the father/son relationship, which will relate to nearly half the audience. Films shouldn't be nickpicked on little technical issues, at the end of the day, no matter how big the screen, how dynamic the sound, or how flashy the camerawork is -- a story is the only thing that will prevail, and here it does.This film is exciting, intruiging, well-paced, tense and is excellent.Watch it.  "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing (may contain spoilers)","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Warning may contain minor spoilers and dubious comments.Time travel and the way the past affects the future is certainly not a new topic. The words Back to the Future come to mind. However, except for a few glitches in the script (how come the radio connection between the past and the present are lagged exactly thirty years and synchronized for the exact same day, regardless of leap years and other technicalities?), this story is smarter than the average, not to mention the carrying out of it.While the movie does have the Hollywood nature, it has some other features as well, which makes it stand out. With a few lapses, it manages to shift between cliffhanger scenes and less serious scenes, some which at least seem like intended irony and casual attitude towards the story itself.Furthermore, the camera work is excellent, including some reoccurring themes building up the intensity. Slow motion shots of falling objects illustrate the importance of a few fatal moments in the movie, and the lighting crew has done a good job.The makeup crew seems to have gone ballistic in a few instances, and this disturbs the credibility of some characters, who are otherwise competently presented by such admirable actors as Andre Braugher from Homicide Life on the Street.The main upside of Frequency is its ability to surprise and keep the excitement on a relatively high level, though the end is somewhat of a disappointment. However, the body of the movie contains enough questions for a curious viewer to keep pondering long after the last name has rolled up across the screen. "},{"Title":"The best of every candy in the store!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Oh My God!!! This is the best movie I've seen in a long time...my heart was pounding to get out of my chest within one minute of the film rolling. Edge of your seat, thrilling to the last second.  Kudos to everyone in this film, especially the writer.  I thought I was going to see a touching film about repairing a relationship between father and son, and got the best surprise of my life.  I don't know if that makes for brilliant or stupid marketing. I couldn't stop wondering what was coming next, so many twists and turns, and yet as it went you knew somehow there was going to be a reason for meeting this person or finding that thing.  Have I said I love this movie, because I do.  Mr. Quaid, you make it look so easy.  Mr. Caviezel, My friend and I know you have just made stardom in our books, at the very least.  We LOVE your work.  Go see this movie, you will not be sorry.  I only have one question--did they have elaborate sprinkler systems in buildings in 1969? If not, tut-tut, but overall who cares, I bought it for the fun of it. Thank You for a great Mom's night out. "},{"Title":"OUTSTANDING!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Mystery, Comedy, Suspense, Sci-Fi, Thriller, This Film Has It All, I Almost Didn't See This Movie (All It Seems To Lack Is Proper Marketing) But Boy Oh Boy Am I Glad I Did. This Is A Masterpiece Of Writing, Dialogue, Plot, Acting, Casting & Directing. Truly A Gem! An Exquisitely Crafted, Heartwarming, Heroic, Tearjerker, Chock Full Of Totally Unpredictable Edge Of The Seat Suspense, Right Down To The Last Scene, Make Way Gladiator, You Now Have A Rival At The Oscars This Year, I'm Certain This Movie Cost Less To Make, But Don't Let That Fool You, Move Over Russell Crowe, Veteran Star Dennis Quaid Delivers More Bang For the Buck, Yet Still On The Same Frequency. Ridley Scott You Made A Fantastic Movie, But Gregory Hoblit Just Outdid You, Bringing Us Far More Real Story Guts, Garnished  With Far Less Superficial Gore. (Hoblit Who Has Brought Us Fallen & Primal Fear, Just Keeps Getting Better And Better) And This New Writer Tobias Emmerich Just Became My Hero! Oh How An Executive In Charge Of Music For Nearly 20 Films Can Suddenly Write Like This, Is Beyond Me. Toby Youve Found Your Calling,Please Don't Stop Here, WRITE, MORE! MORE! MORE!. ENCORE!, ENCORE! 10 STARS    SEE IT  NOW! "},{"Title":"A film that continues to top itself with each new development...","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What started out as one of the most poorly conceived opening title sequences very quickly segued into one of the finest films I have ever seen.However, I do admit that by the end of the film I understood what the title sequence was attempting to do. So much for first impressions.This fantasy/science fiction/murder mystery/thriller breaks new ground -- both in cinematic effects and the brilliant execution of what must have been a very difficult story to film.In order to make the point about flashing between generations the photography (at least early in the story) is too 'artsy.' But after the point is established the photography settles down and becomes nothing short of brilliant.This could be classified as the quintessential 'American Movie.' There is Mom, Heroism, Love & Tragedy and Redemption -- all in an exquisite package.The screenplay and casting were brilliantly realized.  There was not a false moment -- I was more than willing to suspend my disbelief.This is also one of the very rare films that manages to top itself in every successive scene.Just when you think you cannot get any farther onto the edge of your seat the next scene takes you even further and heightens the suspense to an almost unbearable degree.Every moment is a gem.I will not even mention the incredible acting by every one in this film.  They are what makes this fantasy so believable and to mention them by name would somehow make the film not quite as unreal as I hold it in my mind -- for which I could not forgive myself. "},{"Title":"Definitely Dennis Quaid's best performance!!","Date":"27 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I loved the NY (Queens?) accents! As a Dennis Quaid fan, I have to say this is, as of 2010, his best performance. Entirely believable! I really felt for his character, even more than protagonist 'Little Chief's. I did not see Ladder 49 (2004) but of fire fighter movies (for the little that is in this picture) this was the best one.What a thrill to see Dennis doing something great after everything else he did (that I've seen) post-Wyatt Earp's Doc Holliday. I hope he will be able to star in more movies like this one! That is for Dennis (who does happen to be a damn good jazz pianist and singer on the side)! As movies go, hey, this one actually made it past 7! That is saying a lot for my ratings where a vast number of visually-stimulating flicks end up. What brought Frequency to the next level was the very real father-son interactions (kudos also to Jim Caviezel who assisted in this). If that were all, seriously, it would be a masterpiece.So what kept it from 9? The sci-fi time-alternating premise needed serious work. Not even slightly believable. For that I had to seriously suspend disbelief and it was work. The idea was great though. "},{"Title":"Frequency","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From the Director that brought audiences Primal Fear and Fracture, comes another gem from Gregory Hoblit, Frequency. Released in 2000, and written by the great Toby Emmerich, Frequency brings the mystical to the reality with its touching story. Bridging the gap between a deceased father and his forever effected son, we see a supernatural coincidence bring together a relationship that was ended far too soon. Frequency shows the depth that special bond of love between a father and son.The aurora Borealis, an old HAM radio, and love come together to allow a father and son in New York to communicate with each other; sounds refreshingly old fashioned and lovely until you add the fact that the father died years before. A family man and devout New York City firefighter, Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid) died in the line of duty when his son was a young boy. Our story takes place in the son's reality, 1999; a New York City police officer, John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) forever reeling from the loss of the man he looked up to as a boy happens upon his father's old radio and plugs it in for a dose of nostalgia. Picking up a transmission, he communicates with the man on the other end. After putting the pieces together, John realizes that he is communicating with his father, in 1969, the night before the accident that takes his life. Desperate to have his father in his life, John convinces his dad of what is going on, and urges him to take different actions during the fire in hopes of saving his life. John's hope comes true, and his father takes different actions, only for the pair to realize that those actions create different circumstances, creating a new situation to overcome before the two can have the reunion they both want. Frequency explores the bond between father and son and shows that changing the past can produce grave circumstances.Jim Caviezel does an excellent job playing the part of a broken son who longs for the father that influenced him so much. You can see the yearning in the actor's eyes to be reunited with his dad. Dennis Quaid also plays his part well. There is a certain naivety essential for Quaid's character to pull off to make it believable; after all, you've got a guy on a hand-held radio telling you that he is from the future, and your son, when he's upstairs asleep. Quaid pulls off the endearing naivet with ease, creating a character the audience wants to see succeed. The great chemistry between the actors, since it is largely centered on just the two men, makes Frequency an enjoyable film to visit again and again.No one event makes up the direction your life takes, and changing one event will have lasting impact on the rest of your life to come; these are the overarching themes I took away from Frequency. A great narrative to invite the audience to see the important of their pasts, and the effect of events of life on other life events, the film's message proves a positive one. It is uplifting for me to think that me and the events of my life are impactful to others and the events of their lives as well. The past is important, but no single event defines who we are, unless we let it, that is the lasting message of Frequency. "},{"Title":"A satisfying sci-fi with a strong emotional pay-off.","Date":"18 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a lovely, well thought out film with an interesting scientific basis and great acting. The interplay between the characters, who show care for their actions and a strong sense of responsibility for the affects of these, carries the film through. All the plot twists and alterations flow together making for an intriguing story which requires some thought and ideally a second viewing. I particularly liked the scenes at the two wakes where we see an adult and child John Sullivan react to the events as the alternate time streams are created. The acting is excellent throughout and it was truly touching to see the two male leads connecting as they recognised their importance to and need of each other. The ending may seem a little overblown but it is a gentle, sweet reminder of the specialness of a loving family. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming sci fi thriller","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gregory Hoblit's Frequency is a low key, high concept sci fi thriller that could have quickly degenerated into easy, sensationalistic thrills, but instead chooses to keep itself rooted in character and emotion as opposed to purely effects and spectacle. A lot of sci fi movies use the characters simply as vehicles to test drive the snazzy special effects and often end up lulling us into a coma. This one takes it's extremely minimal effects and uses them only to explore the relationships between characters as opposed to cheaply wowing us, and is a much richer film as a result of it. Hoblit has a few excellent thrillers under his belt (Primal Fear and Fallen come to mind) and even with those he never let the lofty concepts smother the character's growth or journey. Here, Dennis Quaid plays enthusiastic firefighter, loving husband and doting father Frank Sullivan, who lives in 1960's NYC with his kid and gorgeous wife (Elizabeth Mitchell). This film captures family love like no other, as we see through the actor's work that they really, really care about each other and would do anything to keep each other safe. Life throws a wrench in their idyllic lives, and decades later we join up with the adult version of Frank's kid, now a police detective and played by a burnt out, steely Jim Caviesel. He's haunted by the tragic way things turned out with his family. When his buddy gives him an old HAM radio, he absent-mindedly tinkers with it, until he reaches someone, who turns out to be his own father from back in the 60's, thanks to a solar storm of epic proportions that's turning the laws of time and space on earth inside out. It's far-fetched to be sure, but few films turn their beyond reality concepts into something as fun and grounded as this baby. Quaid and Caviesel, communicating across an impossible gulf of time and tragedy, work together to right the wrongs, discover the clues and transform the sad past they share into something more liveable. And we, the audience, are treated to a stellar sci fi/time travel flick that cares endlessly about its characters, aims to please and never ceases to entertain. With terrific supporting work from Andre Braugher, Shawn Doyle and Noah Emmerich, this is one I can watch on repeat and always be moved by its focused desire to tell a great story, and actors embodying the work flawlessly. "},{"Title":"Impractical?  Of course.  But it is done so very well!","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There are others, but there are 2 film themes that come up over and over in films -- amnesia and time travel -- and almost never work. Amnesia only worked well in one film that I remember -- Ronald Colman's Random Harvest. Frequency is not about amnesia. It is about time travel. And this is that rare movie about time travel that actually works and is rather engrossing.One reason that this works is because they don't try to apply the theme to world-wide events. Instead, they focus on a father and his son over about 3 decades. The father a fire fighter, the son a policeman. As in common with such themes, every time the father and son intervene to change family history, unintended things also happen. So as they fix one thing, something else goes wrong, and then that needs to be fixed. And it all involves trying to solve some serial murders that happened years ago. And how do the father and son communicate over all those years -- the same ham radio that seems to derive special powers due to the aurora. A little far-fetched? Of course. But it works, and it works well. In fact, the way things happen is rather ingenious. And there are points where you may find yourself sitting on the edge of your chair.The father here is played by Dennis Quaid. Typically, I can take him or leave him. But he's very, very good here. The son is played by Jim Caviezel, who is equally as good as Quaid. Andre Braugher is a police detective who gets caught in the middle of a murder investigation that appears to incriminate his friend. Everyone else does their jobs, although none play parts big enough to deserve special mention.This film is done well enough that even though you realize the story is impractical, you find yourself thinking -- yes, that makes sense. "}{"Title":"Deserving of Frequent Viewings.","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frequency (2000) Dir Gregory Hoblit / Cast Jim Caviezel, Dennis Quaid, Elizabeth Mitchell, Shawn Doyle, Andre Braugher Bonding between father and son and how they are suddenly able to communicate by radio after an electrical surge. Jim Caviezel plays a cop and Dennis Quaid plays his father who died in a fire in 1969. Quaid burns a cigarette out on his desk and Caviezel can see its effect in his future time. This is never explained other than via ham handed electrical surge that is never convincing. Quaid survives the fire because Caviezel warned him. Now he instructs his father in preventing his mother's murder. Overwhelming while conclusion leaves more questions than answers. The happy ending bit doesn't work because it leaves the notion that past mistakes can be eliminated even though they have been committed. This also affects the credibility of characters played by Caviezel and Quaid who are pitted into territory that the screenwriter never examines. Elizabeth Mitchell fares better as Quaid's wife, a nurse who is murdered. Shawn Doyle also has a key role that only falters in the flimsy conclusion. Andre Braugher plays Caviezel's partner who ends up making an arrest in 1969 that plays into the plot. Directed by Gregory Hoblit sustains similar affect that he had with Fallen, another intriguing film that makes no sense. Not convincing yet strong in its theme of rekindling. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"One of the Best films of the 2000s!","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember when this was first released in theaters in 2000, and it pretty much got lost in the shuffle of films released around that time. I wouldn't end up seeing it for the first time until the following year on cable- and I was blown away! Former NYPD Blue director, Gregory Hoblit, makes a really good film about every other picture he directs- Primal Fear, this movie- not so good ones- Fallen and Hart's War, etc.. But this is his best work IMO.Dennis Quaid plays an FDNY firefighter in 1969 Queens who connects with his 36-year old cop son (Jim Caviezel), living in the present-day, through an old HAM radio- all due to some highly localized electro- temporal spatial effects caused by unusual aurora borealis activity. A serial killer investigation going on at that time ends up coming into the mix, and the two work together to prevent more murders. Brilliant! I know there have been some comparisons with Ghost and The Sixth Sense, but really, this movie stands on it's own. One of my favorite character actors, Andre Braugher, also co-stars as the best friend of Quaid's character , and Caviezel's partner in the present day. And Shawn Doyle has a great chilling supporting role as the serial killer. Elizabeth Mitchell and Noah Emmerich round out the cast. "},{"Title":"good sci-fi murder mystery thriller","Date":"25 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It's 1969 and a serial killer is loose. Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid) is a risk-taking firefighter. He's happily married to Jules (Elizabeth Mitchell) with a son John. In 1999, John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) is a hard-drinking cop and his girlfriend leaves him. His best friend is still Gordo (Noah Emmerich). They find his dad's Ham radio. When he starts it up, the strange atmospheric conditions connect the son to the father 30 years apart. John warns his father of his impending death and saves him. However it sets off changes that includes the murder of his mother along with more nurses by the serial killer Nightingale. John uses his police files to guide his father to track down the killer.It's a terrific premise. There is a change in the middle with the introduction of the serial killer story. It probably needs to get there a little sooner to change gear. The thriller is actually quite compelling despite splitting the time and the two main actors. It's able to connect the two sides very effectively. Both Quaid and Caviezel are able to keep the tension high. "},{"Title":"What an amazing movie. This should be in the top 250!","Date":"29 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wow everyone! where to begin.. I just watched this movie and I really enjoyed it. It is deep and really touching. If you like movies about time-travel you will also love this. I think the actors and crew did such an amazing job on this movie. You must see it! This movie reminded me of my grandfather also, who was a HAM operator in '69. Normally I am always telling myself I should write a review about Movie Y or X but this movies was SO good that I had to go right to IMDb and write an honest review.I also have a background with HAM Radio so I think that this is part of the reason I like this movie so much. It makes me think about this in reality also. With Auroras in real-life it is possible to cover super-long distances. It's nice that this movie didn't fell like your typical scifi movie and felt natural. Of course it's a movie but this one felt quite possible which made it seem very real and touching.I will stop writing now, just watch it and don't forget to share your rating afterwords. "},{"Title":"Nice combination of the family and the time travel elements","Date":"22 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The story really nicely combines two distanced elements of contemporary movie. It has a very focused family element, especially in the form of fatherhood. The time travel element is also really nice. It has no real time travel since the the difference is only crossed by the radio chat between the characters. The movie treats the time travel element by keeping its mystery at the beginning but then take the focus away from the time travel mystery after the first history change with Frank not dying. Since then it's all about the fatherhood. The acting overall is quite good. Dennis Quaid played the father quite well that he expresses the right emotions on his scenes. Jim Caviezel played also quite well in expressing all those memory change. "},{"Title":"Good Time Travel Film","Date":"13 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a good example of a time travel science fiction movie, in a genre where there are many examples and most of them break at least one concrete law of time travel that leaves anyone with even a little common sense and intelligence scratching their heads and wondering how does that work?Of course you still have to suspend your disbelief but as far as this sub-genre goes Frequency was a surprisingly good, and I would even go so far as to say it is a great example, of these time travel themed movies.The acting is great. The star is recognizable of course and this is one of his best roles to date, but the cast around him is also very good in their roles.Highly recommended if you like science fiction. "},{"Title":"Good job, producer.","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ever since I saw the Frequencies, I started to search if there possibly is same kind of movie then I found this. This one has the same title&#x97;almost, with better rating on IMDb. I didn't download it as I did to Frequencies, I watched it on HBO yesterday.Formerly, I was confused of how it was filmed. But then I realized if it wasn't executed like that, it may not be as thrilling as it is. The idea of the movie is pretty original, time-traveler. How could just an old radio connecting two people from afar, 1969 and 1999, father (who just died) and his amazing son. How the son wants to change his life by simply talking to his old father. How the son loves his father that he would like to change their&#x97;family pasts to be gathered back. It's a pure fantasy of father-and-son relation that makes my tears slowly down from the two of my eyes. "},{"Title":"A genuine surprise . . .","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frequency shares something with 'Field of Dreams'. It is sentimental but it asks you to check logic at the door. The latter film was infinitely better but I had a good time watching 'Frequency'.In 1969, Fireman Frank Sullivan is killed when he can't get out of a warehouse after rescuing a runaway girl. 30 years later in 1999 his son John is digging through a closet and finds dad's old ham radio. Playing around with it he suddenly hears a voice and at first doesn't realize that it is his father sitting there in 1969, actually the day before his death.Well, it's no big surprise to say that John gives his father information that will save his life. But that's just the beginning. A killer walks the streets and through a series of events that would not have happened if Frank had been killed, John's mother ends up the killer's next victim.This leads to a long series of developments in which John in 1999 tries to help Frank in 1969 repair the damage that they have done. Most movies would be happy to deal with just saving Frank from the accident. But Frequency comes up with all kinds of nice details. The ending reminded me of 'Back to the Future' in which a person helps their parents across time to not only change their future but improve it as well. The logic in the space time continuum has gaps big enough drive a firetruck through but that's doesn't matter. Time travel movies are never exact in their science.I smiled a good bit during this movie. The story is completely unbelievable (that much is obvious) but I appreciated it's determination to keep coming up with new twists. This was a movie that really tried to be inventive and I felt like I got my money's worth. "},{"Title":"A strong time travel drama","Date":"11 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frequency was enjoyable to watch even the third time around. The film comes up with a new twist on the time travel theme - at least I had not seen it before. Thanks to some powerful solar flares and northern lights, a firefighter father and policeman son communicate instantaneously, sitting in the same house at the same table at the same HAM radio - but two decades apart. The screenwriters do not miss the poignancy of this father-son meeting through time, by making sure these characters did not get to communicate when the son was a child because of the father's (Dennis Quaid) untimely death.Or does he need to die? His son saves him from a fire he was fighting because to the son, it's old news. The repartee through the HAM radio and time is exquisite as the son must convince his father that he's from the future for real, not just a prankster, with just hours to go before his dad's death.A complicated story of unsolved mass murder ensues, drawing in friends and family past and present, who fade in and out of existence as the son alters the past by tipping off his father. After seeing it three times, the time travel plot is full of little holes, besides obvious ones, such as why the son would be the only one to remember the altered past, while everyone else's memories adapt to the past as it changes. Then there's the butterfly effect no way will a random mass murderer hit the same targets in same order once he's been messed up once. But the inconsistencies that are unavoidable in a time travel film are handled deftly by the writers, unlike, for example, the ridiculous premise of a recent Star Trek remake that an upset Romulan thrown into the past would rather blow up the planet of a man who almost saved the Romulan homeworld, instead of just trying the salvation procedure again, since he has 100 years to succeed!The film is well acted, the time spent developing the characters is interspersed with excellent action, from dangerous fires to life-threatening pursuit of a mass killer in the past and present. As a carefully set-designed period piece, the film holds up well, and is worth more than one viewing, if for no other reason than to see how the scriptwriters wrote around temporal paradoxes about as good as one can. For an almost perfect time paradox film, watch the Heinlein-based 'Predestination.' The SF grand-master knows how to circumvent every paradox. "},{"Title":"Sentimental, Thriller Baseball Fantasy","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The ads say Frequency is for fans of The Sixth Sense but my younger son says it's for fans of Field of Dreams--which our family is the #1 All Time Fans of--and that's an apt genre--a sentimental, thriller baseball fantasy.While our restive Queens audience had trouble following the plot connecting the '69 Mets with serial murders (our family finally decided that there were some loose ends in plot and relationships that just didn't make sense), the winning and heartfelt performances suck you in (though the closing Garth Brooks song will cause cavities). And I'm also a sucker for temporal disturbances.Toronto is mostly a good stand-in for Queens, though they use a matte of the Triboro Bridge in the Whitestone Bridge's location over a Little League Park in Bayside.The women aren't completely furniture here but could have been developed a bit more. I'm not sure why an entire row of squealing teenage girls in front of us was attracted to this movie but they seemed to enjoy the thrills and chills.(originally written 5/12/2000) "}{"Title":"One of his better performances","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Dennis Quaid has made some rubbish films over the years, with many below average performances.  In reality, I probably rate this as his best performance of films I've seen since The Right Stuff.An ingenious plot has Quaid thanks to atmospheric circumstances speaking to his son 30 years into the future via his shortwave radio.  Fireman Quaid actually died in a fire when his son Caviezel was a small boy.This seems to have haunted his son throughout his life, and when he gets the opportunity to speak to his father, the now policeman takes the obvious action the only really predictable part of the plot and attempts to save him.No more information on what actually happens ... -)However, it's an interesting plot and reasonably well acted, without being really gripping. "},{"Title":"Great yarn and smart to boot.","Date":"30 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While it's probably impossible to make a really coherent time travel movie, that darn paradox thing, Frequency makes a very good attempt - mostly by ignoring the sci-fi as much as possible. I believe it was Asimov who wrote that the best sci-fi stories were built on a single  improbable premise with all the rest being probable 'what you you do if ...'.While there are times when the viewer knows something is amiss the pace of the story keeps one from thinking too much about it while it's happening. After it's all over it's easy poke holes but by that time you've got your monies worth with change to spare.Solid performances by all concerned, good drama and a smattering of sci-fi.7/10 well worth watching "},{"Title":"Song - a nod to an earlier classic","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A contributor to this page asked what the song was that was on the record player in Sissy Clark's apartment.  When I saw this scene I was amazed because I immediately recognised the first few bars of Sea of Love (I don't know who the singer is), used in the film Sea of Love starring Al Pacino and Ellen Barkin.  In that film, the song was playing in the apartments of murder victims and I think the makers of Frequency were paying tribute to that excellent movie - if you haven't seen it yet, it's worth a look!  "},{"Title":"song","Date":"17 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  first of all, i love the movie.   i cannot stop watching it.  i just love the sense of eeriness it gives. my question is, there's a song playing on a record in sissy clark's apartment that is skipping.  what song is that? "},{"Title":"Appealing With Obvious Shortcomings","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Questionable physics and the multiply explored theme of changing one's past provide the backdrop in 'Frequency', a well-delivered Hollywood suspense thriller that, rather refreshingly, is not geared solely to 13-year-olds. A unique atmospheric anomaly allows New York City police officer John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) to contact his father, Frank (Dennis Quaid), a firefighter who died on the job 30 years ago. After preventing his father's death by instructing him to avoid it, John realizes that successfully manipulating past events is much trickier than he initially assumed.The film's appealing paranormal theme inevitably captures the viewer's attention, which is prolonged by Dennis Quaid's more-than-fine acting and Gregory Hoblit's discrete direction. Regrettably, these uplifting strengths are countered by a number of obvious shortcomings, such as the frustrating lack of continuity in the script, Elizabeth Mitchell's docile performance (as Julia Sullivan), and Michael Kamen's somewhat pretentious music score.Despite these shortcomings, however, 'Frequency' manages to retain its strong entertainment character and is enjoyable without becoming overwhelming. If anything, it contains one of the most original deaths of movie villains in recent memory, and no one can take that away from writer Toby Emmerich and the rest of the production crew. A fine attempt, 5.5 stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"Tense Science Fiction that borders on syrupy sentimentality","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just a short and quick recommendation here... a wild two thumbs up for FREQUENCY, the new Dennis Quaid flick.  It's great science fiction in the tradition of the old Outer Limits series.  It really played like an extended Outer Limits or Twilight Zone show, with great character development, suspense and action.  It's also a good mystery!The plot revolves around strange sunspot activity which makes it possible for a NY City policeman to use a ham radio to talk to his father, a former NY City fireman who died 30 years previously in a fire.  Taking advantage of the opportunity, the son warns the father of his impending death and saves the man's life -- altering forever the future timeline in a strange and HORRIBLE way that the two race through the remaining two-thirds of the film to set right.The filmmakers try really hard to put current quantum physics explanations for what's going on into the film, using an interview with a physics professor with Dick Cavett on the tele in the background on night... it's subtle, yet obvious to the audience that their conversation has to do with the events unfolding in the narrative.  This of course anchors the film in the realm of science fiction rather than science fantasy or scifi, and gives it an air of suggestible believability that helps propel the plot foreward.It also has one of the most suspenseful and tense opening action sequences of any film I've seen in recent history -- a definite armrest grabber! Three solid stars for this entertaining and at times engaging film which at least attempts to deviate from the old cliche' of time travel plots, even if it fails in a few of those attempts.  It's not easily predictable, but once you get a taste for the director's methodology, you'll start figuring things out.  And the film's ending is a bit overly sentimental, with drawn out slo-mo sequences that border on the worst of the old Kodak special moments tv adverts. "},{"Title":"Logic schmogic","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Logic is often the first casualty of drama. While this movie worked on the father/son level, it completely falls apart in the science fiction realm. It commits the usual offense of incompetent time travel writers, where everything is purely subjective. In this case, anything changed 30 years ago doesn't show up for precisely 30 years and not one minute sooner. A message burned on a desk in 1969 is scrawled in real time in the future! Would it have been so difficult to have the son discover the complete message under some papers? And there's the old contrivance that the person changing the past somehow remembers how it was originally.I have to admit that Quaid and Caviezel did good work in their roles (except for Quaid's distractingly bad Bronx accent), but I really couldn't get past the plot problems when a movie takes itself so seriously. "},{"Title":"Thrilling if far fetched","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency has not disappointed my expectations. It was a nice little variation of classical time-traveling stories, a miniature Back To The Future if you want. Just don't try too hard to make sense of it all and you'll have a good time. "},{"Title":"Pseudo sci-fi, but overall good, enjoyable movie","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit that Frequency surpassed my expectations.  I was skeptical at first but the plot drew me in and held me until the end.  Although it tries to straddle several genres, as it progresses it eventually boils down to a mystery/crime thriller.Nevertheless, I do dock some points from Frequency.  At times it was a little too cheesey.  Most of the 60's props looked more 90's to me.  I hardly noticed a difference at all between the two eras.  Maybe I'm too young to tell?The whole time-travel paradox was handled a bit sloppily, but really no worse than most time-travel movies.  On the other hand, it was probably a good thing that the movie didn't get bogged down trying to explain the physics behind the radio time-connection or the details of the time-paradox.  Rather they simply established that this radio communicates through time.  It's something to do with the stars; leave it at that.  If they tried to offer some lame, detailed explanation, it would have hurt the credibility more.  Overly picky critics may think themselves clever in pointing out the time-travel flaws in Frequency, but these are slips that the writers obviously knew about; it's assumed that the viewer will take a leap of faith fairly early on, and thus the movie is able to build an interesting plot from the premise of a magic radio.Consider on the other hand, the latest Star Wars flicks, where Lucas tries to explain the Force coming from tiny organisms in the bloodstream.  Bleeehh.  What a way to kill the magic and distract from the plot.All in all, Frequency is a fresh movie with an engrossing plot.  I give it a 7 / 10. "},{"Title":"A great movie loved by lots of audience","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a really a beautiful and touching movie. Many others and I have given many praises to this movie. But its popularity and IMDB rating at 7.5 are quite a surprise to us.As many of you can only watch it on DVD/VHS now, let me give you an info. I watched it the first time in the cinema and the following 5 or more times on DVD. When I watched it in the cinema, near the end of the movie when John Sullivan Sr reappeared, ALL THE AUDIENCES IN THE CINEMA cheered and applauded. I mean ALL THE AUDIENCES. Really, no kidding!!! It touched the entire crowd. Very emotional and uplifting. I have gone to cinemas for lots of movies, but rarely did I see any effect like this. Based on such audience response, who could doubt about how good this movie is?Yes, its story line is not 100% logical. But if such measuring stick is applied to ALL MOVIES, I wonder which one can pass and be considered good!Frequency, I highly recommend it, to be watched and to be owned!!!  "}{"Title":"This is the best movie of the millenium, so far","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was an awesome movie and it is highly recommended from me. Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel are outstanding in their roles as father and son. The story is this. When John (Caviezel) finds his dad's old ham radio in a closet he plugs it in not really caring about it. But when he starts talking to a guy who he dosen't know he becomes interested in him and minutes later discovers that he is talking to his dad, who has been dead for thirty years. He starts to try to convince his dad that it is him, his 36 year old son, but the dad does not believe him. The son suddenly discovers that he is talking to his dad 2 days before he dies! He tries to save him and talks to him about not trusting his instincs but suddenly loses contact and does not know if his dad had heard what he said. Plenty of twists and turns in this story to keep you into it. Quaid and Caviezel give powerful performances and the movie is facinating and awesome. Great idea from the director. One of the best movies I've ever seen!**** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a great movie for anyone. When i saw the previews for it i saw what a waste of money and then i watched it about a year ago and i bought it!! it was such a good movie and dennis Quaid couldnt of done a better job then he did. It was a great, and teriffic movie for everyone to watch  "},{"Title":"GREAT GREAT MOVIE","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This great movie was on cable just now, and I felt - Vote on it. I tought Dennis Quaid was falling, but he makes a great performance here.I've never heard about this movie before now. Great surprise. One of my (not so famous movies) top ten. No One maybe.  "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a bit slow to really get off and running, and the plot (about a man who somehow manages to talk by ham radio to his father who died 30 years ago) is outlandish, but once you get into the story about the search across time for a serial killer you discover that this is really quite a good effort. There's a fair bit of suspense right up to the end as we see history itself being changed by the results of the conversations between father and son. Women who shouldn't die die at the hands of the killer as the desperation to discover who he is sets in. Outlandish plot perhaps, but quite effective.Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel put on solid performances as father and son respectively and the entire cast contributes to a solid movie which is well worth taking the time to watch.7/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely, utterly AMAZING!","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's easy to pick Frequency apart, and find all the inconsistencies that are sure to be present in any time travel movie.  However, whether or not the movie is logically sound turns out not to matter a bit.  The movie itself gives you a feeling of perfection, despite technical problems.  The plot is one that make you wonder How in the world can someone be so creative?The dialogue is fast paced and real, and the acting... oh the acting. Dennis Quaid, the more well known of the two leads puts forth one of his most moving performances, in another in a long list of his movies dealing with father/son relationships.  However, the true show stealer is Jim Caviezel, in his first true leading role.  He was utterly believable; even when the plot became a bit far fetched, he treated it in such a manor as to enable the viewer to suspend disbelief, which must be the ultimate goal of any actor.  Caviezel has since distinguished himself in The Count of Monte Cristo, but Frequency is, in my opinion, by far his best work to date. "},{"Title":"Frequency proves that movies can still be magical.","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Upon seeing the first trailers for Frequency, I realized that this could be an extremely good movie. Upon seeing it on video, it quickly become one of my favorite movies. I am still kicking myself for not going to the theater to see it, adding to my regret that the movie did not do as good at the box office as it should have. Simply put, Frequency is a movie about second chances, regrets, justice, and reunion. Dennis Quaid, one of my favorite actors, puts in an outstanding performance as Frank Sullivan, fire-fighting baseball-lover extraordinaire, who dies in a warehouse fire in 1969, leaving his child and wife alone. Fast-forward thirty years- it's 1999, and Frank's son John is working for the NYPD as a detective. John and his partner come across the remains of a woman killed a little over thirty years ago in a series of slayings dubbed the Nightingale murders, as most of the victims were Nightingale nurses.As this discovery gives John a chance to close one element from the past, an odd appearance of the Northern Lights in N.Y. somehow messes with time, allowing John to communicate via shortwave radio with his dead father.From here, the two Sullivans hook up to stop the Nightingale killer across time, with results that must be experienced by the viewer. As Frank and John change past events, John's present becomes a combination of his real past, and the new one being made. But the question becomes- will John, being in the future, reach back and save his father from the fiery death that awaits him? With great acting, superb storytelling, and emotion galore, Frequency is a tale that draws you in and, while you suspend reality, grips you till its heart-stopping finale. Frequency proves that movies can still be magical. "},{"Title":"Finally, a time shifting movie that can stand up to Back to the Future.","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I generally enjoy these kind of time shifting movies. And Frequency was no different. A decent story, some good acting, and what I thought was a better way of dealing with what happens in the present if you screw around with the past than most movies have dealt with before. Dennis Quaid (Frank) and James Caviezel (John) star as a father and son, the only difference being the father is in 1969 while the son is in 1999. It seems a solar flare up has allowed these two to talk to each other over an old ham radio. Whether or not you accept this possibility can go a long way to deciding whether or not you enjoy the movie. I accepted it and moved on. After a short period of non-belief, Frank comes to believe that this man he talks to really is his son in the future. But when John tells his father something that saves Frank's life, they also change the course of history. Now all of a sudden John's mother is murdered by a serial killer because of something Frank did differently in the past, and the two of them must rush to find the killer and save their family. The biggest problem with these types of movies, at least in my mind, is wondering how it's possible that if you change something in the past, the present is almost exactly the same. Other than in the Back to the Future movies (part 2 to be exact) where everything is different, in most time shifting movies, everything is generally the same, except for one or two minor changes. I always believed that if you changed something in the past, no matter how insignificant, the future would be changed in ways no one could imagine. I think The Simpsons had a good take on that in one of their Halloween episodes. Anyway, I just think that if someone was meant to die, if you change that and they live, then everything in the world would change. In this case it seems only memories change but not events. (POSSIBLE SPOILER)  For instance, and this isn't giving away too much, when Franks ends up not dying at a warehouse fire, John and his friends are still sitting in the same bar at the same time toasting his death. The only difference is now Frank dies of cancer 10 years earlier. Everyone's memory is of Frank dying of cancer, but the events of life are still exactly the same. Maybe I'm thinking too much. Anyway, while John's memories change, he also has the ability to remember both histories - the history with the changes in the past, and the history without the changes. I thought that was an interesting take on the subject. I thought the acting in the movie was good. Besides the two main characters, I really liked the mother (Elizabeth Mitchell) and I have always loved Andre Braugher who plays a cop who investigates the serial murders both in 1969 and still in 1999. I enjoyed the way the past and the present moved back and forth seamlessly, and I thought the story was pretty interesting. The main plot point that you need to accept, as I said earlier, is the ability for two people 30 years apart to be able to speak to each other. I think once you accept that, everything else become much easier to accept as well. "},{"Title":"What If this was the best movie of all time? It's not, but it's an enjoyable sci-fi thriller.","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  'Frequency' is a story with an intriguing premise - John Sullivan (James Caviezel), one night in 1999, messes around with an old HAM radio - and talks to one Frank Patrick Sullivan, his father, who is in the year 1969. This time bridge, which comes about as a result of the writer wanting to it and nothing really more, allows John to contact Frank to stop his dad, a fireman, going on the mission that will kill him and, from there, events in history start to change, for better or for worse. It's a great little set-up and generally it plays through, without needless exposition, up to a rather obvious, and somewhat disappointing, conclusion.Acting is solid - Caviezel is somewhat downbeat, but able to convey enough enthusiasm at speaking to his, long dead, father to appear genuine. Quaid is as Quaid is - solid, dependable, gets the job done. All the supporting cast are fine, including the presence of  the excellent Andre Braugher. They're helped along with a generally moody atmosphere, from director Gregory Hoblit.Although the final conclusion is a tad inevitable, it's handled nicely with good intercutting of the past, 1969, with the 1999 timeline, with actions in the past affecting the current situation. The blend of genres of sci-fi, thriller and mystery, work well to create an enjoyable movie that, while not standing up to repeated viewing, is a solid night's entertainment. 6.7/10.  "},{"Title":"Suspense, murder, time travel, AND heartwarming drama","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  How to describe this movie to do it justice and not give away all the details...  A disenchanted son talks with his father over the distance of thirty years.  Together, they communicate across time to stop a murderer. That sums up the plot, sort of, but there's so much more to this film.  The detective and time travel storylines work so well that as a viewer, you're never left with the kind of credibility gap that can take you out of the story.  This is a truly satisfying film.  Dennis Quaid is particularly engaging.  A strong performance from Andre Braugher as well.Now go rent it!  "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie!  It has everything a great movie should have! Suspense, drama, action, and very talented actors.  The storyline is wonderful.  If you haven't seen it yet, then by all means please go rent it today! "}{"Title":"An original story of a father and son connected strangely with 30 years difference","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Philosophically Time is always going ahead but not back, and this issue has been touched several times in various films, e.g. The Time Machine (1960) starred by Rod Taylor. The present film is very original although has too much fiction, but an important value is included in, the necessary love of the father for his son and viceversa. Frank Sullivan (D. Quaid) cropped as a father what he deserved and his son did what ever possible to save him any time he could.   "},{"Title":"Just Good Tight Storytelling","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If one were to go into the logistics of a time continuum, this movie would fall on its parallel universal face.  On the other hand, if one were willing to suspend belief for a moment, what we have is, not a science fiction movie, but movie about human beings needing to reclaim their lives.  To find reasons for living.  The give and take, the confusion and despair, of the forces in the film, do not stand the tests of the scientist's scrutiny.  This is a movie about love and humanity and reclamation.  I had a friend say of Ground Hog Day, That was so stupid.  Something like that could never happen.  To the literal minded who fail to see the romance and interaction of human beings, this would seem every bit as absurd.  In this film, there is a lost soul and there is a means for that soul to regain  its purpose.  Through a radio, there is a connection with another time and another lifetime.  When these two forces become one, it is what will happen based on the way these people see the new world they have encountered and what they do about it.  It is hard because we have the Hitchcockian man who doesn't know the rules but he does know he has to do something, going about his business, never quite figuring out what the result will lead to.  The father and the son are not perfect--by hooking up, they become greater than the sum, and that's what this movie is about.  There is unfinished business in the universe. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is really an amazing piece of tape !!!!! One of the best ideas presented so beautiful and suspenseful...I really like time travel movies and whole idea, but this film really breaks every boundaries. It is fast, greatly build up and very suspenseful, but I mean in an emotional way. The cast is absolutely great, Dennis Quaid really did a good job but especially John Cazievel. The editing and directing are absolutely brilliant. One of the best movies I have ever seen... 10/10 "},{"Title":"Amazin'","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a wonderful movie on several different levels father-son relationships, murder mystery, action and science fiction. It is a gripping movie that must be seen to be believed. When first seeing it in the theatre (and having very limited knowledge of what it was about), it turned out to be an amazin' experience. Some cynical folks may see the movie as kind of corny (a chick flick for guys?); cynical people might question the paradoxes of time travel or time communication and the changing of history that occurs in the movie. A few questions were not resolved about what happened and how it happened or even why it happened, but this did not detract from a very viewable, ultimately feel good movie. Movies like this restore one's faith that some people in Hollywood can reflect the values of this great country and its great people. The movie is a must for anyone growing up in the late 1960s, particularly baseball fans.  Finally, Frequency provides a tribute to the brave firefighters of New York City. Sadly, history cannot be changed, only written.      "},{"Title":"better every time","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This move gets better each time I see it. When you think of all the pre-packed, image-wrapped John Travolta crap Hollywood churns out, this movie is all that much more remarkable. Real actors! Real acting! Real thought! The relationship between Quaid and Jim Caviezel is very real even in the preposterous events of the movie. PLEASE HOLLYWOOD, DO MORE OF THIS! Less blowing up stuff! Less killing people! Less preening names! C'mon you can do it. We'll buy tickets. Promise!And I want to see more of Jim Caviezel. Good actor. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   Frequency is Dennis Quaids best movie I've seen. It has great acting, a good storyline, and good special effects. For instance, when they did the Northeren Lights, that's exactly what they look like. Jim Caviezel is extraordinary in this movie. I've never seen him in any other movies though. Currently this is in my top ten movies along with many others such as Jurassic Park, The Patriot, Rudy, Bad Boys, etc. But I'm here to talk about Frequency.   Dennis Quaid was a firefighter in 1969. He eventually dies in a fire in 1969. For thirty years it haunted his son's life John O'Sullivan (Jim Caviezel). Almost thirty years from the day his father died, he discovers a radio that his dad used to talk on around the world (kind of like instant messaging, but you're not typing). John and his friend Gordo set it up to see if it still worked. It worked more than they thought it would. Later in the night, John hears a voice coming from the radio. Both people say wierd stuff to each other and they soon find out, there father and son. John was talking to his dad before he died thirty years ago. John discovers that he can change history with the radio and saves his dad from the fire that he died in. But things get worse. Because of John saving his dad his mother dies. In the movie you'll see why. I can't give it away.  Overall this is a great movie and I strongly recommend it. It's a must see! Great story. Warning You have to pay attention to the movie or you won't understand it. I had to watch the movie twice to get it right.  One person also said before that they didn't like it because to much history was changed and John should of discovered what an acholoic mess he was. It wouldn't have been a movie, if it was like that. It would of been downright boring and there would have been no suspense. It was supposed to be that way. Frequency gets a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A very very good movie.  This expands movies and theories on time related things such as time travel yet brings out the suspense that movies are supposed to have.  It has the huge twists to it, keeping you on edge, but at the same time, makes you wonder what would have happened if things went the other way.  By the way, does anyone see the striking resemblance between Kevin Costner and Dennis Quaid? I sure do. "},{"Title":"Best Sci Fi I've seen","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Academy must have been high when they were looking for films to put on their list, because this, Finding Forrester, and Unbreakable weren't on there. Why isn't this on the Top 250? I think it's high enough...If you don't read the plot, here's a summary John Sullivan, a detective working on a case 30 years old finds his late dad's old ham radio. (Well, his friends son really found it, but John uses it most of the time.) He communicates with someone on the radio who doesn't know how the 1969 Baseball Tournament (or whatever it is) went, even though it's 1999.In reality, the person is John's dead dad, in 1969. When John finds this out, he warns Frank (his dad) that he will die in a fire. When he sees that what hes saying is right, he goes another way in the fire, saving a teenage girl as well as himself.(Minor spoilers coming up)This doesn't work as well as you'd expect-Frank died in 1989 from cancer anyway-but he gets his dad to live longer. The only side effect is that his mother was killed in the case hes investigating, and 9 other nurses were killed too (originally three, without his mom).This makes Frank go in to save the 7 remaining nurses. There, you have to stop reading this summary and watch the film yourself to find what happens.My only problem is (MAJOR SPOILER) the all-too-happy ending. Having Frank live longer than in the rest of the film and killing the killer is just too happy for a film where deaths of family members of the hero are plot points.But other than that, it is one of the greatest films. And get it higher on the list (maybe someone will have told people to see this in the past and it got on the 250), it deserves to from #15-100. "},{"Title":"Great mix of suspense, sci-fi, and drama.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you like get-the-bad-guy suspense thrillers and also liked Back to the Future or you are a Star Trek fan, you'll love this movie.  It even has a Sixth Sense-ish / Stir of Echoes type of feel to it.  The plot was laid out well and surprisingly the whole future/past sci-fi issues were handled with some believable consistency. As an added plus this movie didn't have any sexual themes or foul language.    "},{"Title":"This movie ruined all other time travel movies for me...","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  but that's a good thing!  The writers were brilliant in the way they had John having dual, and even multiple, memories.  It makes sense... after all, he lived each and every one of them.  I watched Time Cop the other night and found myself thinking But that's not right... he'd have BOTH memories, wouldn't he??  Seriously, I loved this movie.  When I saw the trailers I thought it looked like it might be interesting, but I had no idea how good it would be.  I'm biased, because the idea of the paradoxes that can be created by time travel fascinate me.  If I travel back in time and somehow cause the death of my father before he met my mother, I cease to exist in this time because I never could have been born...  yet then I couldn't have been here in the first place to travel back and cause the change, now could I, so my father must have lived, right??...  which would have allowed me to be born so I could travel back, but then if he died I couldn't... well, you get the idea... that neverending paradoxial circle. Suffice it to say that this movie makes you think while entertaining you every step of the way.  If you haven't seen it, run, do not walk, to see it! "}{"Title":"Very good, a complex story with a few plot holes","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i really liked this movie. Dennis Quaid is one of my favorites, and i really liked him here. i also was impressed by james caviezel, who plays Quaid's grown up son. What i loved about this movie was the story line. it could be dismissed as confusing and thin, even ridiculous. however, i couldn't dismiss it like that because it was just too good. there were several parts in this movie were chills ran up and down my spine because of all the suspense, or action, or if something was just that cool. However, i noticed that when Frank Sullivan (Quaid) did something to change the future, the only person who memories of both pasts John Sullivan (Caviezel), Franks grown up son. this was one of the only things in this movie that i looked down on. if your looking for a very original, very good movie, check out Frequency.                                            9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"One word... wow...","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You know, I could kick myself in the ass for not seeing this film on the big screen! I remember being somewhat interested in it upon Viewing the trailer, but I never imagined it would be THAT good! Here I am at 557 am and upon perking up and watching the flick on starz2, I can honestly tell you its one of the greatest films I can honestly recall ever feeling...err, seeing. Well actually, Feeling is a good way to put it because by the end of the film I was gripped in its grasp unlike few movies I've had the pleasure to see. The storytelling is masterful, as is the plot. Quaid puts in one of the finest performances I think I've ever seen as well as playing a father figure that really gets across how important family can be...All in all an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Oh, come on you're suspending my disbelief...","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When a film asks me to suspend my disbelief, I expect to be amply rewarded. The film must have something intellectual to say, a worthy message to be delivered. This film has nothing.The father/son thing is tripe and just fodder for the sympathy mill.I confess to being unpleasantly surprised at how many people loved this film on this site. An overlong twilight zone that doesn't really hold up under close scrutiny. Explain to me how the killer ends up at the house at end, remembering that his cover, not to mention his hand, was blown thirty years ago? Label this one FDO ( for discussion only) a film that's only real use is as a jumping off point for someone creative to put together a really worthwhile story. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece with all the trimmings","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ladies and gentleman, boys and girls prepare to take a magical journey through the heart and soul. Dennis Quaid, Jim Caviezel, Andre Braugher and Elizabeth Mitchell star in this magical journey that will leave each member of the viewing audience in awe and breathless.Frequency joins Men Of Honor, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and Finding Forrester as my five of my favorite films, which deserve the title of masterpiece. My reasons for making this statement are the unique concept of the film, superb writing and strong performances.Congratulations to the writers for creating one of the richest scripts brought to screen since Titanic. I kept smiling throughout this film because it explored the unbreakable bond father and son share with one another. I knew Frequency would become a powerful and special film as soon as I saw the trailer for the first time. I was in awe and shock when Frequency was left off the academy award ballot.Frequency is laced with storylines that would put light in a dark room and brighten anyone's dark days. Frequency is laced with intense, adrenaline pumping action with edge of your seat suspense, excitement and drama. This unique film ranks in the top ten movies I've seen all year. Frequency is a unique film that will never be made again and if the chance arose this type of film is made; it will never measure up to the greatness of this film.Quaid, Caviezel, Mitchell and Braugher come together to bring one of the finest films to life. In the spirit of Ghost, Frequency is an epic story about father and son who reunite over the ham radio 30 years after Frank's death. However, throughout their conversations, they unintentionally alter the past and become thrust into a serial murder investigation. The cast support Frequency receives is powerful and rich.Quaid is a brilliant actor, who has proven to audiences across the United States he will give 110 percent in each performance he gives and the result will be satisfaction. Frequency is the latest in a long string of films that keeps me in shock and asking the question why he hasn't had the opportunity to win academy awards because his performances have been very deserving.Caviezel's resume may not be high in quantity but it is high in quality, yet he is a tremendous asset to each film he stars in. Caviezel may not be a Hollywood veteran quite yet; but with his charisma, screen presence, integrity and intensity he deserves the title of veteran.Braugher provides great support in his role as Caviezel's partner and Quaid's friend in Frequency. I have always enjoyed Braugher from his role on the series, Homicide Life On The Street because his presence is felt with each scene was in; a fact that holds true in every film he is in. I look forward to each film he is in because like Quaid he gives 110 percent. One thing I enjoy about watching Braugher act is receiving the knowledge I will be getting an honest and intense performance. He is an actor that will hold nothing back and give the role everything he has.Mitchell is a welcome addition to Hollywood as she is one of the brightest young actresses in film. I enjoyed watching Mitchell because she had a glow about her that is missing from other actresses. I can't wait to see her rise to stardom and be able to look back and say 'I knew with her role in `Frequency,' Elizabeth Mitchell would become a huge star.'I have consistently said music and soundtracks are one of the most powerful selling points of a film. From Trisha Yearwood's rendition of 'How Do I Live' for Con Air to Celine Dion's 'My Heart Will Go On' in Titanic comes a song so powerful and touching it will leave you in tears. Garth Brooks rendition of 'When You Come Back To Me Again' put icing on the cake and made me watch this film. Upon listening to this song, everyone will get a sense of what this movie is about. This is one the top five soundtrack songs that I've heard in my life because it is the perfect companion to an already perfect movie.Only one word comes to mind when describing my overall feeling of this film EXCELLENCE. Every part of Frequency is excellent. From the powerful and moving performances to the edge of your seat drama, Frequency will delight and amaze every viewer. It is my honor to let everyone know Frequency is one of the best films of 2000. I have seen Frequency so many times I've stopped counting after 10. Frequency is an A+ in my book. "},{"Title":"SEE IT","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow!I just watched this film on DVD. Budget DVD, too, so I wasn't expecting much.I was hooked all the way through, the plot was absolutely gripping and the leads and supporting actors were superb. The soundtrack was suitably subtle so as not to turn the emotional scenes into Hollywood schmaltz. Speaking of which, I normally curl up in a ball when I'm presented with blatent American emotioneering, but this movie brought genuine tears to my eyes. It made me want to tell my dad that I love him.The whole film reminded me of an episode of 'The Outer Limits.' It was fantastic. Like me, when you've seen it on VHS or DVD, you'll kick yourself for not seeing this one on the big screen.An absolute gem. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Don't miss it!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great movie, rent. borrow, buy or steal this movie, but don't miss it. I do not rave about too many movies, it takes a lot to impress me, but this one is as good as it gets. If any movie ever came with a guarantee this would be the one.  "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a ham myself, and a lover of sci fi movies, I liked it alot.  thought it was a great story line and done very well.  Amazed to find out that w2qyv are real call letters licenced to the Niagra radio club.  Loved the old radio equipment they used. "},{"Title":"In fairness to The Sixth Sense....","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After a few viewings 99's second biggest grows weak and dull, and this movie goes so far out on a limb to entertain you would have to judge it with the same court as that very movie. It goes far further into the changing the past and future issue than anything previous, from 'The Time Machine' to 'Back To The Future', problems with The Sixth Sense were stuff like, how could he go on not realising he was dead and how could a tape recorder pick up the voice of a ghost that only rare people can hear, there's more than that, see my comments page, in Frequency, right from the point of keeping his father from dying in the fire, nothing in the family or among his friends or in the newspapers or anything like that would be the same, the changes would result in, as Doc Brown would say 'a meltdown of the space-time continuun', the main characters then cause some more deaths and save some more lives and bring more people into the change rage, this movie takes the serious type of realism from TSS and mixes it with the Back To The Future sort of narrative, the result if you can look past as above is a fun always surprising and intriguing film. SYNOPSISOne night after a low point in a young cops life he and a 'womb to tomb' friend of his get out a 30 year old radio and when by himself, the cop tunes in to someone who he starts a conversation with, like father like son they discuss Baseball and work, it's after the cops correct prediction of a baseball game that they lose thier contact due to interference, in the conversation a little confusion around who they are leaves them both in wonder about the following day. A fire comes in a place the young guy predicted and Dennis Quaid is edgey, it comes down to another prediction and Quaid manages to do the opposite to what history previously had him do.....and lives to see the close of the day. The movie becomes paced by thier nightly tune ins and chats. It comes out that a dads visit to a hospital causes more serial killings, the kid is the only one who realises changes in 99 everyone else changes appropriately. The pair start working together to prevent the killings in the town, but it escalates when the dad meets the killer.CRITIQUETo go into the movie you should justly know no more than that. The ending becomes pretty complicated and if you can try just to keep your eyes on the road you should not have too many problems, dont think too much about the branches in the story. This movie would still be good after the first time. Just think of it as Back To The Future meets Backdraft, you will also recognise the female-targetting serial killer idea from Silence Of The Lambs.7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting sci-fi/drama","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is a sci-fi/drama with an intriguing premise. Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel star as a father and son who start communicating with each other via short-wave radio. They begin to help one another when Caviezel (a cop in 1999) tries to convince his dad Quaid (a fire-fighter in 1969) in warning him about some terrible things that are on the verge of happening, and hoping that his old man can put a stop to these hideous things. Frequency begins slow, but picks up speed not too long after that, and I was pulled into the story. The movie is quite interesting, and by the end of it I was caring for these people. Quaid and Caviezel are very good here. Frequency isn't a great movie, but a good one. I was entertained while watching it.*** (out of four)   "},{"Title":"Strange sound waves reunite a father and son.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a sci-fi thriller with sentiment. A young cop(James Caviezel) is reunited with his father(Dennis Quaid)by way of an old ham-radio set. The father died almost thirty years earlier. After contact, the two team to try and alter the events that led to Quaid's death and later the son needs his father's help to save his mother's life.The time travel gets a little confusing, but the story line keeps you at the edge of your seat. This is as subtle as a spike through the heart. You will be eager to tell your friends to watch this one.Also in the cast are Andre Braugher, Elizabeth Mitchell and Shawn Doyle. "}{"Title":"quaid at his best, a fine plot","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  when i first decided to watch frequency, i did not realize how much the movie would draw me in. dennis quaid is at his best in this thriller, and he has a strong cast to support him. while the idea of a radio link that communicates between two times may seem a bit childish, the rest of the plot is logical and plausible; one day we may figure out how to communicate between two times. this movie also presents us with good reasons why time travel may not be a good idea as well. "},{"Title":"Well, I'm still dripping","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love action films... Good action films.  I love suspense films... I love sappy family mushy films too.  I have never experienced all three at once before.  If you love movies that take you on a rollercoaster of emotion, you will enjoy this one.   "},{"Title":"One of the Best ever!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You would think that a movie that goes back in forth in time really wouldn't work out or would be stupid right? Not in Frequency.  The transitions were obvious and you could tell wether they were in the present day or in the past.  I couldn't think of any thing bad about this movie.  It is one of those that only come once in a lifetime, and if you get the chance to see it, dont pass on it, you will be sorry! "},{"Title":"That's how movies must be done...","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is the most entertaining and breathtaking film I've seen in a long time. Apparently with a typical plot, the movie has got a lot of twists and surprises in the story. Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel do a great job in the film.Brilliant story, good visual effects and very good acting make this film a very enjoyable piece of art, full of action, suspense and love.Worth look! "},{"Title":"**** Surprisingly effective thriller","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Surprisingly effective little thriller about a young man (James Caviezel) who has never really got over his father's dying when he was a child, who gets the chance of a lifetime when an odd miracle of northern lights and `the mother of all sunspots' allows him to speak to his father (Dennis Quaid) on an old radio thirty years into the past. Hoping to change his past, he prevents his father's death but now what havoc has he wreaked? It seems this change in history has allowed for a serial killer to continue a rampage of murders on a group of hospital nurses. What follows is (nearly) consistent, gripping and very moving. Caviezel and Quaid both give terrific performance.  "},{"Title":"Tune into this 'Frequency'!!!","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw the trailers for this film, I thought it looked a bit, well, cheesy.  Oh, how wrong I was!!In a nutshell, this is one great film.  Sure, the storyline is a bit far fetched, but isn't that the point of movies? Escapism?  What makes this film work is that the creators don't focus so much on the scientific time travel psychobabble, and spend more time focusing on the characters.  And what great characters they are!  Everything about this film is good, from the writing and direction, to the brilliant performances from everyone!  Dennis Quaid has never been better!!  Jim Caviezel was great, and I really hope to see alot more of Elizabeth Mitchell, who is beyond perfect in her role as the wife/mother!   These (and all the other) stellar actors involved make the characters so REAL, so you have no other choice but to care about them!This is one film where you can say it has something for everyone!  At some moments it's lighthearted and funny, at other moments it's suspensful and action-packed, and the ending is heartwarming.  When I saw it in theatres, I don't think there was a dry eye in the house!I really can't stop singing this film's praises, so I will end with this  SEE THIS FILM!!!  IT'S AMAZING!!!!  GIVE IT A CHANCE!! YOU WON'T REGRET IT!!!!Skippy's Rating  9.5/10!! "},{"Title":"The best movie of 2000!","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you are looking for movie to see with a taut and very well thought out story, than Frequency is it.  This is one of the best movies I've seen and probably the best I've seen of the sci-fi genre.  I think that it would be highly unlikely for someone to come up with a story better than this!  Out of a ten star rating I'd give it nine. "},{"Title":"Thriller over the radio!","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great, great, great movie!At the beginning you would be tempted to think, that this picture is a sweet romantic story, about a 36 year old guy who is talking to his father over an old radio. Nothing wrong with that. Except of, that his father died in a warehouse fire 30 years earlier.  Because of their conversation the father survives the fire, and the real story begins.  Its been quite a while, since I saw a movie, that makes you feel like youre sitting on needles. But believe me, its true. I have no idea how many cigarettes I had during this movie, but its been quite a few.So go out, get it, lean back, and enjoy. I had, and will again. "},{"Title":"Very difficult premise handled expertly!","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency has the old spin of connecting the past with the future and all the inconsistencies as well as the interesting possiblities of such a daunting theme for a movie.  However, the movie is skillfully written to take advantage of the imaginative effects while more importantly stays tight enough to keep the movie fast paced and yet together in a well connected storyline with interesting twists.  Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Very intriguing film!","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie surprised me very much.  Turned out to be suspenseful and touching.  Dennis Quaid once again proves himself as a touching actor.  I was very impressed with how the director handled the events as they unfolded and changed.  Oh, and by the way, Jet Li does not appear as Barney the Delivery Boy.  Looks like him, but not him! "}{"Title":"twilight zone meets murder she wrote","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"     A ten what a great movie.  Mystery, science fiction, and a good hearted warming script makes a great movie.  A ham radio during a sun spot storm makes father and son communicate with each other.  The what if you can effect the past, and how does it change the future creates the mystery part of the story.  What a great story it is!  When you rent this one you will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Very unique and very exciting! ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is a brilliant film which i loved. It starred two amazing actors Dennis Quaid (One of my favourite actors) and James Caviezel who are amazing as usual. I thought the whole idea of the film was very unique. The story is happy and sad all at the same time. This is a film which really makes you think and of course enjoy very much. It will always be one of the best films because it IS one of the best films. A must see film for everyone. 10/10  "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen in a long time!!!","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked the movie, the suspense was great. I was on the edge of my seat during the whole thing. James Caviezel was great, too. Besides the fact that he's hot, he can act good. This movie is deffenatly the best movie I've seen since Never Been Kissed! "},{"Title":"just pathetic really...","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I would perhaps really liked this movie if it had just stuck to the idea of the son & dad talking -- the son gets a chance to re-examine his life and find out what an alcoholic mess he's become -- discovers something life-affirming in the shared struggles of being a man in a America -- but instead we get this self-absorbed whiney loser who's possessed with the idea that he can bring his Dad back and then gets involved in this whole Nightingale thing which comes out of nowhere.  I kept asking myself, where was the intersection between the Dad & the Nightingale which caused the sudden focus and if this was a random crossing then why weren't the Mets games different?  The script should have focused on one aspect and went with it.  Also, though I must say I am not the kind of person who thinks entertainment should be family-oriented, I think many people saw this movie thought it might be a nice family-type story, brought the kids and spent most of the movie looking at crime scenes photos -- which is wrong.  My final comment is that this show is just another example of current movie-making philosophy -- grab a few big actors, throw in some computer effects at random and cross-stitch about six different plots together and you have a story!  It's just pathetic really... "},{"Title":"I had to pace, couldn't set still.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  All through this movie I kept thinking, It can't end here, and it didn't. With a lot of movies, the ending almost ruins the whole movie but not with this one.  I don't think the ending could have been done any better.  This is a movie I could watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Neat little sci-fi with more than a hint of human interest","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I went to the cinema to see this I fairly apprehensive (The reviews I'd read weren't that great), but the story was interesting to me(guy contacts his dead father through an old CB radio) so I ignored the reviews and went anyway. I was pleasantly surprised, I came out with a big smile on my face and since then I've recommended it to everyone and this review isn't an exception. The acting was first class - Jim Caviezel was a new face and name to me and I thought he was excellent and I'd never really been a fan of Dennis Quaid but this film changed all that. It has a very smart script and you have to pay attention but I think everyone with a small interest in sci-fi will love it - I did. "},{"Title":"Entertaining nonsense","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ===== Rating System ***** Must see **** Very good *** I liked it, but you might hate it ** I hated it, but you might like it * Avoid ====> Get this.  In 1969 John Sullivan's dad Jack (Dennis Quaid) died in some enormous fire. In 1999 John (James Caviezel) finds his dad's old radio and suddenly he gets in contact with his father again, because he's transmitting from 1969. This coincidence occurs because the Northern Lights, active in both 1969 and 1999, causes the time-space continum to become unstable. So unstable even that it transmits Jack's voice exactly 30 years in the future, and John's voice exactly 30 years to the past, for a solid 10 days. In these 10 days John can help his father to escape death, but as time goes by, things get more complicated...If you can get past this moronic premise, you'll definitely have a great time with Frequency. There are spectacular moments (e.g. the opening 5 min.), the acting is convincing (Quaid has never been better) and there are magical special effects which service the story rather than to overblow it. There are some excellent time travelling tricks and the relationship between father and son is illuminating, even more  because this sort of thing doesn't happen too often in modern Hollywood.There are flaws, too. Jim Caviezel delivers a turn of unsurpassed uselessness, neither sympathetic nor emotional in a not-so delicate part.The ending is terrible. If you've got the feeling the movie is over, better turn the tv off, so you won't have to face the most fake, stupid, offensive and downright implausible conclusions in years.If you don't think too hard, and don't feel time-travelling is necessarily unacceptable, you will have a great time. Don't expect to see a realistic adventure, because you will be disappointed.*** "},{"Title":"A Wonderful Film (Recommend It To Your Father)","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ok, so there are a few holes in the plot.  Ok, so some of the story line is a bit contrived.  Ok, so Stephen Hawking could right a book arguing the scientific implausibility of this film.You know what?  None of that matters.It's rare that Hollywood produces a movie about the love between a father and son, and it's this plot foundation that gives Frequency the ability to make the viewer suspend disbelief.  I was so wrapped up in the story and so drawn in by their relationship that nothing else mattered.Frequency easily makes my top 10 of 2000. "},{"Title":"A crackling good yarn...","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency has blown me away. As a film scholar, I am amazed at how this relatively simple structure of a film turned into a top notch and tightly written extravaganza.  Dennis Quaid is at his usual best and Jim Caviezel are great. I must say the way, underrated Elizabeth Mitchell is terrifically cast as the female lead, who could in fact give Mr. Quaid some vernacular lessons--her accent is the most convincing.Without giving too much away to this outstanding film, directed by Gregory Hoblit (Primal Fear, Fallen), I thoroughly recommend this film to all those who seek a rich and fulfilling edge-of-your-seat tale of a drama. Don't miss this one. "},{"Title":"Great movie with a great story","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great movie. The story is very well build. All the ideas are made fantastic and the idea behind it is fabulous. I wish all directors would check their scripts before starting to shoot the movie and make a mess out of it. This movie has a great plot, good actors, is a good thriller and well edited. Absolutely worth watching and buying your own copy on DVD. "}{"Title":"keep the frequency clear","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's a movie about a father and son, who meets each other on the radio, and after that trouble begins.a great great movie, a kind like back to the future, mixed whit a good thriller. And whit all great actors, and a great story line.  "},{"Title":"terrific!","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film blends together the right amount of sentiment, drama, action, fantasy, and suspense, and it comes out a winner.A man changes the past by saving his dad (who had been dead for 30 years) from dying in a fire. (Dad was a fireman.) This causes a chain reaction which includes a serial killer suddenly after the guy's mother. To reveal much more would be to spoil the film.The plot, acting, and story were all first rate. Catch this one if you get the chance.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Good temporal paradox tale...","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency actually turned out to be a much better movie than I was hoping for. The actual physics of the situation do seem a little skewed; the ending that Gregory Hoblit mentions on his DVD commentary would have been truer, but the existing one , although slightly contrived, is nevertheless satisfying - as is the whole movie. Despite the constant changes to reality at the hands of father and son, the story is always clear, and the inherent drama created by the temporal alterations adds weight. Great script by Toby Emmerich, stylish direction by Gregory Hoblit. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"What if?","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Now I have to admit, when I first saw the trailer for this movie, I couldn't believe how corny the story sounded. I remember thinking, Oh how is that possible?. But then, I was roaming around Blockbuster again and noticed it was out of DVD. I said, What the hell? I'll give it a chance. My results I LOVED IT! What an excellent movie. Although the phenomenon was not explained, it didn't have to be. The movie was made for thought and suspense. And that is what it delivers. (9 out of 10) "},{"Title":"A must see.  A second time around.","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie gets better every time I see it.  I love it.  Best family movie around.  The DVD kicks butt.  4 deleted scene's including one that includes a few words I ain't repeating here.  It's funny, exciting, what's not to like. Heck I'm not even gonna give the plot away here.  Go see it for yourselves.  Probably Dennis Quaid's best movie.  (Savior being second) 10/10 "},{"Title":"A review","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film blew me away. In no way did I ever expect this great of a film. I'm not going to talk about the movie to much, due to the fact I fear giving a way any of the twist in the story. The best way to describe this is to say it's The Usual Suspects of 2000. It's not as good as The Usual Suspects but it's still a great film. The acting is perfect. Dennis Quaid has never been this good. The director is perfect. I loved the way he moved the camera. The script is one of the best I've seen in 2000. The twist in the plot are excellent. They come with perfect timing. The weaving in and out of 1999 & 1969 will alone keep your brain on, trying to keep up with the story. The only downfall to Frequency is it's biggest strength. Is the fact that things happen so fast and there are some many small details you must remember, the lazy viewer might become confused and grow tired of trying to keep up. But, for those willing to pay close attention, Frequency is well worth your hard earned cash. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you can get past the slow opening and the improbable Back to the Future time change thing(changing history wouldn't affect the present, it would basically create a new time-line), this is a great film.  Once the premise is established, the film grabs you and entertains exactly like a film should. I love films where you totally forget you're watching a movie and when it's over, you think about it for a long time.  Sure, some of it gets a little predictable and there are some plot holes, but I love how the 1969 World Series plays a role in the movie. There's a lot of clever stuff in this film.  When I first saw it come out, it looked like a hacky premise. But now after seeing it, I will buy the DVD.  I wish there were more clever films like this. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can understand why some people would not like this movie..it is highly unrealistic which is why you have to watch this movie with an open mind and know it's just a movie. I thought it was interesting and found something beautiful about it. Who wouldn't want the chance that John Sullivan got, to be able to save his father. He struggled with the death of his father for so long, but he got a second chance and grew up with his father at his side. As for the consequences that happened, that was expected. They had changed the course of history. When I first watched it...it didn't bore me at all. I was so intrigued by the story and anticipated how the end of the movie would turn out. I was not disappointed...in fact it made me cry. I have watched this movie four times so far and each time I am still on the edge of my seat. It's like I am seeing it for the first time and I also find new interesting facts every now and then. I absolutely loved it and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Very good...","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one touched me ala 'Field of Dreams', you know, the son getting in touch with a long dead father-they pulled it off here very, very well. The Ham-Radio conversation through time was a great conceit too, have to like the Northern Lights(!!) eh?(A few SPOILERS below I imagine)Acting all fine-Quaid, Caveizal(one of those lookalike guys from Thin Red Line I couldn't differentiate...), Sullivan and Bruagher esp. I enjoyed the linking device of the '69 Amazin' Mets too.The Quantam Leap/Back to the Future stuff got a little dicey-don't even bother to try and keep track of how many timelines are started or stopped or changed around here by the charecters' actions-but I liked it anyways.And the finale is quite exciting and moving too.When you see the dad come down stairs with the shotgun....and when you see them all at a ball game at the end ala the Natural or Field of dreams, it just brings everything all back home.By far one of the more enjoyable flix of 2000, when you see this right after Gone in 60 Seconds(fair, nothing special) and Scary Movie(BOOOOO!!), it does give you some hope for Hollywood yet. Although I do question just how this thing only made 44M when it had the potential to do so much more.***1/2 outta **** for now. Very good. "},{"Title":"A touching movie with an engaging storyline.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was certainly a pleasant surprise for me. It is a pity it got a bit lost between the bigger releases (budgetwise) of the moment.Movies touching on the subject of time travel stand or fall with the parameters set by the screenplay. This movie has a splendid and logical buildup and my only gripe with the storyline is that it accelerates too fast near the end causing confusion. So pay attention when you watch it.The father and son relationship acted by Quaid and Cavieziel is truly touching and the concept gets to you on an emotional level. You'll know what I mean once you've seen the movie.This is one of the few sci-fi movies that convinces without a surplus of special effects.  Go on and see it if you haven't. "}{"Title":"Efficient mix of genres","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Who would have believed that a mix of Backdraft, back to the future and all thriller films would be such a success ! Frequency will become with the years a classic, better and better. Impressive scenes of fire, moving scenes beyond time, suspense when searching for the guilty of crimes. And everything also thanks to the actors, especially Quaid and Braugher, and the gorgeous Mitchell. Bravo ! "},{"Title":"Slow start, but riveting to the end.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was concerned in the early stages of the film. Some of the initial scenes showing the father and son's lives prior to the fire seemed little more than padding, making me wonder whether the director was short of material to make the thing movie length. That changed once the cross time radio link came into play.Most of the history change consequences appear to have been reasonably well thought out, though I did feel that the final action scene could never have come about because events thirty years earlier in that version of history would have prevented it.For all that, I enjoyed the film. "},{"Title":"Edge of your seat...","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very good consequences of changing history movie.  I really liked the way it kept changing as the characters changed history.  Ending very edge of your seat action.  I thinks the acting was excellent and true to life.  I would have done some of the same things.....  "},{"Title":"Finally, one movie that has it all","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is probably one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. Not since The Shawshank Redemption have I been pleasantly surprised in a movie.  Frequency had everything well placed humor, action, suspense and a love story that actually strengthens the plot and movement of the movie. A definite must see! "},{"Title":"Most Powerful Film Ever","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this film was one of the most amazing and thrilling movies i have ever seen. it will stay with you for a life time. this is a must see and i fully recommend it. dennis quaid is a great and strong hero and show's just how big a father-son connection can be! "},{"Title":"The movie blew my mind! BIG TIME!  Awesome movie! The BEST!","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of the best movies I have watched in a real long time. It surprised me,  although I started reading about it when the movie was still in pre-production. The key issue in this movie is whether  your choices will affect and possibly change your future.  That they do. It is about free will and consequences. I love that topic.  I love Dennis Quaid, and think that he is one the most underrated actors in Hollywood. He is good in all parts and should have gotten an Oscar many times by now. I think that Hollywood is against really handsome man.  Besides that Dennis in an independent person. He does not even have an agent! Good for you Dennis. Don't have to sit and wait for phone calls.  There is a lot of politics in Hollywood.  I loved Dennis and Meg Ryan. I don't like to get involved in people's personal life,   I have  tried in my own way to be fair, I will watch one Dennis Quaid movie and then one Med Ryan movie right away not to show partiality. As if their divorce was any on my business. I have had such a hard time with their split. That I just can not begin to tell. I have them around my house all the time, as I have purchased almost all of their movies, both of them. I just wish that this whole entire thing was not true. O my!  But back to the movie. It blew my mind! BIG TIME!  I expected one of those movies that one is dead  and talks to the person who is lived.  But I was so wrong. I will get a Dennis Quaid movie, even if he sits there and does nothing. What a PRESENCE! What a nice guy!  The movie is so exciting, and full of nuances. I don't want to tell you the story, all I can say is that I rented the tape, and before I rented I had already ordered the tape. I am glad a did. It ones of those movies that I will watch bizzilion  times. Like me and You Got Mail, and man with The Godfather Monday, Tuesday, Thursday Wednesday.  You have go to the Mattresses (Godfather). Both my husband and I were thrilled to have watched it on our 23th Wedding Anniversary! Favorite scenes    Frank Sullivan Dennis Quaid (Flesh and Bone) saysI am here. Son Favorite quote  I am here son. What a  comforting  sentence! Specially for someone like me who loved my dad!  I HIGHLY recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"One Of The Best Movies Ever","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have always loved time travel movies. Back to the Future, Somewhere inTime, Timecop, and my favorite tv show Quantam Leap, but Frequency wasthat and more.  It involved the travel of information through time andit lets you see what happens when time is messed with. Plus, I love thefather/ son angle of the movie.  It is very touching to see a son whonever really knew his dad, connect with him that way.  The film keepsyou going and will touch your heart.  I give this movie a 10 +++. One ofmy favorite movies ever.  It is the only movie at Blockbuster that Ihave ever seen with a you will love it guranteed or your money backoffer, and so far no one has complained because I work at one. "},{"Title":"An underated gem of a movie.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When this film was released as far as i am aware it didn't get a great deal of publicity and to be honest i hadn't heard of it until it came out on DVD. I am really glad i watched it because it is a little gem of a movie. Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel star as father and son who through a freak of nature manage to communicate to each other by amateur radio even though they are 30 years apart .The son manages to tell his father how to avoid his death which somehow leads to his mother being killed by a serial killer. They then work together to try to stop his killings and trap the murderer. This may sound like every other back in time film you have ever seen but dont because this is good!  A very entertaining thriller not to be missed. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Talk about suspending disbelief","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was interested in the idea for this movie when I first heard about it.  I liked Jim Caviezel in The Thin Red Line and wanted to see him in something else, and have always liked Dennis Quaid.  So I finally saw this movie yesterday and I liked it very much but had several problems with it also, none of which I will expand on since I do not want to bad-mouth this at all.  I appreciate the originality and the care that went into telling the story, so for that reason alone its a cut above the average Hollywood cookie cutter movie.BUT...I wouldn't examine it all too much or waste any time with trying to figure out if it could all happen.  It can't, so remember that its a movie, a movie that can't happen, though there are elements of real life in it.  I am not sure that your average audience is so open-minded that this will be accepted as entertainment; some people are going to be screaming for the exit and screaming 'hokum' running for the hills,  their sensibilities insulted. If you can stop being cynical for a second, this is for you. It contains several great scenes and some great acting too.  Hats off for not being like any other movie either.  Also hats off for playing an Elvis record in the first twenty minutes!   "},{"Title":"A Great Thriller","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Whoever wrote the screenplay for this movie did a great job.  It is a very unique blend of sci-fi with realism.  it's not hard to follow and is very entertaining.  The suspense parts are tense, but they still have enough time to care. This is a great film, so I give it a 5 out of 5 "}{"Title":"After watched this movie, you will love your father more than ever before. (*SPOILERS WARNING*)","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really like the screenplay of this movie.  A man can talk to his late dad pass an old radio transmitter system.  And that can change history. Love it !At the ending, when Quaid and Caviezel played baseball together, it made me think that the friendship between dad and son is powerful.Watch this movie and you will love your father much much more.  "},{"Title":"THRILLS TO THE MAX!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is by far one of the most exciting thrillers I have ever seen. From the beginning and right to the end, you're really on top of your seat. In fact, after we first saw it, my wife complained that she felt all tense throughout her back from sheer excitement. This is also one of those films, where, even though you're 90 minutes into it, you have absolutely no idea how it's going to end. A definite one to watch with a unique story and great twists (but be sure to stop your VCR if you're going to the bathroom!).  "},{"Title":"An unusual look at time travel","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A quirky tale. Full of twists and an end that I personally did not forsee. Emotional and moving and left me wishing I too could reach back and alter the past. "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  By far the best time travel movie since Time After Time. This movie was well written (I'd like to meet the person who wrote the screenplay) and well directed. Dennis Quaid proves he still has what it takes to rock the screen. Jim Caviezel is outstanding! This guy will be huge someday. I plan on buying the DVD tomorrow. Great Flick...! "},{"Title":"GREAT and original!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have been telling everyone I know (admittedly not a large group) that Frequency was the best, most enjoyable film of 2000.  So far, the people I talked to have agreed.  It starts off as a father-son story (a little slow here), turns into a science-fiction intrigue, and finishes off as an exciting murder mystery.  Some reviewer I saw on tv said that the time consistency was a bit off I am not a physicist or anyone likely to figure out such tedious bits - I go to movies for enjoyment and this one did the job!  The ending will make you want to jump up and cheer. PEACE. "},{"Title":"My favorite film of the year!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is a great movie. It is my favorite of the year. Like many people have said, it is exciting, heart warming, eerie and great acting by everyone in it. This movie keeps the viewer watching every minute. I like the baseball theme that serves as an interesting backdrop to everything else that happens. Frequency is Back to the Future, Field of Dreams and the Sixth Sense all rolled into one. But, Frequency is totally unique from those three. That is a great group of films to have semi combined into one. However, I am surprised how little attention Frequency has received during the year. Frequency doesn't get the credit that those movies got when they came out. Back to the Future was a huge hit in 1985, plus the sequels. Field of Dreams is a favorite among baseball movies. The Sixth Sense was called the best ever in its category last year. Frequency, seemingly well-liked, has received none of that. Something is off there.  "},{"Title":"Poor marketing hurt this film.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After renting the DVD last night (and seeing this film for the first time) I realized what a poor marketing campaign Frequency had. I thoroughly enjoyed this film, and had the people who cut the trailer been able to convey the true sense of urgency and suspense this film possesses, it surely would have been more successful.Many people have taken issue with the central plot element time travel (or in this instance, communicating through time; changing the past to change the future).  I, too, had a few problems with the movie's portrayal, but after thinking about it I came to the realization that NO ONE currently knows anything about what time travel might be like or what time really is, so how can one say this would happen or this is ridiculous?  There were a few discrepancies, but nothing that seriously detracted from the film's credibility (except, perhaps, for the aurora borealis being visible in NY). Physics aside, this is a very entertaining movie.  The DVD is packed with incredible extras and I plan on adding this to my collection. I recommend you see this film. "},{"Title":"Riveting and entertaining","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Great movie.  Captured my interest from the opening scene.  I found myself experiencing a wide range of emotion during the film, laughter and tears. This film is well worth the price of admission, rental or PPV purchase, not to mention buying on DVD. "},{"Title":"I didn't expect a lot from this movie but I got surprised","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To be honest with you I expected another movie about changing the past and how it will affect our future and the same storyline that has been used in countless movies before.  But something was different in the way it was presented this time, the charecters have life and you can get involved with them, great acting and a good production.  I was surprised to say this is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time and I would highly recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"It was neat...","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  So yeah, last spring, a bunch of movies came out that no one saw. This is stuff like The Skulls, Ready To Rumble and Rules of Engagement. And while some of these films made some money, no one said that they were brilliant movies. This is the thing though-a really brilliant movie did come out last spring...Frequency.Frequency is the kind of movie that keeps me going. Just when you think you've given up on filmakers, this movie comes out. It tells the story of a father and son who have a second chance at...You know what? I'm not gonna do that! This movie is so good that I don't wanna say anything about it. Just take it from me. This is by far, one of the smartest, most thought-provoking films that I have seen in a long time.5/5 "}{"Title":"a fulfilling movie worth watching!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is a movie that keeps the mind working throughout the whole time!Nowadays we've seen so many movies that we know most of the time that the end is going to end up good for the hero(s). This posses a great challenge for films today, it forces film makers to divert the viewers attention from how it's going to end up to HOW and WHY its going to end up that way, that's a little more difficult for the viewers to guess, and they did just that in frequency!This film encompasses viewers from all sides, mystery lovers, science fiction lovers, action lovers, and drama lovers. So I would suggest if you have not seen it get your family and friends together tonight and pop the corn turn the lights down and enjoy frequency! "},{"Title":"Probably the Best Time Travel Film Ever","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one really surprised me. Going into Frequency, I had no idea that filmmakers today can still deal with the treacherous issue of time travel in a manner that doesn't insult my intelligence. This is a well written, well crafted story based on a premise that is theoretically possible. There were scenes where I actually had a chill run down my spine. It's not perfect (there's no clear explanation as to how the killer arrived in the hospital bed in 1969 where he was supposed to have died, and I had a serious problem with the fake NY accents from the get-go), but overall it works and it works amazingly well. Probably one of the 2 or 3 best films of 2000. "},{"Title":"Good, but.......","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie's best moments derive from the pathos of a son rediscovering his lost father. At times it appears as if the end is a bit rushed, and the plot (not bad, with time travel twists) is an afterthought. The two parts of the movie don't always hang together as well as I'd like, but each part is excellent and it ultimately works.BUT...I have to wonder...does it seem to you that there is a huge uptick these days in supernatural stuff? If not sci-fi like this with an explanation, then real supernatural stuff. Looking at Halloween costumes, it seemed like every other little girl was a witch. Our movies and television shows seem obsessed with fantasy. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A classic, Wow, what if a person could... movie. Although this movie starts out pretty slow (after one HOT scene), it gradually picks up pace and ends with a bang. I would definitely recommend for someone to see this movie if they could.  "},{"Title":"If You Can Suspend Disbelief, You Will Love It!!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater, and as soon as it became available on DVD I had to have it!You really need to suspend disbelief in order to enjoy this movie. If you are the type of person who says That would never happen or How can they expect me to believe that then avoid this movie.. but if you're the type of person who enjoys a movie for the fantasy it is.. then this is a terrific film.The Director (Gregory Hoblit) did a great job laying out the story, leaving you with no questions to ask. He made sure you had all the information you needed as the film went along.I was very impressed by James Caviezel. His fascial expressions, actions, accent and all just brought John Sullivan to life. I believed in who he was.Let go of reality and let this movie take you away! I have no seen it 3 times... I really loved it!I was literally at the edge of my seat in the theater with each twist and turn.  "},{"Title":"The concept of this film is incredible and perfectly executed.","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The best movie about time travel, which is very possible according to modern physics. The acting is wonderful. Having lost my father, it can speak to anyone who has lost a love one. It will inspire you and make you believe in what most people call impossible. "},{"Title":"Great Flick!!! One of the best this year!","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I hardly even noticed that this film had been in theatres.  In fact I only saw a trailer for it when I watched Final Destination on video.  But the trailer convinced me to go rent it and boy was I in for a pleasant surprise. It was definitely one of the better films I've seen all year and had such a great ending.  It was one of those films that suck you right in.  You can't help but think what it would be like to be a part of the story.  A lot of people have complained at how unrealistic it is but thats what movies are all about.  If movies were realistic only a few people would watch them. Besides I haven't seen people complaining about how unrealistic Back to the Future was.  It was one of the best movies of the 80's.  In that film and entire car and driver were sent through time.  In this film it was merely radio waves.  Nonetheless after watching this film I ordered it immediately on DVD.  You don't want to miss this one.  Go see it!  "},{"Title":"Don't watch this movie if you are a cynic","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've read so many reviews of this wonderful movie that say it is so terrible and unbelievable, or that it was good until the sappy ending.  I'm wondering what is so wrong with a happy ending?  Is our society so cynical that movies have to be depressing in order to be considered good?Dennis Quaid is great in this film.  The plot is very well-done and original.  When the movie was over I couldn't believe 2 hours had passed!  I was so caught up in the movie that time flew by.  The thing is, I *enjoyed* myself, I didn't sit there pretending to be some scientist, desperately seeking flaws in the plot of changing the past.  Why argue about it?  Has anyone ever actually changed the past, so they can say, hey  that movie was wrong, that's not what happens.  Cynics will miss the point of the movie entirely.  And they will miss out on one of the best movies to come out of Hollywood in a long time. "},{"Title":"Clever movie I wish I had seen in the theater.","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect from this film when I first saw the trailer. It did pretty good at the box office, and at the video store. When I watched it, I was impressed. Dennis Quaid gives a great performance, as does the rest of the cast. A clever science-fiction/drama for movie night. 9/10. "},{"Title":"Pure fantasy, yet totally enthralling","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Honestly, I would have a hard time trying to explain what Frequency meant to me. The movie itself is pure unbelievable fantasy, but it's one of those movies that captures your imagination and wisks you away with it's uniqueness. It's a movie that I have constantly reccomended. Dennis Quaid is at his best as Frank Sullivan, the firefighter, who's destiny changes after talking to his son 30 years in the future, VIA Ham Radio. And Jim Caviezel is equally as good as his son, John, who team up to stop the consequences of their actions from coming to fruition, even though there is a 30 year gap between them... a '10' in my books, Frequency is a must-watch, or even a perfect film to add to your library...  "}{"Title":"This...is not a toy.","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw the trailer for FREQUENCY, I honestly didn't know what to think. I decided against seeing it in the theater. It was only recently when I saw copies flying off the shelves at my local Blockbuster that I decided to give it a chance. A good choice, after all. All of us have had questions about what we would like to change in our pasts. What would have happened if we dated someone else, turned left instead of right, or stopped a tragedy before it happened? FREQUENCY makes these chances possible. But what if we made something worse? Could we still make it right?Despite what you may have heard, FREQUENCY is _not_ a movie about time travel. There are no Deloreans, no Terminators, and certainly no Van Dammes. All you need is a radio and a leap of faith. FREQUENCY is about making changes, and the consequences that follow. This movie is a thriller that keeps up a great level of suspense right until the end.  Don't take my word for it, just watch it yourself and draw your own conclusions. And remember the magic word.... "},{"Title":"A must see film!","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Touching right to the soul!  Tears, Happiness and overwhelming suspense!  This is a 10!   Best film I've seen in awhile!        "},{"Title":"First rate science fiction thriller","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This highly imaginative science fiction thriller is an entertaining mind bender of a film.  Toby Emmerich's story takes a fresh approach to the time travel angle.  Rather than having people traveling through time, Emmerich has them communicating through time using a Ham Radio that has been augmented by an Aurora Borealis.  Ok, there aren't many Aurora Borealis events as far south as New York City, but there isn't any trans-time communication noted in the scientific literature either, so we need to allow the story a little latitude.After we accept the premise, this ingenious plot incorporates many different elements to entice the viewer.  There is the human angle of a son speaking to his dead father, the many twists resulting from altering the ribbon of time, and the solving of a thirty-year-old serial murder case.  The various elements are combined effectively by director Gregory Hoblit (Primal Fear, Fallen) to produce a fast paced action thriller with sufficient character development to bind us emotionally to the characters.  The fascinating thing about the detective story is that the facts of the crime keep changing in unexpected ways each time John (James Caviezel) imparts something to his father (Dennis Quaid) that causes him to change history.  In addition, the action sequences are well done and the visual effects, especially the digitized Aurora are nicely rendered.  The aging makeup is also realistic.The acting was excellent as well, though the New York accents were pretty bad.  Dennis Quaid alternated between the goofy and endearing dad and the action hero, and managed to keep it from seeming incongruous.  This was a breakout performance by James Caviezel, who heretofore has been confined to minor roles.  His was a very emotional and tense role and he handled it extremely well.  I was also impressed with Elizabeth Mitchell who gave a vivacious performance as John's mother.I enjoy a good intelligent science fiction thriller.  Lately, science fiction has been subsumed into the horror category, since you seldom see a science fiction story that isn't an excuse to hack up some cast members.  This film was more in the tradition of Twilight Zone, relying more on an inventive story than grisly effects to capture the audience.  That's why I rated this film a 9/10.  With luck, this will inspire a return to more creative science fiction. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and exciting!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Tense. Nerve-wracking. Thrilling. All of these words describe Frequency. Although it starts a little slowly, it certainly picks up speed and tension quickly. Don't listen to the nay-sayers or negative reviews. Come in with an open mind and heart and you'll love this movie. It's entertainment in the purest sense. Just when you think you've got it all figured out -- it changes again and the suspense rises! Until the very last second, you'll be positive you know what's going to happen. You'll be calling it to the end...and you'll be wrong. Take a chance on this movie. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"Yeah!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A good, good, good movie. If you liked Back to the future, this one has the same accuracy of plot (always tricky with science fiction time-related stuff), if you liked Sixth sense this one have the same deepness of characters, if you liked Speed this one has the same pace and thrill. "},{"Title":"relatively intriguing sci-fi thriller","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A relatively intelligent sci-fi thriller that in the end doesn't really amount to much, `Frequency' emerges as a father/son reconciliation drama with a `Twilight Zone' twist.  Written by Toby Emmerich and directed by Gregory Hoblit, the film stars Dennis Quaid as a New York firefighter in 1969 who manages, through some fluke of nature, to contact his very own son, Johnny (Jim Caviezel), via short wave radio, thirty years in the future.   The filmmakers manage to come up with a surprisingly large number of narrative twists and turns to keep this potentially one-note premise intriguing and interesting as father and son come to know each other across the normally uncrossable chasm of time.   For instance, Johnny not only has to try to reverse history and prevent his father's untimely death in a fire in 1969, but also to thwart the murders of his mother and of several other women by a serial killer during that same time period.A film like `Frequency' really doesn't have much going for it but the ingenuity of its plot.  Whenever it tries to get meaningful and touching, particularly in its exploration of the father/son relationship, the film dissolves in a puddle of hopelessly contrived and manufactured sentimentality.  On the other hand, `Frequency' does manage to keep to a minimum the maddening inconsistencies and lapses in logic that invariably accompany these time-bending scenarios.  Moreover, the filmmakers make clever use of the famous 1969 World Series, astutely finding ways to incorporate it into the fabric of the drama.  On a trivial level, the film does seem to suffer from an apparent oversight on the part of its makers.  The movie is supposed to be set in New York City in the Octobers of 1969 and 1999 &#150; yet, correct me if I'm wrong, but wouldn't at least some of the trees be turning colors and dropping leaves by that time?  As far as we can tell, the movie seems to have been filmed during the summer months.  For a film whose very foundation is to question the very nature of time, this seemingly insignificant error looms larger than it perhaps otherwise might.A film of this sort really doesn't stand up to too close scrutiny.  A viewer either accepts the incredibility of the premise and goes with it, or rejects the concept out of hand and moves on to another film.  Suffice it to say then that, given its fundamental plot-is-everything nature, `Frequency' makes for reasonably diverting and absorbing viewing.     "},{"Title":"A great movie that did not receive well at the box office.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have to admit that this film exceeded my expectations of it. I find that movies that deal with bizarre circumstances usually tend to lack credible writing, execution, or no sane person would ever do that. Something that made it seem more fairy tale than realistic.This movie used intelligent ways to portray the bad and the good. It happened in ways that you could see realistically happening, gave you that feeling that you could relate to the characters a little more.Obvisouly a rare time where the producer, director, writer and actors were all in synch with each other, which I find very rare. I would gladly like to know how this movie was put together, and would like to see it repeated again. I recommend this movie to all I personally know, and would love to hear all the details on how it was made. "},{"Title":"Frequency is a great movie, very novel premise, keeps you on the edge until the very end.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Frequency has a very novel premise - an unusually high Northern Lights activity allows a deceased father (Dennis Quaid) and adult son, a murder investigator, to communicate directly with each other during October 1969 and October 1999 through the ham radio that is simultaneously in the possession of each!  Of course no one really believes this can happen, so to enjoy and appreciate this film you have to suspend belief and enjoy the what if. Sort of like you had to do for Back to the Future or, more recently, for Being John Malkovich.But that's not all. As father and son fully realise what is happening, the way they use information begins to change the past, and some times in very unexpected ways. And that is really where the movie takes off, and to me, becomes one of the more interesting movies and well-done that I've seen. I don't quite think it is a 10, but I rate it a strong 9. After the movie was over, we had to go back and re-watch some scenes to get the full impact, and here DVD is a great benefit.And, while I am on the subject, DVD picture and sound quality are fine, but nothing outstanding. The extras are pretty good, with a couple of different commentary tracks you can choose. The most interesting is a scientific presentation regarding solar activity, the 10-year cycles, how that affects the Earth's magnetic fields and northern lights, and how that can affect communications, like ham radios. Much of what is depicted in the film is based on good science.CAUTION - SPOILERS FOLLOW.When the father, a firefighter, realises he is to die during a rescue due to happen in two days, he changes his escape path from the burning building, and he and the child both survive. However, he is a heavy smoker, and dies of cancer 20 years later. However, all that sets into motion a series of cause/effect incidents.  Like, instead of being at his wake the next day, his wife is at work as a nurse where she prevents a man from dying from a medical mistake. The man turns out to be a serial Nightingale killer who had killed 3 nurses before he died. Now that he survived, he ends up killing 7 more, including the fireman's wife, and the killer's own mother. The latter revelation turns out to be the key to realising who he was.  So, they have to work to re-change history, now that they know they can!  It gets very complicated!The gimmick they use to convince each other, and eventually a cop, that this time conversation is real, is the 1969 baseball world series where the Mets won. The son in 1999 told them exactly how the game the next day in 1969 would be won, and when they saw it on TV knew it was real.Remember in Back to the Future, when it appeared the son would not be able to get his mom and dad together at the dance, the images of the kids (in the future photo) started to fade away?  They used a similar technique here, where after something in the past was changed, then the scrapbook of newspaper clippings would change.  Or, photographs would change, to show different sets of people. There is no perfect way to do all this, since it is fantasy anyway, but it is done very effectively here.The final climax, which strikes much more terror than the Blair Witch Project ever did, is where the killer is both in the past (young) and the present (old) at the same time, trying to kill the mother (which he presumably had done) in 1969 and the son in 1999, while the ham radio was activated, so while we watched, they could hear across 30 years what was going on in the house, the same house! While the killer is choking the son in 1999, the father in 1969 blows off the killer's hand.  The killer runs out the door, the mother is alive, and as the killer is choking the son in 1999, his hand gradually disappears.  Looking shocked the killer backs away and a shotgun is leveled at him, and boom he is gone, snuffed out by the elder father in 1999 who, during a late scene, had given up smoking, and did not die of cancer after all!Re-reading all this, sounds a bit hokey, but seeing it on film, it really works. The acting and directing are good, as are the several special effects, and the film keeps your attention like very few do.  That is why it gets such a high rating from me, the very novel concept of time conversation instead of time travel, and the thrilling way the stories and their changes were handled. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen in a long time.","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was so good it gave me chills. The way things all came together at different times, it really made you think. People compare it to The Sixth Sense and I guess I can see a bit of a connection. The concept behind it, plus the constantly changing plot makes it one of my favorites! I especially loved the link between the father and son through baseball and the '69 Miracle Mets. The family seemed so happy and it made me so happy to see them together again! "},{"Title":"It is a great movie, fellows!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just to say I was very surprised for the originality plot. It's awesome when you go to the cinema and don't know what to expect for real. And it's more awesome when the movie fills your senses in any way.If you want to spend a very very good time watching a movie, you won't be disappointed.  "}{"Title":"Intrigue, Suspense, and Feel-Good in a near-perfect package.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Based on a clever premise, wonderfully photographed and scored, and seamlessly edited, Frequency is a near perfect package of suspense and feel-good.  Quaid, Caviezel and all the players gave very believable and intriguing performances and plot twists kept me glued to the set in the last 2/3 of the movie.  Similar to Sixth Sense, for hours after, I was remembering scenes in the movie, and piecing them together to understand even more of the nuances in the plot.  And the fascinating idea of reaching back in time to control your own destiny was very similar to the premise of the recent bestseller Replay by Ken Grimwood.   Frequency is a truly wonderful film that NewLine Cinema unfortunately forgot to put on the major promotional bandwagon. "},{"Title":"Suspense, mystery, and drama... great combination!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a great film! I rented it with modest expectations but was held in suspense from beginning to end. Forget about why or how the communications are taking place, and concentrate on the plot and character developments. There are lots of interesting plot twists that made this movie a touching and at times terrifying experience. Far better then Sliding Doors, Ghost, or the Sixth Sense. Don't overlook Frequency for a great combination of mystery, drama, thriller and suspense!  "},{"Title":"A+ Suspense","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"   A friend invited me over to see this film, and it was incredible! Captivating from the start, the story is exceptional sci-fi with a message... nonstop thrills and twists as the story unfolds keep the watcher tensed, awaiting the next development. The best (and cleanest) suspense film to come out in a long time! This one's a must-see! "},{"Title":"Charming, sincere what-if piece","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Time-travel movies sometimes need to take some liberties with the constraints of physics and logic. Take Back to the Future, for example. A space-time continuum? Gigawatts? A time machine made out of a Delorean? But what unites that film with a movie like Frequency is that if you change one thing in the past, the consequences spilling from that action could be dire indeed.Dennis Quaid is Frank Sullivan, a firefighter in 1969 New York. The Amazin' Mets are in the World Series and he has a loving wife and son. At the other end of our time spectrum is John Sullivan, a cop in 1999 New York. John is Frank's son. Finding his late father's old ham radio in a hall closet, John turns it on and happens to find himself talking to his long-dead father. How long? Frank died in 1969, right around the time of the World Series, in a warehouse fire. Amazin', isn't it?The primary event that sets off all of the other events is the saving of Frank's life - he's supposed to have died in the warehouse fire, but John tells him about it ahead of time. Frank lives, and now all changes. And, of course, the only two people who can tell the difference are Frank and John themselves. This is a standard plot device, although I'm sure it would also be the case in real life. It's where No One Believes the Hero. Just once, I'd like to see Our Hero explain to the Authorities that he was abducted by aliens, they seemed nice but aloof at first, but now they're headed right this way -- and then have the Authorities say, Wow, we better get ready for them! Set my phaser on kill! But that doesn't happen. The Men in Charge never seem to believe Our Heroes, no matter how logical they may make the situation seem. Frank, of course, tries to convince his old buddy Satch (Andre Braugher) that a killer on the loose is not him (Frank, that is) and that the real killer is... someone else. But will Satch hear of it? Heck, no! Even when Frank tries to tell him how the '69 World Series will wind up (thus injecting logic where logic cannot exist; but remember, movies are the vacuums of logic, even the ones that don't suck), Satch merely gets mean and nasty and forgets he's Frank's pal.But this is a wonderful story, no doubt about it. There are some very well-done scenes, both thoughtful and thought-provoking. The writers obviously didn't want to take the easy way out and use movie logic all the time. The bottom line is that the effects are very nicely done (and even better on DVD) and the plot itself is tight. Don't wear yourself out looking for loopholes; just be content to be fascinated by this surprisingly mesmerizing movie. "},{"Title":"The ugly consequences of the Back to the Future Series","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It takes a lot of money to come up with such a monumental flop. I should of known, any film these days starring Dennis Quaid should be enough to keep me a way from the cinema but the idea of dad and son connecting through a radio transmitter through time seemed potentially interesting. Boy, was I wrong.Not only is the plot full of holes and discrepancies, the whole film lacks any sort of direction. Is it a drama? Is it a thriller? Is it Back to the Future 16?(The next paragraph might reveal some of the plot so please skip it if you still want to see this film!)And I haven't even mentioned the scary part - the film, at its core, encourages and supports old school American family values e.g. the film suggests that the you are doing badly if you do not have a family by the age of 36, and that if circumstances were rectified, you would have a family with two kids and that would be considered a 'good end'.The result is yet more evidence that Hollywood has become a platform for pushing traditional conservative republican values on innocent viewers.  "},{"Title":"Family Values Transcending Time","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is not the first or the best movie that can be placed in the `time travel' genre, but it is riveting and satisfying. The plot, as often is the case with films moving back in forth in time, sound ridiculous on paper, but this one works on the screen.  John Sullivan (played by Jim Caviezal) is a modern-day New York cop whose life is falling apart.  He drinks heavily, smokes even more and his girlfriend has walked out on him.  Sullivan's father, Frank (Dennis Quaid) was a firefighter who died in a blaze exactly 30 years ago, when John was only six years old. John discovers his father's old short wave radio, and through an atmospheric quirk is able to talk with his father the day before he is `scheduled' to die in a warehouse fire.  John takes action, but the result is the first of two major themes  Our actions can have unintended-and often tragic-consequences.   And as father and son begin to connect via the short wave, the second theme emerges The devastating effect the absence of a parent can have on a child, even as the child passes into adulthood. Frequency has too many plot developments and even more gaps in logic to digest.  But Caviezal and Quaid are excellent, as is Andre Braugher as a friend of both father and son.  "},{"Title":"The one of the best (sorta) timetravel movies ever.","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I didn't know what to expect in this movie.  After all, it's a Dennis Quaid movie, for Pete's sake, so who knows what you're getting.  But, turns out, I really enjoyed.  Even to the point of where I'd call it one of the best movies not-really-about-time-travel ever.Caviezel play an NY cop who's never really been able to get over the death of his dad Quaid, a firefighter who died 30 years before in the line of duty.  One day, for no particular reason, Caviezel digs out his dad's old ham radio (he lives in his dad's old house), and through some astral miracle, is able to communicate with his father in the past.  He sets out to see if he can't save his father's life.The problem with this movie (and the problem with all time travel movies) is the the temporal logic is all wrong.  If something gets changed in the past, it doesn't just change before your eyes in the present, and you wouldn't have any knowledge of the change  it would just always be like that, because the change happened in the past.  Not the case here, where everyone takes whatever happened in the past as fact, where as Caviezel can remember how things in the past got changed.  Things that happen in the past also affect the future in real time (a person writing on a desk in the past would look like an invisible hand writing on that same desk at that same instant in the present).  But this doesn't ruin the movie; there are a lot of good things going on.  The screenplay is smart enough not to just be about John saving his dad  once his dad is saved, it causes other problems to arise in the present which Quaid must fix in the past.  I also like the initial conversations between Caviezel and Quaid, where they don't talk about what needs to be done to save dad, but what's been going on in the past 30 years.  The pacing's good, the action's good, and the ending made everyone in the theater cheer.  So, if kinda time travel is your thing (you must be a big Somewhere in Time fan), then this is the movie for you.  If not, watch it anyway. "},{"Title":"Sliding Doors meets Run Lola RUN","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best movies about the 4th dimension (time).Despite the amateur director and the bad cast (with the exception of the best D.Qued ever!) there is a brilliant idea (what if we could talk with someone living in the past and change the time sequence of events?) which fascinates the audience and makes u wonder...Yet this isn't the best thing in this movie.The emotional part saves the whole plot from failing u laugh , u cry , u fear, u wish..it's like taking part ,actually playing in the film and identify yourself with the characters.OK, it is science fiction but that's all Hollywood about  nice fairy tales which change your mood and preserve your romantism. "},{"Title":"So maybe this movie isn't believable, but who cares, it's pretty darn entertaining!","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am really tired of people who claim that a movie is bad because it is unbelievable.  I mean, that is why it is a movie and not real life!  It is pretty hard to make a time travel movie, let alone any kind of sci-fi movie, that is entirely believable, but the real goal of any movie is to be entertaining, and this one definitely is!  As one of those people who has never stopped believing that time travel could be possible, I knew I had to see this movie as soon as I heard about it, and I was not disappointed! The idea that John (Jim Caviezel) can actually alter events in the past to affect his future is one that I am sure many people will enjoy.  The idea that he can talk to his father (Dennis Quaid), who died thirty years ago, is enchanting.  And the idea that...well, I'm not going to give away the terrific ending.  If you want to know what happens, see it yourself! "},{"Title":"Will Frequency be remmebered in Oscar next year?","Date":"12 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'd heard so many good words about Frequency before going to watch the film and it turns out to be even better. There is hardly a film that can keep you glued on the screen, and it does. We cry, laugh and smile throughout. Marvellous diretion, acting, cinematography, music and especially editing. But I wonder if Oscar judges think the same or they are just going to ignore this gorgeous picture. "}{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie in June.  It was one of the best movies released this year. And it was definitely the best movie ever made about a change in the past that affects the future.  The acting was superb and there weren't any big flaws.  The movie flowed smoothly and didn't get all jumbled up like these movies usually do.  Great job to everybody involved with it! "},{"Title":"An outstanding film with action, suspense and heart.","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My wife and I really enjoyed this movie.  There was lots of action, suspense and heart.  Things we used to see much more frequently in years past.We especially appreciated that it was so good without the producers feeling compelled to add something to it to cause it receive an R rating.  This is happening way too often these days and we won't go to R rated movies because we want to set the proper example to our teenage and adult children. "},{"Title":"This movie touches your heart and makes you think.","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow!  I have not seen a movie that makes you think so much about What if in a very long time.  I also couldn't help but feel good at the end of the movie -- if you have not seen it, don't let anyone tell you anything about the movie.  You deserve to be surprised by the movie.  I think this movie has a Groundhog's Day type of message -- you have to keep doing it over until you get it right. "},{"Title":"A good idea, but misused.","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I would never have gone to see this movie if I would have thought it was bad, but the idea behind the plot was interesting. Unfortunately, it's a bad movie. All the people at the cinema were laughing almost since the beginning. I don't find ridiculous that something happening in the past could affect instantly a parallel present, but memory is something written in our brain cells, affected by time events, and thus by definition it's impossible to remember two branches of a time line simultaneously, as it happens in the film. With this premise all the film is a big mistake, and thus many things which happen are hilarious, for me and for all the people in the theater. For example, why would the main character remember the unchanged past and not the police boss? This movie has nothing new, and it's much worse than Back to the Future, even when the latter one is supposed to be a comedy.P.D. This is a Sci-Fi movie, not a sport movie. There's too much baseball for my taste. I'm Spanish and I don't like baseball at all. My rating is 5-6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"That compelling feeling","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Few time oriented movies are as compelling as this one.  Not so much a time travel story as an altering of events, 'Frequency' uses a wonderful metaphor like the 1969 World Series when the miracle Mets pulled off a championship, to categorize its characters and make it all come off in an entertaining and strangely plausible way.  Director Gregory Hoblit uses his frightful psychological trademark of deep swelling intensity to tell a story and uses tight editing, moody camera shots and murky lighting to do all this.  Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel are a perfect father and son team who have an amazing amount of chemistry even though they're not on screen together for most of the film.  A truly different movie of its type and one that concludes itself better than most movies could ever imagine.  "},{"Title":"Original story about strange happenings.","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Apparently, strange things can happen when the Aurora Borealis lights up the northern skies... and I mean really strange. A young present-day cop (James Caviezel) resurrects an old 60's valve radio transmitter and starts fiddling with it.  To his surprise and delight he contacts his fireman dad (Dennis Quaid) who died 30 years ago.  If you can believe that, you can believe the rest of the action!  Confusing at times with the switching of scenes between present day and the sixties, the film has plenty of drama and lots of noise with screaming fire-engines and burning buildings, but concentration is required for the rapid change of images which flick across the screen.  Communication between father and son results in solving the difficult case of a serial killer which has been on police files since the 60's. The film has a touching scene when the cop speaks to the whole family gathered around the radio transmitter including himself as a little boy!!. No wonder some of his colleagues question his sanity.  James Caviezel shines as the pensive troubled cop during the strange aberrations, but when the Aurora disappears from the sky life returns to normal.  Yes, a happy ending! "},{"Title":"What If?","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Who hasn't thought about going back in time to change something in their past?This movie hit home with me. And as often as I've said it, I'll say it again - If it can't happen in real life, I'm glad it can at least happen in the movies.Don't think too hard when watching Frequency. Just let yourself enjoy it!An 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning, action-packed, sentimental movie","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ever since my roomie and I starting hearing that beautiful Garth Brooks song on the radio and found out it was from Frequency I have been wondering what the movie was about.I was incredibly wowed by the whole movie!  Dennis Quaid did a very good job and the storyline had lots of twists and turns.  The ending is visually stunning and you may even cry.It was a very sentimental and action packed, especially once time gets altered.  Sort of a Back to the Future thing without the humor.  Go see it if you happen to have a chance.  I believe that you will be quite pleased with Frequency. "},{"Title":"A great all round movie","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was really surprised that this film was so good.  I liked the idea from the film poster which drew me to watch this film.  Dennis Quaid plays Frank Sullivan, a firefighter whose son John finds his old HAM radio 30 years into the future.  Due to some solar interference, Frank from 1969 can talk to John in 1999.  There is some really good stories to follow and some really good time paradoxes that you have to pay attention for.  Myself being a fan of time travel films, this really appealed to me.  I will probably buy this when it comes out on VHS or if I ever get a DVD player!  Anyway this is excellent watching.... check it out today! "},{"Title":"Frequency","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is by far the cleverest movie this year. It has so many brilliant ideas rolled into one great premise, and it is well acted, directed, and written. Sometimes it does drag on a bit, but it always holds your interest and you'll be sitting in the cinema saying to yourself, What a great idea!. This is a movie that can be enjoyed by nearly everyone, for all occasions. 7.5/10. "}{"Title":"Good entertainment with well written plot.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Really entertaining time travel plot, since the two people involved don't travel, but the problems with time travel still occur.  I was impressed with the way the screenplay interwove the two main stories, but kept things straight.  Dennis Quaid gave one of his best performances in a long time showing a wide range of emotion and a good accent to boot.  The use of the 1969 World Series as the tie in to the evidence was also well done. Although it was somewhat overt in its violent content, it did not pander to the violence.   "},{"Title":"creative !","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie, it was a simple plot but brought to life so well. I thought each and every actor did a great job to add to the essence of the storyline. This movie should get more recognition, but I think it's worth seeing and it's really heart warming as well "},{"Title":"Time on our side","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a very good and well done movie.For those who didn't see this one,what a shame.A scifi packed full of what a movie should have, a thrill a min in every twist and turn. I can't wait till this movie comes out on dvd and vhs.This is what time travel is all about,a wonderful story that was meant to be told "},{"Title":"The best time travel movie since 'Back To The Future'","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of those rare movies that takes off after the opening credits and never lets up. Why it didn't gross over 100 million is beyond me. There have been a lot of time travel movies and this one tops them all aside of Back To The Future. I hope its a hit on video because this movie deserved a far better fare at the box office. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable film.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You really need to throw reality out the window to enjoy this excellent film.  Luckily, it's not hard to do, as it's so easy to get up in the story and actually believe in what is happening.  Anyone who does not allow themselves to believe is not going to like this movie.  It's such an enjoyable film, very entertaining and holds your interest.A really great film, it's great to see Jim Caviezel working again.  Dennis Quaid is also excellent and believable.  Highly recommended.   "},{"Title":"Great Movie -  Field Of Dreams Qualities","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As a ham radio operator, I watched this drawn by my life long hobby. Little did I know that I would be moved as movies like Bridges Of Madison County and Field Of Dreams ... Forget the reality ... I went hoping to be entertained and got so much more...But remember ... Ham Radio IS MAGIC ... "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This Is A MUST See! Sometimes Excellent Movies Like The Sixth Sense Strike Our Hearts With It's Incredible And Brilliant Intensity And Thoroughly Chilling Experience, Frequency Is Just Like This. What Are You Waiting For ? "},{"Title":"Well thought movie plays the right chords.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An aurora creates a frequency on an old radio where a fire man and his son can communicate thirty years apart (1969-1999). Since the fire man died thirty years ago, his son Johnny has made a mission to save his father from the fire that killed him. FREQUENCY touches all the right buttons and does not challenge the common sense of the average viewer. As a matter of fact, FREQUENCY is such a simple heart felt movie that has all the right elements charm, suspense, and drama. An overall Yahoo, this movie is for anyone wanting a simple dose of relief from big budget nonsense. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This, to me, is what a fantasy/scifi movie is all about. You're asked to suspend disbelief and believe one impossible thing could happen and from that comes a gripping and entertaining story. My only complaint is that they put too much effort into trying to explain it and make it sound possible, so you can't help but think about it. Still, it's the best movie I've seen this year. "},{"Title":"The time machine","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've seen this movie right on my trip to Malaysia, few months before it will be release here in New Zealand. This movie has good plot and the story between father and son, where the son who use the CB radio accidently contact his Dad who has died for thirty years in the past. The ending is pretty good and the story line goes as predicted. Well done.  "}{"Title":"Best film of 2000 ..... so far.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Kudos to Toby Emmerich the writer of this fine movie. This is for those movie goers who can allow themselves to be lost in a fantasy tale, and be swept away in the story. A son communicating with his dead father 30 years in the past while he was alive, using a ham radio (the same one) is interesting in and of itself. Then mix in the ability to change the future, on the fly, makes for the most interesting and entertaining movie yet this year.Dennis Quaid as the father, and James Cveizel as the son work well together, even though they are not on screen together at the same time. I don't want to give too much away so all I can say is to go see this fine movie, and have an open mind.  Remember, movies are made to entertain, not change the world. "},{"Title":"A great and touching movie!","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I just love the plot of Frequency. I was really touched upon watching this movie. The cast did a great job in portraying their roles. Maybe this movie is like the stories of O. Henry because its ending is unexpected plus, it will make you laugh, cry, and make you feel the suspense! "},{"Title":"One cool variant of the old time-warp concept","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One can only wonder how Back to the Future would have looked like if morphing techniques were available back then. In this retro feeling movie, the viewer is no longer bored with explanations how it is possible to alter history. It's done with such feeling and sense of wonder, one can only anticipate how son and father will work out the problem they face. Great stuff for all sons and fathers who feel they've lost touch with each other. "},{"Title":"Probably the only time-travelling movie that makes sense entirely","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency moves the perfect pace allowing the viewers to connect with the characters, move the story along whilst keeping an element of surprise. For once, we see a time-line change (e.g. memories are created) as events in the past change the future.The acting is very slick, keeping you interested in the two main leads and allowing you to sympathise with the father and son but without over using the sentimental card.I highly recommend this flick for two hours of light-hearted, time-travelling fun, particularly if you liked 'Back to the Future' "},{"Title":"Great movie - bad ending","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first hour and 30 minutes of this film render Frequency one of the best films of the year &#150; nay the Millennium &#150; so far.Director Gregory Hoblit brings to the table the ingenious visual touches which he used to help make the tv series HomicideLife on the Street such an aesthetic treat.The storyline is a fairly unique mix of sci-fi, fantasy and taut thriller &#150; and it works on all counts.  If you suspend your imagination and immerse yourself in the fanciful mysticism of the Northern-Lights-induced-time-travel theory, you will find yourself utterly absorbed and strangely moved by the tale of father and son crossing the time and mortality barriers.The dialogue between Sullivan Jnr and Snr sparkles with a nicely realistic &#145;male bonding' feel and genuinely moving chemistry between the two lead players.Dennis Quaid &#150; his face weathering into character like a well-seasoned baseball mitt &#150; has rarely been better as Frank Sullivan, the fire-man turned cross-dimensional crime-fighter.  Good to see that he is stepping out of the shadow of being Mr Meg Ryan and becoming a star in his own right once again.And Jim Caviezel shows exactly why Terence Mallick cast the then virtually unknown actor in The Thin Red Line.  Initally mournful and falling into macho hard-drinking cop stereotype, Caviezel injects subtlety and humanity into the role of John Sullivan.  Blessed with the most expressive pair of blue eyes, Caviezel portrays loss, pain and joy without having to say a word.But after all these original and inventive ingredients, what should rate as a wonderful film deflates like a cheap balloon in the very last scene.One can only hope that Mr Hoblit will release a secret directors cut of this without the shocking ending.  What could have been his Field of Dreams turns into a bit of a nightmare.So overall, there are two ratings for this movie First 90 minutes=  9/10 Last five= -3It's about time Hollywood learned that its audience is lactose intolerant and simply cannot stomach any more cheddar-rich finales.  "},{"Title":"What a film!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Well going into the cinema I thought this was going to be LAME but I was completely fooled!! The film is absolutely brilliant will great performances by Dennis Quaid. Half-way through the film makes you think that this is going NOWHERE with a meaningful story but then the films plot just CHANGES.A great movie definitely recommended- not overhyped which made it better.7 OUT OF 10. "},{"Title":"nice try, but flawed","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  frequency - good idea, but poorly scripted and highly derivative. it's been almost 10 years since anyone really did the fire sfx thing, with backdraft. this time around, the fires, sadly, came second to a poor (and completely unmemorable) script.dennis quaid - about time he had a decent hit. he *does* make a good firefighter and he's pretty good, but jim cavaziel is just not hero material. he's not even convincing as a 36-yr old, let alone a 36 yr old cop.the opening sequence is great. i thought - give me some more of this! ok, there is another great fire scene later, but clearly someone thought - let's re-do that part of backdraft, y'know, the start, and fast as any flashover, you got yourself an impressive, but unoriginal sequence.can't say more without giving the plot away. it's worth seeing, the time travel thing is just about okay, the fires are spectacular (but not enough of 'em), the script (what script?) is c*ap. "},{"Title":"Frequency defies pigeon-holeing","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I wish more films were made nowadays that do not fit so snugly into one particular genre.  Frequency is one such film.  Intimate and touching, but also gripping and suspenseful.The acting was superb, especially by Quaid and Caviezel as father and son. The imagery was rich and dramatic and the plot, once you got by the basic premise, quite sound.  The logic faltered a tiny bit towards the end, but one could overlook that amongst the climactic fight scene(s).A thoroughly enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"This movie has spirit and guts!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    Okay, I don't really know what the makers of this movie were thinking, but the unusual premise is so crazy that it actually works! And the even more crazy thing is that I really liked it!  What we have is some kind of Twilight Zone episode given the movie treatment. Some nice colouful looking solar activity allows a mourning cop (Caviezel) to be able to speak to his dead father (Quaid), via an old ham radio that links the years 1999 and 1969. This out of the ordinary opportunity gives the son a chance to save his fathers life, who died in a fire fighting accident, by telling him how to avoid his death. But changing the past has its consequences for the future&#133; something, which nether are prepared for.  After an explosive opening sequence the film has a nice mix of family bonding with father and son (all that baseball and bike riding), science fiction spookiness all to do with the unusual time element, plus there's the added bonus of a crime story to do with a serial killer. It does put the film at a bit of a loss though, as it can't seem to decide what category it wants to fit into. But still, I think it all fits perfectly!  There are reasonable performances from everyone, some lush special effects and some edge of your seat fire fighting scenes! But it is the unique yet absurd story that I think keeps this movie going. Unfortunately this has one of those feel good endings full of sentiment designed to leave you smiling when you leave the cinema but it does seem to let the whole thing down.  It's very clever with its time warp story and doesn't give in to many noticeable goofs. It's emotional family bonding and scary serial killer scenes also show that this film does have a little of everything to cater for everyone.  I highly recommend it and it could become one of this years surprise hits! I really liked it!My rating - 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Can You say Back to the Future?","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Instead of a flying Delorian, a flying radio signal thought time and space.  Nothing new but a good movie if you don't think about it to much.Not to spoil anything if that is posable?  But this film suffers from the same problem all back in time movies have when they try to change the past.  In these type of films the Hero has a sucky life and changes the past so that in the future his life is perfect.  Never mind all the people's lives that are ruined so he can be happy.  Let alone throughing the entire universe out of balance.  Better luck next TIME!In all it is entertaining, and good to see once.    "}{"Title":"A great concept but was always heading for a everyone lives happily ever after ending","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't think I have ever seen  a movie that had such an inevitable outcome from so early on. However, the getting there was very good and there were good moments of tension.Some of the twists were good and will draw me back to see it again.  "},{"Title":"Latest in the recent crop of clever sci-fi movies","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the latest in the recent crop of clever sci-fi movies.The philosophical implications of interfering with the time line are handled seemlessly, with unforeseen side effects creeping up on the main character, John Sullivan, with every change he causes.Quite apart from that, however, this is an excellent movie, with a good mix of action, drama and suspense.  Unlike The Ninth Gate, which was let down by a poor ending, the ending of THIS movie is superb.A great film.  Don't miss it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I hadn't read reviews of Frequency before seeing the movie.  I didn't expect much because it was at our first run theater for a very short time, maybe because there was little gratuitous violence, no overt sex, the language was modest, it involved an intact family.  But it was gripping, challenging, emotional, and surprising.  You should see it. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie of all time","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This has to be the best movie of the year.  It's now my favorite movie. There were so many things I like about it, I don't know if I'll be able to say them all. But here goes.The story line is just great.  The plot is excellent.  It really draws you in.  You feel like you're experiencing what the characters are experiencing and understand what they are going through.  And, unlike other movies, there is not just one problem to be resolved.  The plot is complex, but not overly so, just enough to keep you on the edge of your seat for the whole movie. In fact, the climax draws you in so much, my best friend and I did not let go of each other's hands during the whole scene.The acting is also excellent.  Dennis Quaid did a wonderful job, one of his best performances yet, I thought.  His New York accent was right on the mark, as well as his portrayal of his character, Frank Sullivan.  James Caviezel and Elizabeth Mitchell also had outstanding performances.The filming was superb.  There are several scenes that take place in both time periods.  They keep flashing back and forth between the two creating a suspenseful feeling.  The climax was especially suspenseful.  It is shot in both 1969 and 1999 and is done so exceptionally that it's just amazing to watch.Finally, there is a little bit of everything in this movie, to keep everyone happy.  There are some major fire stunts, a bit of romance, teary emotional father-son scenes, a few really great comedy lines, a chase, an underwater struggle, a grasping-for-the-gun fight scene, and, most of all, major suspense.  You would think this would be too much for one movie. However, Frequency does it all resulting in the best movie I have ever seen.10 out of 10 stars.  This really was an excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Truly a father son flic.","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's nice to see Dennis Quaid in a movie again.  Some of the time travel notions make you do some thinking, however you quickly forget about them when the movie plays on the idea that you can talk to someone close even when they are no longer with you.Quaid and James Caivezel have great chemistry as the father and son.  In all around enjoyable film.  Nothing too spectacular but very good and original.Rating 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Very good","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has stayed with me since I saw it at the theater. The story is pretty far-fetched and you do have to suspend belief, but it's really good. There are several pretty violent scenes, but they are all deeply rooted to the storyline. The actors are all good. The whole movie is, as my friend who saw it with me commented, like an episode of Twin Peaks. Suspend your disbelief and enjoy. Watch it with those you love. "},{"Title":"Great idea that is handled by a pro","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Greggory Hoblitt, the man behind this film is also responsible for Primal Fear and Fallen. With that in mind you have to know that he always takes clever plots and makes them more suspensful. He doesn't deal with stupid suspense where you're supposed to feel scared but never really do, or with cliches, but only complete originality. Frequency is right along these lines. It is about communicating through time, but that's just the beginning. The core of the movie is about a serial killer in the past who the father and son set out to stop together. What one can't do from his position in time, the other can do. It makes for a really exciting and interesting plot. Not only is it smart, but suspensful. The final climax was disappointing, but that's only because the majority of the film was so good. "},{"Title":"One of the most touching reunion scenes in movie history.","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  As many other viewers have mentioned,the general plot of this movie is kinda cliche. However,when my friends and I watched this movie,we didn't get bored at all. There is no redundant acting or scene in this wonderful movie. It seems that no scene or line can be reduced to make this movie morecompact. In this movie, what touches me most is the dialogue between Frank and John right after Frank realizes that he is really talking to his Little Chief.There is no yell of excitement or burst of tears from the two men. No storm at all.They are just sitting at their desks surprisingly calmly yet talking in an unprecedentedly  passionate manner.Imagine talking to your late father or  your son just your age! So much worth talking about and even forever seems too short,but you just talk calmly and don't want to let the fantastic feeling burst out . Just this kind of conception is enough to make you tremble,not to say the excellent acting of the two wonderful actors and the extremely beautiful music at the time! I was just freezing there and let tears fill my eyes. The only other scene which can bring such an effect to me is the final moment in the Chaplin movie City Lights when Chaplin met the girl again yet dared not to talk to her. Both happen to be reunion scenes.I love this scene and I love this movie! By the way, I have never realized that aurora could be so beautiful! "},{"Title":"Cult Hit Waiting to Happen","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is flopping at the box office as of this typing. However, I'm predicting that once it hits video, this will be discovered and will become a cult hit. Remember Austin Powers? That flopped and look at it now! A Christmas Story flopped and than it came to video and became a cult hit. Frequency is definitely going to follow the league because the movie is still on 2 screens at the theater. Sometimes a TV ad still runs so I'll bet that the whole cast and crew are pushing for this to become a cult hit. So remember, Frequency is a future cult hit. "},{"Title":"Ten-four, Daddio.","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Main Thing by nicardo@bigfoot.com Frequency reviewI have avoided seeing this until today because Dennis Quaid hasn't made a good movie since Enemy Mine (1985). Is it just script choices, dumb luck, or is it who you know? Haven't seen all his movies, but, out of the 24 he's made since then, I saw eight. Anyway, you pretty much know what to expect. He's not exactly a chameleon, the camera really likes him, and he's a working movie actor with a genuine career, though I haven't quite been able to figure out exactly why. I would never ever pay to watch him stand around drinking beer, like I would Russell Crowe or Gary Oldman, but I have to admit that sometimes he comes through. Frequency is one of his times. Even as the plot turns to Swiss cheese, at least the actors believe it and give solid performances. You can always count on Quaid if the part calls for a grown man who never grew up. He plays a loving father and husband, a hard-working fireman in Queens, NY, and `a big kid.'The story is tricky, to say the least. There must have been a Twilight Zone episode similar to it. Though the movie doesn't start there, the first thing to accept, is that a young homicide detective, John Sullivan (James Caviezel), has lived in the same house for all 36 years of his life. Mom moved out, but, he's still there. Okay. Second, because of abnormal atmospheric conditions in October 1969 and October 1999, radio signals get bounced all over outer space, and John starts talking to his own father (Quaid) on the same ham radio set reaching 30 years into the past - just days before fire-fighter Dad dies in the line of duty. All right. They share information that changes the past, present and future. Of course, everybody knows that when you do that sort of thing bad things happen, too. So, you have to fix the mess you created. If you change one thing in the past, all the possible futures change, too. Don't think too hard about it, or you'll get a  headache. You just have to watch the movie and not ask too many questions, especially in the last 30 minutes. They end up trying to stop a serial killer and trying to keep the family together. Dad is in danger. Mom's in danger. Nurses are in danger. Hey, mom's a nurse! Everybody's in trouble but the killer. He just keeps at it, whoever he is.Besides fire-fighters, the rest of the characters are cops, neighbors, and best friends, and everybody really loves baseball. That was back when it was still a game, the Mets won the World Series, and soccer moms hadn't been invented yet. We played baseball every chance we got. It unified us. It was so American, and our love for it was passionate, innocent and pure. That's another thing they make movies about.The heart of the story, besides what we'd do if we had a magic ham radio, is the relationship between a father and son. The male bonding that never happened before happens on the radio and we feel their closeness. The value of family is the main message. What if your father died when you were six years old, but as an adult, you could ignore time and call him on the phone back when he was alive? I guess we've all had dreams of going back into the past somewhere, sometime, somehow. I know I have. Ever since before the days of H.G.Wells we've liked stories about people who cheat time because we never will. What's the best reason to do it? No, not baseball. Family. Most of us have families. Don't we want everybody's family to be happy? The script keeps the family as the most important thing. The nearest and dearest thing. The main thing. E-mail and comments are welcome. "}{"Title":"Best film of the year so far","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw the film over a month ago, and I haven't been able to get all my thoughts and feelings into words until now. Never have I seen a film where sci-fi and romance have been blended this well. I was in awe of the plot and how original it was while my girlfriend was balling her eyes out, and I have to admit my eyes got a little misty in the final sequence. Bottom line is that this is the first must-see of the year and definately is the best I've seen so far in 2000. "},{"Title":"Very well done and thoroughly enjoyable","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Of course all movies involving one form or another of time travel have holes in the plot.  For instance, why didn't the old Biff in Back to the Future 2 return to a different version of time after he gave young Biff the sports book?  Frequency has it's share of problems in that regard, but face it, nobody knows what the effects of communicating with a different period in time would really do.  Hence the genres Science FICTION and FANTASY.  So if you can just ignore the questions that are raised dealing with time, you will really enjoy this show. It is very moving.  You will care about the characters and what happens to them.  The plot twists are intriguing and suspenseful.  The climax was somewhat obvious, but it if you understand the movie is more about a father and son relationship than catching a serial killer, it will be very satisfying.  If you are looking for far out special effects, tons of action, or sheer terror, don't watch it.  But if you want a great film with a compelling story that has elements of nearly all genres, you will find a gem in Frequency.  9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"can't believe they pulled it off","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  One of the most inventive and original story ideas I've heard of in a LOOOONG time, and it was pulled off exceptionally well, firing on ALL  pistons...love, triumph, science-fiction, nostalgia, suspense, mystery, drama...wow it has it all and it doesn't bog down or seem choppy EVER...this is pure entertainment 100% of the way.Best film of 2000 (so far) "},{"Title":"BLOCKBUSTER!!!","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My husband & I watched this movie, and both of us agree that Frequency is one of the best movies we've seen!  It's one of those rare movies you walk away with and think about long after it's over.  Excellent!!!  I wish the industry would make more movies like this one! "},{"Title":"Great guy tear-jerker movie!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You have to suspend how all this past/present technological stuff actually happens and you'll really enjoy this movie. This has lots of touching moments between a father and his son and baseball and growing up and I just thought it was GREAT.  My dad died several years ago and I have two young sons and this movie was pulling at my heartstrings from start to finish. Somehow, the movie really touches the essence of that magical father/son relationship.I really, really enjoyed it. If you're thinking about seeing it, do it--you won't regret it. My wife cried as well, but I think it definitely hit me harder. Thumbs way up! "},{"Title":"Take Dad to see Frequency for Fathers Day!!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film touched my heart so deeply that I was in tears by the ending.  If you want to take Dad to see a great movie with plenty of action, tame language, yet tender enough to explore the relationship between fathers and sons (remember Field of Dreams) spend some time together at the cinema.  If you can't tell Dad right out just how much he means to you, let Frequency do the talking.  He'll understand.Another film that this reminded me of was 1986's Peggy Sue Got Married moreso than Back to the Future.  But Frequency is drama all the way, suspense too!Also, remember the satisfying ending to The Shawshank Redemption?  How good it made you feel?  Frequency ending is even better - a movie that lifts you up and gives you hope.A huge THANK YOU to the writers for showing us yet again so clearly in this movie the dangers of cigarettes.  Hopefully one day we will eliminate these cancer sticks once and for all!  And a huge THANK YOU for making a movie the whole family can enjoy!  My own father would be 95 if he were still alive, my mother would be 85.  If they were here, they'd thank you too!      "},{"Title":"Very Good (by the way...it's just a movie)","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am amazed when I read reviews of movies like this, and the writer is complaining about authenticity, and realism.  I have a little news for people like that...it's just a movie, and a pretty darn good one at that.  I never really got caught up in the idea of whether or not certain things could have happened, I mean why would I when the entire idea was unrealistic.  What I did like was the fact that this movie covered a very touching subject.  Anyone who has lost a loved one knows how wonderful it would be if they could just talk to that person one more time.  This movie illustrated that idea in a very powerful way.  And who cares if the ending was all wrapped up nice and neat.  I am not against sad endings.  In fact I believe some movies have to have them (especially if they are true stories such as Boys Don't Cry).  However, in a movie like this, the nice neat happy ending suited me just fine.  This was a very good movie. "},{"Title":"The Future Changes With Every Step You Take...","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  That is what this movie is about, how changing the past influences what happens in the future.  And this movie does a great job of getting the message across.  Frequency is a really fun and exhilirating film about Dad, a fireman, in the past communicating with Son, a cop, in the future using a strange frequency provided by rare lights present in the earth's atmosphere.  Acting is great all around as is special effects.  Plenty of action to keep you on the edge of your seat as well.  What I liked best about this movie was how every little thing you change in the past affects what happens in the future.  So one minute you may be there, the next minute, *poof* your gone!  "},{"Title":"Anything BUT predictable","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  It's rare for me to say that I couldn't see something coming, but in Frequency, I was too busy trying to comprehend than I was trying to predict. The plot line itself was great with each little event in the past dramatically changing the present.  Before I could worry about predicting the next scene, I was too engrossed in trying to completely understand the last scene.  I was kept so busy thinking that each new and climactic scene surprised me.  Not only is this a keeper when it hits video, it's one I'll watch again and again, each time learning something new about the plot. "},{"Title":"GO SEE IT!!!!!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has EVERYTHING....Action, suspense, mystery, romance, tear jerking scenes, Fire, Murder, .....more unpredictable twists than I've seen in a long, long time!  A MUST SEE....and catch it on the BIG SCREEN!!!! Great acting, great photography, nice score....fun 60's songs too!  An Dennis Quaid just keeps getting better looking!!!!  ......Addie "}{"Title":"To all who have ever wondered what if........","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was one of the best movies I've seen this year.  The acting was terrific and the plot was complicated and yet so intriguing that it was easy to follow.  The idea that one could possibly change the past and thus recreate a new present reality was beautifully presented.  The mystical feeling of the movie along with a satisfying ending made for a very magical movie experience.   "},{"Title":"Run...do not walk to see this movie!!","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The acting is top notch.  The production quality is great.  This is one of the best movies to come along in a while.  Time travel stories are almost always interesting, and Frequency does not disappoint.  If you are a fan of the NY Mets and you were around for the 69 World Series, the film holds a special bonus!! "},{"Title":"Nice idea, badly presented","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow!  Frequency seems to have generated so many warm, fuzzy feelings among movie reviewers and imdb commentators alike, I wonder if I was just having a bad hair day or something.  It wasn't a horrible flick, but kinda like a TV movie, as they say.  Chock full of cliches, cinematic rip-offs, poor writing, uninspiring sets.  I knew I was in trouble from the opening sequence, which is a blatant pillaging of the magnificent astronomical overture to the movie Contact.  (Perhaps not coincidently, Contact is another movie about a kid who loses a father and knows how to use a ham radio.)  A lot of the story just seemed kind of thrown-together, with no attention to detail or authenticity.  For instance, a detective supervises the exhumation of a skeleton by waving his hand and saying, Be careful with the bones, and keep some of the dirt around them.  I assume the New York Police Department has trained experts who follow a careful procedure for such things.  Or take the scene where Quaid's character spontaneously and effortlessly uses a credit card to break into an apartment.  How does this softball-playing family man happen to know how to pick a lock with a credit card, especially the lock of a New York City apartment?  Couldn't it have been more realistic, and just as dramatic, if he had been frantically buzzing the downstairs bell and pounding on the front door of the building (which would allow him to leave fingerprints and be seen by neighbors), and then run upstairs to find the apartment door unlocked?  It's as if the writer, realizing the overall plot was so goofy to begin with, couldn't be bothered with little touches that would add to credibility.  Other stuff was irritating, like when Caviezel's character, with complete confidence and without explanation, says that a particular woman was the first victim of a serial killer, so she knew the killer.  Apparently, the viewer is expected to be familiar with Silence of the Lambs (or its hundreds of imitators) and with this fact about serial killers.  The sentimental family sequences at the beginning and end were artificial and unoriginal--mom dancing to the radio as she cooks, parents smooching while the kid watches fondly, people spraying each other with the garden hose while washing the car (please! not that one!), etc.  Like I said, it wasn't a bad film.  Some of the time-travel stuff was pretty neat, and when I realized where they were going with the cigarette theme, it almost brought a tear to my eye.  If it weren't for the disturbing glimpses of some nasty crime scenes, I'd even say it could be a good kids' film.  But it could have been a whole lot better if the writer had tried for more originality. "},{"Title":"Misses its potential-- settling for a standard murder mystery","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had a tremendous opportunity to explore a LOT of important emotional and spiritual themes. Choices made, paths taken, or not, etc. Even the first Back to the Future movie managed to be quite touching and moving inside of its slapstick sci/fi premise. But Frequency promises a lot more than it can deliver. I admire and like Dennis Quaid, and I had wished this movie would be better than it actually was. It wasn't bad-- it just wasn't anything special. And meeting your father who's been dead for 30 years-- and all the new chances and new choices available, and that all the heartbreak and pain of loss and all that can now be healed-- well, it should've meant more than this really standard murder mystery. I sadly gave this so-so movie a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A questionable premise is molded into a great suspense and fantasy thriller.","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Clearly, being able to talk back in time over a 30 year-old ham radio is difficult to accept, but this is more than made up for by the amazing story that is told in Frequency. The film as a whole is extremely well put together, and the story is delivered in a very satisfying and intense way. Even though the foundation of the story is hard to believe (the time-spanning communication, in particular), superior acting and directing made this a great film.Frequency is intensely emotional at times, and although I think we could do without the obviously false accents, the amount of feeling that is put into the film by the actors adds hugely to the film. I think one of this film's strongest values is the fact that it has managed to come out as the sort of film that can be enjoyed by virtually everyone. This is an extremely difficult quality for a film to attain, and Frequency does it with style, feeling, and skill. "},{"Title":"I LOVED THIS MOVIE!!!","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  OK, folks...you have to suspend your disbelief and just sit back and enjoy.  I had tears in my eyes for most of this movie.  The chemistry between the main characters is wonderful.  Sure there are some things that are not easily explained but this is not the kind of movie that can be analyzed to death. Movies such as this, the BACK TO THE FUTURE trilogy, and SOMEWHERE IN TIME are the kind of movies that are to be enjoyed for the story and the enjoyment that they provide on whatever level.  If you want reality, this is not the movie to see and you'd best stick to documentaries!!!  It's got suspense, action, special effects, but mostly it has heart.  The end of the movie almost knocked me off my feet.    I can't wait until it comes out on video so I can watch it again and again.  This is a definite keeper!!! "},{"Title":"A terrific science fiction story","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie exemplifies the characteristics of a really good science fiction story.  The science provides the basis for the plot, but does not dominate or interfere with it; this leaves the characters free to tell a wonderful story with heart and edge-of-your-seat suspense, without being over-encumbered by special effects and typical sci-fi elements.  Once you accept the premise that two people can talk across a 30-year gap in time due to sunspot activity (and kudos to the producers for providing continuity across the years via real science guy Brian Greene), the rest of the film flows quite naturally from this device.  I would also say that this is probably an ideal date flick -- a little something for everyone, including an opportunity for guys to show their sensitive sides to their girlfriends, while at the same time providing enough action and excitement to qualify as a typical guy flick.  "},{"Title":"My dishwasher is messing up the time-space continuum!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While I liked the premise of this flick (Man talks to father in the past), I thought it was kind of silly on how it it was executed. A ham radio as a time machine? Even the oh so brief We must be talkin' off one killer sunspot explaination didn't satisfy me. I can see the sequel My washer-dryer is messing up the time-space continuum!Besides the silly premise, I wasn't totally taken by the whole serial killer scenario. I pretty much guessed that the Nightengale would go after the mother. Other twists were pretty obvious too (Quaid getting implicated in the murders).I was especially irked by Quaid's really annoying accent. I don't think it was very accurate, and kind of intrusive. I'm glad his son didn't have much of one.This movie tried to be sappy too, and it sure was. What's with that Family Channel ending? That who montage was supposed to make us cry, cuz we know Everything's all right now, but man that song was just schlocky!After briefly scanning the other reviews, I was surprised, cuz I thought more people would say it was only a so-so film, but everyone loved it. I certainly didn't. 5/24/00 "},{"Title":"Best Movie of the year","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This proves how not marketing a great film can ruin it.  I almost did not see this movie, because I forgot it was out.  This is the best movie I have seen in a long time.  I actually cheered at the end.  I dont see how you could not love this movie.  It takes the advise of Doc Brown (Back to the Future) to a whole new level.  You get to see the changes happen, not just suggestions like in BTTF.  Yes, there are some unanswered questions, but I don't have 8 hours to have them explained.WARNING SPOILERI believe the changes with John's relationship with his girlfriend/wife has something to do with this.  He first has a shaky relationship, possibly because he lost his father at a young age and does not have an idea what marriage and commitment are.  She then does not know him.  This could be that his mom could have influenced his decision to ask her out Go ahead. Ask her out honey, I think she likes you or something like that.  He then is married and expecting a kid.  Well, now he has grown up in a loving family with both mom and dad.  Why do you have to be told every little thing in a movie.  If there are questions unanswered, it gets you talking and telling other people about it.  Get an imagination and figure some things out yourselves.END OF SPOILER Bottom line... go see this movie.  It gets my vote for movie of the year. "},{"Title":"Best movie I have seen in the last 10 years","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a movie!! I didn't want it to end.  It made me laugh, cry, sit on the edge of my seat, etc.  Go see the movie or buy or rent the video. You won't be disappointed.  Frequency will warm your heart, I guarantee it. "}{"Title":"Good story, Great acting","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A surprisingly good movie.  Interesting twist on a standard sci-fi story. Very impressed by the acting.  Good to see Dennis Quaid doing well and back on track.  The real stand outs are the mother and the son. See it, you will be surprised. "},{"Title":"One of the true gems in film making.","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a strongly put together film with remarkable acting, a good story, and great editing.  It is one of Dennis Quaid's best acting performances in his career.  The story moves along with mystery and intrigue at every turn. The ending is not easily predicted and it is well thought out.  A definite must see movie. "},{"Title":"Want Plot Plus Script?  Rent Sixth Sense","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Sullivan (James Caviezel) plays the son of Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid) a New York City firefighter who is killed in the line of duty.  Thirty years after the death of his father, John Sullivan's life is falling apart on all fronts.  He is in the middle of a deep depression when his childhood friend Gordo Hersch (Noah Emmerich) discovers an old ham radio stashed away for the past three decades.  For sure laughs the duo sets it up.  Sometime after (Possibly by divine intervention) John is able to communicate with his dead father.  It does not take long before the father and son team manages to turn the tables of time completely upside down.Even though the plot sounds way off base (which it is) one cannot help but feel compelled to reach out and try to `help' the characters along the way.  The film start off strong and continues so up until the last thirty minutes where it seems like action sequences were forced into the finial cut just so they could file it under yet another genre.This particular movie is clever, but tends to try to cater to too many types of movie tastes.  This boggles down the film and tends to turn off the casual viewer.If you want a film with suspense and a good script to boot, rent `The Sixth Sense.'**1/26.5/10  "},{"Title":"Once again, a great film ruined by the trailer","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This has happened so many times I've lost count.  An excellent film, full of great ideas, is ruined because whoever edited the trailer couldn't control themselves.  Nearly every key scene and plot twist is revealed in the trailer.  Instead of being drawn into the story I just kept waiting for something to happen that I didn't expect.  As a result I found myself totally unable to have any emotional reaction to the film.As an amateur film maker I know how much time goes into pacing a film; revealing each plot element at just the right time to just the right level.  That's what a good film is all about.  Why is it that some fool in the marketing department then thinks it's a good idea to sacrifice all that effort for the sake of a thirty second trailer?Oh well. I only wish _I_ could radio back in time and warn myself not to watch the trailer.  Then I might have been able to enjoy this film. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies that I have ever seen!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  All I can say is that this movie was great from beginning to end.  I even found myself cheering at the end of the movie.  It is a movie that you will not want to miss.  The movie's pace was excellent and the casting was perfect.  When it comes out on video I am adding it to my collection. "},{"Title":"An amazing maze of a movie.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From the trailers I expected a nice little, slightly sappy, movie. I was wrong. The plot twists so often that I never knew what was about to happen. (Or what had happened.) Since time is being manipulated sometimes things become undone. Nothing was predictable. Everything was new. The tension builds throughout and the end was satisfying. The opening specials effects alone were worth the price. I may have to see this one a second time. "},{"Title":"Good movie, if you can ignore the plot holes.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First off, let me say that the idea behind this movie was very good.  The execution of the idea was disappointing in my opinion, though I'll admit that my opinion seems to be in the minority here.  While the story was promising I found myself distracted by many glaring plot holes that always seem to come up in time travel movies.  The whole way they dealt with the time issue bothered me, especially in respect to John.***Spoilers Ahead! Skip if you don't want some plot revealed!***Why does John remember the past in which his father died?  In theory, if he were to save his father's life like he did in the movie, everything in his life would then be different from that day on.  And while John did gain all these new memories, he still kept the old ones.  No other character remembers this alternate reality but for reasons left unexplained, John does.  Granted, the movie wouldn't work if he lost all the memories but it bothered me that they didn't even try to explain it.Another thing that bothered me was things taking place simultaneously in the past and the present.  If Frank carved something into a desk in 1969, John shouldn't be able to see the letters being formed in the desk in 1999. They should have been there for the last 30 years of his life.  Same thing with the Nightengale Killer's hand.  It wouldn't suddenly disappear in the present, it would have been gone for 30 years.While I'm on the subject, isn't it amazing that the Killer was able to stay on the lamb for 30 years and then returned to attack John in his house? Never mind the fact that their conversation at the bar should never have taken place.What exactly in the past influenced John's relationship with Samantha?  In the original present they have just separated, then she doesn't hardly know him, then they have kids together?  What???***End of Spoiler***Basically, the problem for me was that the movie sometimes approached the two times as if they were occurring at the same time, when things should be happening 30 years apart from one another.  I admit that the whole idea is unrealistic, but I was able to look past that.  The way the issue of time was dealt with just proved to be a great distraction for me.  I give it a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie.  Chewed two fingernails.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw a lot of previews of the movie at other shows and thought that I knew what it was all about and was not really going to go see it.  My girlfriend made me go to it and I am glad that I did.  It is very mind bending, full of suspense, and very well put together.  Everyone should see it!!! "},{"Title":"Overmodulated","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Clever Premise, cop in the present contacts his dead father over his father's old Ham Radio and sets out to solve serial murders is spoiled by incomplete exposition and lack of familiar star faces.  Still, this is an exciting ride.  Please note  this is not really a time travel film as much as an alternate realities type of film.  As such, it is pretty unique entertainment. Had the villian been a big star (Nicholas Cage or maybe even Kevin Bacon), the serial killer aspects of the film would have been easier to follow.  Maybe if we had seen one of the murders, which took place in the 60s, before the film flashed forward, the story would have been easier to follow and more engrossing.CAUTION  Spoilers ahead.One big screw up in the story was having Dennis Quaid stunning the villian by electrocuting him.  It is highly unlikely Quaid's booby trap would not have killed the villianFinally, the parallel climaxes in past and present are confusing and borderlines on ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Excellent, riveting, heartfelt","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Though the premise is a little difficult to believe I eagerly suspended my disbelief for the riveting two hours of this movie.  I found this movie to be both a satisfying melodrama and thriller.  While I predicted the end of the movie I found it to be a very pleasant journey.  While some might find it overly sappy I think that most will find that it is a nice mix and one that I have not seen recently. "}{"Title":"If u liked the sixth sense, you will like this!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow! I was amazed by this movie! It appears as a mushy, boring movie that goes nowhere. TRUST ME ITS NOT!!!!!!! Like the sixth sense it leaves u thinking while the movie is over. There are some plot holes but they are better left unanswered. Hoblit is wonderful at directing this spectacular movie! I suggest you go see it! I give it a 9! "},{"Title":"What wouldn't you give for a second chance?","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We were not going to see this film because we thought it would be a Hollywood-ized tearjerker with not much substance.  How wrong!  Acting was wonderful and convincing, the plot line and pacing were very well handled. Science fiction and fantasy stories with time as the subject are very tricky, but this one was handled exceptionally well, in my opinion.  It was emotionally uplifting without dipping TOO much into sentimentality.  I mean, come on!  It's about a father-son relationship being healed, so you have to forgive them if they dip a little bit.  But it never got maudlin.The thriller elements made for some sweaty palms, and Shawn Doyle was so scary to me in his part, that I had to stay up and watch The Horse Whisperer and What Dreams May Come, just so I could go to bed with a different image in my mind.  Otherwise, Sleepless in Phoenix!Great show! "},{"Title":"A Screwed Up Film With an Excellent Twist! )","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After the death of his father in a fire in 1969, it seems that John Sullivan's life has shattered without his male role model.  Yet thirty years later, John discovers that he can change the past by communicating with his late father through a radio that he had in his father's memorabilia box.  With a twisted and unsolved mystery and an amazing adventure, as John and his father change the past to bring in a better future for the both of them, this film takes you on a wild ride that you will never believe!Frequency is an AMAZING film!  It'll grasp your attention once the film begins and will make you take you on the edge of your seat!  What you get are two impressive performances by Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel, with an ending that just might warm your heart!  I must also confess that this is the first REALLY good film I saw this century!!!  In my book, they already beat Down To You and Here On Earth!!! ) "},{"Title":"Don't worry about the scientific accuracy, it's just a movie.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The fun part about this movie is trying to keep up with what's happening in the two timelines as the camera jumps back and forth as if both timeframes coexist. When Frank burns a message into the desk in 1969 the words appear before John letter by letter in 1999. More eerieness abounds as John witnesses his personal family history constantly changing around him, creating new memories while remembering the old.Expect an emotionally charged fun-filled ride with an abundant load of sentiment piled high, just leave the American Journal of Physics at home. "},{"Title":"This movie will take you farther than any movie has taken one before.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency, the new millennium's twist between Back to the Future and the 6th Sense had me on the edge of my seat craving to see what happens next. Johnny, finds his dead dad's old radio and sets it up in a depression mood about his romance life. He starts talking to a man that is from his area but then discovers he is talking to his very own dad 30 years earlier. This allows Johnny to change the fate of his father but it also changes the fate of everything leading up to Johnny. Can Johnny and his dad work together to stop a masked murderer back in 1969 from getting to his mom, his dad, and HIMSELF 30 years earlier? Or will the old Ham Radio be the cause of the entire Sullivan families death? I guess you will have to find out. For those non believers out there, this movie might not be for you, but for anyone with an imagination, Frequency nearly tops the list. "},{"Title":"I was on the edge of my seat.......Until","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While watching Frequency I believed I was seeing the best film I have ever seen, the plot twists and action were amazing and my jaw dropped on several occasions. However I was disappointed with the film's ending at which the movie's message was lost. But I do urge people to see it to form their own opinion.  "},{"Title":"A must-see thriller that satisfies the imagination","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is one of the must-see movies for 2000.  It has a well-written, interesting and surprising storyline that intrigues the mind, as well as a suspenseful plot and thrilling action to move the film steadily along.  A couple of scenes are slightly awkward (due to their apparent unrealism), but the overall package is a satisfying one it combines great special effects and science fiction- or fantasy-type imagination with an emotional, action-filled plot that takes you on a journey you wouldn't expect.  The end, too, is satisfying and well-suited, and the creativity and images of some scenes are some of the most imaginative and intriguing I've seen in quite a while--much like the feeling you get in some of the best scenes of Contact. "},{"Title":"Don't change that dial--Frequency is all right","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A mix of both science fiction/fantasy and police thriller, Frequency is the type of movie you need to see twice just to catch everything. You'll need to accept the space-time continuum fantasy plotline (and Dennis Quaid's Queens accent) to enjoy the film, but you'll enjoy it. Halfway through the film, my box of nachos hit the sticky floor of the theater. Luckily, the box was empty.The film is filled with great performances, especially Quaid (yes, regardless of the accent, his performance was more than convincing) as Frank Sullivan, the firefighting father of John Sullivan (Caviezel of The Thin Red Line). Frank is killed in a warehouse fire in 1969, and in 1999 John, now a cop, finds his father's old ham radio and discovers that the man he meets on the radio is his own father in the past. This story is kind of farfetched, but it's fantasy (millions of us have accepted Star Wars and Star Trek--why not accept this?), and the moviemakers pull it off well. John convinces his father, through predictions in the 1969 Amazin' Mets World Series against the Baltimore Orioles, that he is in fact John Sullivan of the 1990s, and Frank survives the warehouse fire in a scene that expertly captures the mood of the audience--suspense mixed with a need for visual splendor, as director Gregory Hoblit (Fallen) cuts back and forth between 1999 and 1969. Of course, changing the past changes the future.From there, the movie becomes a police thriller, as a 30-year-old murder case is reopened. This is the plotline that'll make you want to see the movie twice. It's all there in the first half of the film; you just don't see it until the second half. I won't spoil it for you, but it was a well-written plotline and very interesting.I really enjoyed this film and would recommend it to anyone who loves fantasy movies. I was also especially pleased to see Andre Braugher as a veteran homicide detective. Those of us who watched Homicide Life on the Street loved Braugher as Baltimore Homicide detective Frank Pembleton, a role which won him an Emmy. Elizabeth Mitchell also caught my attention, as Julia Sullivan, Frank's wife and John's mother. One thing I must point out--and which you'll notice--is when, in the second half of the film, something happens that moves the focus from 1999, where most of the action had been taking place, to 1969, and John (in 1999) is left helpless to save the fate of all those in his past. Some great moments in the second half that never seem too detached from the first half.For those of you psyched up to see the film, leave your expectations at the door and enjoy the ride. Though overly sentimental at times, it's a great film that you'll really love. Maybe you won't be clumsy and spill your empty box of nachos like I did, but you'll be too caught up in the moment to care. "},{"Title":"Very original concept and a fine film","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I've just returned from watching Frequency and I feel compelled to write a review.  For me, this is one of those movies that I'm going to be thinking about for several days to come.I've never watched a movie, whose basic concept hinges on some sort of time-travel, and been completely satisfied with the alterations in the time-line that have occurred as a result; this is no exception.  Having said that, this spin on the time-travel theme is unique and if you suspend your disbelief and try not to analyze everything too much then I think you will enjoy it as much as I did.It's hard to decide whether this movie is mostly about playing with the events of time and the knock-on effects in the present.  Maybe is a love story between a father and son or, thirdly, it could be a film about a homicide cop trying to crack an unsolved case.  Actually, I think it's an excellent combination of all three.The relationship that developed between the father and son, as the story unfolded, almost had be sobbing into my popcorn, mainly due to the fine performance delivered by James Caviezel.  The ending was just what I wanted even though I don't usually appreciate them in other movies.I advise everyone to go and see Frequency if you get the opportunity. You'll come out feeling happier than when you went in or at least, as with all time-travel films, you can discuss its flaws on the way home. "},{"Title":"Interesting mind bend on probable realities.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really admire films that use the medium to do what other mediums can't do as well.  This is one of those films.  It is an engaging and well done movie that is definitely worth seeing.Another movie that does this is Ground Hog Day (which I thought was brilliant) but it uses the genre of comedy to deliver its message.  This movie is a fast paced action adventure film that is very well done and keeps you very interested. "}{"Title":"Great Family Film","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Forget about the Sci-fi aspects of this film. This is really a family film, the kind that hollywood is sorely lacking these days. Take the whole family. Enjoy a functional family overcoming difficult obstacles. And by the way, enjoy a couple of good sci-fi twists as well. "},{"Title":"The first real must-see movie of the new millennium","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  	Though I haven't seen most of the years most talked about movies, I can say that out of the ones I have viewed, 'Frequency' tops them all by a longshot. The movie is one of the several that mark the return of the supernatural thriller (though the genre was never very strong in the first place), recent examples include 'The Sixth Sense', 'Stigmata' and 'Stir of Echoes'.	The film is directed by Gregory Hoblit ('Primal Fear'). Though I absolutely despised 'Fear', and would've never seen 'Frequency' if I knew he helmed it, he displays real talent here, and manages to cover up the implausibilities in it, where many other directors would've failed.	The performances from Jim Caviezel ('The Thin Red Line') and Dennis Quaid (Switchback') are wonderfully natural, possibly the best in their careers. Though they are only on screen together for about thirty seconds in the 127 minute long flick, they display excellent chemistry throughout the picture. The performances by the relatively unknown supporting cast (including 'The Truman Show's Noah Emmerich) are also remarkable, strengthening the film.	Likely the main reason why 'Frequency' is tanking at the box office is because of the lack of star power. Neither Caviezel or Quaid have the power to draw substantial crowds (neither of them have been in a major hit), and the film suffers greatly because of that. See it anyway, you'll be extremely glad you did.9/10 "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First off, this movie makes you think.  It makes you look at the details. If you don't you will see plot holes because you don't understand.  The whole plot is wrapped up in the String Theory, but it doesn't bore you with details, Brian Green (the guy with Dick Cavette) is a String Theorist at Columbia University. He basically tells you that given this current theory of the universe, time travel is possible, but enormous energy is needed. Enter the solar flares in both dimensions.  Their effect upon the earth is to excite the aurora, but their effect on the universe is to open a gateway between the past and future.  We see first hand that time is not linear, that at least for now it is parallel. AS something occurs in the past, it effects the present, and the present can effect the past. The communications between the father and the son are not truly radio waves, the are made possible by the same radio, in the same place at the same time under the same conditions.   Enough of the explanation of how it works.  It works! Based in the science of the day.  For those who come expected a sci-fi extravaganza, sorry.  For those who come looking for a murder mystery, sorry. But for those who come looking for a movie that challenges you, makes you feel good and makes you go WOW! this is it!  If you need to understand more about the science then read The Elegant Universe, but the true story is the relationship between these people that transcends time and death.The changes in the characters were subtle as each change in the past settled on the present. The son became confused, not sure what to believe and choosing to forget the details.  Just as we all do with something traumatic and since he is involved directly in the changing of the timelines, he remembers both, so at times he is not sure what to believe.It is good to see a movie that promotes family and marriage and friendship. A movie that says its okay to care.  It is wrapped up in an interesting set of circumstances that if you try to understand the science and not just want aliens and laser cannons and fighter planes in space, can run with stories by Heinlein and Bradbury.  It is a return of the finest of science fiction, a story that has heart and characters that have character and dignity.The audience laughed and cried and applauded, these were characters they cared about and even if they didn't understand the entire reason for this fantastic communication, they knew they wanted a happy ending for this family that loved each other so much.  The Kodak moments were done well, and used to pull at your heart strings and smile in remembering your own life's Kodak moments.  I have a better ending, but that's okay.  I didn't write the story, I just got to experience it. "},{"Title":"Past, Present and Future","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ever wondered how it would be like to talk to someone in a different time dimension? Maybe Frequency would help.Frequency, as expected, would be one of the best films this year. It offers great performances of such talented actors. Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel is one powerful duo, and truly ignites the screen. The father-son relationship is so powerful that it creates the whole emotion of the film. The story may be confusing, and scenes between past and present may sum it up, it still provides the idea, the fun, emotions, and actions that would literally create the perfect movie. I would highly recommend this film to anyone, and this would even be a perfect idea for father's day... "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was very pleasantly surprised by this movie.  It was one of the most suspenseful and mind-stimulating movies I had seen in a while.  It really kept you interested and guessing throughout the whole movie, I'd recommend it to anyone looking for a good wholesome family movie.  It reminds us to not take for granted our families or our time with them. "},{"Title":"If you loved Sixth Sense, you will really like Frequency!","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Cleverly written plot with numerous twists that will excite you and keep you guessing.  The emotional connections within the Sullivan family will grab you.  Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel are excellent.  Both murder mystery and science fiction fans will love it!  The best movie I've seen this year! "},{"Title":"Keeps you on the edge of your seat!","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Wow, I was pleasantly surprised!  This film was a real nailbiter!   I never knew exactly which way things would go.  It was full of twists and turns of plot.  I took my kids and it was a scary film the whole family can enjoy. Great plot, great acting, one of the best films I have seen! "},{"Title":"Good Story...Good Plot...Good Acting....","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Here's a hot tip.  Go see this movie.  Why ?  Simple....it has all the right elements that make a good story.  Good plot.  Good delivery/execution.  its told well.  the only thing holding back this story is the bad (really bad) brooklyn accent by dennis quaid.  Other than that...its vreally gud.  The plot is even believable..the scifi aspects of the film don't intrude on the human elements of the film as sometimes the genre can overstep the story or plot.  It doesn't here..its used as a mechanism for the characters to communicate... The best part about this film was the simple fact that we get to see a father-son relationship that actually WORKS! and its not contrived.  "},{"Title":"one of the years best films","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i was amazed when i saw this film! i was drawn to it because of the subject matter. Halfway into the film i realized how beautiful it was turning out! the story it the most interesting part of the picture. most of all the i was impressed by the writing. it interwove many different elements into the movie. going from the past into the future it almost became believable. i highly recommend this film. I hope Dennis Quaid gets his big break in this film. "},{"Title":"Terrific Movie","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie.  The movie is about a man who gets to talk to his father 30 years in the past and the changes they cause in history.  They did an excellent job keeping a complex plot understandable.  The acting was excellent.  The cinematography and editing were perfect.  "}{"Title":"Excellent suspense and good all around quality.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  We just went and seen Frequency and everyone enjoyed it very much. That includes myself, my wife, and my 15 year old son. It was not predictable. Although this has a very slim chance of happening the actors made it believable. It was one of those movies that you get involved with the characters and you want things to turn out for the best. But there were times that you thought that it would end up the worst. I am 53 and have been married for 33 years with 6 children. I only say this so that you can get a feel for who is writing this. There were several times when I and probably everyone in the theater were at least tearful if not crying. You will laugh and you will cry with this one. Hand it to the actors. I rated this a 9 and it should been seen on the Academy Awards nomination list several times. Good job to all.  "},{"Title":"Good time-waster","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although Frequency is good enough while you're watching it,  its impact fades away almost immediately.  It features some of the best acting of the year and impressive and assured direction.  Yet it leaves behind no distinct impression because of its slightness and overall improbability.  The plot revolves around a cop (James Caviezel) who contacts his dead father (Dennis Quaid) by ham radio.  His dad,  it seems,  can communicate with him even though they're separated by thirty years.  Soon they begin changing the past and the inevitable complications arise. Several things are admirable about Frequency  its attention to detail, its general unwillingness to be a cheap tearjerker (except for the excrutiating final montage,  complete with Garth Brooks song),  the assured and detailed direction,  the excellent acting,  and the genuine warmheartedness that pervades the movie.  Yet the movie is also patently ridiculous,  the jerky screenplay is a stumbling block and the ending is a copout designed as wish fulfillment for an audience unwilling to deal with anything wistful and thoughtful.  In short,  Frequency isn't a movie to rush out and see at the expense of something better you can think of.  But if you have a couple of hours to kill,  and you wanna see a movie,  Frequency is a safe bet. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Something most people have asked themselves at one time or another is, Suppose you could change one event in your life from the past.  How different would today look as a result of it?  This movie addresses that question.  Overall, I enjoyed Frequency pretty much.  It starts off well, with a shot of the aurora borealis firing up high over the earth.  Dennis Quaid, aging gracefully, exudes warmth and humanity as Frank.  Jim Caviezel is effective as well.  He has a soulful quality which is just right for the down-and-out character of John, who experiences growth and redemption when he finally connects with his father, in a way which is most unusual.  The scenes between the two of them conversing over the airwaves are quite moving, and I found myself getting misty-eyed a time or two (but don't tell anyone).  Gradually, however, the plot becomes increasing contrived, and the special effects take on an overdone quality.  At this point, my formerly misty eyes rolled heavenward at more than one point.  Oh, well.  It's a movie that makes you think.  The supporting players are also very good, including Shawn Doyle, who makes a creepy villain.  "},{"Title":"Very well done, good use of interwoven plot lines","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frankly, most of what I heard about this movie in advance didn't sound very encouraging, but my wife and I decided to give it a try anyway. We're glad we did. It was cleverly done, with good acting jobs all around. Any fantasy-oriented movie has to set and follow its own rules, and Frequency did that very well. One of my pet peeves is a movie that can't make up its mind what sort of movie it wants to be -- no focus. In the wrong hands, Frequency would easily have fit that mold -- humor almost like Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, emotional scenes like a family-oriented tear-jerker, a cop movie, a firefighter movie. Yet through good direction, good acting, and good pacing, the movie blended all these elements without losing its focus. I recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"A sharp and well-crafted movie","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I seldom bother going to the movies these days, but all the good things I heard about this film convinced me that it would be worth seeing. The comments are right--it's a very good film that takes basic time-travel premise and fleshes it out with some touching father and son moments and an engaging murder mystery. That probably sounds like a strange combination, but it works amazingly well. As a science fiction reader for many years, only a few of the twists really surprised me, but even the ones that didn't were carried off so well that I still enjoyed seeing them unfold. And unlike some recent films with SF elements, this one never insults your intelligence or violates the basic premise. A classy, clever, moving, and well-acted film.  "},{"Title":"An Excellent Time-Travel/Mystery/Thriller","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you saw the trailer in advance, you know what this film is about, and won't be surprised by the plot a man reaches out through time itself to speak with his long-dead father.But what you won't know is that it's an exciting thriller and murder mystery, too, and filled with excellent performances.I had no trouble accepting the fantasy time-travel premise, which is favorably compared to the best elements of the Back to the Future series.But the three-dimensional acting, along with the action-packed scenes that kept me on the edge of my seat (literally) made this work on other levels, too. Even those who aren't die-hard time-travel film fans will enjoy the quirky plot points such as the world's oldest long-distance stock tip as well as the genuinely tender moments between father and son in both the 1969 scenes and over the radio receiver.The ending itself was acceptable and fit in with the plot, but the music that accompanied the very last scene was a distraction. In fact, a negative comment about that country music was the first thing I heard when the lights went up. This is nothing against country music, but after all, the film took place in Queens, NY. The ending cries out for an instrumental version of Take me out to the ball game, which would have been just as moving - perhaps more, because of how prominent baseball figured in the plot. Maybe they should change it in the video release. Despite this small flaw, Frequency is a nine, and well worth seeing in the theaters. DO NOT MISS THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"Field of Dreams meets the Time Tunnel","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Any movie that mixes ham radio and baseball can't be all bad in my book. Seeing the old Heathkit SB-301 brought me back about 30 years myself, to the time when I helped my brother build a few of those kits around my folks house.Although the plot was somewhat implausible and some of the time bending devices unbelievable, (having Dennis Quaid burn the desk in 1969 while his son in 1999 watched it happen was a bit odd) it was fun and entertaining. Seeing the footage of the 1969 Amazin's was a real trip.  "},{"Title":"I would see it again and again and again","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is awesome from start to finish.. It made me laugh cry and at the end, cheer.. It is a beautifully written and wonderfully acted movie .  Even my 10 year old loved it.If your in the mood for a moive that will make you feel good when you are leaving the theatre  THIS IS THE ONE. I plan on going to see it again(it would be the fourth time)I am counting down the days till it is out on video 10********** "},{"Title":"Frequency needs frequent boosts","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The concept is wonderful, but the film lacks momentum and I found myself wondering when it was going to be over. This is not to say that the film was all bad...the acting was adequate and, as mentioned, the concept was intriguing. But Frequency lags a number of times, making me wonder if there was something wrong with MY timing. A decent effort but a humdrum final product. 5 stars (out of 10). "},{"Title":"great","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Excellent film.  The plot is great, fantastic writing.  Decent Cinematography, and decent acting.  Plot twists are fasinating, and it is about to keep you on the edge of your seat. So far this has been the best movie I have seen this year. "}{"Title":"ENJOYABLE PUFF FOR THOSE WHO SUSPEND DISBELIEF","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  THE NUTSHELL In 1969 New York City, as the Miracle Mets are poised for World Series greatness, hero firefighter Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid) likes to spend free time at night talking to the world on his ham radio. In 1999, his son Jack (Jim Caviezal) still lives in the house. His mom is now a widow of 30 years who lives alone elsewhere. Without his dad for guidance all those years, Jack is now a semi-drunk cop losing his girlfriend. In both '69 and '99 a spectacular display of the aurora borealis lights up the big Apple skyline. And when Jack turns on his dead dad's radio, Frank's voice comes over the ether and decades between them. Somehow they can talk across time. Unfortunately, Jack can also warn Frank about his imminent demise and save his life. The consequences of that action begin to affect Jack's present and they must now try to undo the damage it does.The cause and effect relationship is the usual theme of any film that deals with time travel. FREQUENCY eschews the oft-used device of a time machine in favor of some sort of worm hole tied to solar flares, but the rest is pretty standard for the most part. The classic story from science fiction is of the hunting party that goes back to the age of the Thundering Lizards to kill T-Rex's. The hunters are told to stay on a special path, but one stupidly steps off for just a second to (not kidding) smell a flower. When he returns to the present, everything has changed including language. He finds a butterfly pancaked to the bottom of his boot. The big difference between stories of that ilk and FREQUENCY is that any change is looked upon as extremely verboten because of those consequences in most stories and in the movie they are viewed as little fires that just need stomping out for all to return to peace. Because the link between present and past is exactly 30 years and moves ahead concurrently with time, Jack and Frank cannot undo anything by simply going back and starting over. They must use their wits to overcome all setbacks as they occur.When a movie tries so earnestly as FREQUENCY does to be a crowd pleaser, pointing out its weaknesses is something akin to spanking a puppy who's misbehaving. Gregory Hoblit and Toby Emmerich, the director and writer respectively, try a juggling act between the three balls of logic-defying plot, cleaver plot twists and feeding audience expectations. By keeping the story moving pretty quickly and physically cutting it down to short shots, the audience isn't given much time to ponder the inexplicable. They also trust that the audience doesn't need to be spoon-fed some loopy reason why it's possible. For instance, even though there's a set-up for it that suggests it was taken out, neither Jack or Frank seek out help from the Eminent Scientist In The Field to explain how the premise is possible. Probably because said scientist would then be compelled by the Official Handbook of Obvious Movie Dialogue to warn of the consequences, ala the dinosaur-hunting story above. Very little time is spent waiting for the characters to accept that what is happening is possible. Little or no mention is made of the fact that this is the fall after man had just walked on the moon, making just about anything seem possible. The filmmakers understand that it's highly unlikely that anyone watching the film could have arrived in their seats without at least some vague notion that communication across time will be part of the story.As with any film made by bright storytellers, the biggest problem with FREQUENCY is the flip-flops it makes between respecting the audience's intelligence and insulting it. To example the former a crucial bit of information that will later explain why 3 women become 10 (excuse the vagueness, but more info would spoil it for first time viewers) is so casually presented many will miss it if they look down to get their soda. But later, a rescue in a burning warehouse begs credulity as Quaid goes from Brave to Super Fireman. It's best not to think too long over the logic concerning the changing past and present. For those who like a good Guilty Pleasure, FREQUENCY is the perfect film of that sort. It has a nice balance of original premise, exciting sequences and pull-on-the-heartstrings moments between a father and son who were robbed of growing up together. Similar, but not nearly as good as the superb FIELD OF DREAMS. Be warned, it will fall apart if you begin to dissect the time travel aspect after seeing it. A willing suspension of belief is a big requirement of watching FREQUENCY. RECOMMENDATION you can skip the theatrical release, but well worth a look on a slow video rental night.  "},{"Title":"not just another time travel movie","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The premise of the film is one of those one-in-a-million great ideas, like there's a storage closet of great movie ideas somewhere and once every few years, someone pulls one out and uses it.I once was told that audiences will accept one giant `leap' per movie. In a film about time travel for instance, the impossible thing the audience will be asked to believe is that time travel is possible. No one actually travels through time in Frequency, but a man is able to converse with his long-dead father through a ham radio. The film succeeds at being utter fantasy and yet always remains firmly grounded in reality. The thing we're asked to suspend our disbelief for here is that a sunspot-triggered magnetic storm could create radio waves so powerful that they reach through time. We ask for this kind of whimsy from our movies, but on one condition we say, `what you show me does not have to be possible, as long as you make me believe that it is.' Once you've accepted that one leap, a movie like Frequency will hold you firmly in its grasp.Director Gregory Hoblit (`Fallen,' `Primal Fear') slowly and lovingly sets the story up and introduces us to the players. We've got Frank Sullivan, firefighter, hero, model dad, model husband, Mets fan. Hoblit takes no chances and makes this guy, with a lot of help from the guy who plays him, Dennis Quaid, the most likeable human being ever. Thirty years later, in 1999, we've got Frank's son, John (Jim Caviezel), now a NYPD homicide detective. John's life isn't so perfect. He's never been married, his girlfriend just left him, and he's taking to the bottle. He longs for simpler times, like when he was six and his dad was still alive. The 30-year anniversary of his father's death in a warehouse fire is approaching. He happens across dad's old ham radio and finds that it still works. The scenes in which the two men first speak are great pieces of filmmaking. This is not to say that the rest of the film disappoints, I'm just saying that this material could easily have been handled wrong Hoblit gets it right, scene after great scene.Frank is able to talk to his son only days before the fire that will kill him. John can warn him; he can now save his father's life. Here is another sequence that defines great filmmaking. I don't like giving away things, so I won't say what the outcome is. Anyone who saw the movie's trailer and really paid attention to it has a pretty good idea of what happens anyway. Without being specific, I'll say that past is changed. With this change come consequences. At this point, the film does a bit of a 180 and becomes a mystery thriller. This was a speed bump on an otherwise smooth road. I had difficulty making the adjustment from warm-hearted fantasy to hunting down a serial killer. Once I regained my bearings, though, all was good. Through great writing, performances, and direction, the film consistently keeps you guessing and challenges you, leading up to a thoroughly satisfying conclusion. Frequency is the kind of movie you really need to immerse yourself in and pay close attention to. Whenever a story messes with parallel timelines, with present events changing the past and therefore changing the present, you have to be on your toes.Grade B  "},{"Title":"A great movie without any hype","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I saw Frequency this past weekend, it was my first trip to the theaters in 5 months.  This is due to the extremely lame selection of movies that the year 2000 has offered so far.  But boy am I glad I chose this one!  And the thing is, I'd never even heard of it till I read about it on imdb last week.It was nice to see a movie that focused more on quality than on marketing and special effects. If more movies did that, the world would be a much happier place.  I don't have anything else to add to these other comments except if you are a father or a son, see this movie!  It will certainly bring a little water to the eyes. 9 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Didn't really do it for me...","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although this movie was good enough to keep my attention, I found the film curiously lacking in suspense.  The plot was contrived, and at times downright silly.  Everything moved too quickly and predictably, and there was not enough time to develop any feeling for the characters.  Although I usually enjoy movies of this sort, I left the theater feeling that Frequency could have been so much more than it was.  Another 30 minutes or so running time might have added greatly to it.  6/10. "},{"Title":"Trite set-up, exciting payoff","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie had an awfully slow set-up, along with some pretty trite dialogue and situations I felt I'd seen in dozens of movies before.  The opening fuel truck crash and rescue was exciting but completely pointless.  Dennis Quaid's family was one long Kodak moment, and John's break-up with his girlfriend (I left six months ago; you just didn't notice) was groaningly clichd.  Once the radio communication got going, things really picked up, and the movie became quite enjoyable.  In the end, though, we get another slow-motion Kodak moment.  Quick!  Someone rescue the good parts of this film from bad writing and Hallmark sentiment. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film for everyone","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was so surprised by this thoughtful, suspenseful, intriguing and extremely well-acted tail.  Everyone should see what will no doubt turn out to be one of the best films of the year.  For those who find the plot holes annoying, remember that this is, after all, a fantasy, whose entire premise could be misconstrued as a plot hole!  Relax, go with it, and enjoy a fabulous motion picture.  10/10 "},{"Title":"Sparkling","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not since American Beauty have I heard so much entertained cackling from an audience, and not since E.T. have I heard so much sniffling during the heartstring-tugger parts.  It was well worth our 8 bucks.  And for time-travel or time-hole freaks, it's a screaming bargain at that price.Given the obvious difficulties in Frequency's premise, the film could very easily have ended up somewhere between forgettable and laughable.  Somebody clearly worked hard to prevent this, and it shows.  Indeed, all of the standard leaps and twists inherent a time-screw movie are executed *believably*, and I think this is a big reason Frequency succeeds.  It also doesn't hurt that Dennis Quaid finally proved he still has the talent we last saw from him seven zillion years ago, in Breaking Away. Won't someone give this guy another good script or three?The ending is imperfect, and I would guess it's the main reason for the dearth of 10 ratings here.  But I seriously doubt anyone alive could have dreamed up a more satisfying resolution. This is still one of those films where most people leave the theater beaming and wishing there were more movies like it.And if anyone still needs more proof that previews can be bad representations of the movies they promote, this is it.  Very little of Frequency is anywhere near as schmaltzy as its trailer implies.  Bottom line See it. "},{"Title":"Go to this movie, leave your brain behind","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  FREQUENCY    * *      The further behind you leave your brain, the more you'll enjoy this fantasy thriller.  The excellent performances hold this together even after it starts getting more and more ridiculous.    If **  was an `allowed' rating, I would give it that.  Any movie that ends with a sappy Garth Brooks song playing over a sentimental montage cant merit more than * * . "},{"Title":"Great Film, With only one real drawback","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Possible SpoilersI felt that the filmmaker's ways of dealing with the paradoxes created by time travel were ingenious, and internally consistent. Bravo, Hollywood! Consistency, *good*. My one problem arose from the last three minutes maybe I just don't like country music, but Garth's song shocked me out of the magic just a little sooner than I was hoping for. Great movie, though! "},{"Title":"A gripping science-fiction yarn","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bravo, film-makers!  It's good to know that Hollywood still has a few storytellers hidden away and uncorrupted by the pursuit of money alone.  Ye gods, what an excellent film.As a number of people have previously mentioned what this film is about, I'll avoid that topic and simply expound on what I liked about the film  Acting.  Plot.  Dramatic tension.  Humor.  Dialogue.  Little, enjoyable twists.  Overall impact, making you think... this is an intelligent movie, which uses subtlety more often than the sledgehammer school of moviemaking (typefied by Professors Michael Bay and Jerry Bruckheimer).Although at times I found a few of the twists predictable, for the most part they resonated with me, occuring to my mind just as the action took place on-screen.  In general, this is one of the finest movies I've seen this year, and though a great deal of 2000 stretches ahead I hope to see Frequency among the nominees at next year's Oscars.My rating overall  9.5/10... and that half-point off pretty much _only_ for the kinda hokey Garth Brooks song at the end.  =)  This will likely be remembered as one of the best films of the new century. "}{"Title":"Twilight Zone in the year 2000","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  While watching this movie at the sneak preview in Dallas, I was reminded of the Twilight Zone episodes I watched as a kid. Like a classic TZ story, we have an ordinary guy (a detective)who finds that an old ham radio enables him to talk to his father. The movie then segues into a thriller as the two try to prevent a series of sex slayings. Highly entertaining. "},{"Title":"One of the 2000's Top Ten","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  With an original script, great acting, and an unpredictable plot, New Line Cinema's Frequency has turned out to be the most entertaining and thought-provoking film of the year for me. The last movie I felt was this complete was last year's The Sixth Sense. Frequency is just an all-around great film. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Top-notch thriller","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is -- to date, at least -- the best movie I've seen all year. The father/son connection has been hyped in the media, and, while it is strong and touching (my eyes misted several times), it's no Field of Dreams, IMHO. However, the performances of Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel are EXCELLENT. There is a certain suspension of disbelief required with respect to the sci-fi (time travel) aspects of the story, but I found the action to be fast-paced, suspense-thrilled, and very involving. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"A beautiful love story.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is not the love story between a man and a woman, but a love story between a father and his son. Dennis Quaid is fireman Frank Sullivan, who died in a warehouse fire on October 12, 1969. On October 10, 1999, his 36-year-old son, John Sullivan (Jim Cavieziel), during a weird spacial thing going on with the Northern Lights, discovers that he can communicate with his father 30 years in the past...and maybe prevent his father's death. What this film results in is a beautifully written, wonderfully acted, Oscar-worthy fable. I recommend this to everyone who has ever lost a loved one, or to anyone who still has their loved ones with them. "},{"Title":"We enjoyed it!","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hey, it's a story...a good one.  Lots of interesting twists and turns.  The big star is my oldest hobby  ham (amateur) radio!  My wife and I are both hams.  While we enjoy talking to each other and friends, along with strangers around the world, I do worry that some who see this movie will think it's really possible to talk to their dead friends relatives via ham radio!  Please don't be disappointed!Dennis Quaid affects an odd little Queens, New York accent in this film.  Actually not too bad for a Houston-born Texan I thought.  He carries the weight of the story....I guarantee that, unless you have a heart made of silicon, you'll feel a twinge of sentiment at least once during this fine family (except for some mild language and effects) film.Suspend your disbelief and just go to have a good time!As we say in ham radio...73 and 88 to all!  "},{"Title":"A tightly written movie with great acting.","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Being a fan of science fiction, I just knew that I have to see the movie when I first read about it a few months back. It is not a conventional science fiction movie with lots of special effects but little sophistication or emotion. It is more like films such as Deep Impact and Contact, all of which explore scientific possibilities in the context of human emotion, which gives them their depth. The movie is further enhanced by the strong acting by both of the leading actors, which is definitely one of the best qualities about this film. The father-son element is the essence of the movie and it is so well developed throughout, it was utterly moving.Some of the other things I liked about the movie are the superbly achieved editing during the various flashbacks and the many clues the writer had intelligently incorporated from the backdrop of the story into the plot. The ending sequence was also extremely well done and very satisfying. This movie is so much more than the usual one dimensional science fiction, I want to see it again.  "},{"Title":"An emotional roller coaster that will leave you hanging on until the very end","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Have you ever been to a movie where you've missed one little thing and felt lost?  Frequency not only demands your attention, it commands your attention.  This movie is more than just a look into the past, it is a look inside the mind of the main characters.  You will feel what they feel and experience what they experience.Paying close attention to the dates on the screen and the ever-changing cast of characters is important as the story unfolds. Frequency is full of suspense, twists, turns and adventure that will leave you asking, What If?Dennis Quaid (heroic firefighter Frank Sullivan) and James Caviezel (Frank's son in present day) will play ping-pong with your emotions as they race against time to change the past and the future.This one is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Bravo........ on a film well made","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I knew I wanted to see Frequency as soon as I saw the trailer for the first time several months ago. Several reasons included the powerful all-star cast with the most unique plot I've ever seen.However, what really sold me on Frequency and put icing on the cake that made me watch this film was the song performed by Garth Brooks. Everyone will get a sense of what the movie is about when they hear When You Come Back To Me Again. This is one the top five soundtrack songs that I've heard in my life because it is the perfect companion to an already perfect movie. Frequency stars one of of the best actors in Hollywood, Dennis Quaid (Frank) along with a rising star in Jim Caviezel to bring to the screen one of the unique and moving thrillers I have seen in a very long time.In the spirit of Ghost, Frequency is an epic story about father and son who reunite over the ham radio 30 years after Frank's death. Adding to the powerful and talented cast are Andre Braugher (Satch) and Elizabeth Mitchell (Julia.) I couldn't have asked for a better supporting unit than  these two fine talents because they bring character and integrity to their roles.I was in awe of this film because it really got to the core of the relationship of a father and son and how special it really is. Frequency is the kind of feel good movie that everyone should see because was just so good.Frequency is laced with action, on the edge of your seat suspense, excitement and drama. This unique film ranks in the top ten movies I've seen all year. This is a one of a kind movie that will most likely not be made again.I'm going to do my best to see this film every weekend until it is no longer in the theaters because it is that good. I will be the first in line to buy the soundtrack and then on DVD when it comes out. "},{"Title":"Best film this year so far","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the greatest film (so far) of 2000.  Back when I saw the trailer, I knew it would be something special.  I honestly think James Caviezel is the next big thing in acting.  This movie is smart and touching, some of the greatest movie scenes in years, and enough to give you that feeling when you leave the theater...only a handful of movies can do that these days.  It sure is a tearjerker, and I want to see it again and again.  I can't believe the audience clapped at the end.  If this were October, I would, depending on what's out at the time, put this at the front of the Oscar race.  The Sixth Sense is no better... "},{"Title":"Wonderful -- just what to go to theaters for! (spoilers)","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was a great movie for several reasons -- most importantly, because it is *entertaining*. All too often, it seems that Hollywood will give the public a flashy-sounding release that ends up being glorified dog food. However, 'Frequency' delivers it's fun, engaging, and sappy in just the right amounts.Being a filmgoer who likes movies to make sense, I did have a bit of pause with some of the timeline paradoxes that seemed to crop up near then end of the film. However, upon reflection one could say that something about the nature of the link between the two eras could have affected normal causality -- for example, when the cigarette burns the desk, and we see the desk today get the faded burn mark, in real time. Maybe the link changed the normal flow of time, or else the burn mark would always have been there, right? -)In any case, the movie was a great date movie for my wife and I, and we've recommended it to all of our friends. Enjoy it! "}{"Title":"A heart-warming and inspiring Back to The Future flick.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The movie was super! It started out slow, but picked up pace very quickly! The plot is kind of twisted, but don't think too hard or else you'll end up fumbling around with too many ideas; just sit back, relax, and let Frequency take you on a roller coaster full of winding proportions that are intriguingly fun and enjoyable! My rating 9  "},{"Title":"First-class piece of work, best time-travel movie ever","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I am a professional journalist, and have never commented on a film here before, although I am a frequent visitor to the site. I registered tonight in order to post a rave about Frequency, which I just saw a few hours ago. I have been a Science Fiction fan for four decades, ever since I learned how to read. I know Heinlein inside out and backwards, as well as H.G. Wells and Jules Verne. I have seen just about every A science fiction film in general release since 1970. My favorite film is Groundhog Day, and I enjoyed Back to the Future and The 1960 classic, The Time Machine with Rod Taylor and Alan Young. Until a few hours ago, I thought American Beauty, Magnolia and Being John Malkovich were the best scripts of the last decade. For sheer ingenuity, however, they can't hold a candle to Frequency. And it is Tobias Emmerich's first script! Can you beat that? But then, American Beauty was a first script as well. Maybe there's something about a fresh eye? Could it be we're about to enter another period of script and character-driven movies instead of special effects extravaganzas? We can only hope. This film has special effects, but, wonder of wonders, they are used to advance the plot, rather than to substitute of the lack of one. I gave it a 10. I promise not to give those out too often.  "},{"Title":"Nifty and tight story.","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Nifty story, no more unbelievable than any previous movie playing with the accepted laws of physics.   Well-acted and thought-provoking.  Ending a bit trite but still satisfying. "},{"Title":"Expect to see a resurgence in ham radios","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency The mother sunspot of all time allows a young man to speak with his father on his ham radio.  Nothing strange about that - you can talk with people around the world.  What makes these conversations unique are that dear old dad has been dead for thirty years. Even more bizarre is the set of events that their heart to hearts set in motion. As anyone who's ever watched Star Trek or read a science fiction novel knows, messing with time travel usually has unexpected and dire consequences. In this case, history is being repeatedly rewritten on the fly and bouncing off on different tangents (I won't elaborate any further).  Along the way, there are some interesting twists, touching moments and a decent story. Despite the fact that Dennis Quaid's character is the prototypical, blue-collar-red-blooded-All-American baseball-obsessed-clich-spouting stereotype he manages to keep him from becoming annoying or unbearable.  Likewise, James Caviezel (who plays the son now grown up) although clearly not an Olivier, is able to hammer out a believable character.My only complaints are that there are few surprises, - if you have decent powers of deduction, you will figure out most of the surprises before they happen - and there are a few continuity errors.  Even so, the movie makes for an enjoyable jaunt. "},{"Title":"Edge-of-your-seat thriller with a heart","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency was so much more than I ever expected. It hooks you in the opening credits and continues to reel you in for the next two hours. Many of the previews show this as a father/son relationship movie, which you have on one level, but more than that, it is a complicated thriller that has you solving it in 1969 and 1999. The audience became so involved, literally sitting on the edge of their seats, and were standing up applauding at the end of the film.The movie really makes you think about how one person's life can effect so many others without him even knowing it, and also makes you realize that everything does happen for a reason.  "},{"Title":"kinda sappy and reminds you that there are scary people in this world","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  this movie combines action and sappiness (probably to try to appeal to both males and females) The bad guy in the movie reminded me that there are scary people in this world and I was glad to have someone to walk home with me that night "},{"Title":"A great time warp movie about father-son contact, 30 years apart","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an interesting movie to say the least. It is about a 34 year old son who meets his father via ham (amateur) radio equipment, during days with plenty of Aurora Borealis about (this is the technical item that makes this chat possible).By saving his dad's life (who was supposed to have died in a fire) the son changes events in the past and has to get his father to alter the outcomes of various events as new events appear. This is an excellent premise, but not easy to portray on the silver screen, as many have tried (and mostly failed) in the past.Nevertheless I found this film interesting, exciting and full of suspense. Well worth seeing!!  "},{"Title":"It's good when the entire audience is clapping at the end, right?","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  To say this is one of the best films I have seen this year is an easy thing. I will not divulge any info about the film because the suspense is one of its main attractions.  However, I will say that it has been awhile since my eyes have watered multiple times during a movie.  The story is well designed and after seeing it just once I did not see any obvious slip-ups having to do with time.  I will see it again this weekend to try and absorb more.  Go see this movie as soon as you can.  It is a true must-see.  It is nice to be able to say that in a time when so many movies are not worth the three dollars to rent them let alone the seven dollars to see them in the theater.  Enjoy this one with family or friends alike.  I give it an easy 9. "},{"Title":"Astonished by movie","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  FREQUENCY is an astonishing accomplishment on every level... writing, acting, directing, cinematography. I didn't have many expectations going in because the work of director Gregory Hoblit has been so disappointing in the past (FALLEN, PRIMAL FEAR), but he scores a winner here. Dennis Quaid's usual boyish charm, which can be irritating, is perfect for the character of Frank Sullivan, a firefighter who hasn't really grown up. James Caviezel provides the right combination of soulfulness and enthusiasm as a homicide detective who can't seem to get his life together.Quaid plays a heroic firefighter who lost his life in a warehouse fire during the 1969 Mets' World series win. Caviezel plays his grown son in 1999. Through a quirk of physics the two men make contact across the 30-year span over a ham radio. Their talks lead to changes in history that make the movie fascinating on that level alone. But they also work together to solve a 30-year-old serial murder case. One of the greatest strengths of the movie is the way Caviezel is able to show the slight changes in his personality as he and his father change history... both their own and that of the city around them.The movie slides effortlessly between suspense, humor and sentimentality... imagine being able to talk to someone close to you who died a long time ago. Imagine talking to yourself as a young child. This is the type of movie I like best.... I was enormously entertained while watching it, and I haven't been able to stop thinking about the `what ifs.' I strongly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"This is Entertainment","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The two hours you will spend while watching Frequency will fly by unnoticed. The movie is, in a word, Fun. And ultimately, that's what most of us go to movies to experience.Frequency sustained a kind of magical tone throughout. In that regard, it reminded me of The Truman Show. Both movies are fantasies, and if Frequency is not quite as good overall as Truman, it is only because the final 30 to 40 minutes focuses more on the taking down the bad guy theme (though exciting) than on the human relationships that made the rest of the movie work so well.See Frequency and enjoy it for what it is - a thoughtful, very good (though not great) movie. "}{"Title":"Very good movie, little too violent","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is definitely worth seeing, it is filmed in such a way that captures imaginations and challenges minds.  Frequency would definitely be something a child would enjoy because of the magical qualities, but unfortunately is much too violent in some scenes.  Also some of the police pictures shown are disturbing for children and adults alike.Overall the quality is good and likely to be a winner so it is unfortunate only older audiences should view it.  "},{"Title":"'Frequency' slow to develop, but addictive","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The science fiction surrounding Frequency is so incredibly far-fetched, most people familiar with the theme going into the movie won't think its makers can pull it off.	For a great deal of the movie, they don't.	However, after awhile, the you start suspending disbelief. The plot grows on you, and, before long, you are completely wrapped up in the story.	James Caviezel plays a police officer in the 1990s who, because of aurora borealis, is able to communicate via radio with his father (Dennis Quaid) in the 1960s. The two use the communication to avert a family disaster, only to find their meddling caused even more problems.	The problem with the movie is not the dialogue - in fact the scene when the two realize they're talking to each other is relatively believable. It's just that, after awhile, the complex history changes become overwhelming for the viewer. Instead of remembering one story line, the viewer has to remember multiple. For those viewers who thrive on being able to understand exactly what is happening in a film, Frequency can be frustrating at times.	About half way into the film, however, the viewers change how they watch the film. They let loose of the need to comprehend the science aspect of the movie, and focus more on the compelling adventure story.	The plot isn't the only thing that grows on the viewer. Set in Queens, N.Y., the film demands heavy New York accents from actors that take an awful long time to get used to. Like every other bothersome element of the film, however, the viewer begins to not even notice the accent.	Aside from the accents, the actors do a commendable job in this film. While Quaid seems to have a hard time playing a macho fireman, Caviezel is actually quite believable as a man who is battling the insanity of the multiple histories he remembers.	Overall, Frequency does a lot with the plot devices it uses. If viewers are able to not worry about believability from the onset, they will probably enjoy it even more. 	 "},{"Title":"Magical, touching, exciting.  Overall very entertaining flick","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The premise is very intriguing.  Who hasn't wanted to change the past, to talk to someone you've missed almost your whole life -- to be given the chance to fix what's gone wrong.  This movie starts very well after the initial action scene and introduces an extremely sympathetic character, John Sullivan, played by Jim Caviezel.  The movie worked so well for me because of the strong characterization.  I had a lot invested in the father-son relationship -- I was crying pretty early on!  This movie has the Field of Dreams magic with all the suspense and excitement of a good thriller.  I really loved this movie and will see it again.   "},{"Title":"What if...a genuinely good movie makes money for a change?","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bottom line  a fantastic film.  True, it had some parts, the lameness of which have not been witnessed since the debacle that was Mission to Mars. Quaid's character was so painfully all-American, at parts it makes you want to spew red, white, and blue chunks.  And it seems to run a tad long.And now for what's good.  You never know what's coming next.  I'm not talking about Usual Suspects-like twists or anything, but very effective act breaks that really turn the story and keep you interested, as it basically breaks down into three complete stories (for the price of one!) The story, on the surface, does seem a bit suspect.  However, it is dealt with precision in this script and in the direction which is also stellar. The action scenes are many and in retrospect don't make much sense at all, but while watching it, you never have time to stop and think about what's happening.  Excellent cover-up technique, I must say.  They are carried out with sharp editing and great timing.  Caviezel is a touch weak, but, like the rest of the film, he shines in all the right parts.Bottom line #2  The perfect film to forget about reality and get completely lost in an excellent story well told.  What if? indeed. "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Watched this movie as part of a sneak preview yesterday. The main thing that sets this movie apart from many that deal with time is the attention that is placed on un-intended consequences. They did an excellent job with some extremely small details.I found the movie to be very entertaining both because of the attention to detail and the subject matter. I would highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Science fiction almost like reality.","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Once past the almost impossible idea of instant radio communication between the past and the future, everything else in this story works. We are not left with any open ended scenarios as is often the case with such science fiction. Excellent dialouge, casting, suspense, story, effects. The baseball connection added to our springtime pleasure. We were into it from start to finish. A very enjoyable movie, hopefully worth future recognition at the box office and award presentations. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable film","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I went to a sneak preview of this film this evening at the urging of my 16 year old son who had seen the ads for it on TV.  He told me it was about a son who discovers when using his deceased father's ham radio, he's able to talk with his father who is speaking to him from 30 years in the past.  I was a bit skeptical about the premise, but I went with an open mind.I found that I really enjoyed this movie.  Generally, the biggest problems with any story line that includes any type of time travel are the issues of paradox and the 'ripple effect' which happen if you change events from the past.  Even though those issues are going to be present in any time travel type of film, I felt the writers did a fairly respectable job of dealing with them in a way that didn't detract from the story.The characters were enjoyable and the film had a sense of warmth, along with suspense.  I'm glad my son suggested it.  "},{"Title":"Movie story telling at it's best","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency creates real suspense out the viewer's expectations at the beginning of the movie, and then gets even better, taking us where only story telling at it's best can.Quaid shines as the late 60's firefighter who's forced to fight to save his wife's life after his own is saved, and the rest of the cast is so believable you find yourself living their experience, rather than sitting in the theatre.Frequency is a must see. "},{"Title":"Out of the ordinary Easter-Crime","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Just like any other movie that has been recorded in Toronto, outdoor shots are either made in some unknown back road, behind a warehouse on the east side of town, or at an incredible close-up, so as to blur out as much as possible of the background. This is, after all, supposed to be New York. Too bad some of us immediately recognize the buildings, partially because the same buildings have movie vans parked in front of them 365 days a year.This movie falls pretty much under the same category as the man who got tomorrow's paper today. But with a slight twist. The guy is talking to his dad 30 years ago through HAM radio. And it can all be blamed on Aurora Borealis. I'm not sure if they tossed that in to make a groovy start scene that reminds you of Contact, or if they just couldn't find anything else to blame it on.Either way, you can pretty much look away from the physical principles, and enjoy this as an action thriller instead. Indeed, it is fit for a one night Easter Crime movie, with some Back to the Future-ish undertones. There is, after all, solving this crime is not just a race across time, but also a race against time, as weird as this might sound.Worth watching, but nothing I would actually buy. This movie receives a DOLLAR THEATRE MOVIE rating.  "},{"Title":"Plot picks up after slow start","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw a preview of Frequency in a New York area theatre.  A few minutes into the flick, the guy behind me said of Dennis Quaid, He's supposed to be in New York, and he's talking with a Boston accent.Well, his accent's not the only phony thing about the movie.For example, we're supposed to believe that 30 years after his father's tragic death, a man goes out with his friends to drink to his memory? Come on.The dialogue is somewhat cliched.But, having said that, if you can stick out the first 30 minutes, things pick up when the thriller part of the movie kicks in.It's not Sixth Sense, but it does keep you guessing. "}{"Title":"A possible weepy for guys","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If your relationship with your father has fallen apart, or it never existed, if your father died at a young age, or even just recently, or even if you're a huge fan of the '69 Mets, this is not a movie to take a date on, especially if you're not into crying in front of your date.  It's an emotional tearjerker for guys.  It's not to the extent that Field of Dreams took you to back in the eighty's, but still.  This movie takes turns that you would never expect, so if you're looking for a good thriller on a weekend evening, this one is recommended.   "},{"Title":"Great Thriller","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A good dose of suspense, sci-fi, humor and great acting make this a great movie.  The sneak preview I saw tonight gave it a healthy bit of applause and most seats were occupied. Dennis Quaid does a great job and the story does not get bogged down with the hows of the physics and all, it just tells the story.  This is a solid movie, maybe not one for the ages, but a great way to spend 2 hours.   "},{"Title":"A Don't Miss!","Date":"21 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one is a winner.  It keeps you on the edge of your seat while having some depth, due to the story line of son connecting with father again. Every man can identify with this.  The plot is very well done, and is quite entertaining.  The acting is great.  I haven't seen the actor who plays the son in anything else, but I'm sure that will change.  My wife and I loved it.  Go see it on the big screen!  A 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best film that I've seen in 2000, great writing!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was able to catch Frequency in a sneak preview the weekend before it officially opened.  I really enjoyed myself.  Great writing, some nice acting by Dennis Quaid, where has this guy been?  I like the other actors as well.  I don't think this movie will be a block buster, because it hasn't been properly marketed, but perhaps word of mouth will keep it near the top and in theaters for a while.  I liked Erin Brokovich a lot, but this was a bit better, in my opinion.  My favorite, since last years Sixth Sense, and the Matrix.  The pseudo time-travel plot isn't too tough to follow and it isn't a techie sci-fi movie.  I think anyone over the age of 14 would enjoy it.  Good family movie.  I'd give it a 9.5 out of 10, A+, and an enthusiastic thumbs up.  It won't be making an appearance at next years Oscars, but that doesn't cause it to shine any less.Go out and see it. "},{"Title":"Very good movie.","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The sound could have been better at first.  Could have been the film version.  We saw the sneak preview and it was all it was cracked up to be. Great premise and exciting movie.  Different role for Dennis Quaid.  James Caviezel did a fine and memorable job as John.  I will remember him after this movie and look forward to seeing more of his films. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very good film.  I questioned the premise somewhat before seeing it this easily could have been a poor imitation of Sixth Sense, or just another silly 'time paradox' sci-fi film.  The focus was clearly on the characters, however, and not on the science fiction mechanisms.  In fact, these mechanisms were as often a secondary subplot to the main themes, as they were in the forefront of the film.  In the end, what stays with me the most about 'Frequency' are the emotional linkages between father & son, the overwhelming impact of losing someone dear to you, and the opportunity to regain connections that have been lost.  That this movie tied all this into a fairly taut thriller is a credit to directory Greg Hoblit.I saw 'Frequency' at a 'sneak preview' showing, as part of a double feature with Final Destination.  The first time I saw the trailers for 'Frequency' was *after* I saw the film, and before Final Destination.  I think my enjoyment of 'Frequency' was dramatically enhanced by not having been fed all the scenes in the trailer beforehand.  Trailers that expose too much are definitely a pet peeve of mine. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Terrific!","Date":"19 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this at a sneak preview last weekend and was blown away. It is terrific!  Very fast paced, with twists and turns every step of the way. You have to be sharp to keep up -D  Dennis Quaid turns in a flawless performance, and Caviezel is good, too.  They are able to do the father-son thing without it getting too syrupy and mushy...  it is a suspenseful thriller with a nice addition of warmth for a change of pace.  It is refreshing to see a FUNCTIONAL family portrayed on the big screen for once! I don't want to give too much away, but can't wait to see this again when it opens officially.  Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Really makes you think!","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This one will really make you think afterwards about how it all adds up. You'll remember certain clues that mean something in the end. A really enjoyable movie, especially since I saw it without knowing what to expect! We need more movies like this that challenges the audience and makes us think! "},{"Title":"Good, could have been better","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Maybe a little too ambitious.  Of course Mack-truck sized plot holes are nothing new in time-travel stories, and may be somewhat inevitable (Back to the Future why didn't Marty's parents remember him??  Termintor 2 when they dropped the chip in the molten lava, why didn't John Connor just cease to exist?? And so on).  Frequency has its share, but if heart counts, then Frequency definitely merits points. But the nagging feeling that the filmmakers copped out and opted for the super-happy ending instead of something more poignant and bittersweet stayed with me all the way home.  "},{"Title":"Truly amazing!!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After seeing the trailer and previews on TV I thought I saw the whole movie, But I was wrong and I thought I knew how the movie would turn out at the begining of the film, I was wrong again.  Frequency was an all around execlent film.  It had a great story and top notch acting, especially from Dennis Quaid. I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I did.  This is one of the few movies that I would pay to see again on the big screen.  "}{"Title":"Fantastic movie!","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Thought the trailer looked great so I saw the sneak preview.  My high hopes were rewarded.  The acting was superb and the storyline was full of heart, action, and believability.  Dennis Quaid is a great, but underrated actor. Jim Caviezel shows the promise of being a real star.  Terrific to see Andre Braugher who is wonderful as always (how I miss him and HomicideLOTS) The idea of getting to know your deceased father for the first time is heart-warming.  The murder mystery using the son's cop instincts and the dad's actions was well-thought out.  A unique and fun movie with a lot of heart that makes one think and wish they, too, could talk to someone they've loved and lost.  See this movie! "},{"Title":"Frequency catches one from the start.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency is a GREAT movie.  It offers thrilling, emotional, and funny experiences throughout the film.  Dennis Quaid is back at the top of his game after real good turns in Any Given Sunday and Savior.  Jim Cavaziel of The Thin Red Line shows why he should be around for a while, and Andre Braugher of Homicide gives a solid supporting turn.  What irritates me is that this movie probably will be hailed by critics, because it is an enjoyable experience, but my guess is it will strike out at the turn stiles.  You know Box Office capabilities are not high when the movie can't sell out Sneak Previews.  This is the best movie I have seen in a Sneak Preview since There Is Something About Mary.  Frequency is truly enjoyable, a CAN'T MISS, and I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Don't miss this one - it's a keeper","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Saw a sneak preview of this film with my son on April 15, and we were both totally taken by this surprising blend of suspense and heart.  I felt the same way about Frequency as I did about two very disparate films Field of Dreams and The Sixth Sense.  All three manage to blend the fantastic with the sentimental, without getting either crazed or gooey.The basic plot is that a father and son, separated by 30 years, can converse with each other over a ham radio due to synchronized atmospheric conditions. The son's knowledge of the past causes ripples throughout time, and requires father and son to work together to prevent an event that would never have occurred without their meddling with the time stream.  That's all I'll tell you.The script is clever but not smart-ass about it, and Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel are both excellent as father and son.  It's a movie that adults and teens can both enjoy together.  I hope word of mouth makes this the hit it deserves to be.  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I took my two kids and two of their friends to see the preview last night. While there were two intense scenes that wouldn't be appropriate for most kids under ten, all four of them as well as myself really enjoyed the movie.The plot line was compelling and kept everyone guessing to the very end. There were many instances in the movie that people laughed at, not because there was a comedic element, but because of the strangeness of the situation.  For example, there is one scene where John, at 36, ends up talking to himself as Johnny when he was 6.Bottom line, this is a movie that the whole family can enjoy as long as your kids are at least 9 or 10.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I seen this film at a special screening at a local theater and I have not seen a better film than this one. This is one film that will keep you in your seat the entire length of the movie! I will see it again with friends when it comes out. This has to be one of the best films of the year 2000.  "},{"Title":"Incredible.","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had the chance to catch this one at a sneak preview. Although I've always been a fan of Dennis Quaid, I haven't had the opportunity to see him in a dramatic film as of yet. I must say this movie ranks up there among the best movies I have seen in a VERY long time. The script held you and never let go. The story line and theories presented are fairly solid and completely entertaining. I never caught myself checking my watch. For me this is a great sign a movie did what it was supposed to. Remove me from reality for a while, and completely submerse me in another. All in all, a complete success. Well done! "},{"Title":"What's the frequency Dennis?","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Frequency at a sneak preview  last night.I have been involved in ham radio for over 26 years....so I was looking with a critical eye at that part of the movie.  Except for a few wrongly used terms, and one of the characters covering the vent holes of the radio it was all good.  Thirty years ago almost ANY ham radio operator would have refused to converse on air with an unlicensed operator.....this was handled in a way believable to me.The plot involves a fire fighter and his son.  30 years after his father's death the son finds Dad's old Heathkit SB101 ham radio.  After plugging it in and trying he can't make it work and gives up.  Then something happens.  The radio activates itself and he hears someone calling for ANY station.  The son answers and eventually figures out he's talking to his deceased father, 30 years backward in time.  The son saves his father's life by warning him of a problem at a fire.  Then chaos ensues.  Turns out everything they do changes the future.If you can't stand science fiction or if you hated the ending to Sixth Sense, then it's not for you.  If you love a good yarn told with compelling characters,  see it now.My ultimate test is this....did I feel like I got my money's worth?   ABSOLUTELY! "},{"Title":"Hell, I cried twice...","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best movies I've seen in a long time.  So far this year, this movie and Erin Brockovich have been the best ones I've seen. This is one not to miss.I saw the trailer for it a few months ago, got the basic concept from that, and said to myself...man, that's a powerful setup and just a really all around excellent concept for a movie.Think about it Thanks to a solar phenomenon, a son is able to talk to his father thirty years in the past via a HAM radio a day before the father dies fighting a warehouse fire.  Think of a the drama, the emotions that can be brought up through that.And I knew exactly what was going to happen, the son was gonna change the past by telling his father how to survive the fire, but when he did that and the father survived I still cried anyway!  Very emotional and very good performances from both actors, but the story does not end there, no way.Turns out, thanks to their subsequent conversations, something in the past has been changed, and the mother somehow died.  What ensues is a very riveting plot as the son, a cop, talks to his father, a firefighter, in the past and helps him to solve the mystery of his mother's murder.This movie is filled with delights, suspense, thrills, surprise, action, comedy, and real heart felt emotion.  Good script, good directing, and great acting.  I had a really great time.  Money well spent. "},{"Title":"The aurora borealis enables ham radio contact across 30 years.","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Caught a sneak preview of this tonight and I have to say that even though the whole film is completely predictable, I really enjoyed watching it unfold from start to finish.There aren't any real surprises, but the acting is solid and the way the characters interact is believable and interesting. It'salso nice to look at.I have to give the screen writer points for also portraying temporal conundrums in a realistic way. Really pretty nifty. So yes, it's worth seeing "},{"Title":"a gripping action thriller","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i caught a sneak preview of this with my dad, which i thought was appropriate for this male bonding suspense-thriller. It was very entertaining, featuring a confusing, yet extremely interesting screenplay and excellent performances by Dennis Quaid, Jim Caviezal, and Andre Braugher. I was amazed that a movie this good could be released so early in the year. It's a definite crowd pleaser that should make serious bank at the box office. smart, suspenseful, thrillers like this don't come around to often. many films try to create the euphoric level of suspense as this one has, but fail to do so.  This movie was a great way to spend a Saturday night and is worth seeing at least once. It starts off with a bang that sustains you until the plot twists start popping up. Most of these plot twists are enjoyable. I thought this was the best movie to be released this year and should be recognized as a great film. A- "}{"Title":"This year's Field of Dreams","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Saw this film at a sneak preview. This is the feel good movie of the year. I'm not sure how this film is going to be promoted well enough to find it's audience. The sneak preview is a great tool for a film like this. Everyone in the theater applauded at the end of the film, and from comments I heard after the screening were going to spread the word about Frequency. It features equal parts of drama, suspense, action and tender sentiment all wrapped around a plot device that couldn't happen, but just like Field of Dreams you buy it. JUST GO SEE IT. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie frequency is crime thriller with a good essence of family drama.In the starting of the film it felt weird that a son talking to his deceased father year's ago,but he gets a chance of telling him a way to save his life in an upcoming accident.by which all the incidents in john's life change accordingly. I really liked the concept of passing evidence from past to present. A serial killer is introduced to kill john's mom.He saves his parents life which results in the changes in his life. In the ending of the film the entry of his father creates a sensation in the total movie,a dead father in the starting of the movie appears to come alive by the end and saves his son's life. The movie starts with a weird concept but makes you sit at the edge of your chair to find what is going to happen next in the film. I totally recommend to watch this amazing film. "},{"Title":"Time's Complexity","Date":"17 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Our lives linger across the threads of time, but if given the chance, wouldn't we pull one away, taking back an event that led us to now? But if the past touches the future, does the present disappear? Where would we find ourselves, and what price would we pay for changing the course of our lives? Could we escape the intricate lines of fate that wait to weave across the tear that we leave behind? Would we still risk all to save one life, and questions such as this grip us in its intensity. And as past and future crash together in a suspenseful whirlwind of a story, we plunge deep into the dilemma of time, held fast in the rapid heartbeat of drama, and mesmerized by the brilliancy of cast and crew in a movie called Frequency. "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I borrowed this movie from my brother a couple of months ago. I did not know what to expect. I looked it up on IMDb and it had a pretty good rating. I did not remember it being in theaters, so I just watched it. I immediately loved. The story is just amazing. It is very original for most of the movie. I think that is even sad in parts. It is a very good movie. The story can be confusing, but I understood it. It really surprised me that it was this good. I just did not expect it to be this good. I loved it. I think that it was one of the ten best of 2000. The acting is good. I give that a 7.5. I give the story a 10. I give the script a 10. I give everything else an 8. This was a really good movie. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Good, simple, enjoyable film","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is not an epic. But so what? It was good, entertaining, intriguing and didn't get bogged down in attempting to pass itself off as a mutli-layered, complex story, neither did it resort to swearing yelling and unnecessary violence.I suppose that the film is a cross between a family film, a fantasy film and a murder mystery film. And I'd like to add that the murder-mystery side was very well done.Performances were more than ample, though Quaid seems to have attempted a strange accent during some scenes that he was clearly uncomfortable with. Jim C was not as wooden as he usually is and the remaining cast gave heart-felt performances.No Shakespeare, but highly watchable and even if you don't like it, chances are that you'll leave thinking that it was ok nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Makes me cry every time I see it","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I absolutely love Frequency. I cry every time I see it. It is a moving story. It is both a thriller and a love story. This time it is a love story between a father and a son.Quaid is wonderful as the dad, Frank Sullivan. You fall instantly in love with him. You immediately share the son's desire to rewrite history and save his life if it is possible.John Sullivan played by Jim Caviezel is absolutely perfect in his role. The movie is totally engrossing. It captures both your heart and your imagination straight away.I also love when John gives stock tips to his childhood best friend! If only we all had the chance to know when to buy Coke or Microsoft! This is the type of movie you can watch again and again. It is just a lovely family movie. "},{"Title":"A High Frequency Hit","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A really enjoyable film. If you are a fan of The Butterfly Effect you will love this movie because the premise (changing the a loved one's past) is very much the same. It's the thought that all of us wish for...the ability to change the past.This film doesn't do as good a job, has none of the (gallows) humor of BF, and doesn't have quite as many twists and turns and conundrums that get you thinking on your own of possible permutations. But since this one was written four years before Butterfly Effect, that's to be expected (that BF would improve upon this film since one must assume the writer saw it and was influenced by it in some way). Frequency is (at least in the cable version I saw) a much more family oriented movie, however. Although there is violence and sexual content it was muted down (cut with commercials). I don't know whether the uncut version is any tamer than BF, but parents should be cautious with both films and young children.You come away from Frequency having gotten close to the characters from the start, and feeling a tie to them, especially if you're from New York and have memories of the 60s. It's especially helpful if you're a Mets fan (I'm a Yankees fan, but it's close).So, what's the frequency? A 9 in my book! A high frequency hit. "},{"Title":"Tune into this frequency and enjoy","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ladies and gentleman, boys and girls prepare to take a magical journey through the heart and soul of mankind. Dennis Quaid, Jim Caviezel, Andre Braugher and Elizabeth Mitchell star in this magical journey entitled Frequency that will leave everyone in awe and breathless.Along with Love Story, Men Of Honor, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and Finding Forrester; Frequency is among my favorite films, which deserve the title of masterpieces. My reasons for making this statement are the unique concept of the film, superb writing and strong performances.The writers created one of the best scripts and brought a wonderfully touching story to screen. I kept smiling throughout this film because it explored the unbreakable bond father and son share with one another. I knew Frequency would become a powerful and special film as soon as I saw the trailer for the first time. I was in shock when Frequency was left off the academy award ballot.Frequency is laced with story lines that would light up a dark room and brighten anyone's dark days. Frequency contains intense, adrenaline pumping action with edge of your seat suspense, excitement and drama.Frequency is a unique film that ranks in the top ten movies I've seen all year. Frequency is a unique film that will never be made again and if the chance arose this type of film is made; it will never measure up to the greatness of this film.Quaid, Caviezel, Mitchell and Braugher come together to bring one of the finest films to life. In the spirit of Ghost, Frequency is an epic story about father and son who reunite over the ham radio 30 years after Frank's death. However, throughout their conversations, they unintentionally alter the past and become thrust into a serial murder investigation. The cast support Frequency receives is powerful and rich.Quaid is one actor everyone can count on to give 110 percent in every film he stars. Frequency is one in a long string of films that keeps me in shock and asking the question why he hasn't had the opportunity to win academy awards since his performances were deserving.Caviezel's resume may not be high in quantity but it is high in quality, yet he is a tremendous asset to each film he stars in. Caviezel may not be a Hollywood veteran quite yet; but with his charisma, screen presence, integrity and intensity he deserves the title of veteran.Braugher provides great support in his role as Caviezel's partner and Quaid's friend in Frequency. I have always enjoyed Braugher from his role on the television series, Homicide Life On The Street because his presence is felt with each scene was in; a fact which holds true in every film he is in. I look forward to each film he is in because like Quaid he gives 110 percent.Upon listening to Garth Brooks' When You Come Back To Me Again, I immediately thought it was the perfect compliment for the film. This is one the top five soundtrack songs that I've heard.Only one word comes to mind when describing my overall feeling of this film EXCELLENCE. Every part of Frequency is excellent. From the powerful and moving performances to the edge of your seat drama, Frequency will delight and amaze every viewer.It is my honor to let everyone know Frequency is one of the best films released in 2000. "},{"Title":"Science Fantasy about communication between father and son across 30 years--changing one thing in the past changes a whole host of others","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film isn't perfect by any means but keeps you paying attention as you ponder causality, or the effect that one event has on all other events that follow it. One thing you do can have a gradual but profound effect on the future. As I watched this film with my science fiction class, I was constantly thinking about the issues addressed, not just solely being entertained. Although a few things seemed a bit far-fetched, I really liked watching this film. Perhaps the best part was observing how the characters reacted emotionally to the happenings of the across-time communication. Thinking about changing the events of the past is a deep, thought-provoking subject that is well-exhibited by this film, since although many of us wish we could change certain minor aspects of the past, not everything would necessarily turn out just the way we wanted if we did so. "},{"Title":"Frequency does not surpass the french movie  Race for life","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" As a licensed ham I feel intrigued by the plot in Frequency. The movie is very good - but seems to be following the road chosen by many other sci-fi films. For no reason at all the script avoids the simple question  Will anyone without a FCC license ever be listened to? The script could easily have been twisted in a way where even licensed hams would not object. The time span business - the multiple reflections around the globe, the Heathkit SB110 with the lid removed, the visible magnetic storm the many other practical matters seem to fall in place. For licensed amateurs there is only one single feature film which is devoted entirely to radio amateurs, it is called Race for life,by Christian Jaque. That movie unfortunately is held in custody by its owners Film Ariane SA in France. Numerous attempts to let this old b/w epic from 1956 be released has been done -- alas --- in vain. "}{"Title":"Definitely better than most higher-budgeted films.","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first time I was made aware of this movie was when I saw a huge billboard of it with the tag line 'More touching than Ghost!'. Although the tag line was ridiculous to me at that time, it was what made me want to see the film. Curiosity getting the better of me, I rented the film, went home, popped it into my VCR, and experienced almost 2 hours of unforgettable entertainment.Dennis Quaid was superb in his role, definitely one of his best performances so far. This was also the first time I saw Jim Caviezel on film, and I was really impressed. After seeing this film, I knew Jim was headed for bigger and better things and sure enough, he was magnanimous in The Count of Monte Cristo and The Passion of the Christ.While the film was obviously low-budgeted, its overall excellence more than made up for whatever it lacked budget-wise. It was definitely more touching than Ghost, and I liked it even better than classics like Titanic.I cannot give this film a rating any lower than 10 stars, otherwise I'd be lying to myself. To me, it deserves every single star I've given it.A must see gem. "},{"Title":"What a surprise! Just great in every way","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was flipping through my lousy movie channels, and this movie caught my eye. It didn't look any special, but I was immediately drawn into the story and before you know it, I was sitting on the edge of my chair. Just an amazing story, with a warm heart (but not in a sickening Disney kind of way), excellent leads and a energy and pace that really hit the spot.I really can't remember the last time I stumbled over a movie like this, that I hadn't heard of, and just fell in love with it.If you can accept the frames of this movie (that's the point of seeing a movie now, isn't it?), it's gonna steal your heart. And yes, this is a heart film for the guys. ) (8/10) "},{"Title":"Just watched it, LOVED it!  )","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wow, not often you find one this good just flipping channels in the middle of the night... matter of fact, what's this movie doing on at midnight on a weekday anyway?! )Personally, I think this one's got it all covered - heart-tugger, suspense, love story (mostly the family kind this time), nostalgia, grip-your-seat-thriller moments now and then, and with a sci-fi twist to it all... And while I liked a lot of things about how the storyline was developing, I never saw the ending coming! *LOL* )If you missed this one in the theaters (I sure did), if you don't get lucky and catch it on t.v. like I did, and if you like just a little bit of sci-fi and suspense while they quietly tug at your heartstrings when you're not looking, I don't think you'd regret renting or even buying this one. I'm sure I woulda been happy with the investment had I rented it or spent four times as much at the theatre when it first came out. I'll be picking this one up first chance I get and watch it again, with my teenage daughter this time. I hope she likes it half as much as I did, even if it's not full of cute young guys! *LOL* )I noticed that someone before me suggested this as a good Father's Day gift... good idea! The theme is sure there. ;) "},{"Title":"about the actors Dennys and Jim","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is terrific. It transcends time but more then anything the power of love between father and son. It is done exceptionally well in a difficult kind of interactions. Bravo!! I liked Dennis Quaid a lot in general and in this movie, but Jim Caviezel is blowing your mind especially on the scene where his father tels him that he loves him. He brought chills to my spine. This guy is so real, he reaches inside of himself in such a way that you forget you are watching a movie and you start to cry from your inner you, before you realize it is a movie and somewhat a fiction. I really believe that Jim Caviezel is one of the best actors of the day and as a plus his somewhat magnetic eyes have such a depth with so much more unspoken emotions behind them it is absolutely unique. I also admire this actor for his faith and his moral character God bless him always. I am waiting to see more of his work in the future. I have seen a lot of his work from the past including The Passion, Monte Cristo, Angel eyes, High Crimes and the Thin red line.He is outstanding in all of them going through all kinds of transformations depending on the roles, with the same depth and reality on everyone that he portrays.BRAVO AGAIN. sincerely carmen greene  "},{"Title":"Great movie.  Why haven't I heard of it before?","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great movie.  Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel are excellent as father and son.  Sure, there's a lot of questions that arise whenever you deal with time warp themes, but this movie has so many interesting twists and turns that I was able to overlook them. It kept me on the edge of my seat. I was a little bit confused because at one point it appears that there are two different serial killers, so you have to think it through really carefully at the end.  I don't remember hearing about this movie when it came out in 2000, so perhaps it didn't receive good reviews.  Anyway, it's a shame because this is one that shouldn't be missed by anyone who loves sci-fi movies with a time warp theme.  Also, the father-son relationship is very well done. "},{"Title":"Original spin on time travel (may contain spoilers)","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"      What I like about this movie is the original idea of instead of traveling back in time, only being able to communicate with someone in the past. It seems to me that this is much more plausible ( if at all possible ) than actually physically traveling to other times. In this particular movie, the usual mess up of the space-time continuum results by the communication. I like that the movie doesn't explain how the communication takes place, but just suggested by showing shots of the northern lights. As a result of the communication a man, John Sullivan, in the present changes the past by giving known information about the past to his father, Frank Sullivan ( who is dead in the present ) in the past. I also like how the changes to the past affected John mentally - he is confused because he remembers the original chain of events, but also can remember the 'new' chain of events that replaced the original events. I've never seen a time travel movie depict how that would affect someone. The major change created by the across time communication is that a serial killer in the past ( which John in the present is still investigating as it was never solved ) operates for a much longer time than he orginally did and, also, John's mother, Julia ( Frank's wife, of course ), becomes one of the victims. The rest of the movie deals with John and Frank working together to find out the identity of the killer and stop him before he gets to Julia. Great idea to add a thriller aspect to a sci-fi movie. Really worth watching to see a different approach to time travel. "},{"Title":"One of the all-time underrated films.","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I knew that I had to see this film as soon as I saw the commercials, but I figured it wouldn't live up to what I was expecting.  Boy, was I wrong.  This film is amazing.  Quaid and Caviezel work so well together that you often forget they're not even in the same timeperiod.  You just want to root for them.  And the final confrontation with the bad guy is absolutely amazing.  I cheer every time.  Can't say more.  You have to see it.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A Superb, Superb, Superb Film!!","Date":"14 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The next time you're tempted to find Deep Meaning in the latest piece of shallow trash praised by the Cannes crowd and the other Usual Trendoids, try comparing it to a magnificent film like Frequency.  This is what cinematic art really *is*!With a fascinating, unique, thought-provoking and superbly-written script, top-notch acting, first-rate production values, a touch of magic and a healthy dose of humanity, this is in my opinion one of the best movies in recent years.Having recently suffered through one shallow and repulsive, but Palme-d'Or-winning foreign independent art-house movie after another, it is so refreshing to see a good old 100%-American film, one that only American filmmaking could produce.At its most basic, Frequency is a story of the age-old battle between good and evil, with the heros struggling against all odds, with good resoundly triumphing in the end.  It is no wonder that it is American culture - yes, *culture*! - like this that has captured the imagination of people around the world and come to attain the dominant place that it has around the globe.If you can watch this movie without a good number of lumps in your throat, you need to get some help with your cynicism and see if you can regain your touch with humanity.A superb, moving, enriching and life-affirming movie, I give it a solid 10 out of 10.  I highly recommend it to anyone who wants a good old-fashioned antidote to the typical slick, shallow, gimmicky series of special effects that pass for too many popular films these days. "},{"Title":"Improbable; strange; but intriguing","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spellbinding thriller suggesting that even if one could go back and start over it wouldn't work out anyway. This one played out well as the 2 lead characters kept crossing paths in various ways over several decades even though one was already dead. Very spooky and totally different take on time travel. "},{"Title":"This is a film for all ages, male and female","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  If you like action, this movie has it. If you like sci-fi, this movie has it. If you like  drama, this movie has it.This film is a good bet for anybody.  Its a date movie, a sci-fi thriller, and has some good action scenes.As far as plot goes, Frequency is a time paradox that revolves around a father's death, a murder mystery, the Northern Lights, and the '69 World Series.  I won't spoil the ending, but the culmination of it all is nothing short of mind-blowing.As an added bonus, Garth Brooks' On a Prayer is an awesome song that can be found absolutely nowhere in stores, but appears for this movie. "}{"Title":"Superb !","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I was actually in suspense throughout the movie, which almost never happens. The story is unique, believable (which is especially important since it is a tad sci-fi) and compelling, the characters feel so real that you almost can talk to them, especially James Caviezel who has an enormous presence and intensity. Im just surprised I never heard about this movie before i saw it on IMDB, instead I know all about Tomb Raider and other hyped crap-movies...The father-son relationship which really is the core of the story was beautiful and deeply moving.You wont be disappointed ! "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is a pleasant surprise in many ways.  A surprise, in that it didn't fare better at the box office; it deserved much better. The plot is well thought out (a lot of small details play a role in the development of the story), the performances are good, and the actors look their age (i.e., the wigs don't look too phony). This is the one movie that taught me to look beyond the number of copies left on the shelves at the video store. Also, it surprised me that so many elements fused together so well into a single movie it is a drama of a family (and their friends) strongly held together by their love, yet it also reads like a mystery novel where all the little pieces of the puzzle come together (and very well at that), and it is a very good thriller (I kept feeling chills for the characters even after I'd already watched the film twice and knew exactly what was coming up next). It has some element of a sci-fi, such as the very premise on which the entire story is base, but except for that, I wouldn't recommend this as a sci-fi movie.  A little piece of advice for future viewers out there STAY AWAKE. The very charm of this film is that almost every detail counts. Not all of them have equally far-reaching repercussions, but the director and writer seem to have seen to it that the story is told with maximum efficiency and subtlety. This might explain the lack of appeal to one-time theater audiences; it is indeed almost impossible to catch everything at a casual one-time viewing.Finally, don't expect from this movie everything that a good drama has. If anyone asked me to characterize this movie, it'd be as a MYSTERY. The other components, might be there, but leave room for improvement. For instance, the characters, heroic and loving as they are, are a little bit too good to be true. But that is probably the one complaint I have about this movie. I heartily recommend it to those of you who enjoy a good thriller and can stay alert for 118 minutes. "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of 2000","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film had everything, it was so downright entertaining it makes you realise how you started liking films in the first place. I have recommended this film to all my friends, but I don't tell them anything about it. I just urge them to watch it, because I would hate to spoil the fantastic storyline for them. So I will do the same here, just watch it! "},{"Title":"How did this movie go unnoticed??","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Not what you may expect.  I do not understand how such a good film has not been noticed.  Everyone I know who has seen it has loved it too.  Great film with interesting plot twists and a good story.  And for those people afraid of sci-fi, don't worry, it's minimal in the movie, just sit back and be entertained.  Don't take my word for it, go see it for yourself!  "},{"Title":"Good but...","Date":"16 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  From a technical point of view, many mistakes. A ham radio is not a telephone. One person can talk at the time. And when pushing on the mike, the receive falls out.The story itself is good. "},{"Title":"a new genre - the feel-good, action, suspense, sci-fi","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An old idea, but Frequency pulls it off.  Science fiction writers have been tackling the problem of time-travel and it's impact on future events since Asimov was a baby. And, even though it's not hard to figure out what's going to happen next (or, what already happened, but might change because of intervention from the future)it's a thrill-ride. Add a father and son sub-plot, murder, and some great songs from the 60's, then sit back and enjoy.  Just remember to set your personal time machine to suspension of disbelief, and of course... when going back in time - don't crush any butterflies.  "},{"Title":"Hokey but well-acted male tear-jerker","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film starts off working its sensitive guy charm so thoroughly and unashamedly that I was really dissappointed that it devolved into a lackluster serial killer pic. It's nice to see Jim Caviezel again after his terrific work in The Thin Red Line. Overall the film had some nice moments but its gets way too convoluted and the ending is so over the top hokey it's got to be seen to be believed. Bring on the cheese! "},{"Title":"Surprized","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I got a chance to see Frequency at an AFM screening on February and I was pleasantly surprised of how good this film was. I had no idea what it was going to be about but at the film progressed I progressed with it. Dennis Quaid, one of the most under-rated actors today, pulls a great performance and I'm glad to see him back in form on this film.  The print I saw did have some unfinished glitches (Temp sound track, unfinished edits, etc) but for me to like it despite all that, this has to be good.  Watch without prejudice, I say. This film will surprise you. "},{"Title":"Starts off well, but doesn't end the same...","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Gregory Hoblit's time travel thriller 'Frequency' starts off superbly, but loses gas after a point. First of all, the idea is quite gripping & interesting. But it's wafer-thin nonetheless, as mentioned, it takes off perfectly, but lands in turbulence! The problem with 'Frequency' mainly is its writing by Toby Emmerich. In fact the film becomes funny after a point, escapism crosses limits. There in no problem is escapism, I mean that's cinema, but there is a limit to it. But these flaws are only visible & talked about when a film fails to entertain you fully! The plot of the Mother & the Serialkiller looks forced. It's doesn't create any excitement. Also the culmination doesn't look convincing! Coming to the right points Hoblit's direction is perfect. Cinematography by Alar Kivilo is excellent, capturing every frame beautifully. In the acting department, Dennis Quaid excels in a Tailor-made role. The legendary actor is in excellent form. James Caviezel is very good; this is his finest work. Elizabeth Mitchell get limited screen time, but she makes up for it. A young Michael Cera makes a brief appearance, he's fine. Others are passable.'Frequency' could've been much, much better! Watch it if you must! "},{"Title":"passable entertainment","Date":"26 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A modern-day cop with modern-day relationship problems finds he can solve his spiritual malaise and clear up his caseload through communicating with his long-dead Dad on a ham radio, a freak result of unusual Aurora activity.Not a bad premise and on the whole the film pays off on it. The pacing is brisk with each radio communication between father and son used to bookend the sequences where their next crime-fighting strategy takes place, as well as filling the void since the father 'died'. The plot holes are glaring and you need to turn a blind eye and indulge yourself in the father-son relationship. For example, the firefighter father is saved from death by his son telling him he should have gone the other way in the burning building, but this is information the son had no way of knowing about - how could he tell what decisions his father made inside a subsequently collapsed building just before he died? These kind of inconsistencies crop up regularly. Put them aside, worry about the family issues, and you will feel justified in giving up your tears at the end. The climax, when it comes, is, with hindsight, predictable and fitting, but quite moving all the same. Turn off the DVD before the schmaltzy photo slide-show that puts a lid on events, an awful missed beat in a film that entertains for the most part. "}{"Title":"It's much better to leave things as they were","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" (There are Spoilers) Very confusing sci-fi movie about time travel with the use of a post WWII non-transistor ham radio not a futuristic H.G Wells-like time machine. The film also includes, to confuse the plot even more, a 1960's serial killers who by the past being changed ends up murdering the mother and wife of the father and son who changed it. The two who are involved in this inter-dimensional, and 30 year, relationship who exist in two different or parallel universes at the same time.If the movie Fernquency stuck to the time travel angle, like the far better Butterfly Effect, and showed how changing the past, if at all possible, can make things even worse then they already are it would have streamlined it's story. Not only making it far more believable but interesting and easier to follow. But by the film instead putting in a crime angle it just completely short-circuits and flips you out. We have in the movie both father and son Frank & John Sullivan, Dennis Quaid & James Cavlezel, working together in two different time periods, 1969 & 1999. They not only solve the Nightingale serial killings but prevent the murder of Frank & John's wife and mother Julia (Elizabeth Mitchell), who if it wasn't for the two fooling around with the past in the first place, which would have never happened. The manipulating of time also has them causing the murders of an extra seven women in the process!Frequency would have far more entertained, instead of bored and confused, it's audience if it's just put in some kind of logic that would have had people watching it overlook it's ridicules plot. The amazing and mild boggling story also includes and factors in the Amazin Mets. The Amazin's not only pull off one of the biggest upsets in Baseball history, by defeating the overwhelmingly favored Baltimore Orioles in five games in the 1969 World Series, but also have a lot to do with convincing the police to the serial murders. With family friend and precinct captain Stach Deleon ,Andre Braugher, getting information from 1999 thirty years earlier by both Frank & John about the outcome of the series before it actually happens!Were made to believe in the movie that an unusual conjunction of tremendous Sun Spot activity together with the Northern Lights of the Auroral Borealis caused all this weird action to happen. All this supposedly had radio signals not just travel through space but also through time! Uniting both father and son who haven't seen or spoken to each other for thirty years since the father was dead for all that time!Finding his dad's old ham radio 36 year old cop John Sullivan somehow gets in touch with his father Frank just days before he was to be killed in a fire on the New York Docks in October 12, 1969. At first not believing what he's hearing John is soon convinced that it's really his late dad that he talking to. John takes a while to convince Frank that he's really his , at then time back in 1969, six year old son whom Frank affectionately calls Little Chief.John telling his father what's to happen the next day, Otober 12, 1969, in a fire he'd be fighting as a member of New York's Bravest. Frank does what he's told to do by his grown up and future son John aka Little Chief that ends up saving his life. What it also does is put a whole new set of events into motion that would end up having his wife Julia murdered by a serial killer!. The strange event would also prevent the serial killer from being arrested for another crime that he committed in March 1970 and thus have him free to kill an additional seven women that he, if John hadn't fooled around with the past, would never have murdered.It's now up to both John & Frank, like some time traveling tag-team combination,to change and keep re-changing the past after screwing it up until they finally get it right! The two now attempt to bring their wife/mother back to life and at the same time prevent the serial killer from the past in 1969 now alive and well in the present from murdering John! It fact it was John who stupidly confronted the serial killer and spilled the beans about what he knows about him. John some how now plans to undo the killers work that he and his father made possible in their playing around with the past!The ending was just too much to take that you have to see at least a half dozen times to fully understand. We have John battling it out with the killer in 1999 as Frank was at the same time fighting the same person, who's thirty years younger in 1969. Both father and son finally meet in the flesh as the killer, who was about to do in John, lost the use of his right hand in 1999. This happens by getting it blown off by Frank with a shotgun in 1969. The by now totally confused killer gets himself blown away with the same gun by an older and grayer Frank in 1999. All this because of Frank's son John saving him from getting killed in 1969. Were supposed to believe in the movie that Frank lived all these thirty years hidden away from his friends and family and anyone else he was supposed to have any contact with in some weird state of inter-dimensional limbo! "},{"Title":"Everyone will like it","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a great movie. It doesn't let down in any aspect. It gets its hold on you from the very begging and doesn't let you down until the end. The characters are very well developed and the casting is on the same level. Not only that they look like New Yorkers but they sound like them too. The acting is excellent and you can feel for the characters and care what happens to them thanks to that. The best part of the movie is its story, which goes on on many levels, leaving you eager for more throughout the films duration and satisfied at the end of it. The director didn't get in the way of the story either, he leads you through it with flare and tells it very well. Dennis Quaide and Jim Caviezel both gave great performances, but IMO Jim Caviezel eventually excelled and took the cake there although Quaide was right behind him giving a very very good performance overall. I really cant think of any bad things in the movie that would deserve to lower the rating I'm going to give it. 10/10 stars and a definite must see for everyone. Because everyone will like this movie, thats just the way it is. "},{"Title":"Get past the shaky concept at the core and you'll find a thriller with a strong emotional core","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Decades after his father had died in a rescue gone wrong, John Sullivan digs out his dad's old ham radio and starts messing around with it. He is surprised to find another person using the same frequency in this age of phones and the internet, and he starts chatting with fellow New Yorker, Frank. After only a few conversations and events John starts to suspect (but not believe) that the other man is none other than his father and that somehow they are talking through time and space. Events convince both men that this is true and John uses the link to give Frank the advice he needs to survive the rescue that once killed him. However the repercussions are greater than they could have imagined and it is not long before Frank and John are frantically trying to repair the damage they have done.Although I never got around to watching this film when it was released, it still looked interesting to me and I was glad to find it on television recently. The story is almost in two parts, with the first part being more emotional involving the relationship between the father and son while the second part is more a thriller. The first part is enjoyable because it manages to get past the sheer implausibility of the concept and engage me quite easily; it could have fallen at this point but it just about made it work. The main reason this part works is the way that it delivered good emotional involvement from the characters to make me focus on that rather than the concept. This is also the reason the second half of the film works &#150; because I was into it and into the characters by this point so this wasn't just a matter of the film sinking into a standard thriller plot. On top of this I found the story to be told with tension, pace and quite an interesting idea (if you can get past the weakness with the core idea); It is exciting and all the better because you actually care about the characters.Of course part of the character development is the actors' performances and, once I got over their heavy Noo Yark accents, I enjoyed but Quaid and Caviezel. Despite not sharing the screen together, the two had great chemistry while also producing convincing emotions in their individual performances. Needless to say, both perform well in the action stakes as well. Support is OK from people like Braugher, Mitchell, Emmerich and others but really it is all about the two leads, who do well with what they are given.Overall this is an enjoyable sci-fi thriller that could have been average but is actually a smart affair that has a strong foundation in the emotional core of the relationships and characters, thanks to the script as well as the two lead performances. It is only really in the final few minutes that it messes up the emotional stuff by getting far too mushy but by then the fun has been had and the memory I have of the film is a good one. "},{"Title":"Tune into this frequency","Date":"5 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Ladies and gentleman, boys and girls prepare to take a magical journey through the heart and soul of mankind. Dennis Quaid, Jim Caviezel, Andre Braugher and Elizabeth Mitchell star in this magical journey that will leave each member of the viewing audience in awe and breathless.Frequency joins Love Story, Men Of Honor, Titanic, Saving Private Ryan and Finding Forrester as six of my favorite films, which deserve the title of masterpieces. My reasons for making this statement are the unique concept of the film, superb writing and strong performances.Congratulations to the writers for creating one of the best scripts brought to screen since Titanic. I kept smiling throughout this film because it explored the unbreakable bond father and son share with one another. I knew Frequency would become a powerful and special film as soon as I saw the trailer for the first time. I was in shock when Frequency was left off the academy award ballot.Frequency is laced with story lines that would light up a dark room and brighten anyone's dark days. Frequency contains intense, adrenaline pumping action with edge of your seat suspense, excitement and drama.Frequency is a unique film that ranks in the top ten movies I've seen all year. Frequency is a unique film that will never be made again and if the chance arose this type of film is made; it will never measure up to the greatness of this film.Quaid, Caviezel, Mitchell and Braugher come together to bring one of the finest films to life. In the spirit of Ghost, Frequency is an epic story about father and son who reunite over the ham radio 30 years after Frank's death. However, throughout their conversations, they unintentionally alter the past and become thrust into a serial murder investigation. The cast support Frequency receives is powerful and rich.Quaid is one actor everyone can count on to give 110 percent in every film he stars. Frequency is one in a long string of films that keeps me in shock and asking the question why he hasn't had the opportunity to win academy awards since his performances were deserving.Caviezel's resume may not be high in quantity but it is high in quality, yet he is a tremendous asset to each film he stars in. Caviezel may not be a Hollywood veteran quite yet; but with his charisma, screen presence, integrity and intensity he deserves the title of veteran.Braugher provides great support in his role as Caviezel's partner and Quaid's friend in Frequency. I have always enjoyed Braugher from his role on the television series, Homicide Life On The Street because his presence is felt with each scene was in; a fact which holds true in every film he is in. I look forward to each film he is in because like Quaid he gives 110 percent.I know I have consistently said music and soundtracks are one of the most powerful selling points of a film. From Trisha Yearwood's rendition of 'How Do I Live' for Con Air to Celine Dion's 'My Heart Will Go On' in Titanic comes a song so powerful and touching it will leave you in tears. Garth Brooks rendition of 'When You Come Back To Me Again' put icing on the cake and made me watch this film.Upon listening to this song, everyone will get a sense of what this movie is about. This is one the top five soundtrack songs that I've heard in my life because it is the perfect companion to an already perfect movie.Only one word comes to mind when describing my overall feeling of this film EXCELLENCE. Every part of Frequency is excellent. From the powerful and moving performances to the edge of your seat drama, Frequency will delight and amaze every viewer.It is my honor to let everyone know Frequency is one of the best films of 2000. I have seen Frequency so many times I've stopped counting after 10. Frequency is an A+ in my book.  "},{"Title":"Pleasant enough, but...","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Judging from all the fawning comments, this film obviously touched a chord with many people. Just suspend your disbelief and you will be touched. Maybe, maybe not.I'd have liked to have seen much more of the father-son relationship, or even the mother-son relationship, and less of the standard stalker/serial killer/cop contrivances. My dad died 22 years ago at a young age and this film could have struck a real chord in me, but the focus on the evil killer rather than authentic relationships drained the film of its potential. I'd have liked the son to have told the dad a little bit of what it was like living through what would be the future. I'd have liked them to have more contact when the son was a touch older. If you enjoy films like Ghost, if you don't say that photo with the missing person wouldn't have even been taken if the past changed that much, if you're not looking for much beyond superficial relationships, if you have to have someone evil running around with a gun that holds about 20 shots,...well, this movie is right down your firehose. For me, it was likeable enough, but that's all. Oh, and Elizabeth Mitchell as Julia Sullivan was the best of the characters - if only she'd been used more effectively.  "},{"Title":"Worst Ending Ever","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A not bad film until the last fifteen minutes, which were laughably bad, hurried, contrived, phony, and gut-wrenchingly sappy.The basic message of this film is that messing with the past will probably screw things up, but if you mess with it just right then everything will come out perfect.(Right).Oh, and one more thing why do so many movies deal with a killer?  How many of you out there deal with killers?  This film has an interesting concept, but filters it through yet another detective pursuing murderer story.Haven't been there, but seen that way too many times.  Phony.  Juvenile.  Yet again. "},{"Title":"Sweet as sugar, tedious and boring","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The basis for this film is quite interesting, the explanation somewhat thin, but still, it's nice to see a man communicate with his soon to be late father, who is living in another time. Having seen the trailer however, the film holds not one surprise. It's just a series of events that holds no suspense, whatsoever. From the beginning to the end it's clear that everything will turn out perfectly fine and all the characters will end up as one big happy family, and all that at an incredibly slow pace. The film runs 2 hours long, so unless you're an insomniac on a transatlantic flight, you might as well take a nap. "},{"Title":"Predictable , but not bad sci-fi thriller","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Frequency is a simple , yet entertaining movie about time travel. The biggest plus of the movie is the chemistry between Dennis Quaid and Jim Caviezel . Their father-son relationship is the heart of the movie. It feels real and not sappy . Both give good performances and it's easy to care for the characters they play &#x96; the lonely cop and the wise-cracking fireman.The whole idea of changing past and changing your life is something that probably everyone of the audience thought about at least one time in life. Despite that the story is really predictable and doesn't offer any twists it's enjoyable . It has heart , humor (Remember yahoo) and the consequences of time travel seem really logical here. The Frequency never goes for cheap shock like Butterfly effect. It's not one of the deepest sci-fi movies , but it's definitely a fun one.A not bad way to spend your evening. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"Good Acting but Silly Ending","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Yet another time travel movie Frequency is a decent one with good acting by Jim Caviezel and Dennis Quaid in the lead roles as father and son. Detective John Sullivan(Caviezel) finds an old ham radio and the northern lights cause it to allow him to communicate with his father from thirty years earlier. He warns him of a warehouse fire that had killed him, and therefore, changes everything. In the new timeline, his father later dies of lung cancer and his mother is murdered by a serial killer. John and his father wind up searching for the murderer, and a series of unlikely events occurs, with the usual and expected confrontation between the good guys and the bad guys. The saving grace is the pairing of Caviezel and Quaid, as they work very well together, but I was not crazy about the ending, which seemed a bit contrived. "},{"Title":"A bit cheesy, a bit long, but entertaining enough","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Here we have an interesting plot and believable actors in a film where, as long as you leave logic out of the theater, you will moderately enjoy.What I liked about this movie is how the actors don't want to change the world, but only change what they can. What I didn't like is that some of the scenes are longer than necessary, and that there is also an excess of I love you and you love me too.All in all, I was entertained, and I guess that's good enough for my money.key-phrase Son, forget about the murders, just give me the winning numbers of the national lottery, damn it! "}{"Title":"A gem in the rough !","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In a word, WoW ! I honestly don't know how I missed this gem of a film when it came out. A friend recently lent this one to me and now I am stuck with the task of finding its' equal to lend to him. Increasingly rare today to discover such a compelling story. This is a tale of Lifes' wrongs being righted. At the center of our story Dennis Quaid aptly portrays the proud patriarch of a young suburban family of 1969 that is soon robbed of its' promise. Through the passage of time this loving family reconnects and rights the the wrongs. It is a fascinating mix of mystery, suspense, and Sci-Fi that is well done. Leaves one wondering why Hollywood has such a hard time hitting such a milestone. Finally, Quality entertainment. "},{"Title":"flawed but worth it","Date":"10 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Let's just say that the premise of the film is improbable to the point of being silly. Let's also say that the movie works despite that.I think I liked the movie better because I read the plot summary on this page before watching the movie. I wasn't expecting anything approaching reality and that was alright with me. I might have been put off it I walked into it cold, as many reviewers here were. I won't reveal the plot but suggest that you read the summary and then decide if you want to watch the movie.The strength of the film is in the actors, the direction and the father son relationship. The two principle actors, Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel, carry the film as only good professionals can. Their down-to-earth approach to the roles brings a believability to the film that the plot lacks. There is also a strong frequency between them that strikes the perfect note of father-son loveThe direction, particularly in the action sequences is excellent. At times they leave you breathless.The father-son relationship is always a difficult one. The mother is always the comforter and tends to remain close to her children for life. But the father is the one that generally prepares the son for life. The son needs, at some point to reject this direction and strike out on his own. In the Oedipal pattern, the son kills the father and marries the mother. Certainly this desire, modified into into different forms, is present in many father-son relationships. In the end, unless the people involved are psychotic, father and son remain loving but distant and somewhat frustrated by a desire to be closer. The film plays well into those desires. The bonding of father and son later in their lives and the healing of old wounds is the real theme of this film. This is what appeals to the many positive reviewers here. It strikes a strong nerve in our society. It struck a strong nerve with me. If my father were still alive I would have rushed over to see him. I wouldn't be surprised if a lot of fathers and sons became closer due to this film - it is that good. So read the plot summary, get used to the idea that it is improbable, and then see the movie for the action but mostly for the human side of it. "},{"Title":"Time Warp","Date":"10 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Enjoyable time mix-up fantasy. See, the aurora borealis is especially strong on identical nights in 1969 and 1999, which enables cop John Sullivan (James Caviezel) to contact his own dead father (Dennis Quaid)on an ancient ham radio. The 1969 world's series plays an important part in the plot.But, so far, all you've got is a half-hour Twilight Zone episode. What happens after father and son get done being teary eyed and telling each other, I love you, Pop, and I love you too, Son, as if men really talked that way? Well, you have to have a serial killer back in 1969 and the policeman son has to help his fireman father stop the killings that took place thirty years ago, that's what happens. I don't mind serial killers in the movies anymore. I'm inured. More than that, if a movie does NOT have a serial murderer tucked away somewhere in the plot I begin to itch all over and break out in a rash that roughly resembles prickly heat. Would you take a look at this, doctor? Kamen's musical score is nothing to write home about, but the acting and directing are good enough, particularly Dennis Quaid, who brings a New York working-class accent to the role and does a nice impersonation of a guy pushing 70 at the happy ending. Andre Braugher is an exceptional actor with an extensive range. Also quite good is the performance of Shawn Doyle, who plays Jack Shepherd, the killer cop. He's got the role down perfectly. In many of his scenes he's not required to do much but be sinister or roll around in hand-to-hand combat with one of the Sullivans, but there is a scene in a bar, in which Cavaziel confronts the now aged Doyle, in which his face is a changeable and fleeting mask of indifference, curiosity, and hostility. And Doyle does it with a total absence of ham. And let's give makeup the round of applause it usually doesn't earn.The plot is complicated, as many time-warp films tend to be perforce, and there were times when I was confused, especially during the climactic action scene. In fact, I'm still a little -- well, maybe it's me. The plot also simplifies life in 1969, presenting us with nothing but happy homes straight out of a 1950s TV family series. I don't suppose you could really drag in Vietnam and racial conflict and dwell with such obvious relish on the same oneiristic images of innocence and Coca-Cola. If Dear Old Dad has a single flaw, it's that he smokes, and the film is politically correct and savvy enough to have him give up the habit grimly and with determination and a sense of moral rectitude. You can practically feel the audience breathe a sigh of relief and fresh air.Field of Dreams, in which a troubled son finally contacts his long-lost troubled father, was an extraordinary success in 1989 so I suppose this re-rendering eleven years later was expectable. Warner Brothers used to recycle the same plots with different actors in different jobs and the same underlying dynamics. It might be Edward G. Robinson working way up on the cable towers in Manpower or Bogart behind the wheel in They Drive By Night. It didn't matter. The underlying mythical armature remained the same. It won't matter here either.Years ago I pulled my car off the Trans-Canada highway to spend the night curled up in the back seat, parked on the outskirts of some small town in western Ontario. I was waked up by the barking and howling of dogs violating the post-midnight silence. What was bothering them were the northern lights, slowly shifting curtains of rainbow-colored hues, barely bright enough to lighten the landscape. That was in July in Ontario. So I suppose we can accept the same display in Queens in the Fall. These lights break up and disappear after the need for electromagnetic communication between father and son is finished with. "},{"Title":"Police & Fireman  Are The Stars","Date":"7 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This was a very interesting and entertaining film which tells the story of a father and son who communicate over an old time Ham Radio with Tubes in the set which seem to make it function, like the old TV sets in the early 1950's. There is a period of 30 years involved and concentrates on the life of a Fireman and his family and a son who becomes a Policeman. This film is like a time capsule or Sci-Fi and takes you back into the past and the future during a certain period of time. There is a serial killer on the loose who has committed many murders of young women and there are efforts to prevent these crimes from happening. This film will have your mind running in circles, however, the story does hold your interest and has a different ending than you would ever expect. "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!!!!!!","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Now, I have seen all the time travel, Sci-Fi, anything full-of-action of any movie and I found this the best movie ever! The best acting, a good. actor (Dennis Quaid) and a Sci-Fi non-stop action movie of the century! This is better than any movie I have ever saw. If I could see Dennis Quaid ever in my life, my favorite movie by him would be The Parent Trap and Frequency. Frequency makes total sense and all of it goes together. The science behind the movie was good quality. Dennis Quaid made this movie, even though he didn't do so well in The Day After Tomorrow, which sucked in acting. This movie deserves nothing but a 10/10.-Yoshi6666 "},{"Title":"Ahhh  --all the things movies should be made of.","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I absolutely loved watching this movie. It has all of the right elements to keep you wondering, What's going to happen next and when it ends you don't want it to, you'd be happier if it just kept going and going and going. A great movie.Dennis Quaid--It seems that whenever I see a movie with Dennis Quaid in it--I can be guaranteed that it will be one worth watching. How long has Dennis been overlooked? He's fabulous. He should be right up there with Harrison, Tom and the rest. Why isn't he getting the exposure that some of the other stars are getting. He's GREAT.And the other main actor in the movie, bravo to you. What a difference in attitude at the end of the movie. Good, very good. "},{"Title":"Stunning time-travel masterpiece","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of my all-time favorites. I truly love those father-son stories that deal with profound emotional implications and do not let go of me. Here, Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel and their interaction through time via the ham radio is unique. The story is emotionally enthralling as hardly any other, especially as John ultimately changes the past. The sequence showing how Frank survives and how John's memory changes at the same time (!) is awesome! The viewer has to stay alert and stick to the pace of the storyline. The reference to baseball is a nice one too. The kids in here, just as Michael Cera and Daniel Henson are perfectly cast and very genuine. Despite the emphasis on the excellent time-travel story mingled with suspense and a thrilling crime story, it's the father-son aspect that broke my heart. Just think about the sequence of Frank and young Johnny on the bike. Also the very end, in combination with the song, makes me smile and sob at the same time. Great acting, great characters, great underlying themes, great time-travel aspect! Highly recommended!! "},{"Title":"Gem of a movie","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I stumbled upon the film 'Frequency' while flicking through the channels on a cold evening. I was instantly gripped from the beginning. It is certainly a departure from the conventional time-travel genre, and the twists just keep on coming throughout the film. Both Jim Caviezel and Dennis Quaid put in fine performances in the lead parts. If you have not seen this film, then I recommend that you do. It seems to be one of those films that did not register at the box office due to a lack of an A list actor. However, I cannot understand why it was given a 15 certificate, since I have seen may 12 certificates that contain more bad language and violence. A very satisfying film. "},{"Title":"My all time favorite movie.","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Oh! I love this movie very much. I like Jim and Dennis as well. Their acting in this movie was excellent and touch, you can feel that how deep they love each other.Beside the acting, the story is interesting too. Father and son is chatting through an old ham radio in parallel time frames of 1969 and 1999. Future is changed by doing a different thing in the past and the people in the future is having 2-3 different memories which are the actual one and the changing one.Another reason I like this movie is the music. Especially the end credit theme song, it makes me feel warm and touch. I won't miss it every time I watch this movie (can't remember how many times I watched it).Hence, Frequency is a wonderful movie which becomes my all time favorite. Highly recommended to all of you. "},{"Title":"Loved it (even with commercials!)","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Not usually a movie fan, I found myself enjoying every suspenseful minute. I didn't even leave the room during commercials, because I was afraid I was going to miss something -- possibly a clue as to what was going to unfold next. Highly recommend, even with the commercial breaks -- I don't know how I missed it the first time through, but I'll watch it again when I get the chance. Don't miss it -- and don't plan to turn it off! I thought I was watching Backdraft, and then I thought I was watching The Twilight Zone. Finally figuring out that it wasn't just another fireman movie, I got hooked right after Dennis Q. became a believer! I spent the entire movie, being terrified that no one was going to believe either one of them. The writing on the table was a nifty twist and the loose board underneath the window was another one! Of course, it was totally implausible . . .or is it????? "}{"Title":"An excellent, magical masterpiece.","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Recently joined a DVD club, and somehow picked up this DVD by chance. Then I just fell in love with it. I watched it over and over again. The father and son relationship, the opportunity to change the past, the suspense, it's a complete excitement.What an excellent and magical idea that was. Northern light affected the electromagnetic field, and punch a wormhole that allows electrical impulses to travel across time in duplex mode. How many of us would like this experience? So perhaps we have a second chance to make something better. A dream comes true.Real fulfilling. I don't know where to begin to describe how much I love this movie. Definitely a must have. "},{"Title":"Fantastic movie","Date":"10 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie didn't make a big splash at the box office but I just watched it on TV and WOW! I don't know if it won any awards that year but it certainly deserved it. It is one of the first movies that kept me guessing all the way through. Just when I thought I had it figured out everything changed. And changed again. It just reminds us that if you change one thing, you change everything. Acting is great, plot is amazing, just a superb movie. I think I will buy the DVD. I was very impressed. One of the characters was named John Sullivan which was the name of one of the main characters on the TV series Third Watch which started on TV the same year, 1999. If you see this at the video store or on TV take the time to watch it. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I'd never heard of before seeing.","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I found this movie in a bargain bin. Had never heard of it before. The $5 I spent on it was well worth it. This is a movie I'd paid full price for and felt like I got my money's worth. The movie lacks even Sci Fi theory. If you can get past that it is a warm and engaging story. Characters are good. The action well done and plenty of it. This is more about the human spirit than about a quirk in time. Even though the science is lacking it does offer questions worth pondering. Lots of what ifs. Something that could have been visited more. This is neither a Guy flick or a girl flick. Both will find lots to enjoy in this movie. Well worth seeing in my opinion. "},{"Title":"Frequency...didn't do their Elvis homework, but still a great flick.","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Since there have already been several hundred entries, I won't go into the story itself. I really enjoyed the movie, although obviously an unbelievable story line if you know anything about it. What I enjoyed was the heartfelt relationship between father and son, convincingly played by the actors. My only complaint was the props department didn't do their research. Most notably to me was a scene that was supposed to take place in 1969, Frank (Dennis Quaid) flips through his albums and in that shot you see the top of the album Elvis In Concert which was not released until 1977 (8 years later!) As a former record retailer, I spotted it right away, as I'm sure any Elvis fan likely did as well. Picky, I know, but that IS the job of a props person; to make the surroundings and settings as real to the time being portrayed as possible. That cost my review a star for what I thought was otherwise an excellent movie. The unbelievable factor didn't weigh in at all for me as, after all, it's a STORY and it's a good one. "},{"Title":"This film ROCKS!","Date":"4 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I absolutely love this film, it moved me with the fatherson relationship and the aspect of communication through time is quite compelling and asks many unanswered questions. Jim is fantastic, and I not being a particular fan of Dennis Quaid, after seeing this film he's earned my respect. I love the multiple twists and turns in the plot that keeps you on the edge of your seat and constantly in suspense. When I watched this film I found myself screaming at the T.V hoping that everything would be resolved in the end. The sensitivity and complexity of the characters and the complicated plot line is a successful recipe for a great movie. From start to finish this film was far from disappointing. There were moments I found myself welling up with tears, puzzled and completely in ore and amazement. This film conjures up many thoughts, memories and although it contains perplexing theories, it always kept a genuine feeling, how how hard it is to cope with the loss of a parent, or someone close to you. A sheer delight, the acting was fist rate and the creativity of the plot was better than many other of its genre. I recommend this film to everyone. The only snag is that the ending is quite confusing, as the two planes of past and present merge into one, the reasoning for this occurrence is bemusing, but the result of this merging was heartwarming, as father and son were reunited. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Caviezel before he was Jesus","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" While far from perfect, at least this movie featured worthy performances, plus an intriguing (if complicated) plot line and some good old-fashioned heart. Frequency tells the story of John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel), a down-on-his-luck cop in Queens (circa 1999) whose life apparently spiraled southward after his fireman father (Dennis Quaid) died on the job thirty years earlier. The movie doesn't explore John's unfortunate circumstances much; he's shown arguing with his girlfriend once, plus he drinks some, and Caviezel makes a few sardonic comments and looks bitter. But this lack of development can be forgiven for two reasons one, Caviezel possesses such a genuine sincerity that it's hard not to like his character, despite the fact that we don't really know him; and two, John discovers the ham radio early on into the film, setting up the most intriguing part of the premise. What ham radio? Why, the very radio which belonged to Frank, John's father! John starts to fool around with the radio one day. He picks somebody up, much to his surprise ... and lo and behold, the person he's chatting with about baseball and Queens is his father Frank -- all the way back in 1969!! These scenes -- with Caviezel, Quaid, and the radio -- are definitely the highlights of Frequency. The scene in which the father and son's identities are revealed to one another is engaging; particularly charming and poignant is the scene where a present-day John talks to his 1969 family (including his younger self). Thanks to the radio, John is even able to warn Frank about that fire and prevent his father's death!Regrettably, after this history-altering incident, the film became more than a little ... confusing, to say the least. Frank appeared to still be alive, but I was unclear as to whether he was living in the 60's or the 90s's. While John's warnings that cigarettes will become the true cause of his dad's death send a positive message about health, this doesn't really go anywhere. Even more puzzling is the big serial-killer subplot revolving around John's nurse mother. I knew the killer was stalking nurses, and I knew that as Frank tried to stop him, he became a suspect himself -- but my clarity ended there. Again, WHEN was the killer killing?! Was John's mother alive or not?! In fairness, I watched Frequency on an airplane... so some of my confusions could very well have resulted from the interfering loudness of the plane's engine, or the interruptions of dinnertime. I have to say, though, that I think writer Toby Emmerich simply tried to squeeze too much into his script. The serial killer plot was unnecessary. The relationship between Frank and John made for an interesting enough film. My other gripes are minor and mostly have to do with a bit too many close-ups of eyes and such. Overall, Frequency DOES have a lot going for it!Supporting performances by Andr Braugher (who somehow manages to look exactly the same age in 1969 and 1999); Elizabeth Mitchell; and Noah Emmerich are on the mark. I liked how the movie hinted at the importance of familial relationships. I'm not really a baseball fan, but I didn't mind the baseball elements in this movie... which were sort of quaint. Plus, I've always had a weird fascination with things like ham radios.Finally, as I mentioned earlier, Jim Caviezel shows he's one to watch for in this earlier starring role. His own father had a brush with death some time before this movie, and it's evident in his performance that the subject matter is close to his heart. You can see the sincerity in his eyes! And that makes it hard to criticize Frequency, although once the serial killer plot starts up the movie becomes simply too confusing to really get involved with.All in all, Frequency is a movie that starts out great and slips into being merely good. However, good is good! You don't need to make a huge effort to see it, but if and when you DO see it, I'm sure you will enjoy yourself. "},{"Title":"Frequency!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frequency is an excellent film that boasts a excellent cast which includes Dennis Quaid, James Caviezel, Shawn Doyle, Elizabeth Mitchell, Andre Braugher, and Noah Emmerich. The acting by all of these actors is very good. Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel are have excellent performances! The special effects are superb and the sky looks realistic. The music by Michael Kamen is great. Its cool how the talk of Baseball is in this film. The film is very exciting and keeps you into it until the end! This really is one of the greatest films I have seen. If you like Dennis Quaid, James Caviezel, and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above, thrillers, dramas, and exciting films sci-fi then I strongly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"This is an excellent movie that we have watched several times","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My family and I have watched this movie at least 10 times and absolutely love it! Excellent story line and acting! Highly recommend this movie - if you like a movie with a twist. This movie had so many twists and turns and surprises, as well as suspense. If you have ever wanted to change something bad that happened in your life - you should watch this movie.  Ever choice we make in life has an impact on everything yet to come in our future and this movie points out this in detail. We must be careful of the choices we make, because you never know for sure if it will be for the best...but you have to use your mind and heart and follow their lead.  We were given a brain and a heart for a reason and Frequency has all those great pointers - about the choices people make. We are all here for a reason and for such a short time. We may never know the effect we have had on each others lives, but if you stop and think about it, every choice makes a difference - good or bad...so chose carefully! See what I mean in Frequency! "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review moving and thoughtful","Date":"8 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Normally I hate all of Dennis Quaid's films. Frequency is an exception. Like the best what if films, it doesn't dwell on the premise, which is obviously hokey, but gets right into the consequences. The film is well-paced with plenty of action. There are long teary-eyed scenes, but the acting is so good that it comes across as touching rather than melodramatic.It would have been easy for the generic serial killer theme to have made the film cheesy, but somehow it came across as riveting. There were plenty of plot twists and subtle details as well making it well worth a second viewing. The film stayed focused on the father-son relationship and didn't get derailed by the other subplots going on.Who should see this film-- All sci-fi fans-- Action movie lovers, especially if you like baseball-- This is a good film to rent for Father's DayI'll give Frequency an outstanding 8 out of 10, just one notch below the excellent The Butterfly Effect, and two notches below Freaky Friday, both of which you really must see. "},{"Title":"Time Travel makes a great plot!!!!","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed the movie which was recently shown on TV on USA - The acting was very good - I loved the direction which I felt borrowed heavily  from Alfred Hitchcock but was well done in many sequences - the use of the human eye to show the changes in the past and the two simultaneous fight sequences near the end - I thought the suspense and time element were excellent - I enjoy all films etc with the time-space theme such as Time Cop, Philadelphia Experiment I and II, Time Shifters etc. I would love to see the Rod Serling show when William Bendix went back to Dec 6, 1941 and I would like like to see The Spielberg Amazing Story about the JFK assassination. "}{"Title":"Electrifying","Date":"2 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I warn all movie fans this is just a fantasy film not less not more. If you can look away from the reality it could work. Me and my wife enjoyed it. The story never gets boring, perhaps it was too long but then surprises follows one by one. Director Gregory Hoblit executed very well and the actors did a very fine job. Especially Jim Caviezel and Dennis Quaid made from a difficult part a very intelligent and convincing role. I mean from an imaginable script finally all the stuff succeeded in creating a credibly suspense fantasy thriller. Okay I have to admit that sometimes we were surprised by all the twists but finally you can terminate the puzzle in different ways. Rating 7/10.  "},{"Title":"Field of Dreams meets Back to the Future meets Time After Time via The Twilight Zone; a guilty pleasure now matter how you cut it","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" FREQUENCY (2000) **1/2 Dennis Quaid, Jim Caviezel, Andre Braugher, Elizabeth Mitchell, Noah Emmerich. Far-fetched yet guiltily entertaining drama/sci-fi fantasy hybrid with Caviezel as a cop communicating with his long dead firefighter father Quaid via a ham radio &#150; echoing the 'Twilight Zone' &#150; and the daisy chain of events that occur thanks to the unearthly corresponding leading to an unsolvable serial killer's trail (shades of 'Time After Time').Part 'Back To The Future' part 'Field of Dreams' in its conception thanks to an intricately plotted story by Toby Ememrich and directed with crowd-pleasing bluntness by Gregory Hoblit. Quaid buoys the hard-to-swallow concept with his urgent earnestness and good guy heroics with Caviezel matching him perfectly. "},{"Title":"'Frequency' works well if you buy into its time travel rules","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency (2000) Dennis Quaid, Jim Caviezel, Shawn Doyle, Elizabeth Mitchell, Andre Braugher, D Gregory Hoblit. By chance, a son and father are able to communicate 30 years apart from a cross-time radio link. The man uses this as an opportunity to warn his father from his impending death in a warehouse fire, and manages to save his life, then, they both try catching his mother's murderer before she's killed in the past. What they don't know is changing history only triggers another chain of events. Interesting, sometimes saccharine time-travel film takes charge of its complex, underlying approach and the convincing performances make you buy into it. Though also disappointing, the film peters out before the end from a plot consistency, which undercuts its premise's rules. Running Time 117 minutes and rated PG-13 for intense violence and some language. **  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought it was going to be","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I anticipated FREQUENCY to be horrible.  Nonetheless, I saw it on television the other night and discovered that the picture has some positive points worth noting.  Although unrealistic and superbly cheesy at times, FREQUENCY has an enticing premise.  Secondly, Jim The Jesus Caviezal is likable, managing to offset any moments that Denny Quaid does wrong.  Finally, the baseball motive is executed properly by the writer Toby Emmerich and director Gregory GW Bush Hobbit.  In fact, there were times when I imagined what a Spielberg or Zemeckis would do with this script.  But, alas, FREQUENCY wasn't given the proper treatment to make it exceptional.  As a result, it falls into the rank of films that would have been better suited with more character development and less velveeta.  "},{"Title":"Great film let down by a disasterous final flawed scene","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all I'd like to say that this was a great film.  Implausible yes...but very very enjoyable.  The writers got everything right until the final scene...*** SPOILER ***I may be alone in noticing this, but it has to be said.  The final scene involves the 1999 Quaid blowing the killer away with a shotgun...fine. However how stupid are the writers???  Moments before we see the killer being trailed by the cops - who find indisputable evidence that he is in fact the serial killer.  Then we see a scene where the cops race to Quaid who has just been attacked by the killer...and the cops now believe to be dead...again makes sense.  Then we see the (obviously not dead) killer attack Quaid and his family...Quaid then blows his hand off with a shotgun.Ok plausible so far.Then we see Quaid in 1999 shoot the killer dead....WRONG WRONG WRONG!!!Follow me here...the killer was a cop and there was indisputable evidence that it was him.  Quaid blows his hand off. So what we have now is a serial killer cop with one hand walking around....for 30 years????!!!  So are we to believe that the police force took him back and said don't worry, we know you've learnt your lesson??????And what about the other women???? Whats to say that they didn't still die???  Are we supposed to just think oh well its ok because Quaid's wife survived????? COME ON!!!Really poor ending that could have been solved without any extra budget...Quaid should have killed him in 1969 and then walked in at the end in 1999.  Simple.  Effective.  Flawless.*** END OF SPOILER ***It really annoyed me that they went to such attention to detail only to let all down in the last 2 minutes.  Still worth a watch for anyone who hasn't seen it...but have a bucket ready to puke into for the crappy ending. "},{"Title":"Wow! A totally fresh concept! Finally.","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have been waiting for a movie like this. I love time travel movies but this one put a whole new slant on things. The traveler never leaves his own time but he is able to communicate with the past via a radio and some strange solar flare disruption. It is well acted and doesn't overdo the effects which is key in a movie like this. The story has a mystery, adventure, drama and a dash of science fiction all rolled into a great film. Prepare to think a bit though. It will take you on a wild ride. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great movie. This is probably the best film that I have in a long. I was pretty on the edge of seat not knowing what was going to happen. If you have not seen this movie I recommend that you do. Dennis Quaid did a great job in this film. Two thumbs up. "},{"Title":"good,but missed out","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I say good ,but missed out I mean would it not have been a REALLY good storyline to make the Dennis Quaid character the killer.Think about it, the scene when he walks into the bar to find the nurse and the narrations going on...to find out it was him would have been brilliant.Anyone agree with me..  "},{"Title":"light entertainment","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I guess I'm in the minority, but I didn't find this film as astoundingly stupendous as many others obviously did. It does wear its heart a little too much on its sleeve for me, and I thought the ending was a cop out. Too many movies today, in an effort to please everyone, end with our hero getting everything he wants. What happened to sacrifice and/or compromise? I was expecting John to regain his mother at the expense of his father for a second time, or vice versa, or lose both and regain his girlfriend and a better sense of self...or some kind of victory at the expense of some loss.  But no, the whole family is reunited at the end and live H.E.A. As far as time travel theory, paradoxes and such, I was able to suspend disbelief and accept the conventions of the movie's universe in just pure story-telling terms. Overall, it was watchable, but I'm getting tired of the I love ya too, Dad, stuff. Really good character and story development works on a subtler level.  "},{"Title":"medium","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency film is most of crab what in films can be. Camera action sucks taking long view pics and action stops to that. Would like to see more pics from many places not only connected to radio. This film has some good actions but they go down when scripting is so bad written. If nothing else to do this film is worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"A great movie for people who don't like to think. SPOILERS IN THE LAST HALF","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When I first saw the previews for this movie, I had a gut feeling that I wouldn't like it, the previews seemed really cheesy and nothing really grabbed me.  So why did I end up watching this flick? Because I was visiting some in-laws and somebody said it's really good and popped in the tape.Okay, now that you have the idea of what kind of mentality I was in, also understand that if my exceptions of a movie are this low, I usually end up thinking the movies okay by the end of it, just because at the start of it I thought it was really going to bite.  Nope, no luck here, I was more annoyed with this movie afterwards then before.I'll give you the right to say the acting in the movie was good, it was, Dennis Quaid and James Caviezel are both kick butt actors, but the storyline itself got really annoying for me. I understand that nobody really understands the laws of time travel and what would happen if we actually could change things, but any fantasy/sci-fi movie that makes a story about time must adhere to the laws they've created about time travel and this one didn't! Not by a long shot.If your confused and you actually kept reading to this point, here are the spoilers/explanation for what I'm saying John Sullivan saves his fathers life by letting him know how and when he will die, once his father makes the needed change and survives. The son, John Sullivan, memories partly changes and he has brand new memories of his father living until he dies from Cancer.  BUT! And this is a big one, since John Sullivan affected time and in turn caused his mother to be killed by the serial killer he had to be shown pictures and told that his mother was dead.  If you watch the movie again or just think back to all the Twist & Turns you'll see these inconsistency's all over the movie.  I felt like the Director and writer thought it was okay to change the rules just to make the movie more interesting, and that's what I call poor writing.I know that most of you that gave this movie a 7 to 10 rating think I'm being to picky or I can't suspend my disbelief, but some of my favorite movies are time travel flicks and all of them have much better consistency this movie, heck, even Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure had better consistency then this one.I recommend you go watch H.G. Wells The Time Machine(1960)  "},{"Title":"Watchable nonsense","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The premise of the movie is intriguing but the execution is only good enough to make it somewhat entertaining.  Think of it as a sort of serious Back to the Future and there's the difference.  BttF doesn't take itself seriously and this movie does; a little too much, in fact. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable middle-of-the-road action/drama.","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency, has all the ingredients required to be an very entertaining multigenre flick. The devil, however, is in the details of the film's preposterous premise. Viewers who can avoid intellectualizing, zone out, and just go with the flow will likely find it an enjoyable two hour ride. "},{"Title":"Well-meaning schleck for sentimental boomers.","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have no objection to fluff, but it takes a good forty minutes for this movie to set up its premise (which obviously can be conveyed sufficiently in a 20 second commercial) and get going.  Once it gets going, there's really not much focus.The story honestly isn't bad, but they squeeze it pretty dry.  There should be a law as to how many plot twists your allowed to throw into a concept film.  By the end of the movie I was expecting there to be a development along the lines of Dad!  The dog dies!  Change his food over to Alpo!The directing was nothing special.  Most of the sequences which were meant to bestow wonder were either ripped off of other, better films (watch it again if you didn't catch these - it's pretty shameful) or beaten to death (was it a baseball that spent two minutes falling in slow motion?  I can't recall).  In one scene the kid learns to ride his bike and they show him going in circles around his dad for just long enough to make an audience member think, does he not know how to ride straight?The acting was at least enthusiastic and sincere; and I hope to see Dennis Quaid more in the future.Nevertheless, by the end of the movie weak writing and a awful ending a la This Used to Be My Playground had everyone in the theatre sticking their fingers down their throats and gagging.  But in a good way!  Like it's so bad it's fun.One reviewer observed that Frequency had the ability to reduce grown men to tears.  Well it did.  We all laughed THAT hard. "},{"Title":"Back from the past future","Date":"16 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A thriller that associates many interesting elements. First a serial killer, running after him, trying to stop him, in the radical way of today, a good self-defense shot. Then a fireman (yes not very politically correct firefighter it should have been, but in 1969&#133;) father and heroism, and dying on duty. Then a nurse mother, which is rather banal but explains the overworking schedule of the mother and the over-protective attitude. Then a time warp that happens in a strange way, through an old radio from the time before transistors and computers, with beautiful lamps and diodes. The orphaned son of the fireman father in 1999 gets in contact through this radio with his father in 1969 or about and they try to stop the killer. After discovering he is a cop. And it works, and the past is changed, and the future of that past is changed, hence the past future is no longer what it could have been or should have been and is what we would have liked it to be. Father, son et grand son. Grandfather, father and son. Three generations instead of two and the orphaned son of the second generation no longer being unable to cope with starting the third generation. Typically American the desire to change the past, the only thing you cannot change. The future? Maybe if you try hard, and yet without any guarantee. But the past, no way, no hope, and yet there is always an American somewhere who is trying and believing Auschwitz can disappear in thin air. But the most difficult part of the film is the constant shifting from one time to another without being very clear all the time where we stand or are. Except that we get confused after a while.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine & University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne "},{"Title":"Wasted potential;  Opened Pandora's Box","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I generally have no problem accepting questionable science and logic in movies and enjoying them nonetheless.  However, Frequency just goes too far.  Most of the movie is consistent, but the few places where it totally defies logic and confuses its own rules really stand out in my mind.  I don't think the movie could have done too much better of a job with these, though.  The subject itself can very quickly become a pandora's box, and I think it definitely does here.  Those who can't forgive plot holes or loose ends will probably have a strong dislike for this movie.Perhaps also of note is that this film is really just a thriller with a little sci-fi twist added in.  Yes, the motivating force behind much of the events in the movie is the son's desire to have his father back.  However, at a certain point the father-son story gets shoved in the rear as bland thriller action and suspense take over.  This could be said to be a metaphor for how we want to spend our lives with our family and friends and lovers, but the real world creeps in with its own truths; but for me it just was a clue to the fact that hollywood likes to have its movies chock full of action and romance and less full of sentiment and subtlety. Perhaps the factor that most tipped the movie toward the negative for me was the use of Baseball.  I have no problem with baseball in movies, but I felt like the writers added in baseball as a father-son bonding element for no reason at all.  It was almost as if they pulled some father-son ideas out of a hat, and one of them was baseball.  There are other, far more meaningful things even in the movie itself that could have been used, and baseball seemed to be the cheap, cliched way out. "},{"Title":"Frequency","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I admit the first half an hour or so I was considering turning it off, and I almost dozed off just after the middle, but I suppose this is a pretty good thriller film from director Gregory Hoblit (Primal Fear, Untraceable). Basically John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) is a New York homicide officer who lost his father Frank (Dennis Quaid) 30 years ago, he was a firefighter and he was killed in a house explosion, John has traumatised since. During an atmospheric phenomenon, John finds his father's old HAM radio, and somehow, he can communicate to Frank, 30 years in the future. With this ability to communicate, John manages to save Frank from the explosion that would have killed him, and the also save the lives of other souls. But more importantly, they are trying to find a way to stop a serial killer from murdering John's mother/Frank's wife with a 30 year gap. It is a little predictable and cheesy the ending, where an older Frank and John are reunited, but it has to be that way. Also starring Andr Braugher as Satch DeLeon, Elizabeth Mitchell as Julia 'Jules' Sullivan, The Truman Show's Noah Emmerich as Gordo Hersch, Shawn Doyle as Jack Shepard, Jordan Bridges as Graham 'Gib' Gibson and Melissa Errico as Samantha Thomas. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Song for When You Come Back to Me Again. Good! "},{"Title":"Back to the Future Part IV?","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Can you imagine being able to talk to a dead loved one? What would you say, how would you react? And what if you knew how, when and where they died, and could warn them of their forecoming doom?The questions are answered in Gregory Hoblit's Frequency, in which a young man speaks to his father thirty years into the past. The story starts with Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid), a veteran firefighter who dies in a factory fire in October, 1969. Exactly thirty years later, in 1999, his thirty-six-year-old son John (Jim Caviezel) has become a police officer, breaking a tradition of all firefighters on his father's side.One night as John is rummaging through a compartment under his stairs (he occupies the same house he grew up in), he comes across his dad's old ham radio. Out of morbid curiosity he sets it up and, eventually, manages to make it work. He clicks it on and a static voice comes across on the other end, asking John to identify himself. In the minutes that pass, John realizes he is speaking to his father on the exact same night, thirty years earlier (or thirty years later, depending on whose perspective you are taking into account).The excuse for this wonderous ability of time communication is really quite nonsense - it has to do with a solar frequency in outer space that happens to be encompassing the sky in both 1969 and 1999 - but we instantly connect with the plot. The characters seem real enough, and sometimes that is all that counts. Recalling the plot of this film on my computer makes it seem just a bit more hokey than it was when you watch it. And that's probably the sign of a good director - one who can make skeptical audiences actually believe his ludicrous plot.Through talking to his father, John is able to warn him of his death. Frank does avoid dying, but this sets off a chain event. By not dying, Frank's wife, and John's mother, who is a nurse in 1969 and 1999, was never told of her husband's death in 1969 (because he didn't die in this alternate timeline.) Therefore she never left the hospital that October night to grieve over her husband's death, and because of this, a serial killer known as the Nightingale Strangler (or something like that) ends up killing John's mother on her routine way home from the hospital, along with six other victims who were not killed in the original 1999. But in the current 1999, John now has all the case files of the murders, since he is a cop and has access to them, and that means he knows when and where the Nightingale Strangler will attack. So 1969 Frank starts a case of detective, scoping out the joints on the night the killer murders his victims. Frank manages to grab some fingerprints of the anonymous killer, and in a very inventive plot twist, sticks the fingerprint evidence in a bag, hides it in his house, and tells John where he hid it. John goes looking in the 1999 house, and finds the evidence, right where Frank left it hidden in 1969.A lot of the timeline theories in Frequency don't hold up. The movie reminds me of Back to the Future quite a bit, except the latter's plot makes theoretical sense and the former's does not. Take, for example, a scene where Frank, in the past, carves the words I'M STILL HERE, CHIEF into a table with a motor mechanism. John, in 1999, sees the words being carved as it happens in the past. Smoke comes out of the table as it happens and everything. But in reality, Frank would have done it thirty years ago, meaning that the table would have the words carved into it long before John sees them being carved invisibly. It's like in BttF Part II - when Biff gets his hands on that sports almanac, everything in the future suddenly changes. It doesn't start happening as Biff does it in real time. Confused? Me too.Also, when Frank survives his destined death because of John's warning words, John suddenly gets new memories. Since his father never died, he now gets all these memories of them together after his (Frank's) death from the original 1969. He says to Frank later that night that now he has two streams of memories - those of Frank's death and afterwards, and those of Frank living and afterwards. But somehow, everyone else does not remember Frank's death - only John. Why? Simple There wouldn't be an interesting film without it.Frequency has almost as much thought put into its time changing as BttF, but lacks the hard conviction that the Future movies had. They made sense, had little plot holes - or at least plot holes that could be analyzed. Frequency has a lot of plot holes that simply cannot be analyzed. They're just there.But this movie has some major highlights. A battle between a serial killer in 1969 and 1999 is visually and psychologically thrilling, and very ironic in execution; moments like the fingerprint evidence being hidden, though a bit shallow, are fun - and the characters and actors are superb. This might not be as deep as Back to the Future, but I found myself lost in this film, never checking my watch for its one hour fifty minute + running time. And that's a pretty rare thing these days.4/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"An Unusual Twist on Cinematic Time Travel That Doesn't Seem to Understand Itself","Date":"27 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" An odd twist on time distortion in which, due to the inexplicable appearance of the aurora borealis over Queens, a New York cop is able to communicate via ham radio with his long-dead father thirty years in the past. Completely ignoring the warnings of Doc Brown and Marty McFly, he immediately spoils the upcoming World Series and dozens of important life moments for his father, before the two decide to pair up in search of an unresolved string of historical murders. The film can't decide if it wants to do the sappy paternal bonding thing or follow a more suspenseful path, and its main plot mechanism is clunky, under-explained and inconsistent. It's also routinely telegraphed from beginning to end, with a narrow scope limiting its potential escape routes and an overdose of father-son baseball allegories. Hackneyed, hammy and haphazard, it plays like a bloated sci-fi short story in desperate need of revision. "},{"Title":"Bad aurora, bad!","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I never knew an aurora Borealis can be responsible for a silly script.The movie starts off slow, with the stereotypical scenes from clich Americana, scenes of lovey-dovey family life that are so dull to me, so I can imagine how dull they must be to American viewers. However, 20 minutes later the movie starts getting quite interesting, with a sort of Twilight Zone-like plot that is fun. But this, the movie's only bright spot, lasts only about half-an-hour. What happens from there is YET AGAIN the same cops and robbers bulls**t that we've been served so often in recent years. We have a serial-killer - surprise! - and the movie becomes a stupid thriller.And guess who the killer is? A cop. But of course. Aren't all serial-killers cops? After all, Kiss The Girls, Nightwatch and so many other crappy thrillers tell us that mass-murderers are always cops, so the writer of Frequency must have thought it best to play it safe and make this killer a cop, too. (Apparently, American police departments have a huge need to hire psychopaths into their ranks... an idea which left-wing anti-authoritarian hypocrites would embrace in a jiffy.) What follows in this thriller-half of the movie is a series of typical modern thriller clichs and dumb plot twists that will have your head spinning in disgust. The second half of the movie is almost like some silly comedy-of-errors; whatever Cazaviel decides to do to amend a problem which he created, he only makes things worse (kind of like that MTV idiot in The Butterfly Effect) - and that's another problem with the movie, it's predictability. After all, nearly every time-travel movie (and this is a time-travel flick, not a ghost story) punishes any kind of meddling in the order of events, and so it predictably has to be here, too. The grand finale is, as was to be expected by that point, just another stupid will they stop the killer in time? collection of idiotic scenes that nicely round off a movie that could have been so much better.The facial make-up is pretty bad, too. If everyone is 30 years older, then either get different actors or make it that only 15 years have passed (i.e. get Cazaviel to be somewhat younger as a cop, and somewhat older as a kid.). However, if they did that then the story couldn't unfold in 1969 - the magical year for every liberal douche bag.Why does every comedy, every drama, every fantasy nowadays end up as a mere cops and robbers story? I'd like to watch 3 movies in a row that don't have cop characters. Is that possible? Is that too much to ask? Is crime really the only aspect of society worth putting on the big screen? "}{"Title":"Not too bad.","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Frequency starts as New York cop John Sullivan (Jim Caviezel) digs out his late father's old Ham Radio & sets it up, due to some strange atmospheric occurrence John quickly finds himself talking to someone on the radio who turns out to be his father Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid) from thirty years ago. Amazed John uses his knowledge of the future to save his father's life from a fire he is supposed to die in, at first Frank has a hard time believing it but does indeed end up surviving the fire that was supposed to kill him. At first everything seems great & John has a whole new set of memories of his father but strangely none of his mother, it turns out that they somehow changed history to the extent where John's mother & Frank's wife Julia (Elizabeth Mitchell) has been murdered by a brutal serial killer known as the Nightingale. Both John & Frank are determined to stop it from happening & catch a killer in the process...Co-produced & directed by Gregory Hoblit this is an OK sci-fi drama that isn't really my type of film. The script by co-producer Toby Emmerich takes a while to get going & begins like some horrible Disney style sentimental drama which is just the sort of thing to send me to sleep but then it it takes a different direction & turns into a murder mystery as John uses his knowledge of the past to help his father track down the Nightingale serial killer, it's quite a neat idea actually & if not for the overly sentimental drama & slow pace this might have been a great film. To be honest many people out there still might think it is a great film as I could see people of a certain age enjoying this but anyone who likes a bit of bang & excitement in their films is going to have a hard time sticking the whole 2 hour running time out as it can be a little dull on occasions. The character's are good & well fleshed out, there is a decent enough story here & I thought it was watchable without being outstanding. One more question, why didn't Frank put a few nice little bets on the outcome of the baseball games John was telling him about? Or maybe even John could have given Frank some lottery numbers so they could get rich, you know what I mean? I'm sure I would have.Director Hoblit does alright, it's quite a measured & somewhat sedate film. It looks nice enough but there's not much style here although there is a good opening sequence involving a crashed petrol tanker & a spectacular explosion. There's not much of a mystery element as the Nightingale killer is revealed fairly early on, it's not scary or exciting either, it's just all very average & middle of the road really.With a supposed budget of about $31,000,000 I'm surprised a film such as Frequency had so much money lavished on it, I could have told anyone it was going to flop. Anyway, it has that big budget Hollywood polish about it & it's well made with good production values. The acting is pretty good as well.Frequency is an OK time waster, it may be slightly over sentimental & a tad slow for some but there's a decent enough story here. Just about worth a watch if your bored. "},{"Title":"Will this years' torture end?","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm desperately searching for a good movie this year. No, not even that, even a decent movie would do. This one was so painfully stupid my head started to ache. It's a perfect definition of a movie with good wrapping and nothing, absolutely nothing, inside. I usually put a see it only if... line in bombs i write reviews for, but nothing worth mentioning here. Oh wait, I found it. See it only if you are a New York Mets fan. "},{"Title":"Radio Da Da.","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" And we thought BACK TO THE FUTURE covered all the angles of going back in time to change the present! Jim Caviezel is Jesus and Dennis Quaid his Heavenly Father, who speaks to him through a magical ham radio.Actually, Caviezel is a New York cop, his father a fireman who lost his life years ago. A ham radio that used to be their common plaything becomes a communication bridge between the past and present, due to a freak aurora borealis flare-up.Through future knowledge, the son averts the father's unnecessary death, but finds that it triggers other events leading to the death of his mother! An intriguing tale, with many interesting twists, as Caviezel does the Marty McFly and keeps trying to rectify the past (by aiding his father with future knowledge) to make a present they both like. Kinda selfish, no? But director Gregory Hoblit moves the tale at a brisk pace that doesn't allow us to fuss over Caviezel's and Quaid's New York accents constantly wavering. Even the last plot development is interesting, and resolves the story well, though way too syrupy for its own good.In the 50s, it was Big Bad Radiation that caused all the evils and anomalies of the world; by the 90s, the universal nudge had become Misunderstood Genetics, but I think this is the first time the beautiful magnetic phenomenon Aurora Borealis has been used as the catalyst for Jesus hearing voices from beyond.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania). "},{"Title":"Complete Impossibility","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have to admit that I am going to watch the movie again, because at the time I was trying to get into a vegan 'fad' with my girlfriend, and the cheese was gushing out of the celluloid and flooding my senses. I think that is, strictly speaking, breaking the no meat/dairy policy.The point about the film was (aside from general imbecility) that I remember a plot problem which was that the father had died in a fire, saving people and giving his life in the rescue business. This was recounted by people that were there and is a focal point of the movie, but I want to know - and correct me if I am off - How could people be talking about how brave the father was and all the stuff they remembered his heroism through, if every single person ended up dying in that fire? Wouldn't there be nobody to have ever recounted what really happened in that house if EVERY person died in the blaze. Whatever happened there, would NOT be a story that they would be talking about in celebrating his brave memory.... Because no one would know! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I expected","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film had a few unexpected twists and turns that made if fairly interesting.  There is nothing particularly new here, but at least it is thrown together in a way that doesn't leave you bored stiff.  The end gets to be a little much though.Dennis Quaid is pretty good, as is some of the make up (although not all the make up) - the aging of the mom is pretty amazing. "},{"Title":"good plot, bad acting","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  After reading all the recent comments on this film, truth be told, this is a movie with a good plot, but the acting and cinematography is pretty bad. After watching this movie, I can't understand why some of the other reviewers loved Dennis Quaid's acting, as it was very contrived. Caviezel was OK as the son, (especially as the movie progressed), but Braugher (the African American cop/detective) was terrible. The only slightly good performance was Shawn Doyle who played Jack Shepard. The only thing that saves this movie is the good plot. But overall, the acting and poor cinematography (poor montage sequences, too overt visual clues, and terribly slow opening) bring this movie way down. This movie is ripe for a remake. "},{"Title":"Why new films are always over-evaluated?","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There may be a commercial reason behind the fact that the wide majority of new films come out with on over-evaluated vote. I would appreciate IMDB producing a study on the degeneration of a new film average vote after few months, one year, and so on. Frequency is a good sample of this phenomenon. On 23rd of June 2000 is rated 7.8. I think that in one year time it will be at 5.8 at most (two points less!!!). And I don't have a radio which works on a special frequency... "},{"Title":"disappointing","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Contrary to the previous commenter, I found this movie did not fulfill the high expectations I had had for it, through reviews and word-of-mouth. It might be possible to accept the  central premise - communication through time - if it weren't so overplayed and treated, finally, almost casually (gotta get on the radio today to catch the latest news from my dead dad). In the end it becomes almost ridiculous (particularly the method devised to Fedex a package from past to future). I had heard that the movie provided an emotional disquisition on father/son relationships, but in fact that aspect of it is incidental to a rather conventional mystery/suspense tale. The device of having reality change as past events are altered becomes wearying and, again, almost silly. The ending was predictable, and the emptional coda phonily sentimental (or sentimentally phony). I can't recommend this one, even as someone whose dad is a ham radio amateur.    "},{"Title":"Really disappointing","Date":"4 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't know why I watched this movie- probably because of the idea, cast, director but it's just average(and below) in any possible way you can think of. The storyline is that of a classical thriller and makes sure not to stand out one bit. The only thing that should be new is this time-line thing, but even that is 100% predictable.I don't usually notice such things but the editing sucked as well some moments are in slow motion, some artsy scenes just seem to be without a purpose- I mean this isn't a musical video is it? The special effects, as one would expect, had no purpose whatsoever and were overused. Some directors should not be allowed to use them- perhaps then they'll think more creatively. The acting was good...except for the lead actor!!!(Jim Caviezel), who was way too emotional for this role. Certain aspects of this story were completely neglected, like the romantic life of Johnny, which is just shown introductory and that's it. It's just action and action and that is it. No time to breathe. And after seeing Primal Fear, I at least expected a decent ending. Who writes these kind of scripts ?Don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Good premise let down by the script","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Frequency definitely has potential, the premise is fascinating, but I really don't think that the movie works. The story gets too ridiculous sometimes and made me laugh, not because it was funny, but because it was just plain stupid. However, I didn't hate the film, I was pretty entertained most of the time, but it's a shame, really, that the potential in the story is let down by a too obvious script and what I think is not very good direction. (4/10) "}{"Title":"Off-frequency and out of band..","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" On the whole, a movie that boasts intra-time communication obviously is asking for belief to be suspended and I don't quibble with that. In fact, it is an interesting plot gimmick and makes the movie somewhat entertaining.Hey, we're not talking Oscar nominations here; just a Saturday afternoon's diversion.But what grinds on me (an amateur radio operator) is the fact that Hollywood fails to get the basics down. I am not talking hard technical basics but the manner and style in which amateur radio HF communication is depicted. The initial dialog between Quaid and his son was laughable, the conversations between Quaid and other hams totally unrealistic, and the fact that Quaid's initial QSO (contact) was on 15 meter phone in the middle of the night improbable. Even during the height of a sunspot cycle, 15 meters is only rarely open. I dunno, I guess I am just a big nit-picker, but this kind of stuff is done over and over when Hollywood portrays ham radio....which is kind of funny, because you'd be surprised how many in Hollywood were/are hams -- er, radio amateurs. You'd think someone on the set would clue the director and writers in.Well, that's my grumble; otherwise it's an o.k. movie. "},{"Title":"Rod Serling and his heirs would have rejected this one","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There's a 1985 Twilight Zone episode (called A Message From Charity, based on a short story by William M. Lee, which I haven't read) which did the same thing much better, at least so far as the construction of the story is concerned.  There, a 20th Century teenaged boy finds himself in telepathic communication with an 18th-Century teenaged girl.  The story knew where to focus on the boy and the girl.  Here the two central characters are a man and his father, who have already met each other in the ordinary way, back when the former was a child; the new, extra-ordinary relationship that trans-temporal communication makes possible isn't developed at all - at least, not on the screen.  Instead we get frenzied hyper-plotting involving a serial killer and contradictory causal chains.The Twilight Zone episode was, by the way, consistent.  The boy saved the girl's life - which means he had an effect on the past - but he did not CHANGE the past.  One can change many things, but the past (like the future) is not among them.  Consider  A dies in 1969.  Then B makes it the case that A doesn't die in 1969.  The contradiction is glaring enough already; adding the detail that it was A's very death that caused B to prevent it merely only makes it more so.I'll admit that incoherent stories like this can be told with art.  One can make the incoherence itself part of the beauty of the story (like in this Indian folktale Once I was climbing a tall tree in the middle of the forest.  But I climbed too high.  I had to walk four miles to the nearest village to get a rope, so that I could climb down again), or one can skilfully hide the incoherence, so that it doesn't get in the way.  What one can't do is leave the contradictions in full view, and ask everyone not to notice.In short the story is nonsense, not even charming nonsense, and there are no virtues it has gained at the expense of being nonsense.  I'm as willing as the next guy to appreciate a film that loses its characters in narrative cleverness.  This one loses its characters in narrative stupidity.I miss The Twilight Zone. "},{"Title":"When will Hollywood learn how time works?","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is decent effort, but in my opinion, very ill-thought-out. The film itself is entertaining, to say the least, but to accept it you have to really just throw any prior knowledge of physics or logic you might have out the window. I suppose that goes without saying being that it's based on the notion that you can alter the past while watching the changes concurrently in the present. Though, I guess if they had stayed true to logic they wouldn't have been able to make this movie at all.If you understand the concept of time and are at all annoyed by those who butcher it to pieces, do not watch this movie, unless of course you find joy in pointing out flaws. However, if you don't think too deeply about the logic of time and are interested in unrealistic plots with predictable twists and ridiculous happy endings, you'll probably gawk at it and think WOW THIS IS GREAT. Honestly, it would've been more acceptable if it had been a silly family film, such as Back To The Future, but this movie is just too far off to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"two-bit sci-fi","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie wins hands down when it comes to rip off Peggy got married back to the future the highly superior Matheson's novel bid time return  which was adapted for  the   screen  as somewhere in time  not to mention Clair's it happened tomorrow.Elements are even taken from Capra's it's a wonderful life This one takes naivet and blandness to new limits so let us change the world and it will be Xmas everyday .I pass over in silence the macho side which barely allows the mother to say ten lines in the whole movie.A muddled serial killer affair which has more holes than a piece of Swiss cheese and which badly interferes with the essential Jim and his poppa getting together.A lotta people seems to like thismore power to them. "},{"Title":"Nice action - shame about the screenplay","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hardly worth wasting words to say how bad a movie this is. US cop communicates with dead firefighter father by means of chance 30-year time travel radio link. The twists in the plot due to backdated events become too entangled to be interesting after a bit. Plenty of the audience were laughing at bits that were meant to be thrilling/moving/revelatory. A few nice action scenes, and reasonable acting, but the rest was a mess. "},{"Title":"This movie is dreadful.  Much like a BAD dream!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  For a movie to have a scientifically flawed premise and then to present so many time continuity issues and have us believe it is just too much to ask. The first hour of this movie is paced like a yellow flag at the Indy 500. You can go ahead and go to the snack bar, because it is such a long time between times during which anything happens, you are not likely to miss anything.  I have only seen one other movie with pacing that is this bad, The Horse Whisperer.  I was willing to suspend my disbelief that these guys could talk to each other 30 years apart.  I was going through some small issues about how they were changing the future.  He seemed to still have the same job, live in his parents house, and still have the radio on the desk plugged in. Although other things were affected by the changes in the past these things were constant.  This was sort of a problem, but I kept on chugging through.The third strike is the ending, which was wrought with so many problems you can only discover by watching this piece of garbage. I just don't have enough room for them in this review. The fact that the writers and director of this movie had no more respect for the intelligence of the movie going audience is scary.  The premise of the movie could have been over looked to the fact that this is in the fantasy genre. I just have to draw the line when the fantasy becomes so overpoweringly unreal that I wake up from the dream. I would rather find myself in a room being stung by a million angry hornets than EVER have to see one more instant of this disgraceful movie. "},{"Title":"Sentimental drivel","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can't believe this film has been given such a high rating by so many people.  What a load of sentimental, everybody lives happily after twaddle!I'm sorry, but this film is not science fiction, the dreamers amongst you may enjoy it, but anyone who lives in the real world... "}]