[{"Title":"Underrated gem...","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I believe that this movie was panned when it first came out, and I don't know why. It is truly an underrated comedic gem that deserves more recognition. The performances are perfect (with the exception of Campbell) and the dialogue is hysterical.William Fichtner steals the show as the sleazy battered husband. His performance is tops in a stellar cast. Marcus Thomas is excellent as his son and lazy landscaping partner to Affleck, who is marvelous as the nervous and long-suffering lead. Will Ferrell puts in a great cameo as a creepy mortician.Are there flaws? Of course. As another comment mentioned, Tracy Walter's character, Clarence, could have been developed more. Also, some the other characters' run-ins with Mona probably could've been better detailed as well, and the resolution isn't the most satisfying. But this movie is less about the plot and more great characterizations and riotous dialogue.I own the DVD and I roll with laughter every time I see it, even though I practically have it memorized. This movie should be remembered as "},{"Title":"This film is much better than the actors seem to think....","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"31 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Why are people so hard on Drowning Mona? I just saw it and enjoyed it a lot.  In years to come I believe it will be seen as the same genre as The Good Girl - an attempt to bring very ordinary people to life without apologizing for their ordinariness.  In A Good Girl, Jennifer Aniston works very hard to portray an ordinary, poorly-educated young woman in a dead-end job. She has to really work hard to suppress the natural intelligence of a very bright mind and make her ordinary girl sufficiently dumb. But she does it beautifully. In Drowning Mona - portraying Bobby Calzone, Casey `Affleck has a similar challenge. I think he creates his character brilliantly. I am so shocked to find higher up this page that Casey is ashamed of his work on this movie. Can this be true? It seems quite possible - on my DVD package he is the only major cast-member who doesn't give an interview. Casey is handsome and delightful but he manages to leave an impression of terminal dumbness. All the guy wants is to make a reasonable living fixing gardens, but his problems seem insurmountable and it's getting to him. I get the feeling that none of the cast were stirred or excited with Drowning Mona - you need to see the on-set interviews to judge this. Nevertheless it is a successful little film in its own terms and has a lot of gentle humor in it. Affleck, deVito, Midler, Lee Curtis do a very professional ensemble piece as you would expect. As a former copywriter I find the landscaping company slogan hysterically funny J & B Landscaping - `Yeah, we can do that'. I get the impression the whole cast read through a rather 'thin' script and said exactly that. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Black Comedy","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This is a different kind of comedy -- maybe too subtle for some people's tastes -- but anyone who appreciates the dark humor in Raising Arizona or Fargo should give this movie a viewing.Casey Affleck portrays a perfectly bewildered, hopeless, helpless suspect in the murder of The Worst Woman (Formerly) Alive, Mona Dearly.  There are dozens of hilarious, subtle, and easily missed lines and facial expressions throughout the movie which define the many characters inhabiting a small town in upstate New York where Yugo once tested its cars.  The town itself, and most of its denizens, are like the Yugo  simple, no- frills, unassuming, more than a little deficient in many ways, but unique and endearing in an odd, pitifully likable way.If seeing a Yugo on the road today brings a smile to your face, see this movie.  If seeing a Yugo on the road today makes you angry, see something else. "},{"Title":"unexpectedly funny","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I did not expect much from this one, considering the lukewarm reviews it had gotten, and its brief time in the theaters. I was attracted by the cast - Dannny deVito, Bette Midler, Jamie Lee Curtis. I found it quite hilarious, as the earnest sheriff, DeVito, of Verplanck, N.Y., a down-at-the-heels upstate burg where everyone drives a Yugo due to a long-ago promotion scheme (an offbeat touch), attempts to solve the murder of the town's most hated woman, played by Middler. The script is very funny, and it is played well by all concerned. The collective i.q. of this God-forsaken hamlet does not appear to rise above room temperature. The frightening thing is that the tawdry machinations of all involved probably reflect pretty closely what life is really like in many trailer-park backwaters. My son & I found it a laugh riot. (As an aside, the movie accomplishes the seemingly impossible task of making Jamie Lee Curtis look positively wretched.) "},{"Title":"An Unexpected Intellectual Comedy","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Drowning Mona is now a cult favorite of mine. The script is unusual yet amazingly funny. Every time I watch this movie, my understanding of its comedic genius grows. Especially for English language buffs, this film's edgy and blatant use of word order and delivery are what make it so hilarious. No line is extraneous or meaningless--they all add up to one hell of a funny film. I'd recommend this to serious movie goers who enjoy an intellectual thrill, a script that puts faith in the audience's ability to understand and not be told outright. If you crave a change from the typical Hollywood Blockbuster formula of drugs, sex, violence, and sentimental life lessons, watch this film. It still manages to deliver action and comedy--but are you smart enough to watch it? "},{"Title":"White trash Murder on the Orient Express","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Maybe Danny DeVito and Bette Midler should collaborate more often. The two times they did it was comedy gold. While this movie is not as flat out hilarious as Ruthless People, it should still be enjoyed by the same people who love that movie. It starts with a prologue stating how Verplanck, New York was the location where they decided to launch the Yugo line of cars in America. As a result, everyone in town, including the police, drives a Yugo car, and they all have catchy license plates like UGOMONA, ELLEEE, and OH RONE.As the title suggests, this black little whodunit concerns who opted to rid the small town of Verplanck of its nastiest inhabitant, the matriarchal hag Mona Dearly (Midler, who chews up every inch of the screen in her Rashomon-esque flashback scenes). Police Chief Wyatt Rash (Danny DeVito, playing against type as the straight man), is determined to find out, even if nobody else cares to help. It's come at a bad time, because he's trying to help his daughter Ellie (Neve Campbell) plan her big wedding to mild-mannered land-scaper Bobby Calzone (Casey Affleck), who has just ended up short-handed after his beer-guzzling partner Jeff Dearly (Marcus Thomas, the epitome of slackerdom) takes a leave of absence. Bobby also seems unnaturally concerned with the the death of a woman who meant only bad things for him.The characters, while bordering on cartoons, are played tongue-in-cheek, and you know the actors had fun doing it. There's the chain-smoking waitress Rhona Mace (Jamie Lee Curtis), who's having an affair with the deceased's husband Phil (William Fichtner, who walks away with the movie as a complete scumbag), and Bobby's overbearing brother Murph (Mark Pellegrino). The cops are just as zany, with Peter Coyote as the do-gooder lieutenant, and Paul Ben-Victor and Paul Schulze (Ryan Chapelle from 24) as a couple of bumbling idiots who seem to be good for one thing, looking out for Numbers One. There's Katherine Wilhoite as Lucinda, the lesbian folk-singer mechanic, and the great Tracey Walter is on board as the local fisherman who nobody really knows much about. Add in a foul-mouthed, alcoholic priest, and a funeral director who's also an amateur pornographer (Will Ferrell before he became huge), and it's a feast for those with a twisted sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and well-done","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This off-beat comedy is definitely one of the better movies I've seen recently. The plot is engaging and fast-paced; the movies doesn't even come close to the two-hour mark. The conclusion is satisfying and unexpected.Every actor is perfectly cast. Casey Affleck gives an excellent performance as put-upon Bobby Calzone, Neve Campbell is terrific as Ellen, Bobby's fiancee, and Danny DeVito is loveable and sweet as police chief Wyatt Rash, Ellen's father. All in all, this is a very good movie, perfect for a lazy day. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, Not great either","Date":"9 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona is a hard movie to describe. On the one hand, I liked it because, the cast seemed to be doing the best with what the script they had to work with. On the other hand, the plot seemed choppy and the dialogue was for the most part pretty stale. Will Ferrell absolutely steals the movie with his part as the creepy funeral director who laughs inappropiately, has trouble with the right way to make eye contact, and is constantly having sexual trysts during the viewing. If you're looking for an offbeat comedy, give this a try. But don't rush out and kill yourself to see it. "},{"Title":"Imagine a town where everyone drives a Yugo....","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" ... even the police.Bette Midler, even though she is the title character, gets second billing to Danny DeVito.In the recently released Isn't She Great she gets to play both sides of the ugly/beautiful coin and she does it here again brilliantly.Sherriff Wyatt Rash (DeVito) has too many suspects in the death of Mona. Everyone would like to see her dead.Neve Campbell as his daughter (Ellen) turns in a fine performance.  Her breakdown and ultimate (short-lived) lesbian experience with the town's mechanic is either over-the-top -- or just short of being brilliant; hard to tell.Casey Affleck (Ben's little brother) is very one-note -- I want to believe that it was written that way and that Bobby is not as shallow as the script would have us believe.This is not a film that will appeal to everyone -- but hang in -- it only gets better as it goes along.I enjoyed it -- and as I reflect on it -- it only gets better. "},{"Title":"More ruthless people.","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"       Everybody hates Mona Dearly, and who could blame them. Mona (Bette Midler) is rude, loud, cruel, and another word for female dog.  Then something happens, Mona dies in a car accident, and town sheriff Wyatt Rash (Danny DeVito) found out that Mona was murdered, and who would kill her.  The problem is that there is a long list of suspects.     DROWNING MONA is a film that is a good example of the term black comedy a film where the viewer would laugh at something that they wouldn't normally laugh at.  But unlike some other black comedies (i.e. the most recent IDLE HANDS) this film isn't as cruel and does work.       The small town where DROWNING MONA takes place is a intresting town.  In the late 1980's, the entire town received  test cars from the Yugo car company.  And what's funny is that everyone in the town drives a Yugo.  Town sheriff Wyatt goes around his town looking for the person who would tamper with the Yugo that Mona was driving, and send her to her watery death.  There's Mona's husband, Phil (William Fichtner) who is having a affair with Rona (Jamie Lee Curtis), who is also a suspect.  There's Bobby Calzone (Casey Affleck) a young and ambitious young man who is engaged to the sheriff's daughter, Ellen (Neve Campbell).  Then there is Bobby's partner in their business, Mona's son, Jeff (Marcus Thomas) who is very dim, and mean.      This is a enjoyable film, but it's not the best black comedy of all time.  It does work at times, and at other times it fall flat on it's face.  There are some very funny scenes involved with Mona's son, Jeff, on how he might have lost his right hand.  And the town's loony mortician (Will Ferrel) does have some good scenes, but not enough.  The acting from the cast is good though.  Danny DeVito is good as the man who is investigating the crime of Mona's death.  Jamie Lee Curtis is also good as the woman who could care less about Mona, and move on with her life.  Neve Campbell does o.k. with what little role that she has.  William Fichtner, Casey Affleck, and Marcus Thomas are all also good, but nothing outstanding.  It seems that the person who gets to steal all of the scenes belong to Bette.  She does another role that she is good at, a role that is similar to her role in RUTHLESS PEOPLE.      But overall, DROWNING MONA isn't as funny or as witty as RUTHLESS, since both films have characters that are rather ruthless.  But director Nick Gomez (HBO's THE SOPRANO'S & OZ) does a respectable first time job for a big feature film.  MONA isn't great, but it's worth watching at least once.  But if you want to see DeVito and Midler act more funnier and vicious, watch RUTHLESS PEOPLE.  ***1/2 (out of five) "}{"Title":"Great Flick","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" This movie is great. It's full of stars, many before their prime. Three Dog Night allover the soundtrack. Sukie and the diner owner's sister from the Gilmore Girls pops up for a moment. The girl from Studio 54. Ben Affleck's little brother. Bette Midler who was the queen of the beloved plays a disgusting person. Danny DeVitto who normally plays disgusting is a pretty good dude. The support cast is packed full of recognizable character actors. The story is compelling. The plot is convoluted, filled with flashbacks. Yugos everywhere. The product placement is so blatant its funny in and of itself. I really appreciate how thy dare to make most of the Characters such terrible people. "},{"Title":"An underrated jewel of a movie","Date":"12 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I own over 1,000 movies and Drowning Mona is one of my favorites. It's a dark comedy... which not everyone can appreciate, hence the bad reviews... but the dialog is hysterical and the characters are awesome.Set in the quirky little town of Verplanck, New York... where virtually everyone drives a Yugo with a vanity plate... the movie is filled with odd characters that are the real key to it's overall charm.Bette Midler shines in the role of the recently deceased Mona... a woman with few if any redeeming qualities.Jamie Lee Curtis is sublime in the role of the slutty waitress Rona... complete with mullet and dangling cigarette.Pay attention to the details. That's where some of the best humor lies.If you enjoy dark, tongue-in-cheek, bizarre little comedies, this is your movie. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended for black comedy junkies .............","Date":"25 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" In a town full of Yugo cars, and mentally challenged residents, we find fertile ground for a terrific dark comedy. Bette Midler plays Mona, a monstrous woman everybody has a reason to hate. When her Yugo plunges into the lake due to foul play, no one seems to care that she is dead, and everyone is a suspect in Drowning Mona. William Fichtner absolutely steals this movie, as Mona's battered husband, who likes to play Wheel of Fortune with Jamie Lee Curtis. Meanwhile, Danny DeVito, as the sheriff, has plenty of suspects, including his future son-in law. If you enjoy black comedies like Ruthless People or Eating Raoul, this is a must see, and comes highly recommended. - MERK "},{"Title":"One of the best flicks I have enjoyed","Date":"3 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I rated this film as a 10 for reasons of entertainment. If you can't sit down and enjoy this movie as to the wacky personalities of these folks you're in trouble. The cast is excellent and they all play their parts well. Beth Midler is fantastic as well as DaVito and Curtis. Lest we forget all the other cast members that balanced out this soon to be cult classic as a wonderful movie. When it gets down to it, this is just a fun movie and that is what a movie should do for you and that it to entertain you. Jeph is a sort of clueless individual that could be compared equal to a box of rocks when it comes to smarts. Bobby while being somewhat better still shows a bit of doesn't really suspect much of anything type of person. Phil while not the smartest of people displays himself as being a wimp when in Mona's presence. I'd say Wyatt and Ellie are probably the two most sane people in the movie. As Phil said about Mona, most of the cast are people with some sort of personality disorder. I did notice that with some of the flashbacks that Jeph did have both his hands at several points and I still wonder how he actually lost his hand.Still a fun movie, don't miss it along with some great sound tracks included too.It's a 10, yep...... "},{"Title":"Mona's dead, let's celebrate!","Date":"1 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Mona Dearly of upstate New York was a housewife and mother of a son played by none other than Bette Midler. She was married to Phil (played by the wonderful William Fichtner) Mona was abusive, mean, and probably the most disliked person in the small town. Her husband claimed to have been battered man. Watching Mona in action, you can understand his claims. Her husband Phil is having an affair with a diner waitress Rona, played by the wonderful Jamie Lee Curtis, who is also having an affair with Phil and Mona's son at the same time It's like a Jerry Springer episode at times. Neve Campbell plays Ellen who is engaged to Calzone, Casey Affleck's character, and is pregnant. Her father is played by the wonderfully talented Danny DeVito as the town Sheriff. There are other characters like lesbian Lucina who comforts Ellen with a kiss. The writing is fair to say the least. The cast look like they are having the time of their lives on screen and it comes across off screen as well. "},{"Title":"Who Killed Mona Dearly?","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" This sometimes dark, sometimes slapstick, sometimes subtle comedy boasts one of the most intriguing casts to date. There are a number of recognizable faces, Danny De Vito, Bette Midler, Jamie Lee Curtis (to name a few), that brighten up the screen just that much. But to be honest, it was the roles played by Casey Affleck, Marcus Thomas, and William Fichtner especially that made 'Drowning Mona' so enjoyable for me. The movie itself goes back and forth between present time and flashbacks containing moments of a living Mona Dearly, who dies rather abruptly at the very beginning of the film. I think too many people say the plot it predictable. I was more than entertained for the entire movie and I never actually knew who actually killed Mona. Sure I had my predictions, and who doesn't. The point is that the movie's very funny and actually quite smart.The answer to the mystery is neat enough and the generous extras, including featurette, deleted scenes and director's commentary showed just how much fun everyone had making it. Writer Peter Steinfeld aptly called his script a white-trash Murder On The Orient Express-a fair enough summary. It's also interesting to note that all the stars in this-and many are well-known names were all people director Nick Gomez wanted for his first choice, and he was so pleased they consented to make this little movie, but I'm not too surprised cos many of these stars come across as far more genuine that all the typical so-called A-lister buck-chasers. Just a shame they should always have to do so in a barely-known comedy that burns the laughter stripes easily from the multiplex trash that almost always pass for comedies whilst putting bums on scenes.Overall rating 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Drown This Film.","Date":"20 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Drowning Mona (2000) Dir Nick Gomez / Cast Danny De Vito, Bette Midler, Neve Campbell, Jason Lee Curtis, William Fichtner Interesting concept relates to a corrupt conquest upon one very unsympathetic woman. When the brakes fail on her car Mona drives off a cliff and drowns. She is seen mainly in flashbacks by those who are glad to see her gone. She is not seen as a personality but rather a vessel of great anger. Her husband is a louse who is sleeping with a waitress. Danny De Vito plays a cop who finds it intriguing that nobody misses this woman. Director Nick Gomez does a fine job at making everyone look guilty but the humour is often sickening. De Vito as the cop is standard issue with no comic scenery to be had. Bette Midler as Mona is a total lunatic. She yells, complains and does things that would render other people candidates for the loony bin. Neve Campbell plays De Vito's daughter who is involved with the suspect. Jamie Lee Curtis plays the waitress nervous due to the risk of exposure. She is involved with the victim's father therefore a prime suspect. William Fichtner plays Mona's widowed husband and he fails to conceal his excitement over his new found freedom. Advertized as a comedy but one wonders why anyone would find this revolting garbage funny. It is an interesting analysis of motives and behaviours but it drowns in its ending. Score 5 / 10 "},{"Title":"One of my favorite dark comedies of this time","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I am so missing my copy of, Drowning Mona, luckily it has been on my cable movie channel lately. Anyway, I have always been shocked that this film never saw more critical acclaim. To me it is the epitome of what a, dark comedy, should be. The tremendous word play, goofy (yet well developed characters as well as character relationships), even though the characters were mostly small town and moronic, they were intertwined/interwoven in such a smart and believable way to me it is a tragedy this film is not known to most movie lovers, for it is high up on my list of all time favorite funny movies. Although thanks to your website I have at least come to find out that this film has been characterized as having a cult following, which makes me feel more at ease. The all star cast delivers one liners after one liners that all add up to such a hilarious finish, not only does it get better with age like a great bottle of red wine or single malt, but I always come away noticing something(albeit small) new. Spending time growing up both in a Pennsylvanian small town and the Bay Area, I love the small town feel of this movie, yet I find the characters intellect to be closer to those of big city even though they're relationships are more small town. Anyway I love this movie, and never do things like this but just had to give props to the creators, writer, and cast for such a spectacular piece of art, big up's! "},{"Title":"A quirky, refreshing movie.","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I've seen this movie many times now, and it holds up every time I see it. There are some decent moments here that really come to the fore with multiple viewings. There's so many things about this movie that are completely stupid, but in a good way. The fixation on Yugos and Wheel of Fortune- it makes no sense, but I laugh. The missing hand of one of the characters- but it works. The bizarre amalgam of time periods-is it the 1970's or the 1980's or what?. The music and some fashions seem to be from the 70's, but Wheel of Fortune and Yugo seems to indicate 80's. But it doesn't matter. It's its own universe, and if you can buy the strangeness, you might have a good time. The interchange between the two cops, and the Will Ferrell character are special standouts (and I normally can't stand Ferrell).Now the bad part, Bette Midler almost single-handedly tanks this movie. She overacts so badly and is so amateurish, that it's really stunning. My guess is that the casting directors looked at Ruthless People (where she was decent) and thought that that would work here. It doesn't. I can't help but feel that people who watch this for the first time are so poisoned by her presence, that they turn off from the whole thing. But I didn't really want to punish the rest of the movie just for her, I can ignore her.Also watch just for a display of the some of the worst hairstyles ever, especially on Curtis and her character's boyfriend. "},{"Title":"Best comedy I have seen in a long time","Date":"7 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Drowning Mona would have to be one of the best comedies I have seen in a long time. I watched it on TV late one night and I really enjoyed it. It has a great cast with Danny Devito,Jamie Lee Curtis,Bette Midler and Neve Campbell.Most comedies these days seem to have to rely on smutty jokes and coarse language to be funny(ie American Pie) but this didn't.Don't get me wrong I am not knocking American Pie because I love that movie.Drowning Mona reminded me very much of the eighties dark comedies Ruthless People which also starred Danny Devito and Bette Midler and Throw Momma From The Train.It wasn't as funny as those but it was along the same line.I loved Bette Midler in Outrageous Fortune and Ruthless People and I thought she was great in this too even though she only played a relatively small role.I cant understand why so many people slam this movie.It is entertaining,funny,well acted and it is also a good murder mystery. "}{"Title":"okay movie","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  this movie wasnt all that great and i agree it was a waste of talent, all of the actors were very talented and they wasted it on this thing some people called a movie, it wasnt funny at all and it was just plain dull, i dont know what else to say except that i wouldnt waste 2 hours of my life on watching it. "},{"Title":"Not sharp enough for demanding audiences","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I really wanted to like this movie, but I think that I was expecting the wrong thing when I rented it.  It's wacky but not black and cynical enough for my tastes and unfortunately ends fluffily.  Now there are some HILARIOUS one-liners in this movie---ala (I'll probably misquote) I thought you had that thing in your head that went off...that said, 'I'M F-ING KILLING SOMEONE!' I do, but it just didn't go off.  There is some Kids the Hall type humor in this movie...but sadly the intelligence is way too sparse, and I even suspect that they ripped off the whole 2 dumb cops shtick from them.  It occasionally resorts to very lowbrow and predictable jokes (see the lesbian mechanic), and the movie ends way too abruptly.  Other good points I thought Casey Affleck (Bobby) was adorable, William Fichtner (Phil) is always fun to watch, and Marcus Thomas (Jeff) does a GREAT impression of River Edge's John character.  The movie doesn't seem too full of itself, which is why it is easy to forgive its mistakes. "},{"Title":"A tale of Yugos and morons","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Imagine a town totally populated by morons all driving Yugos with more sordid relationships than a Jerry Springer Trailer Park Trash extravaganza,and you have the makings for a Honda dealer's worst nightmare.Be afraid. Be very afraid that these people have the potential to breed. Also, be drunk, stoned or just damn bored to see this tale so loosely weaved it could come apart like a cheap suit any second. Too many chances to be funny wasted by what should have been a comedy director's dream cast. "},{"Title":"Had never heard of it before, nice surprise","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  As mentioned, I had never heard of this movie before it started (on cable, earlier this evening).  Having no expectations, my wife and I were very pleasantly surprised.  We liked it a lot, from one of the first lines -- I want half, none of that 50% crap. Sure, it has some problems, when compared to other screwball comedies, and after a while it becomes predictable. For instance, once you realize what the chief believes in, he's not that funny any more, but we still liked the characters, the sight of everybody driving Yugos, and Bette Midler especially going over the top.  "},{"Title":"not quite Oscar material but...","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  not that bad either. seems to have been pretty much slated. I really didn't think it was that bad.Ok so no wonderful special effects, no twisting and turning hard to follow plot and no breath taking scenery but so what!If you fancy a night in with a film that wont hurt your brain or frighten the living day lights out of you then you could do a lot worse.no concentration needed for this one, but try it, you might even like it. Good cast, funny moments and not a bad little story. worth a watch even if its only to see Casey Affleck's blonde hair??! "},{"Title":"This was gr8!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***I really think Drowning Mona was a great movie! It was both funny and mysterious. When you first start watching the movie, Mona dies. For like half of the movie, you're just struggling to find out who the killer is. But when the truth comes out, there is more than 1 killer involved. That part just made me laugh!. So, if your into some Comedy/Mystery movies, this is the one to watch! "},{"Title":"Pretty good.","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Go rent it, it is funny. It's no award winner, but those movies always suck anyway. It is a pretty good plot. It is very entertaining and doesn't consentrate on toilet humor like any of the Jim Carrey or Mike Myers movies, but thigs that are funny... in a different and dark way. 7/10 I give it. "},{"Title":"Should have drowned everybody","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I expected this movie to be stupid, but at least funny. The leads should have been worth watching. Danny Devito, Jamie Lee Curtis, Bette Midler, Neve Campbell. However, the movie just falls flat on its face. Nobody was funny. Nobody gave it their best. Almost if they woke the actors from a deep sleep just before the shooting started. Neve Campbell was the only one who acted in this movie. The other actors are outstanding and some of my favourites, but they fell flat. And, joking about Yugos should have been done in 1986, not in the year 2000. "},{"Title":"It Gets Better Every Time","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This one's definitely a creeper - It gets better each time I see it. From the ubiquitous Yugos, to Cubby, the slightly creepy undertaker.  This film has hilarious and subversives undertones, and great performances from a talented ensemble cast that make it a must see, again and again. "},{"Title":"The usual suspects...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Everybody hated Mona (Bette Midler). Now she´s dead. After a car accident, she drowned in the river. Was it really an accident? Everybody could have a  motive. Who was it - and who not? Sheriff Rash (Danny de Vito) investigates.Drowning Mona wasn´t a big box-office hit in the USA. A possible cause why its release in Germany was pushed from date to date. I first feared that it  would come out as a video-premiere. More than one year after its release in the USA it finally started in the German theaters. I often read that it is compared with Ruthless people - also starring Danny de Vito and Bette Midler. I would rather compare it to the Coen brother´s Fargo - in my opinion, a satire  about life in the province. Verplanck, USA a boring, little town of philistine people, where everybody knows each other and talks about each other. I can  relate to it, I live in such a town. It´s terrible, most of the time! That´s why this movie kept me  laughing all the way through - it was like a therapy  for me!One weak point sometimes, during the flashbacks,  director Nick Gomez loses the storyline out of his hands. Maybe Drowning Mona isn´t as cynical as Fargo, but the fine cast - besides de Vito and Midler; Jamie  Lee Curtis and Neve Campbell -  can save it from drowning.A solid black comedy that is good for some big laughs  and shortens the waiting time until the next Coen  brother´s flick. "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Not a bad movie.  Not the best, but good for a few laughs.  Some of the acting is certainly questionable, but all the stars do just fine.Better Midler plays Mona Dearly, a crude, rude, short-tempered know-it-all who's hated by just about everybody in town.  When she dies to obvious foul play, just about everybody she knew had a motive.  Danny DeVito plays the small-town sheriff who gives it his all to do his job right.  DeVito is the bright spot in this movie.  Bobby was an endearing character but Casey Affleck, although he does give a lot of effort, is a terrible actor.  Everybody else did a fine job. "},{"Title":"OK.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This is a nice piece of fluff that isn't too draining.  Bette and the other cast members were funny, but the way the movie was going should have been darker instead of more fluffy.The wigs were bad, but the movie was enjoyable and well paced.  Not bad.9/10 "},{"Title":"One of the funniest films in years (spoilers ahead)","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This comedy is much more worth watching than any of those stupid Jim Carrey or Pauly Shore rip-offs these days.  This movie is fun to watch, for the first time.  You shouldn't watch it continuously for a day.  You should watch it once or twice, wait a few months or even a year or two, and then watch it.  The movie moves along a little slow sometimes but it's still good.  Bette Midler and Jamie Lee Curtis are the best and the funniest.  Whoever plays Bette Midler's son is also funny with his utter stupidity.  Neve Campbell is good as Ellen Rash.  Danny Devito insults himself by playing the part of a not-at-all funny character.  Whoever played Mona's cheating husband was a little funny too, especially when he starts playing with his mistress'(Curtis)boobs in the diner.  I like the idea that they all drive the same tacky cars.  This movie also deserves credit for taking one of Hollywood's most beautiful and sexy women, Jamie Lee Curtis, and making her a real skank that is totally undesirable.  And what was with that bathing suit thing that she was wearing?  Her hair is one of the funniest things in this movie, and you just can't get over it.  Casey Affleck deserves two thumbs down for his performance, as well as two Razzie awards one for worst supporting actor, and one for worst new star.  I hate him.  But overall, I liked this film, and it's a shame that people just go on and on about how bad this film is.  It's  worth watching, once or twice, and then wait a year or so.7/10  "},{"Title":"Is murder funny?","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I'm no prude, and I enjoy horror pictures as much as the next guy,  but is murder really funny? Even when the victim is a vindictive shrew like Bette Midler's character, her death doesn't inspire humor. I have enjoyed other movies that share similar stories, but this one left a bad taste in my mouth. 4/10 "},{"Title":"A quirky, sleeper, comedy","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely a you'll love it or you'll hate it comedy. It's quirky, offbeat, with oddball characters in an oddball town (It made me look up just where Verplanck, NY is). Jamie Lee gives a fine performance as the diner waitress who is the town slut. One of the most attractive women in show biz is made to look like an over-the-hill trailer trash tramp. One of the funniest lines is when she lies about her age (claims she's 33). The guy she's trying to fool, and the audience, do a simultaneous double-take at this. The flick is light stuff and just unusual enough for those nights when you want something offbeat. "},{"Title":"Drown your bad mood don't miss Drowning Mona","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This could be a movie by John Waters or its clone, but less talented..The first two minutes could seem disappointing the funniest and brightest star of the film (B. Middler as Mona) drowns as soon as the movie begins. This puts question why kill the star especially in the very beginning? Then she appears in flash-back's where we see what a bitch she was terrorizing her family and the neighbourhood. After what we have seen about Mona, it is more relevant to ask  Hope it were you who killed her? instead of Did you kill her? The investigation goes slow allowing us to see so many typical characters. De Vito, Campbell and others are excellent in their cameo-like roles. And we see that each citizen of that small town in the middle of nowhere has his / her own little secret...and a reason to drown that Mona.. Middler is so funny in that role that it reminds of her old works in 70's and 80's! My advice if it rains outside, and you want to have a good portion of laughter, choose this black comedy and...So who drowned Mona?? "},{"Title":"Devito carries who-dun-it with help from Jamie Lee Curtis","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Enjoyable quirky, film.  Bette Midler has a, really, only series of cameo shots in the film. Danny Devito and Jamie Lee Curtis play a cop and a waitress respectively. No new ground is covered in the film, it is just well done.Will Farrell plays an undertaker, Neve Campbell a bride to be. Both add much to this funny tale. "},{"Title":"give it a chance...","Date":"26 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  the VERY subtle, black,new york humour is evidently lost on a lot of people. with its john waters type society and cohen humour at times it really catches the giggles.he's a drama director, but for nick gomez's first black comedy it's a good try. although it was a bit slow in edits and timing to really catch the humour that was intended, i still had a good time. i really like bette midler, and she and danny de vito make a great comedy team. "},{"Title":"The Big Lebowski meets Fargo...","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This was definitely not the best movie of all times, and it did sag a little at the end but otherwise well worth watching. In a small town full of people who all drink beer all day & drive Yugos, you're bound to have some laughs. This movie was well cast & well acted, and definitely holds your attention. "},{"Title":"Not fantastic but a decent quirky comedy","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I enjoyed this film a fair amount.  It definitely wasn't great but I did keep laughing.  Lots of funny bits, that made me laugh out loud.  Yes, this could have been better but I'm not exactly sure how.  Perhaps the pacing was a bit off, that's what comes to mind.  I think it's worth watching if you're interested in a quirky movie.  Not as good as, but along the lines of Fargo.7/10 "}{"Title":"Funny, Funny Movie","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I put off on seeing this because I thought it'd be yet another middle aged ladies film along the lines of hanging up, which by the way, totally sucked. But this movie was fresh, funny and kept me wanting to watch. A spirited and clever dark comedy. The script was first rate and the direction was compelling, lot's of attention to detail. I have no idea what people are talking about when they rip on Casey Affleck, he was really great in this. As for his wife's character not being necessary, she was the whole motivation behind the killing, didn't you guys watch the same movie I did? I really think this film was marketed wrong, it could have been much more successful than it was. There are a lot of criticisms below made by people who obviously didn't get it, it was a comedy folks.  These are probably the same people that think This is Spinal Tap is not realistic because drummers never really blow up.  Don't make the same mistake I made because Bette Middler is in this...SEE THIS MOVIE, it's funny and entertaining and a lot of hard work went into it.  I think it may end up a pseudo cult classic someday.  I liked it more than Serial Mom, which is a similar type of clever, black comedy. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as you would think!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  From the ratings here on this site, I didn't expect too much seeing it on dvd. However, I had a good time and the movie was quite entertaining. The humor is mostly subtle but intelligent. Casey Affleck is amazing and totally reminded me of his brother Ben in some scenes. Overall, a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An OK comedy","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had a bunch of very talented actors at their best but I wondered if any of them read the script. Don't get me wrong this movie had some very funny scenes but that is it. Although Bette Midler and William Fichtner are very funny and give  100% of their skills. This is a movie to see on a rainy night or if your looking for a few laughs. "},{"Title":"A funny movie that is not predictible","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I like this movie because it was funny but so many movies out there ether seem like they are going to be funny and arnt or are so predictible that you wish you would of went with your last last pick. I thought this movie was not predictible a nuff to fall under that catagory but it maintained the laphs. I say if you are going to get a movie let it be this one at least in the laphs gener. "},{"Title":"Dark-humored fun","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a good time. I didn't laugh out loud all that often, but it was definitely funny. My only complaint - MORE BETTE MIDLER. The scenes that she IS in are wonderful and near the end (when the flashbacks grow more infrequent), I was missing her presence. However, everyone else delivered great performances, too. Danny DeVito was adorable and very likeable (I especially liked his references to the theater, comparing himself to Daddy Warbucks or Auntie Mame); Jamie Lee Curtis was the epitome of the white trash waitress (her haircut had me cracking up); Neve Campbell proves again that she can handle a variety of different roles (the blond streak in the front of her hair was icing on the cake); Casey Affleck was perfectly vulnerable; and Peter Dobson - well I was just very excited to see him after 1989's Sing, one of my favorite 80's guilty pleasures. I was also excited because I grew up (in normal suburbs) about a half hour away from the actual Verplanck, NY. I'd driven through Verplanck's outskirts before, but was never actually there - though I heard many stories that I will not repeat. I'll just say that the movie was a very close approximation of the stories. Perhaps that is why I enjoyed the film even more. And oh yes, it was quite funny. "},{"Title":"Everyone hated her, everyone's a suspect.","Date":"12 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Mona, an awful woman with no redeeming characteristics, dies under mysterious circumstances.  Everyone hated her, everyone's a suspect. Comedic possibilities are endless, but poorly exploited.  A good cast (Danny DeVito, Casey Affleck, Jamie Lee Curtis), an enticing premise, but just as funny as it should be. "},{"Title":"Something for everyone dry humor, great characters, Yugos...","Date":"10 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  If you like a movie with dry humor, you'll love this one. At times it's laugh-out-loud funny. Don't go into it expecting Ruthless People part 2; it's a lot more subtle in the comedy delivery. Mona is a very well-cast movie, with each of the actors creating a memorable character. Drowning Mona takes some of the idiosyncracies and stereotypes of small town, blue collar America, and interweaves them in an Andy Griffith meets Twin Peaks whodunnit story. "},{"Title":"What was that?","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I was honestly expecting a little more.It could have been better, but it could have been worse. Bette Midler was -of course- divine, just like in her previous Big Business and Ruthless People. She seems to simply enjoy these wacky characters, people so unpleasant and joyless they end up being funny. As for Danny DeVito, Neve Campbell, Jamie Lee Curtis and all the others, well, they were okay too.The end was really disappointing, though. Way to conventional. Way to easy. Bad, bad American folks was that the message, or did I get it wrong?But we can't get enough of Mrs. Midler shouting, now can we? Worth renting. Once. "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  What a funny light movie! What did critics expect? CITIZEN KANE 2? It's a light, funny film which is thoroughly entertaining. Its subject matter is just dark enough to make it acceptable to all audiences, but still turns out a comedy with a difference. Don't listen to the critics. DROWNING MONA is a riot. "},{"Title":"Springer Could Have Waited For Tips From This Before Making His Movie","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona was absolutely hilarious! I loved it! It's one of those films that spoofs poor white trash. This film spoofs trashy people from a small isolated hick town in upstate New York where everyone knows each other. I noticed a lot of people were comparing this film to Jerry Springer. I definitely agree that all of the characters were typical Springer guests. I wish Jerry Springer waited until this film came out before he made Ringmaster, which bombed. He (and his writers) could have gotten brilliant ideas for his script. Drowning Mona treats poor white trash perfectly.This film enabled its entire cast, many of them big name stars playing characters we aren't used to seeing them as, to challenge themselves in their acting careers. They met the challenge successfully. I'm so used to seeing Bette Midler play a warm-hearted, sweet, motherly lady, but what a treat to see her portray Mona, a mega-bitch whom everyone in town justifiably hates. She was one of those people whose funeral you wouldn't cry at. And then, there's Danny DeVito. He usually plays humorous characters, yet he was a stern chief of police trying to solve Mona's murder, probably the most serious character in the movie. Neve Campbell contrasts her wholesome Scream character by playing DeVito's daughter Ellen, Casey Affleck's character Bobby's whiny fiancee. Jamie Lee Curtis, who had her big break as a wholesome good girl in the Halloween series, is a slutty waitress hopping from one guy's bed to another. Will Ferrell, from Saturday Night Live, also appears; his film career is on the way up.Watch Mona drown and think about someone universally disliked for their unbridled cruelty! "}{"Title":"Pretty good comedy. Not too bad, but not memorable.","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona is a good comedy about the death of a woman the whole town hates. This film had its good points, but nothing to make it a memorable comedy. I liked many of the characters and the film had a great cast. Props to Casey Affleck to doing a good job. Overall, if you are looking for a decent comedy, check this one out. "},{"Title":"A creative comedy","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was a good comedy, very creative.  It reminds me of Drop Dead Gorgeous but this movie was much better.  I liked it because of the humor in the movie, the acting was good the accents sounded real.  This is a different kind of comedy and I recommend it to all people. "},{"Title":"Much better than expected!!","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  After Bette Midler's last film, She's The One, I didn't expect much.  I like Bette Midler, but I'm afraid that she is just going over the top with her acting.  Fortunately, in this, we mostly see her in flashbacks, so we only saw her in short spurts.The idea for the movie was very funny, and the rest of the characters pulled it off nicely.  I thought that Casey Affleck showed a lot of promise, and Neve Campbell was terrific.I will recommend this picture to those who want some laughs without having to think about it too much. "},{"Title":"A film that was as much fun to work on as it was to watch.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Seeing the finished product of a film I have worked on (propmaster) is made especially sweet when the great time on set is turned into a great time on screen. I saw the movie at the crew screening and loved and I am looking forward to giving 8.50 back to the producers and seeing it again.  It is that rare mix of indie film with a big budget cast and not having it ruined. That opening shot of the snow globe was fantastic!   "},{"Title":"If a Springer episode was made into a movie, this would be it.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  If there was movie that was to satarize the low end scale of white people of America, this is it. It's like Ringmaster, only actually worth a couple bucks worth seeing (at the cheap theater or matainee, not full price). Set in New York State, at the place where Yugo's were made in the USA (forgot the town name), you quickly figure out who dunit, but it drags out. Nothing memorable, and some good laughs, but definitely not as good as the hype. "},{"Title":"Laugh-out-loud funny!","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  An absolutely hilarious romp with bad haircuts, bad accents and the worst jokes imaginable.  This dark whodunit may not be perfectly crafted, but the jokes fly fast and furious in this romp.  Casey Affleck shines, Neve Campbell is funnier than she's ever been before, and the rest of the cast is a delight to watch! "},{"Title":"It had it's moments","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  It was an okay film but one that we could all have waited for on PPV. There was some truly funny moments but in between it was a long wait.  Too little Bette and not enough character for Danny Devito to carry this movie. "},{"Title":"He said ovaries?","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Plot in a nutshell - Bette Midler plays a rude, crude, foul spoken, mean spirited, vindictive loud mouth who hates virtually everyone in arms reach and is hated by virtually everyone in her town. When she is killed in a mysterious road accident, local cop DeVito must probe the mystery of who killed her, which is supposed to be hilariously difficult for him because just about everyone in the town wanted Mona dead.Or at least, that's what we're supposed to believe. A gifted ensemble cast, which also includes Jamie Lee Curtis and William Fichtner among others, is wasted in this surprisingly bland, painfully unfunny film which proves itself to be one of the best examples of a good idea that is poorly executed. Despite the potentially funny premise, this black comedy never really takes off, with the bulk of its gags falling flat on their faces and their stars looking ridiculous.Skip it. "},{"Title":"How could you not like this movie??","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I feel very sorry for most of the people who have written reviews on this movie. Seriously people. I admit some of the comedy was figure it out yourself but that only adds to the entertainment. This movie doesn't hold your hand and walk you through to the funny parts, point and say, See, that's funny and this is why. It lets the smarter viewer figure it out and the slower ones write big long reviews about how bad it sucked. Every character in this movie was played by the perfect actor and the jokes were subtle and sometimes in the background or in the facial expressions. If you want to know if you'll enjoy this movie or not then just read a few of Gary Larson's The Far Side comics. If after reading a few you give up, scratch your head and decide you don't get them or just find them not funny(Usually because there over your head). Then I don't suggest you watch Drowning Mona. For the rest of us, give it a try. This defiantly one of the best sleeper hits I've ever seen and I don't think you'll be disappointed. I give it a 10 out of 10. Oh and by the way, I did say ovaries. "},{"Title":"Let me save you some time...","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  A one-handed landscaper sits around hitting on a pre-pubescent girl while another landscaper mows the lawn. As they drive away, one turns to the other and (I'm paraphrasing, but closely) says, What are you doing? That girl is thirteen. The other one enthusiastically says, Yeah, finally!There you go. That's the one good joke in this film. If you still choose to watch it...well, hell man, don't.4/10, and I'm feeling charitable. "}{"Title":"Bubble, Bubble...Little Town Trouble","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  An enticing plotline that could've been a screamingly funny comedy; instead takes the wrong turn into Fluffville, USA. This certainly doesn't mean DROWNING MONA is a dud by any possible stretch of the mind. The plot, the dynamite cast potential and the script (which was probably hilarious on paper) just wasn't meted out with much sense of timing. It's as if Nick Gomez, the director, catnapped during the shoots. A real shame, as DROWNING MONA could have been hysterical, instead of pleasantly amusing.Others have made the FARGO reference, and it is justified. I also noticed a little homage or nod to DROP DEAD GORGEOUS. There's nothing better than seeing a cleverly disguised situation or style in a flick, that's a sort of hats off reference to an immensely popular movie. It's done a lot, with varying degrees of success. The running gag of the Yugo was very clever and funny. Could you see YOUR town or city having a Yugo police car? The mirth/shame would be rather evident. DROWNING MONA truly isn't the best flick of the year. It has its moments. Yet, the viewer can't help but be left with the notion that with a little more snap, this could have been a wonderfully cynical, comedic gem.  "},{"Title":"Don't Waste your time.","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  The Movie is really not that funny. It tries to come across as a bizarre commentary on small town life but ends up as a bad Saturday night live skit. The best thing in this movie is Neve Campbell, She at least gives a funny and interesting performance. Too bad most of the others actors don't.In Other Words,  Don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"Don't expect too much.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  After seeing the previews, I thought this was going to be a laugh out riot. Was I wrong. The movie wasn't bad, it could have been better. If they changed the some parts, this movie would have been better. Great acting, if this movie had different people playing the roles of the characters, this movie would have gotten a 4. Since it had its moments, and great acting, I give it a 6.5.P.S. If you haven't seen this movie, don't expect what you thought. "},{"Title":"Somebody Should've Stopped 'Em!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  	Combine miscasting with an anemic screenplay and a lack of imagination and what do you get?  You get `Drowning Mona,' a lame comedy directed (and I use the term loosely) by Nick Gomez.  Mona Dearly (Bette Midler) is the most hated and despised person in town, apparently by everyone including her husband, Phil (William Fichtner), and her son, Jeff (Marcus Thomas).  She's mean, vicious, and lacking of even a single redeeming quality.  One day her car goes off a cliff into a lake, and she drowns.  Was it an accident, or has a crime been committed?  It's up to Police Chief Wyatt Rash (Danny DeVito) to get to the bottom of it all, which shouldn't be too hard to do since this whole movie hits bottom practically from the opening credits. 	Beside the fact that this film just isn't funny (which does not bode well for a comedy), there isn't a sympathetic character to be found; everyone involved in this is pretty much just as despicable as Mona herself.  The title of this movie should have been `Drown Them All.' 	Jamie Lee Curtis (Rona Cale, the white trash waitress with an eye for Phil Dearly) fares better than the rest here, which is something, given the fact that she's at a loss for anyone or anything substantial to play off of.  She'd be better off, still, if she could somehow expunge this one from her resume.  The usually reliable DeVito walks through his part as if he never really got a handle on his character, or quite figured out just exactly how or where Rash was supposed to fit into this whole mess, aside from merely being a tool with which to move the plot along.  And Midler, with a proven track record for comedy, simply takes her Mona too far.  For comedy to work, even the most blatant miscreant has to offer at least a hint of humanity, buried deep though it may be (Like Belushi, in `Animal House,' or Dangerfield in `Caddyshack'); Mona lacks even a trace. 	The rest of the cast, which includes Neve Campbell (Ellen Rash), Casey Affleck (Bobby Calzone), Peter Dobson (Feege) and Will Ferrell (Cubby), can rest easy on one account  After this debacle, there's nowhere to go but up.  The only real crime associated with `Drowning Mona' is that anyone allowed it to get farther than the screening room in the first place; and it's such a shame to see the talents of Curtis, DeVito and Midler wasted on something as trifling as this.  I rate this one 1/10. "},{"Title":"Who knows what went wrong?","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Great cast. Amusing script. Decent director, So what the devil happened? It lies there, neither fish nor fowl. It pretends to take the dark path but never runs with it. When it gets close, it' s only a sex reference, a lesbian kiss, a father and son doing the same waitress etc. As for the comedy, it gets so close sometimes but never gets over the hill. Bette's Great but too one dimensional, we wanted more of her and less of the husband and son. Casey Affleck, the star/hero of the movie has no personality. Is he related to an already accomplished actor by any chance? I don't see why he was put in the role -- he brought nothing to it. For the sake of the majority of the cast, take a peek but don't expect much entertainment ...................................... "},{"Title":"In this movie, Nothing Adds Up","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie tries so hard to be something it is not, funny. This occurs as a result of a floundering plot, which clicks for a while, but then keeps going along unnecessarilly.  The plot also sharpens its focus way to early.  The town (of roughly 460?) is all supposed to hate Mona.  However, we only see about 20 of this supposedly hateful town.  Of these 20, there are far to few suspects.  And the who-done-it turns into a who-caresAll in all, not funny, not good, not quality.  Casey Affleck and Devito are saving graces, but even they cannot real in this clunker with little a-lure.Rating 3Viewed in theatre (scope) "},{"Title":"relentlessly quirky","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona isn't a bad film, but it isn't good either.  the biggest mystery is not who killed the title character, but why such A-level talent (Bette Midler, Jamie Leigh Curtis, Danny DeVito, Neve Campbell) would be attracted to this C-level screenplay.  The script avoids character development and instead creates a bunch of characters who exist solely for their quirks.  Amusing at times, but for a black comedy to work it has to either be blacker or wackier.  Drowning Mona doesn't try for much, and succeeds. "},{"Title":"So much Potential... wasted.","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  You know, this film has everything going for it.  A great cast, a quirky plot, and a really clever premise.  The subtle Yugo jokes are great.  Unfortunately the screenplay is cheap and cliche.  The characters, who COULD be so developed and rich, come off as flimsy and opaque because their lines are so stupid.  Granted, these people are stereotypical white trash, but that doesn't mean they have to be one layered.  Real white trash are VERY dimensional (eg Jerry Springer).  There were SO MANY opportunities to capitalize on these character's goofy personalities, but the script just didn't allow for it.  Don't get me wrong.  It's a semi-funny flick, with some laugh-out-loud moments.  I guess I just wanted more.  I wanted to hear clever, witty jokes... real zingers.  Instead we're left with a series of in-your-face, lame-o hand jokes.  I just think there could of been SO MUCH MORE.  If only there'd been a couple more script re-writes... or something.  It's just disappointing. So much potential... wasted. For me, it was a let down.  "},{"Title":"Avoid this film at all costs","Date":"27 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I couldn't believe great talent like Jamie Lee Curtis, and Danny DeVito would star in Drowning Mona, a dull, one dimensional film with poor comedy.   In a cast that includes Casey Affleck, Neve Campbell, William Fichtner, and Bette Midler; I expected to see a much better film than I did.However, Drowning Mona could not stay above water even if a rescue had been asked for. The ending was so cliche that even I could think of a better one. This is one film I could have done without.  At least it gave me the opportunity to tell others to stay away from Drowning Mona. "},{"Title":"Great, funny, sweetly dark mystery/comedy.","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" This movie really makes me laugh. The dialog is hilarious, the acting is very realistic and Danny Divitto, Neve Campbell, Jamie Lee Curtis and Bette Middler add their own talents to this otherwise wonderfully dark comedic masterpiece. There are no special effects, there are no expensive props. There is nothing to lend to this movie but the acting talents of these marvelous actors and William Fichtner (Detective Alex Tardio of What's the Worst That Can Happen?) is excellent as Phil Dearly, husband of the deceased Mona Dearly, the woman everyone loved to hate.Mona drives herself off a cliff, but during the preliminary investigation, one which the police chief (Divitto) thinks in the beginning will be cursory, he discovers that there isn't just a list of small-town suspects. There is a town FULL of suspects. The question turns quickly from Who did it? to Who didn't do it? There are even a few twists as the story moves along. Marcus Thomas portrays Mona Dearly's son, Jeff, in a way that only he could. His portrayal is good enough to make you want to see him hanged upside down into a pool of piranha. That's good acting. Somebody give that man a ROLE! He's good!It's a great movie with a great cast and wonderful portrayals of small-town life. Dead on. The characters have depth, and the story has a line. It's directed well and presented beautifully. Very entertaining and enjoyable movie.If you liked the Addams Family's feel of dark comedy, A Fish Called Wanda, or Fierce Creatures, you'll love this one.It gets a 7.8/10 from...the Fiend . "}{"Title":"Even an all star cast didn't save this one.","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Can't really place this one in a certain genre, so I am still undecided about this one.  Has quite the cast, and even a couple of funny moments, but I don't really think it has any replay value.  You have Danny DeVito, Bette Middler, Neve Campbell, and Jamie Lee Curtis to headline.  All are seasoned actors, but really don't add up in this one.  Directed by Nick Gomez, who I am not familiar with.  I seem to think his next film HAS to be better than this one.  The whole town is loaded with Yugo's.  There has been a murder.  And everyone in the town is pretty much a suspect.  The most interesting characters are William Fichtner (Go, Strange Days), Marcus Thomas, and Mark Pellegrino, who frequently guests on sitcoms and similar shows.  These three haven't had any starring roles, but make up the comedy in this one.  You have Casey Affleck and Neve Campbell trying to start a future, and the dysfunctional family of Bette and co.  DeVito plays the sheriff trying to sort through this whole mess.  Sooner or later, a couple more people start ending up dead.  And you find out that Jamie Lee Curtis is sleeping with multiple partners.  There is also a great cameo by Will Ferrell.   Despite all the twists and turns in the weak plot, all is well in the happy ending.  I bought this one on vhs and got the dvd just because it was in the bargain bin.  Was only four bucks.  I give this one 2/5 for mild comedy and semi decent dialog.  I would rent this one or maybe purchase it on mark down.   "},{"Title":"*  One of the worst ever!","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  One of the very worst films of the year is this very unfunny comedy about the murder of a woman whom everybody in the town has completely hated for years. Bette Midler as the foul-mouthed victim of the crime is excellent. Nick Gomez' direction is really not! He actually thought to make Neve Campbell a quirky romantic heroine! Whatever!  "},{"Title":"Fairly Amusing with Bad Acting and a Low Amount of Laughs","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  REVIEW DROWNING MONA **1/2                (SPOILER AHEAD!!!! IT'S THE ENDING! BE WARNED!)   Drowning Mona is a movie that is like an obese runner. He starts out with a good frame of mind and is going as fast as he can. Soon, he gets slower, slower, slower even coming to a complete stop once in a while until by the end of the race he is crawling on the ground, desperately trying to get faster, but failing. Drowning Mona has some really good ideas and could've been a very funny dark comedy on the lines of say, The Cable Guy, but it's ruined by a weak script and really bad acting. One of its problems is the fact that this is set in a small town. This satire of small town life angle is getting so used up! This should have been set in a big city with Mona as the head of a corporation or something and the suspects are everyone in the corporation. Another is the fact that the acting (except Neve Campbell) is really bad. Casey Affleck has some potential, but the character he had was so bad that he couldn't play him and all he does for 90 or so minutes is mumble. Same with the guy who plays Jeph. The movie also suffers from one of the dumbest endings in a movie I have ever seen. (SPOILER!) Why would Rash let BObby go just because he's marrying his daughter? If I were Rash I would have beaten up Bobby and sent him to jail where he will serve hard time and hard time with a 404 lb. inmate named Bubba. And if I were the guy who wrote this, I would've trashed this script and started over on the corporation thing...But that's my movie... "},{"Title":"If you're hiring a video, pick up a spare in case you lose the plot!","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Despite the fact that I watched it on a flight back from San Francisco, I nearly decided to leave the cinema on this one, not clever at 40,000 feet!I later saw a promotion for the film back in Dubai saying it was the funniest film since There's Something About Mary, perhaps if someone had told me it was a comedy I might have considered the option of laughing.Maybe it's my British sense of humour but the film did nothing for me, interesting since there doesn't appear to be any comments from other Brits!The one clever trick was that one of the sexiest ladies in show business, yes, Jamie Lee Curtis, looked very undesirable, heaven forbid!I'm not in the habit of slating films, however it seems ridiculous to compare this to what for me, was one of the funniest films of the 90's. Call me juvenile but There's Something About Mary, had me almost wetting myself in the cinema!There were definitely some very talented and funny people in this film alas for me it just didn't work.  My advice is If you're hiring a video, pick up a spare in case you lose the plot!I can give it 2/10 for the amazing work on Jamie!  "},{"Title":"Avoid This Town With A Vengeance!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a mess!Imagine that late at night you drive into a small sleepy town and register in it's one motel. In the morning you wake up to the nightmare of where you're at.  And for God's sake,whatever you do, don't drink the water, for there must be something in it; just look at the residents.This film starts out with the death of the town's most hated citizen, Mona Dearly (Bette Midler).  The driving question is, not who did it, but who didn't?  And it seems the only person who is interested in discovering this fact is the town's sheriff (Danny DeVito,co-producer of this film).On the surface, it would appear this film is a feeble attempt to put a new twist on the classic Hitchcock black comedy The Trouble With Harry.  If so, it most certainly does not work. The key cause of this failure is that the town's residents are totally unlikeable from every human aspect.  In fact, in the end, the only character I found the slightest affinity for was the one arrested as the killer.  Now, that has to tell you something.For example, the young couple so madly in love are a mismatched pair.  Not only is he (Casey Affleck) prettier than his girlfriend (Neve Campbell), but he's ten times dumber to boot.  In fact, all of the residents appear to be suffering from the ill affects of the prolonged consumption of water (or beer) polluted by toxic waste. This includes the town's police force (with the exception of the sheriff), all of whom appear to be severely mentally impaired.   As for the family of the murder victim, the husband (William Fichtner) and the son (Marcus Thomas)are poster boys for the cause of benevolent castration ; under no circumstances do you ever want either of them to reproduce.In short, other than the occasional laugh here and there, a lot of good actors (with special reference to Jamie Lee Curtis, Midler and DeVito) were wasted in pursuit of the script that wasn't. Get out of this town as fast as you can. "},{"Title":"I wish I could have drowned myself","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe Danny DeVito starred and produced this dull, one dimensional film.In a cast that includes Casey Affleck, Neve Campbell, William Fichtner, Jamie Lee Curtis and Bette Midler; I expected to see a much better film than I did. For what its worth, Drowning Mona did have a few good points. For example, there were scenes that were actually funny.However, Drowning Mona could not stay above water even if a rescue had been asked for. The ending was so cliche that even I could think of a better one. Overall, it is unfunny, with laughable scenes with jokes that stink . This is one film I could have done without.  "},{"Title":"Funny and high energy, for slapstick comedy fans. *** out of ****.","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  DROWNING MONA / (2000) ***Starring Danny DeVito, Neve Campbell, Casey Affleck, Bette Midler, Jamie Lee Curtis, Will Ferrell, and William Fichtner Directed By Nick Gomez . Written by Peter Steinfeld. Running time 95 minutes. Rated PG-13 (for thematic elements, language, sexuality, and some violence).I've always been vulnerable to the genre of slapstick comedy. When movies spoof with screwball or physical humor, for me it is a struggle not to break down in laughter. Drowning Mona may not be a truly worthy production, but the film does offer funny concepts within its contents, some that are hilarious with punctuality. This comedy touches ironic base with nearly every topic possible, from murder to lesbianism, and accidents to brutality. There are laughs regarding plot jokes, concepts, one liners, physical pranks, and visual gags. Director Nick Gomez is careful not to go too far over the top in his movie's parody but still pushes the boundaries of burlesque cinema in an interesting manor.No one mourns over the death of Mona Dearly--a woman so brutally mean spirited and uncompromisingly inferior, even her husband rejoices of her demise. Mona dies tragically in an automobile accident within a small outcast town after she losses her car brakes and plunges off the road into a lake below. Hardly anyone comes to her funeral, except her husband, Phil Dearly (William Fichtner), and her fully grown son, who owns a landscaping business with a friend named Bobby Calzone (Casey Affleck). The entire town seems to be rejoicing over the loss of this putrid, hated citizen. I've seen people more upset over losing change in a candy machine, explains a character in one scene. Through flashbacks, we learn why. Mona does horrible things like smashing her son's co-worker's car with a golf club, accuses people, commits dastardly deeds, chops her own offspring's limb off, and is a poor sport at nearly every event we witness.The movie is filled with a variety of wondering and well-cast characters. They include Wyatt Rash (Danny DeVito), a local sheriff who is convinced that the death of Mona Dearly was no accident and considers everyone who hated Mona (every individual who knew her) a suspect. Ellen (Neve Campbell), the daughter of Rash, engaged and impregnated by Bobby. Rona, (Jamie Lee Curtis) a chain smoking waitress who is having an affair with Phil. Rona, however, is cheating on Phil with his son. There is also a local fisherman who seems to witness ever important incident that occurs.I enjoyed the film's appropriately zany and fun characters a lot. Each is somewhat interesting and well depicted by talented actors and actresses. Mona Dearly is one of the most hilariously overacted character's I have seen in quite some time. Bette Midler is the perfect choice for Mona, with her exaggerated gestures and reactions.  Her performance supplies half of the picture's effective funny moments.Downing Mona is certainly not a perfect production. It has several massive problems contained within the story and characters. The audience doesn't learn whether this is a movie about the mysterious death of a local woman, agonizing wedding preparations for a young embraced pair, a police detective's investigation of an alleged murder, an independent and struggling landscaping company, an adulterous affair, and even boneless chicken is figured into the equation. Some of these scenarios do not seem to recognize the presence of the others, proving what little narrative connection they have with each other.The film also desperately attempts to fulfill unexplained nuggets the story brings forth in non-chronologically based orders that never really clarify ideas. Although some of these incidences induce laughs and intrigue, the funny material needs to be in reference with the plot, not outside the story's boundaries.The movie's mystery is not as sufficient as it could have been. It is infectious and interesting, but unfocused and drifted. Though amusing and twisted, the whodunit concept is lackadaisical and flat--concluding with a lazy and disappointing situation. I adored the film's soundtrack, however, which consists of a variety of popular melodies and catchy rhythmical tones. The included music induces suspicion as well as mood settings and an effective black comedy atmosphere.Drowning Mona works as a slapstick comedy because of two reasons. 1) The subject matter is literal and serious, creating an obscure yet black funny mood, and 2) the actors create screwball personalities for their characters. If this kind of comedy has those elements, it nearly guarantees its success. I give this film a recommendation to fans of its gender, albeit marginally.Brought to you by Destination Films.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe I paid to see this movie","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that I generally like the movies I see. I try to find something likeable in them. Even if I dislike the content or the actors, there is some cinematic quality that is unique.This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. The plot was non-existent, and the ending was so out of nowhere that my head is still spinning. All this would have been acceptable if not for these other issues. There are so many loose ends that you wonder if 30 minutes of the movie was cut out.In addition to the movie being poorly written, it was poorly directed. I stopped counting the visible boom microphones after 15. You see it in the picture inside, outside, everywhere but in the car. I can't believe the director missed it so many times. It's not a once in a while thing, it's very present and noticeable throughout the movie. There are other continuity errors, but this was the worst.Overall the acting is bad. Danny DeVito does well with a bland character, and William Fichtner (Phil) is very good in his role. The rest of the cast made little to no effort. Casey Affleck mumbles and whines his lines. While this is part of the character, it gets annoying and it is hard to understand him at times. "},{"Title":"Wished They'd Drowned Me Instead...","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Normally, I can find just about ANYTHING that's a saving grace in a movie to have a small soft spot for it. NOT THIS MOVIE! I'm ashamed to say I saw it in the theaters and paid full price for it. I couldn't tell which would feel better...getting my money back or just being shot to make the movie end faster. The characters are annoying as hell! The plot is one of the stupidest I've ever come across, and normally I like a good murder mystery. If you could actually call this movie that. I believe that you were supposed to of course hate the character of Mona, played by Bette Midler, but in the long run I couldn't find a single character that I didn't want to kill off myself.If you're thinking of watching this movie...please, don't. Go get hit by a car, eat shards of glass, or have an intellectual conversation with Paris Hilton. Just please, for the love of all that is holy, DO NOT watch this movie, even a masochist may find it too much torture to handle. Trust me. I'd give it a 0/10, but they don't have a rating THAT low. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  For some reason I allowed myself to suffer through the entire movie.  In our house Drowning Mona is a joke whenever we see a bad flick -- it's alway, Wasn't as bad as Drowning Mona.  If you're thinking about this movie - forget it!  Considering the cast I don't know how it was so bad, but trust me, it is bad! "}{"Title":"I feel cheated","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Every once in a while comes a film that is so poorly made that you feel everyone involved in the process--from the screenwriter who had a flash of inspiration to the viewers who mercifully hit the stop button on their DVD players--must feel violated and cheated. This is one such movie.In a way, it's difficult to put your finger on the reason this film doesn't work, since there seems to be so much potential here, somewhere. A cast that includes Danny Devito, Bette Midler, Jamie Lee Curtis and Neve Campbell could normally carry any script pretty far, for example (and as it turns out, Kathleen Wilhoite and William Fichtner really shine here). But between Casey Affleck's inconceivably amateurish performance and an irrelevant soundtrack that is mostly derived from Three Dog Night's greatest hits, neither these fine actors nor the script, nor the filmmakers, can be taken seriously. I'm sure Casey Affleck is a fine young man with many talents. But acting is not one of them. Just because his brother Ben is a popular, if overrated actor does not mean that star material runs in the family. Any movie that makes me want to pat Danny Devito on the shoulder and tell him it'll be all right because he had just been contractually forced to practice his craft opposite Affleck is a theatrical experience that upsets me. It certainly does not entertain.I give this movie 2 stars out of 10 one for Wilhoite, and one for Fichtner. Nothing else in this film deserves special recognition.  "},{"Title":"A dark comedy that falls flat","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This film had potential.  There are many name actors who all appear to be having a good time.  The premise of the whole town hating Mona Dearly could have worked if Bette Midler had played the part less over the top and more sinister.  Casey Affleck is seriously miscast and has no chemistry with Neve Campbell who is the best thing in the movie.  Danny DeVito (sorry Danny)is just unbelievable as the Sheriff. The whole film has the aura of a project gone bad. "},{"Title":"More of a black whimsy than a black comedy","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Really oddball attempt at black comedy doesn't quite hit the mark because it's not really all that funny.  It is full of screwy touches, such as the Yugos with personalized plates, Three Dog Night music, and nonlinear storytelling.  The performances are all over the map, too; Danny DeVito and Tracey Walter underplay, Bette Midler and Neve Campbell play it fairly straight.  Paul Ben-Victor, Paul Schulze and Peter Dobson are funny as the mostly incompetent and inattentive deputies.  Jamie Lee Curtis is all over the place, while Bill Fichtner never quite registers at all.  Casey Affleck, as marginally the main character, gives perhaps the most bizarre (and frankly, irritating) performance.  A few scenes hit the mark, and there is a bit of interest in the actual mystery question of Who Killed Mona?, but more laughs were needed to offset the merely whimsical touches of the screenplay. "},{"Title":"Mixed Feelings","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Unlike most reviewers, I do not think that DROWNING MONA deserves unstinted praise or sheer opprobrium. But Director Nick Gomez had difficulties in obtaining equilibrium and unity for his movie. Attempting to tell a rather sordid story with levity, he succeeds  as an aside ( or was it his true goal ?) in shedding a revealing light on a small rural American community( hence probably some harsh reviews). But for the opening scene, he chooses to show Mona  only in flashbacks, which is added difficulty to the film unity; at the same time, each  flashback permits to define aspects of Mona's  personality and life, i.e. pure evil mixed with unhappiness ( indifferent cheating husband,  love/hate relationship with her no-good son, unattractive looks , resentment at the unfairness shown in the knife-throwing contest).. Compared to this complex part,  the other main characters remain sketchy or blurred, due to an underdeveloped script.There are also some attempts at pure slapstick some fail miserably ( the cowardice shown by the two cops, the ever-tipsy clergyman ); others fare better ( the mortician, the lesbian garage owner ) but remain small additions to the plot,  no parts of it. The casting shows similar discrepancies de Vito has had better parts in the past ( but is partly responsible thereof, as a producer of the film) ; Casey Affleck is not a worse actor than his brother    ( which is not saying much! ); and Neve Campbell tries hard, with mixed results. More positive aspects  Bette Midler is almost too convincing as the malevolent Mona ( but quite moving in the above knife-throwing contest scene );  Jamie Lee Curtis has composed with apparent delight the unglamorous part of the oversexed waitress; newcomer Marcus Thomas is rather good as the son, and William Fichtner really excellent as the husband. Will Ferell , as the mortician, has the best line of the film ( speaking of Mona's death  I have seen people more upset over losing change in a candy machine - in France they replaced change  by  10 cents , which is perhaps even slightly better ). The ever-reliable Tracey Walter, as the angler/ murderer,is oddly serene and moving.While the scenery and music are quite satisfactory. In short, a not-too-bad movie where it could have been a very good one.  "},{"Title":"Could have been better...","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  (from a review by Jon Bastian)Drowning Mona is a lot like watching an episode of Wheel of Fortune, if you're a fan. You may root and cheer and laugh while the game is on, but half an hour later, you won't remember the solution to the big money puzzle. It's a shame, because the film is full of great actors playing incredibly well defined and minutely observed characters. By the final credits, though, the plot twists and character bits fall a few turns short of being satisfying.First, a few words on what Drowning Mona is not, ad campaigns to the contrary. It is not a Bette Midler star vehicle. In fact, despite Ms. M. playing the titular drownee, she isn't in the film nearly enough. In the far too few scenes in which we see her play a shrill, nasty, zaftig, white trash harridan, she steals the show -- and it's no stretch at all to imagine why anyone (or everyone) would want to kill her -- which brings me to the second point. Much is made in the film's advertising that the entire population of the small town of Verplanck, New York, wants to Mona dead. In reality, there are far too few suspects, and that is the main point on which the movie falls down. The solution to the mystery is rather obvious, despite a big fat red herring planted about midway, and so the resolution feels unfulfilling. It's kind of like going to Verplanck's only diner expecting the heart attack special and only getting the vegetarian plate.  "},{"Title":"An uninspired moment","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  DROWNING MONA (2000) **So what we have here? A story about an eccentric and unbearable woman who everyone in the town has a strong desire to kill. One day she dies victim of a sabotage. Everyone becomes a suspect. Everyone is also eccentric. There is a marriage coming up and the police chief must find the killer before that. As you can see, the story is banal, but would be pretty interesting if it had fallen in the hands of the Coen brothers. Unfortunately, it didn't.I may say at once that DROWNING MONA is not an awful movie. It is pretty bad, but somehow watchable if you have nothing else to do. However, it could have been much, much better if they had good director and writer to turn the banal story into one delightful film. Nick Gomez (WHO????????????), the director, tries to make something odd and hilarious, but he never gets above the shamefully mediocre. Oh, well! There is a very decent cast here. I usually don't like Bette Midler's kind of humor, but I can stand her at times. In DROWNING MONA, she is in the screen for not much time, but she repeats everything she uses to do. I said decent cast, didn't I? Neve Campbell was never great, because she always acts the same way, but she is nice and truly convinces. Danny DeVitto is always above the average and he is the best here. Jamie Lee Curtis is keeping on with her failed career (no, we still didn't forget VIRUS); she is surprisingly good here. There are other good supporting actors, but one delivers one of the worst performances of the year Casey Affleck, Neve's fiancé. If DROWNING MONA can't be great, it has everything to be an average film. There are some good moments, contrasting to very bad ones. The pacing is uneven, the soundtrack is peculiar not in a great way, the characters are bland but interesting, some situations are funny. It is average, watchable matinee film, right? No, because of the conclusion. It is so bad, so uninteresting, so idiotic, that makes the film even worse. The identity of the killer is so obvious, arbitrary, stupid, that we can't believe. I still thought there would be something else, but there wasn't. If the hits and misses are there, the end threw away all the mystery.The final result of DROWNING MONA is not very positive. I'm being generous of giving it 2 stars, so maybe some day I change my rating. It went straight to video here in Brazil because of the box office flop in the US. If I had seen it on the movies, it would have been a disastrous experience.  "},{"Title":"It all kind of fizzles at the end...","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Drowning Mona is a frustrating comedy. It has interesting characters and situations and I found myself really enjoying the film--only to have it all fizzle at the end. And, with such an unsatisfying ending and its inability to capitalize on a potentially funny situation, it's a film that you probably shouldn't rush to see on DVD.This film is very unusual in that one of the main characters of the film, Mona (Bette Midler) is killed in the first few minutes of the movie. The car she's driving has been sabotaged and the vehicle goes careening into the river. The head of the local police, Chief Rash (Danny DeVito), investigates the case and soon learns that the brakes were tampered with in multiple ways--as if someone REALLY wanted to make sure she was dead. And so, through a series of interviews and flashbacks, you learn who did this as well as what a thoroughly awful and hateful person Mona was.The film gets high marks for setting the right stage for a comedy. Mona is so awful I kept thinking that EVERYONE in town was in on the murder---sort of like in Murder on the Orient Express. But t just didn't capitalize on the comedy gold that seemed to be awaiting the viewer. Funny people, a funny idea and then...nothing.By the way, I noticed that a lot of reviewers didn't like how dark the tone was of the film. I actually liked that a lot--I just didn't think they were able to capitalize on this properly--hence my score of 6--which indicates it's mildly amusing and watchable but nothing more. "},{"Title":"It Put Me Right To Sleep !!","Date":"25 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Drowning or some other form of violent death appeared to be the inevitable fate of the far less than beloved Mona. This is a film that cannot pretend to take itself seriously. You almost don't care who killed Mona...it could even have been someone in the theater audience who broke the fourth wall and killed her. Miss M is anything but Divine in the time she spends on-screen. It is hard for me to believe that the diminutive DeVito was chief of police in this one...in real life I don't think any police department would accept someone his size...though I could be wrong. And then...Yugos...Yugos...everywhere !! I thought I was turning into a Yugo at one point. And to think this car is now defunct...oh well it was a nice try. The location felt a lot more like way down south, rather than way down east, as in upstate New York. And what there is of a plot gets confused and distorted by flashbacks. I am surprised this one made it to the theaters...and it won't be counted as one of the better efforts of Mr DeVito. I recommend it to folks who cannot sleep. This will have you snoring in no time. "},{"Title":"White trash brings it on","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I finally figured out why so many people consider this movie to be a piece of crap. It's a comedy about 'white trash' and the people who can't find humor in it are from that group of 'white trash'. They can't laugh at their own miserable existence, or even recognize it, so how can they catch the jokes in this movie? That's your problem Phil, you don't think! Morbid humor is far past the limited range these people have in their pea-brains. The side-line humor is endless in this movie. It never stops being hilarious. OH RONA is great, along with the super-intellect police, the influenced priest, and all the other side characters. So you 'white trash' limited ones out there, keep laughing at each others racist/sexist jokes and Jay Leno. People with brains more advanced than the New York Times can enjoy humor that requires some thinking, some memory, some intellectual analysis of the human condition, and so on. You people probably can't even get the humor in Dr. Strangelove. "},{"Title":"I don't get it....","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I can't understand how anyone can't find at least one redeeming quality to this movie, I think it is HILARIOUS, but maybe it's because I also live in New York, though have never driven a Yugo, but that's not the point either, LOL....you have to accept this film for what it is and was intended to be; an incredulously deep, dark comedy, in the style of the classic 'noir' only with a satirical edge and in the daytime. One has to sympathize with Sheriff Rash, wait, no, no, he's not actually a sheriff, LOL....the witty, yet gruff and banal yet exaggerated repartee, no...banter, is the element that makes this film a true comedy classic, I would equate the likes of this comedy with that of The Birdcage, an incredulous, somewhat exasperating take on normal everyday life and the people that help to convolute it, LOL.....I love you Mona Dearly...but wouldn't miss you too terribly, LOL...see it, only have your tongue in your cheek! EXCELLENT! "}{"Title":"Oh Verplank","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" If you have ever been to the real Verplank, you would know why they picked the name of the town for this story. I grew up in the town next to Verplank. And if any group of sorry trash needed to be ridiculed in a movie, it is Verplank. Too bad they didn't film in the real Verplank. Probably too trashy for the producers. Verplank Does not have the colorful characters found in this movie. The residents lack even the endearing qualities that Mona displays. And even YUGO would be ashamed to be associated with them. Verplank is referred to as the Point because it is a point of land in the Hudson river. But in reality, it is a butt. And when I saw the opening credits to this movie I laughed because Verplank had found it rightful place in movie history. "},{"Title":"Drowning Mona is almost my favorite movie!","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" This movie is exceptional! I have seen it more than a hundred times, maybe 2... I own it. As a matter of fact..... I JUST WATCHED IT. Everyday I look at my DVD's and say....what do I wanna watch? Then I say, Jill... just put in Drowning Mona, then I say, well, it is a good movie. It's the scenery and the whole ambiance of the place they taped the movie in that rocks. If you watch it with the commentary on you'll see that even though the movie's supposed to be in New York state, its filmed in Cali. Also, it has very lush scenery and lots of greens. I like that. It's one of those films you can put on for a specific feeling... I also like how They give different references to how Jeff lost his hand. That's a highlight for me. Go watch this f-ing movie, now! "},{"Title":"That's your problem Phil, you don't think!!!","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Substitute just about any of the negative reviewers of this movie with the name Phil. Come on depressor's, open your brains. This movie is filled with dark humor. Also, regular humor is continuous. Every line or other line is loaded. If you want a movie that tells you how and when to laugh, go see some more simply structured movies; School of Rock, Scary Movie 1 2 3, Orange County, Teaching Mrs Tingle, Toy Story 2, The Nun, Die Hard (anything), Terminator (anything), any movie with Lindsey Lohan, Arnold Schwartsnegger, blah blah.....etc. Now, it's true that a lot of Indie movies that are supposed to be funny, really do suck. But Drowning Mona is hilarious from start to finish. DeVito is a straight man, and he's great at it. Midler, Affleck, Campbell, Ferrel, Curtis, Fichtner, Wilhoilt, etc. are throwing out lines throughout the movie that gets me hyperventilating. This movie can make you laugh if you have a sense of humor. You do have to THINK as you're watching it though. "},{"Title":"critics are like diapers","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" The critics at Rotten Tomatoes hated this. They gave it something like 26 percent. What a$$holes. So with this in mind, let's finish the subject line. Critics are like diapers. They're full of $hit and they need to be thrown the phuck out. This movie was strangely hilarious. So it's not the Mona Lisa of comedy. So what? Bette Midler was great and so was Danny Devito. The only complaint I had was that that dickwad Jeff didn't get more hosed than he did but I guess I can live with him getting his hand cut off. Also, remember near the beginning that flashback kind of scene with that guy who punched out that chick in the bar? Did you see the dork with the glasses standing behind him? Where do they get these guys? "},{"Title":"Dark and Grim, with a Twist.","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" this is one of my favorite movies, its because of all the dark comedy that is going on the whole time, when you learn just how bad Mona is, you're glad she's dead as well. the flashbacks are hilarious, and terrible, Bette Midler was one Righteous Bitch in this movie! You really don't see Bette playing a bad guy all that often. I think some of the lines were damn hilarious, as well as the shocking secret of what Danny DeVito experimented with when he was younger. LOL! i have shown this movie to 2 of my friends so far, and they both agreed that it was one of the darkest movies that they ever saw, but also they thought that the movie soundtrack was amazing, i have to agree and have plans to buy me the soundtrack one of these days. "},{"Title":"Ranking in my favourite top 5 comedies!","Date":"21 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" This film is full of so much talent it makes me sick. Extremely funny from beginning to end, this film will stick in your memory.Basic plot Wyatt Rash(Danny DeVito), a local police chief from Verplanck, New York, investigates a mysterious death of Mona Dearly(Bette Midler), a spiteful, loud-mouthed and around the town highly unpopular woman, who drove her Yugo off the cliff and drowned in the river. After finding out that the accident was caused by a brake failure, Rash supposes that Mona was actually murdered and begins to investigate who could be the possible killer. However, this shows itself as a quite difficult assignment, since almost everyone in town had something against her. The movie co-stars Neve Campbell, Jamie Lee Curtis and Casey Affleck among all, and is also some sort of spoof about the Yugo car company using the town of Verplanck as a test area for their new model years ago. Every vehicle in town, with the exception of trucks and police cruisers, is a Yugo.This film is not for everyone, so if you have a weak sense of humor, stay away from this one! "},{"Title":"if the Yugo were a movie....","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" A Yugo is small and kindov funny, and can get lost in a crowd...so could this movie. And what's with all the low ratings? I honestly think that, although this isn't a smart movie or one that needs to be read into whatsoever, you will either get it or not get it. Much like Bottlerocket or I heart Huckabees. Set in upstate New York (Verplank, NY, to be precise) in the 1980s when the Yugo car company chose to use the town as a testing ground for their newly designed automobile...but that's a whole different story.this is a prime example of not judging a book by its cover. at least the DVD cover of this makes it look like The Money Pit or something.this isn't just a stupid comedy, the writing is dead-on and the cast is incredible. Highlights Will Ferrel as the amateur pornographer funeral home manager; Bette Midler making fun of her bad reputation as being livid and irrational; Casey Affleck in a puffy blond wig; Jamie Lee Curtis as a down-and-out chain-smoking, mullet wearing, bass playing waitress.for fans of rushmore, the burbs, the ref, the national lampoon vacation series, wet hot American summer, serial mom, zoolander, three amigos, the jerk, etc...there is so much more to this movie than some awful Saturday night live spin-off, 86 minute gimmick. the characters are strong, the performances are genius, and the jokes are priceless. the only thing that bothers me, albeit very minor, is the use of flashbacks...but i don't think it was used as a crutch;i think it was the only way to tell the story.Q He said 'ovaries'? A Oh yeah. All the time.Also, if you pay close attention, when DeVito is in the mechanic's garage you can hear a little homage to Fletch by way of the fictional Phetzer Valve. Kudos. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Movie!","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I saw this on a whim knowing nothing about the film. I was pleasantly surprised. I am a big fan of dark comedies and this film delivers laugh after laugh. Some scenes I laughed myself to tears. Casey Affleck delivers a wonderful performance as the the helpless, pitiful likable protagonist. And all the characters that surround him deliver great roles with everyone adding their own bits of funny pieces to this comedic puzzle. From the Yugo cars that seem to be everywhere in the movie to the climatic ending there are plenty of laughs in this one with many great rewind moments. This movie is definitely not for everyone but if you like subtle humor, odd characters and dark sense of humor, you should find the movie appealing to you. "},{"Title":"great movie with a great cast","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I bought this movie in Englend when i was there on vacation 4 months ago and i got this movie in a 40 DVD pack and i am glad i did because if i did not buy it i would never of seen this really great movie.This movies about how a woman that every body hates drives her car off a cliff into a river and she died and every body in town is a suspect.There is an all star cast in this movie with actors and actress like the beautiful Neve Campbell,Danny Devito,Jamie Lee Curtis,Bette Midler,Casey Affleck,William Fichtner,Paul Ben-Victor and Will Ferrell.Over all this is a must watch movie and there are heaps of good scenes and my rating is 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An average whodunit comedy.","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Casey Affleck, Neve Campbell, Danny Devito, Jamie Lee Curtis, Bette Midler, William Fichtner and Will Ferrell.A fairly amusing comedy about the death of the mean and cruel Mona(Midler). The film starts off with her death(riding her car off a cliff due to cut brakes) and then goes on. This then goes to a bunch of people that are suspects and the police chief(Devito) trying to find out who did it. His daughter(Neve Campbell, who is absolutely beautiful in this film) is dating a local lawnmower(Affleck) who actually did the murder. This is not that great, but not that bad either. Will Ferrell plays Cubbie, a stupid funeral worker that shouts a lot. Luckily he's not in much of it, because he is annoying.my rating-C75%. PG-13 for some language and some brief bloody violence, and sexuality, including a lot of sexual innuendo. 106 mins. "}{"Title":"Odd but Smart and Cleverly Done Black Comedy.","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" An middle age woman by the name of Mona Dearly (Bette Midler), which she drove everyone crazy in the small town but Mona died while driving herself into a river. But it's turns out to be an act of murder. Chief of Police Wyatt Rash (Danny DeVito) starts to investigate the murder but Mona had herself a town full of enemies, including her cheating husband (William Ficthner), her heartless dimwit son (Marcus Thomas), her husband's mistress (Jamie Lee Curtis), The Chief's Daughter (Neve Campbell) & The Chief's Daughter Fiancée (Casey Affleck). Although people did hated the late Miss Dearly a lot, it is up to the chief to find the murderer. While the town's people rather wants to know who to thank.Directed by Nick Gomez made a clever off-beat Black Comedy that was a Box Office disappointment in the Winter of 2000. It is also one of the most underrated comedies in years. DeVito, who is also one of the film's executive producers. DeVito gives a good hearted performance. Affleck is also good at the nervous fiancée to the Chief's (Although Affleck regret it to be in this movie). The highlight of this movie is the highly talented cast.The Canadian DVD has an sharp Pan & Scan (1.331) transfer and an good-Dolby Stereo 2.0 Surround Sound. While the Canadian DVD has no extras. While the American DVD is Presented in an anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. The American DVD has a trailer, director's commentary and deleted scenes with/without Commentary. This misunderstood comedy is a forgotten gem, don't miss it. Will Farrell has a çameo in the film. Written by Peter Steinfeld (Be Cool). (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Off-comedy...","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I must admit, i liked it, for it's strange black humour, it's strange character work, it's strange world and for being a strange comedy. It's not one of those films I sat, make that lied on my back laughing my a.. off, no it was just fun, calm and easy to understand, it's a bit like Copland, well just very off. The story line is actually not slow, it's just the same easy-going film, entertaining and great fun, with a bit if thinking thrown in, very good. I just can't understand how come it isn't that acclaimed, and why Casey Affleck isn't proud of his work, it's one of the better films with him i've seen. Actually, the entire cast is pretty good. A very solid 8 from this movielover. "},{"Title":"Bette Midler as a royal pain with 9 lives","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Bette Midler, once again playing herself, gives everybody and their brother daily doses of annoyance. An entire family, including the in-laws want to do away with Mona. Set among trailer park country bumpkins, the story is one roller-coaster ride of physical and mental abuse. Fans of Bette Midler and Danny DeVito may have the stomach to sit through this whole fiasco.Comedy fans with somewhat lofty standards may want to pass on this jumbled-up non-sense. A few quick laughs will keep you from getting angry about your time investment, but most folks sure can do much better than this. It'll do in a pinch, but non-fans of the wacky star will be disappointed by the meager comedy offering. "},{"Title":"I liked it a lot.","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I don't understand the hostility to this movie. I thought it was an offbeat sleeper full of laugh-out-loud details, really funny dialog and some great (albeit bizarre) performances. Not all of the scenes made it, but overall the movie made me laugh out loud repeatedly (embarassing since I was on the train).I guess it's just one of those movies that is going to arouse strong feelings. If you have a taste for the unusual, then you might check it out. After all, you may be one us bizarros who really like it.I notice from the demographics that the movie does best among us old fossils who grew up in the 60's and 70's. Maybe it's the drugs. "},{"Title":"Expect nothing, cut your expectations in half, then see it.","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Okay, so here's the thing. I bought this movie for $1. I bought it knowing full well that it was supposed to be terrible. I also bought it under the mistaken impression that it was Madeline Kahn's last film (in fact she doesn't appear in it; Kahn's last film is a different bad movie with a woman's name in the title, Judy Berlin, but I digress...) A minute or so into the credits I realized I was wrong.With all that in mind, my expectations were so unbelieveably LOW, that I sort of enjoyed Drowning Mona. Admittedly, this movie may hold the record for wasting the largest amount of comedic talent (DeVito, Curtis and Midler all together for THIS?) But there were about 3 places where I laughed out loud at silly jokes. Neve Campbell wasn't her usual listless and dull self.Casey Affleck's usual on-screen awkwardness actually fits his character here, and he looked sort of cute as a blond. The Yugo joke that runs through the film even sort of holds up.(I will note, however, that even with my expectations pounded into the sand, I still found Will Ferrell to be unbearable. He does the same unfunny shtick over and over -- an overblown caricature of a middle-aged guy with an over-active id? It was a little bit funny for half a sketch on SNL 5 years ago...and that's IT. Will someone please stop putting this man in movies?!!Please.)Ferrell aside however, all in all, this was a more pleasant 96 minutes that I've spent with many an other films. "},{"Title":"Avoid this film at all costs","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I couldn't believe great talent like Jamie Lee Curtis, and Danny DeVito would star in Drowning Mona, a dull, one dimensional film with poor comedy. In a cast that includes Casey Affleck, Neve Campbell, William Fichtner, and Bette Midler; I expected to see a much better film than I did.However, Drowning Mona could not stay above water even if a rescue had been asked for. The ending was so cliché that even I could think of a better one. This is one film I could have done without. At least it gave me the opportunity to tell others to stay away from Drowning Mona.  "},{"Title":"it's good, but it's not brill...","Date":"12 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona is a black comedy with a twist. when Mona, the town bitch, drives into a river the sheriff is gona have a hard time proving who would want to kill her, because the bottom line is- Who wouldn't?the main suspects are her husband Phill, his mistress Rona, her heart-less son Jeph and his business partner Bobby. the culprit is pretty obvious within the first 30mins, but it is worth watching, as it doesn't turn out quite as you think it will...Jamie-lee curtist is without a doubt the best thing about this film, and fans will love her. if you're not a fan, then this is probably not the first of her films to watch, as it doesn't show her off to her best advantage. not her best film, and not the best film for any of the cast, but worth a look.  "},{"Title":"I've seen people more upset over losing change in a candy machine.","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't without its quirks.  The town of Verplanck, New York is over run by Yugos, everyone has them and everyone has personalized license plates.  Something else everyone in Verplanck has is a hatred for Mona Dearly, and when she suddenly turns up dead after someone cuts her breaks, everyone in the town is a suspect.While the movie contains some funny moments they are too few and far between and a lot of the jokes fall flat on their face.  It's a decent comedy, but it tries to hard to intertwine a serious mystery plot.  Will Ferrell is pretty good as Cubby the Funeral Director (who runs a funeral home with a giant As Seen on TV sticker on the sign) and Jamie Lee Curtis turns in an excellent performance as Rona the waitress.  Other than that, there's nothing too special about Drowning Mona.4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Ok the first time","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  With all this star power you would assume the movie would be better than it was.  I did not dislike it but sure did not like it all that much.  I bought it just for the fact that it had everyone in it.  Guessed wrong didn't I. Kind of dumb plot what was there was decent just not that great.  "},{"Title":"A funny movie","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This is a hilarious black comedy with terrific acting, an interesting script, and some laugh-out-loud moments. Even my wife was laughing, and we rarely find the same things funny. It's incomprehensible to me that others would review this movie badly. If you are a fan of the absurd, you'll enjoy this movie. I give it 8.5 out of 10. "}{"Title":"This film is actually great","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  If you thought that Scream or I know what you did were good films... If you hate most indie titles, then avoid this film... BUT the writing was excellent, the characters are great and likable... the setting (in the town where yugo gave every resident a car) was great... Over all it is great.  "},{"Title":"Great underrated movie","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I am writing this because the current review has this as a bad film, which is so far from the truth, it's not even funny.  This movie has so many hilarious parts and a decent story-line and a good way of telling it. Danny Devito isn't that great in the movie, but does wonders behind the camera and you can see his dark-comedy a mile a way.  It's great.  William Finchter is awesome as Phil Dearly and Casey Affleck gives a hilarious performance as a shy landscaper.  Just about everything about this movie is funny and a lot of it is tongue in cheek or understated.  No, there is no falling down, or eating crap in this movie.  It's more of a satire of almost white trash and the hilarity that ensues.  Check it out!8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A very pleasant surprise","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie hasn't, as far as I know, been released in the UK.   I picked up a copy in a bin at Walmart in Richmond VA for $5.80 (there were some decent titles like THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS AND DOGS and ALL OF ME there, so it wasn't all dreck) but rather supposed that with a cast like this it had to be a real bummer. Both my lover and I were very pleasantly surprised to find it a real laugh out loud black comedy (I mean that literally).     It's pretty bleak in its view of its characters, most of whom are stupid and self-interested enough to make for a pretty misanthropic evening.   But Casey Affleck and Danny de Vito manage to keep their characters sympathetic enough that we both cared enough.     The film also manages to avoid the characters being glamorous, which is, I suspect, why a big audience wouldn't like it; this isn't a Hollywood view of small town white trash life.   I've never seen Jamie Lee Curtis being allowed to be sleazy without it being sexy glamorous sleazy. And Midler's harridan is genuinely unpleasant, not the comic OTT that one has come to expect / dread. I'm looking forward to seeing it again.  "},{"Title":"A 'Nuns on the Run' treatment of small town life.","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I like this quirky little film.  It is mild, the characters are exaggerated so you don't have to take the dark story seriously, and it is fun to watch the story unfold.'Drowning Mona' is comfortable to watch.  It was kinda fun the first time I saw it.  I have watched it many times since, and still find it ... mildly fun.  "},{"Title":"Gets Better and Better Every Time I see it","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I read most of these reviews and am surprised by how many disliked this movie! This is like the funniest movie of all time. I can't think of one thing I disliked...the cast was perfect. They all had such personalities and awesome lines. I can't count how many times I've seen this movie and I still laugh out loud at it. If you liked 200  Cigarettes this is another movie you'll love! Rent it if you love to laugh ;) "},{"Title":"A fun cheap DVD - Contains Spoilers","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie especially since everyone drives a Yugo and I am easily amused.  Mona Dearly (Bette Midler) and her family are so nasty!  If you pull up into her driveway, she'll smash out the head light on your Yugo with a golf club and kick your car as you back out.  When you get out of range, she'll throw the club at your Yugo and try to break the windsheild. What a B!  It's no wonder she ended up dead.  I think this campy who-done-it is worth seeing because it has an all star cast and cheezy humor.  There are interesting story lines that get revisited and expanded upon as the movie progresses, specifically about who killed Mona and who witnessed the deed. Not to give away the ending...but who DIDN'T kill Mona?!  Jamie Lee was great as a sleazy waitress but I thought Casey Aflecks wig was as bad as his acting. "},{"Title":"absolutely brilliant","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is simply amazing.  It takes a rather simple premise and turns it into an hysterical movie without much effort.  The casting choices were dead-on Bette Midler as a controlling, hateful woman that even the viewer wants to see dead; Casey Affleck, with his baby face, as one of the prime suspects; Danny DeVito as the head cop in a backwoods, boring town in rural New York where nothing criminal ever happens.  There were comic subtleties and clever visual jokes throughout the movie.  It's an intelligent comedy, and although it sometimes relies on mildly juvenile jokes, its bizarreness on the whole does not disappoint the viewer.  That's the word for it bizarre.  But it's a brilliant kind of bizarreness, absolutely brilliant. "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has to be the funniest movie ever! I admit, the first time I saw it I didn't laugh as hard as I do now. The second time around I just couldn't help but laugh the whole way through! It's awesome! I recommend everyone to see it! "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has to be the funniest movie ever! I admit, the first time I saw it I didn't laugh as hard as I do now. The second time around I just couldn't help but laugh the whole way through! It's awesome! I recommend everyone to see it! "},{"Title":"Highly underrated","Date":"10 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  My brother rented this on DVD and insisted I watch it. Not expecting anything brilliant, I sat down...and had a great laugh. I was also pleasantly surprised at the writing. Some of the lines were hilarious, especially the line that comes after the line I mentioned above. Not only this, but what starts out as stupid, mindless fun proves itself to be a smart, quirky little movie. Just because you don't have to think to enjoy it doesn't mean a lot of thinking wasn't involved to write Mona. I personally think it's one of the better black comedies, and have no idea why it got such mixed reviews. Ignore everyone with something negative to say about Drowning Mona and go see it for yourself! "}{"Title":"Waste of talent","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  A very poor effort to duplicate the success of Ruthless People but the two leads -and the entire supporting cast- can't carry it out by themselves. No good script, no jokes - nothing doing. I watched this film on video and smiled just once -perhaps in anticipation of a joke that didn't quite work out. Then I watched it again, in case I had missed something. No, both times it was equally unfunny and strained. "},{"Title":"Doesn't quite float","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona is a quirky film that tries to combine dark comedy, mystery, farce and screwball comedy.  Unfortunately, it doesn't entirely gel as any of those genres and the mix of all four causes it to become disjointed.  There are some good laughs.  It has its moments.  But the comedy is intermittent.  And there are significant periods of dullness between each success.  The second half of the film completely takes a serious turn and when it attempts a screwball climax, it doesn't successfully return from its dreary slump.  Even the attractive all-star cast isn't much help.  Each character is thin and we never really become engrossed in them.  I have to say, though, I did get a kick out of William Fichtner's attempt at a chic 1985 look, with an Afro and sideburns.  With a promising cast and promising previews, I expected to laugh a lot, lot more.  Drowning Mona has good comic potential, with a premise that could've been utilized well, but it often fails and aims low.Drowning Mona is a mediocre, often dull disappointment of a comedy.  Don't be fooled by the trailers!My score  5 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":" VERY FUNNY!","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"    Drowning Mona was very funny. The story is funny, and the cast is great! I enjoyed the performances by Bette Midler, Neve Campbell, Danny DeVito, Jamie Lee Curtis, etc. This movie is very funny and I enjoyed it. This was one of the funniest films of 2000. Anyways, I enjoyed this movie, and I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The most blah film I've ever seen.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Call me weird, but I actually wanted to see Drowning Mona when it came out in theaters. The cast was great, it looked funny (in a dark, mean way) and all in all, it looked good enough to warrant paying the theater fee. However, I never did get to see it on the big screen. What a relief.Bette Midler plays Mona, an annoying woman that gets on everyone's nerves. Mona lives in a small town and in the first 5 minutes of the film, she dies. Her brakes are cut and she crashes into the river. Who killed her? The rest of the film is told half in flashbacks and half in real time. Danny DeVito is a cop, Neve Campbell his daughter, Casey Affleck her boyfriend, William Fichtner Mona's husband, Jamie Lee Curtis his mistress and Will Ferrel some retarded guy. Up to now, not bad. The cast is attractive, the plot is thickening. This movie is very much intended to be a comedy, so what about the jokes? Well, they're blah. That's the only way to describe it. It's not that they're inherently bad. But then again, they're not exactly the greatest either. Think reheated Caroline In The City meets Richard Pryor. Wait, that's not exactly right. Anyway, by this you can guess that they're not too good. The acting is also very blah. What can you say about a film whose best performance is by Neve Campbell? Not much. Only rent if you absolutely have to. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Bette Midler is the Best!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona was awesome, the main reason that I rented it was because Bette Midler was in it. This movie is well worth your money, and time. I recommend that you rent it and watch it, again and again (Like I Did) Bette Midler and Danny DeVito are together again! "},{"Title":"Lightweight slapstick comedy","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona is a peculiar little comedy whodunit that delivers an occasional belly laugh, but suffers from a general lack of funniness.  Mona (Bette Midler) is about as abrasive and disgusting a human being as one could imagine.  When Mona drives her son's car off a cliff into the river, no one (including her family) is at all distressed; no one, that is, except Chief Rash (Danny DeVito) who suspects foul play.  As he goes about his investigation, we are treated to a slice of life in a weird town where everyone drives Yugos, and inhabited by bizarre people most of whom hate each other.This is basically a slapstick sitcom that falls flat all too often.  DeVito plays the straight man in a comedy without a real comedian.   Marcus Thomas, who plays Jeff, is probably the funniest character in the film due to his sheer stupidity.  Jamie Lee Curtis is also amusing as an oversexed waitress who is sleeping with two men and suspects that either one of them might have murdered Mona.  Neve Campbell plays the ditzy but lovable daughter of Chief Rash in a delightful departure from her recent roles.  After playing a dour and paranoid Sidney in Scream 3, this was a welcome change.  She clearly had a lot more fun with this role.  Bette Midler was deliciously evil as the witch.  Casey Affleck (brother of Ben Affleck) proves with his lifeless performance that acting ability is not necessarily genetic.This film had a number of good elements that it couldn't manage to pull together.  I rated it a 6/10.  For those in the mood for a little light slapstick, this might be worth a try. "},{"Title":"Too easy to solve.","Date":"19 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" The problem I had with this movie was that the killer is revealed in the first 45 minutes. Everyone in town wanted to murder this mean old woman and I don't even get a chance to try to guess who it is because they tell me right away. What a bad mystery. The only thing I did like was how mean the Mona was. She was probably angry all the time because she had to be in such a boring movie. Yawn. The killer is revealed and then the rest of the movie isn't worth watching anyway. It's just so dull and more exciting than dead fish. I don't even care that Mona died because it just wasn't believable to me. It's suppose to be a dark comedy but I laughed at it just as much as I laughed when I got a chemical burn. "},{"Title":"Downing Mona Is A Dud!","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Any movie that kills off Bette Midler in the first reel can't be all bad. Unfortunately, Laws of Gravity director Nick Gomez's Drowning Mona makes the fatal mistake of letting her abrasive mommie dearest villainess encore in the flashbacks. Bette has seen better days and better movies, such as The Rose and Ruthless People. Nevertheless, this low-brow, blue-collar, white-trash whodunit looks like a soggy retread of Billy Crystal's Throw Momma From the Train, also starring Danny DeVito, where veteran battle axe actress Anne Ramsey took top honors as a malicious mom. Appreciating the tacky humor in this cheesy comedy requires an abysmal lack of taste.Be Cool scenarist Peter Steinfeld scrapes the bottom of the barrel for buffoonery. The antics that unfold after a town of clueless cretins realizes that Mona Dearly didn't commit suicide when she plunged her automobile, a Yugo, into the Hudson River are mind-numbingly moronic. The town's lesbian mechanic, Lucinda (Kathleen Wihoite of Nurse Betty), shows Police Chief Wyatt Rush (Danny DeVito of The Rainmaker) that somebody tampered with Mona's brakes. You don't have to be Sherlock Holmes to figure out that Mona's murder was a mistake or who tops the list as the prime suspect. Needlessly, Steinfeld complicates this murder mystery the same way that Agatha Christie did Murder on the Orient Express. Chief Rash's problem is that everybody in the small Hudson Valley hamlet of Verplanck, New York, hated Mona. Even his own daughter, Ellen (Neve Campbell of Wild Things), implicates herself when she sings Ding, Dong, the Witch is Dead! Few of Mona's characters, except for Devito's amiable but pint-sized Andy of Mayberry cop, rate any sympathy. First, Mona herself is as obnoxious as an ogre. She chopped off the hand of her own son, Jeff (Marcus Thomas of Cowboy Up), when he tried to take a swig of her beer! Rumors about how Jeff lost his hand will either horrify you or have you howling in hilarious agony. Second, Jeff deserved his misfortune. As a partner in a local landscaping outfit, he sabotaged it by running their lawn mower over a customer's pet pooch. No, they don't show the poor dog getting ground down. Third, fearing the wrath of Mona, Jeff's wimpy partner, Bobby Calzone (Casey Affleck of Gone, Baby, Gone), doesn't have the guts to fire him. Fourth, Mona's own adulterous hubby, Phil Dearly (William Fichtner of Armageddon), complains about spousal abuse. In a cartoonish fit of rage, Mona brains him with a frying pan when she learns about his extramarital affair with a slutty waitress, Rona Mace (Jamie Lee Curtis of Halloween), at the local diner. Later, we learn that Rona has been banging Jeff, too! Nick Gomez, who also helmed New Jersey Drive, lacks the knack for comedy. Drowning Mona tanks a quality cast as quickly as a Yugo can sink. The best joke here is that Verplanck, New York, served as a test market for Yugos, so everybody tools around in them, even the cops! Despite all its stars, Downing Mona deserves only one star for its rating. "},{"Title":"Is it a Shag or a Mullet?","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" From 1986-1989, I was a student at one of the US's more notorious southern Christian colleges. One of my best friends was from Little Rock; she and her sister both attended the school. Their father decided that instead of them getting one car to share between them, he would buy them both Yugos; my friend a white one and her sister a red one. So I spent a lot of time in Yugos in the late 80s.If you're still laughing at this story at this point, take note of that superior perspective, because that's what made me knock down my rating of Drowning Mona to a 7.Interesting though morose and bizarre story, absurdist running gags (wheel of fortune, personalized yugos, dead puppies), nutty script, a town full of reprehensible, dislikeable characters, with Bette Middler playing the Reverse-Diva. Which is still to say, The Diva.We're supposed to laugh at Verplank, NY because the people there drive ridiculous cars that can't be taken seriously. Thus, they shouldn't be taken seriously. We're supposed to laugh at them because they are working class whites. We're supposed to laugh whenever they cue the banjo music. Personally, I couldn't appreciate the snooty screen presentation of the characters.But then, I also found fault with the characterization of Chinese-Americans in Freaky Friday, I know, I'm just no fun at all. But after watching the director's commentary track, one can hardly blame certain performers for resenting what was done with their parts. Nick Gomez, you should know better, from start to finish. No wonder he hasn't made any more big-screen films, lol.So on to the merits. Now, was that a shag or a mullet on Rona, of the chain earcuff. What sort of girls wear chain earcuffs?? Is Bobby no-top-lip Calzone hoarse, or just a husky tenor? Is there such a thing as a husky tenor?? Will Ferrell's character is a leather daddy who embalms people. Alrighty, then. And Rona was sleeping with Jeph? Really? Uh wow, OK.And they actually kept that unmotivated, predictable lecherous lesbian stereotype scene...remind me, why? Dude.7/10 for there being no answers to these questions (not necessarily a bad thing). Three points for the trademark JLC sarcastic nyahhh face, expertly delivered to that lady who forgot to remember Phil was dead. And two more for Rona's black high top Converse, and Fender basses, and was that really a marching bass drum in her apartment? "},{"Title":"How did anyone find this script funny enough to produce?","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  There are times when you see a film and wonder a great many things about it.  With this film, you are left wondering how it got financed, how any of the producers found it funny and why a fairly good cast found this good enough to star in it.  But if you really break down that last thought you can see that the very reason that a cast like this starred in it is because of who they are.  Danny Devito, although his name alone sounds quite venerable in Hollywood circles, really hasn't had a hit in the producer's chair since Get Shorty and Jamie Lee Curtis hasn't really had a hit that she could call her own since God knows when.  Neve Campbell got incredibly lucky with Scream so you can't really say she has Hollywood figured out yet and Bette Midler is a miracle, she really is.  Her character is the same in every film she does.. she wines and moans and gets mean and well, we've all seen it before.  If I didn't know that she acts on screen, I would say that she is like this in real life, a miserable bitch that tries to belittle everyone else, but hey, those are just the characters that she plays... aren't they?  And as for Casey Affleck and William Finchter, well they are still wet behind the ears when it comes to the game, so we can forgive them for being in trash like this.Drowning Mona starts off with Bette Midler getting into a car and driving over the edge of a cliff into the lake.  We then meet the usual suspects and we are left to make our minds up as to who killed Mona Dearly.  We then meet Mona through a series of flashbacks and we realize that she is the nastiest woman on the face of this planet.  She is mean because she is mean, maybe she is mad at being born, I'm not sure but she is always bitter.  So seeing her dead is not that big of a deal and if the film would have ended right there after we find out how much of a bitch she was, then I would have felt better than I did at the conclusion of the film.So now we meet her husband, her idiot son, the town slut, the town police chief, his daughter and her fiancee, the butch female mechanic, the three stupid small town deputees, a bar tender and two sex craved part time characters and a guy that fishes.  You then put all of them into situations that don't make any sense what so ever, and no one really cares about.  You have wheel of fortune sex fetishes, dead dogs that are run over with the lawn mower, a hand that is missing because of stupidity, a town that all drives Yugos and a slew of other ridiculous and ( here's the capper ) unfunny elements that don't add up to anything.  There are elements of this in the Coen's world like in Fargo and Raising Arizona, but they are at least funny to compliment the bizaare.  There is really nothing funny about this film. In the Coen's world people are strange because they are strange, you believe that is the way they are.  In this town, there was not one moment when I believed what was going on wasn't Hollywood.  It was lazy, stupid and just plain bad.  To show how unstable a woman Mona is, in one scene, we see her lose a knife wielding contest.  But instead of having us understand this woman by at least writing a good scene with her, we get a scene that looks like it was written by someone in grade 7 drama class, and that is not cynicism ( which I've been accused of from time to time ) that is the honest truth.  I was embarassed to see how it went down.  And to see how it all folds out, how the film ends, is a travesty.  There are so many things to complain about in this film, but I am going to stop there.  Just know that this is a terrible waste of money if you go.  This is a March release, just before the summer films start parading their way into theaters in two months.  This is what you might call, shelf space that the studio had to get rid of so they unleashed it to the public.  What they should have done is burn it and send the ashes out to sea. 1 out of 10 "}{"Title":"Awful!!!","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie, I vowed to make it my last. My aunt and I walked out of the theater halfway into the film. Jamie Lee Curtis was hideous to look at, Casey Affleck cannot act (and therefore lingers on in the shadow of his older brother Ben), Neve Campbell's accent in the movie was obviously fake, the jokes were awful, and the script is very poorly written. This movie was like a bad cherry pie, the only good cherries being Danny DeVito and Bette Midler. DeVito was likeable and funny as the detective, and Midler was able to pull off a bitchy attitude beautifully as the title character. They pretty much upstaged everyone else. Why, then, would two great actors sign up to help create the worst movie in all history? I give this movie two stars out of ten, one star for Midler and DeVito each.  "},{"Title":"This limited release should have been a lot more limited.","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona Mona Dearly is ugly, vulgar, nasty and violent - lacking any redeeming qualities.  So, when she drowns in a car accident the biggest problem facing the sheriff is narrowing down the list of suspects, which happens to include everyone who knew her. The goal of any movie - be it a comedy, drama or horror - is to have interesting characters that you care about on some level.  It doesn't matter whether you love 'em or loathe 'em, but you have to feel something. Drowning lacks any such characters the hero is a whining, sniveling loser who deserves to fail, his vacuous kewpie doll of a wife serves absolutely no purpose, his inbred manner-less idiotic sidekick is beneath contempt&#133; need I go on? One can only hope that these idiots would drown in the shallow end of the gene pool.  I kept waiting for a carnage laden multi-Yugo pileup, a shooting spree or a cataclysmic flood to liven things up, but no such luck. It's a shame that Mona wasn't driving a bus filled with the entire cast when she went over the cliff.  Let's hope this dies a quick death at the box office. "},{"Title":"Bad enough to have you drowning your sorrows","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Great cast. Poor film.Note to director- what is this mess???? - a comedic whodunit? This film bored me senseless. I've no idea why such a talented cast signed up to this after reading such a terrible script. By the end of it all you will not give a monkeys who Drowned Mona, indeed if she had lived the film would have surely been better as Midler is the best character in it!.  "},{"Title":"It Stinks","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  For the first time ever, I am giving a score of 1 for this wretched - this truly wretched and awful film. The action is glacial and is a pastiche of silly feedbacks that try to amuse but do not. A terrible waste of comedic talent here. The few moments that Bette Midler and Danny DeVito are allowed to come forth are all too brief. Shame on the producers of this horror and double shame on the people who think this worthless film is good. Those few respondents who mentioned that was the best film that they ever saw  need to go more often to the cinema. Enough said - go peel potatoes or something. You have better things to do than waste your time on this.  "},{"Title":"Unremittingly awful","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This was billed as a comedy. I turned it off after 50 minutes. I couldn't stand it. I hadn't laughed once, and was finding it increasingly depressing.Why made the likes of Danny DeVito and Bette Midler want to appear in this cinematic drivel? I can't believe they needed the money. "},{"Title":"dreadful comedy","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  `Gallows humor,' quite possibly the trickiest form of comedy a filmmaker can attempt, requires a very sharp eye and a very steady hand to carry it off successfully.  When done right, a black comedy can flout the conventions of `good taste' to afford us new and unique ways of seeing the ironies and tragedies of the human condition.  When done badly, as is the case with `Drowning Mona,' the humor fails to register &#150; and only the pain remains.Like so many films, `Drowning Mona' assumes it is being sophisticated, daring and hip simply because it treats death, murder and dismemberment in a casual, flip and disrespectful way.  Such an attitude can indeed result in a meaningful and witty work if placed in the hands of an artist, but no one involved in the making of this film seems to have even the foggiest notion what he or she was attempting to do.  Poor Bette Midler has the grave career misfortune of being cast in the title role, as the notorious town harridan whose fatal car plunge into the river sets off wild speculation as to which of her vast cadre of notable enemies - all with more than enough motivation to knock her off - actually tampered with the car brakes.  Danny De Vito co-stars as the upstate New York sheriff who spends the movie trying to eliminate each of the suspects one by one.  The movie's innumerable pitfalls begin with Mona herself, who is, we assume, intended to be hilariously outrageous, but who just comes across as grating, irritating and obnoxious.  Ditto for the rest of this cast of  `off beat' losers (played by Neve Campbell, Jamie Lee Curtis etc.) who seem to inhabit this small town in more than average numbers.  Although the script dishes up an abundance of inane plot mechanics for the director, Nick Gomez, to fall back on, the author, Peter Steinfeld has provided not a single line of humorous dialogue to go along with them.  As a result, Gomez, more often than not, is forced to throw his characters into a frenzy of hyper kinetic activity in a futile attempt to keep the film moving forward.   And, of course, the film loses what little nerve it has at the end by letting the ostensibly `guilty' person off the hook.The problem with `Drowning Mona' is that the film really perishes in the river right along with her in the brief opening scene - and, as a result, the rest of the movie is really the cinematic equivalent of watching a stiff, lifeless and rotting corpse.  "},{"Title":"Adequate","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  It was saved from total lameness by some good performances - mainly Fichtner and Affleck.  I was sorry Affleck had to endure the awful blonde wig they put on him - I thought this might have been a plot device, but no such luck. Midler is not in it that much, thank God, cause putting up with her AND Neve Campbell in the same movie would make us all eligible for sainthood. It did have a good soundtrack, I must say. "},{"Title":"Black comedy. Who did not want to drown Mona?","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  I kept waiting for this movie to get funny; it didn't. I liked the quirkiness of FARGO and RAISING ARIZONA, but I hate to say this movie just stagnates. A lot of worthwhile stars spent time doing this film and some should have rethought their decision. It seems that the whole town has two things in common. Just about the entire population drives a Yugo and everyone that knows Mona Dearly wishes her dead. When Mona drives her son's car into the river and drowns; there is no problem finding suspects capable of foul play.Bette Midler plays the part of Mona too well. Of course, I have never been a Midler fan and this doesn't change my mind. She is so easy to dislike. Jamie Lee Curtis looked good in the wig. Danny DeVito and Neve Campbell deserve better. "},{"Title":"Weak comedy with so-so cast.","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Worth a few chuckles, but the film basically tries too hard to be a quirky, clever little cult comedy. Fichtner gets the best lines (Of course you don't, I mean you do, Yes, I was a battered husband, and another one, I forgot which), while De Vito, who is potentially the funniest in the cast, plays the straight man, which is a mistake. Instead of making him the straight man, they should have done that with Casey Affleck (Ben's wimpy brother) who comes off unfunny every time he appears in a comedic scene.The cast doesn't thrill me. There is Bette Midler, who used to be funny, while in this movie she just snarls and growls. But the absolute pits is Jamie Lee Curtis who is so ugly that I literally had to turn my head away in some scenes she was in. I mean, she has always been one of Hollywood's ugliest women (great body notwithstanding), but in this movie she even makes Laura Dern look like a woman to desire. I don't understand why they gave her that damn awful haircut - as if she weren't repulsive enough as it is! And Casey Affleck, of course, is quite untalented and bland, and a very strong argument why Hollywood should finally do the world a favour and OUTLAW NEPOTISM.If you'd like to see my Hollywood Nepotism List, with over 350 pictures/entries, contact me by e-mail. "},{"Title":"too weird to register","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" Drowning Mona has some funny lines - namely the part about potato salad - but most of the movie is too weird to register as anything. Portraying an obnoxious woman (Bette Midler) getting killed in a small town in upstate New York and the fact that everyone had a motive, it almost gives one the feeling that they're trying to make murder look funny. They probably aren't, but the whole thing is just weird.Anyway, the movie isn't awful, but there are many better movies out there. Not even the impressive cast (Danny DeVito, Neve Campbell, Jamie Lee Curtis, Casey Affleck, William Fichtner, Tracey Walter and Will Ferrell) can save this one. "}{"Title":"deserves better than the 5/10 average it has","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Although other IMDB users seem to have been unimpressed with this film, it's one of my favourites - you can't go past it for a murder mystery-comedy. Verplanck is a small town full of totally wacky characters, and even though many of the jokes fall flat or are just plain dumb (that's part of what makes it funny) I still found it very entertaining.The ending is a bit of a let down though, and I'm not a fan of any of Neve Campbell's work and this is no exception. On the other hand, Jamie Lee Curtis and Danni DeVito were real fun to watch, and Will Ferrel's bit part is great too.If you ever see this one around the video store, definitely pick it up. "},{"Title":"A SMART AUDIENCE WILL KNOW IT'S FUNNY","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Drowning Mona is one of the funniest movies of the last decade. No, it's not your conventional comedy, but if you get the humor you'll be rolling for hours afterward. Casey Affleck is perfect, Jamie Lee Curtis is great, Will Farrel is hilarious. Except for Neve Campbell being a little wrong for the part, the entire cast is fantastic. Example Danny DeVito, He said Ovaries? Markus Thomas, All the time! In the vein of other subtle comic gems like Bottle Rocket, Rushmore, Waiting For Guffman, Best In Show, and the Royal Tennenbaums, this movie isn't for everyone but a smart upbeat audience will appreciate it. Kissass! "},{"Title":"Gotta Keep Trying, so Try `Downing Rona'","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Hollywood is confused. They do well with formulas, but at least some of the public wants quirky black humor. Problem is such humor is fragile. It depends on risk, on a sensitive touch, on completely sympatico actors, perhaps on experience, but never on formula. No one can really predict when these things will work. So the Hollywood response is take cheap chances. A hit makes up for a dozen failures.That's why this got made. Who knew? Nobody, but the hedge here was to get some pretty good talent, or at least talent by Hollywood standards.For me, there are two kinds of success -- whether it works for me in my own wilderness of imagination, and whether the general public likes it. In the latter case, you can get enjoyment even out of a bad movie knowing its center is in the popular world. This film failed on both fronts.So undeterred, I watched it again, but with a different focus. I often can get great fun out of a bad film this way. (See my comment on `Billy Eliot.') In this case, your eye wants to go to deVito because he's really such a relatively commanding actor. Or to Midler, because that's where the director wants you to gaze, and she's such a loudmouth.But if you narrow your focus to Rona and forget all the lessor distractions. `Downing Rona the Messmarker' (instead of `Drowning Mona the Dressmaker') is a very bizarre movie. All of the other characters are just dumb, But she is is darkly weird, she lives in a very strange world, much different than the general tone of the film. This works. You almost believe that Jamie's life could really be like that, especially the way she allows herself to look here. "},{"Title":"See this if you like black ones.","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" It will go without saying five minutes into this movie that it is unlike any other movie you've seen. This sometimes dark, sometimes slapstick, sometimes subtle comedy boasts one of the most intriguing casts to date. There are a number of recognizable faces, Danny DeVito, Bette Midler, Jamie Lee Curtis (to name a few), that brighten up the screen just that much. But to be honest, it was the roles played by Casey Affleck, Marcus Thomas, and William Fichtner especially that made 'Drowning Mona' so enjoyable for me. The movie itself goes back and forth between present time and flashbacks containing moments of a living Mona Dearly, who dies rather abruptly at the very beginning of the film. I think too many people say the plot it predictable. I was more than entertained for the entire movie and I never actually KNEW who actually killed Mona. Sure I had my predictions, and who doesn't. The point is that the movie's very funny and actually quite smart. Once we see Mona Dearly fly over a cliff in a car, the sense of craziness sets in. Your basic human instincts will at first allow you to feel bad for Mona (I hope). But once you see every person in town partying and laughing over her timely death, you can't help but play along. The part where Jeff, Mona's son played by Marcus Thomas, asks the police why Mona was driving his car while popping open a beer is absolutely priceless! The main characters in the film are Bobby Calzone (Casey Affleck) and Chief Rash (DeVito). Chief Rash is the only person in town who cares about Mona's death. Well, maybe it's more that it's his job than he really cares. Heck, even his co-workers could care less. Bobby also (kind of) feels sorry for Mona, but is allowed to laugh and enjoy the situation thanks to his fiancé Ellen (Neve Campbell). So for most of the movie, Rash just drives around in his Geo--take note of the opening disclaimer--and asks townies questions about what kind of person Mona truly was. The responses are all hilarious. I could go into great detail with almost 50 different quotes or scenes that back up the fact that Mona Dearly was a horrible person who deserved to die. But I just don't have the time. You really have to hear/see them to believe it. As I hinted to, William Fichtner's performance as Phil Dearly is hands down the best. He plays the ill-fated-but-happily-sorrowing-over-the-worst-person-he'd-ever-met husband. He is a very suspicious character, and seems to know something that no one else does. He puts the blame on Bobby Calzone, who is one of the most harmless people you could ever meet. What makes this particularly interesting is that Bobby is the future son-in-law of Chief Rash. So that is very hard for Rash, and us, the viewer, to believe. 'Drowning Mona' is pretty much a whodunit movie with a twist that makes you laugh and think at the same time. I guess I can't rebuff the fact that the storyline becomes predictable over time. And that's the only reason I didn't give it 5 stars. But you'll still be impressed with the shifts between past and present and definitely the comedy. There's also an excellent cameo from former SNL star Will Ferrell. I won't spoil the rest. "},{"Title":"Ruthless People meets Roshomon","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" DROWNING MONA (2000) **1/2 Bette Midler, Danny De Vito, Neve Campbell, Jamie Lee Curtis, Casey Affleck, Marcus Thomas, William Fichtner, Kathleen Wilhoite, Peter Dobson, Will Ferrell, Tracy Walter.  (Dir Nick Gomez)Midler and De Vito are reunited (more or less) in this `Ruthless People' meets `Roshomon' black comedy about a suspected murder and a town full of dumb and dumber denizens that has one wonder what's in the drinking water.Set in the backwater town of Verplanck, NY - the unofficial test town for the Yugo (which is one of the many running gags the film parlays for laughs) - De Vito stars as the chief of police trying to determine the untimely death of the most hated (and hateful) woman of his quiet little hamlet, Mona Dearly.  With Dearly departed (had to get that one out of the way!), Chief Rash must determine how (or more importantly why) she died after her lemon yellow Yugo (or rather her son's  car) sailed off a cliff into the water below.  Rash soon discovers that practically every citizen had a reason to off the dispicable Dearly including his daughter Ellen (Campbell) and her fiancee Bobby (Affleck) who runs a landscaping venture with Mona's dimwitted, and one-handed doofus sun Jeff (Thomas).A chief suspect  is her equally IQ challenged spouse Phil - (Fichtner in a very funny turn, and more known for menacing creeps like in `Albino Alligator' ), whose hair seems inspired by a Farrelly Brothers film, who is Phil-andering (get it!) with the town floozy, Rona (Curtis, in an entertaining gum-chewing, chain-smoking turn), a waitress at the local diner, who engages in kinky sex involving the home game of `Wheel of Fortune' (giving new meaning to the term `I wanna buy a vowel'). What makes the familiar premise a breath of fresh air is the fine comic ensemble lowering their collective intelligence to almost a shared wavelength of their fruitless attempts to avoid suspicion and finagling a reliable alibi for their whereabouts prior to the dastardly crime.  Each character seems to be only one iota smarter than the other and the whole premise of an entire populace out to ice the nastiest woman in town is ripe for humor.The film on the whole doesn't disappoint (especially the `Roshomon'-like accounts of how Jeff lost his hand - the onlyl agreeable storytelling element was he was reaching for a beer) and Curtis, De Vito and Campbell come off as old pros while Affleck, Thomas and especially Fichtner have laugh out loud funny moments (the latter in his attempt to avoid a beaning from a frying pan wielding p***ed off Milder) too.  The screenplay by Peter Steinfeld only fails in the final too quick to tie up the loose ends conclusion but the biggest surprise is its director Nick Gomez, who has helmed grittier fare including `New Jersey Drive' and episodes of the late and great  tv cop series `Homicide'; he knows how to let his actors get their ya-yas out. Divertingly hilarious and kookily conceived, Verplanck's inhabitants are a cross between its ficititious sister cities Rome, Wisconsin and Cicely, Alaska in its eccentric glee.  "},{"Title":"Neither high-brow nor low-brow enough.","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"  This is for the most part a dismal and unfunny comedy, but the generally low energy level goes up a few notches in the last 20 minutes. Enough to get two stars out of four, anyway. And Danny De Vito stands as a likable center of gravity among the parade of annoying characters. Still, make no mistake about it this is a waste of time, only to be viewed on TV where you don't have to pay a cent for it. "},{"Title":"Could have been funny.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":"    I don't think I laughed once during this film. Though the actors and actresses are great, the script itself just fails to keep the audience entertained. Instead, if you like Danny DeVito, go rent THE BIG KAHUNA, TWINS, or something in that area. Just stay away from Drowning Mona unless you're an absolute fan of any of the actors involved. 1.5/5 stars-JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"I Blame The Director","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Comedy","Review":" I was looking forward to seeing DROWNING MONA as it contains a fairly well known cast but the main reason I wanted to see it is because director Nick Gomez was well known to me via his work on the HBO prison drama OZ which happens to be my all time favourite American show with one of his episodes  Visits - Conjugal or otherwise  being a stand out episode I put into into my DVD player and long before the end credits came up I had made up my mind that DROWNING MONA was a very bad comedy ,no that's not a typo I didn't mean to write  a very black comedy  I meant to write a very bad comedy . Yes the screenplay is very black dealing with murder but in Gomez hands the movie seems to have been turned into a farce . And it is the director I blame since many the cast do have impressive track records in playing comedy but who all seem to go completely over the top with the exception of Danny Devito I very much doubt if the screenwriter envisaged his script as being a farce and that's what the film is . Everything would have worked so much better if the actors had played their roles in a seriously deadpan manner and what's with the ridiculous and eclectic soundtrack featuring artists as diverse as Hot Butter and Pigbag ? Antonia Bird is another film maker who ruins movies by inserting inappropriate music into her movies and it's usually the sign of a bad director Having said that I wouldn't accuse Gomez of being being a bad director since I have praised his work on OZ , but it's obvious that he's ill suited to comedy and it would be terrible if this misfire has ruined his career in directing feature films for cinema release . Maybe a studio could employ him to direct a violent intelligent thriller ? I'm sure he wouldn't disappoint "}]