[{"Title":"Not just for smack fiends anymore.","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Beautiful, humane film filled with menagerie of off-the-wall (sorry) supporting characters. This film succeeds where all other drug films fail. It doesn't cram a message down your throat. It's not concerned with retreading the territory of Trainspotting or its clones. It has similar scenes, but the tone is completely different. Billy Crudup also delivers his real star-making performance (this came out before Almost Famous) as a young man whose name begins with an 'F' and ends with an 'uckhead'. His rambling narrative makes this film seem more like a friendly anecdote than a wittier-than-thou voice-over which always seems to do more to flatten out a film than to expand it. This film uses drugs as a vehicle to show how all of us need some sort of redemption, but we have to get it on our own terms.  "},{"Title":"Solid little gem! Well worth a watch!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"21 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was totally disarmed by this wonderful movie! Most movies about drug addiction hit you over the head with the misery and destruction of the users. Yet this movie was about so much more--a whole host of characters marching to a different beat. This movie told it's tale in short snippets...I almost felt like I was eavesdropping or spying on the characters at various moments in their lives. Nice balance of lightheartedness and seriousness. Some truly great lines. When a nurse tells FH his girlfriend is comfortable now. He asks with total naivete Is she dead?I see that others here have problems with the title and the reference to  Jesus. Not me. Aren't all of us (and esecially the world's losers) just Christ figures waiting for redemption. It made me think of the line, the meek shall inherit the earth. The mystical touches, whether drug induced or not, were wonderful. "},{"Title":"Strange film, but a good one","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this, it's different. The plot is non-linear, but that doesn't really matter. It contains scenes that may disturb, but for one reason or another, I forgot to be disturbed. The acting is very good, I don't think I'd ever seen a Billy Crudup film before, and came away with a new name to search for. The soundtrack is excellent, the humour is odd, but it's the supporting cast which make the film; the cameo's are all spot on. I dislike Denis Leary, but he's good here, I wasn't a particularly big fan of JB Jack Black either, but he shines here and I saw him in a new light.Low budget, sure, more films could do with the charm of this one, it tries to do something different, and I think it's a winner. "},{"Title":"Best Independent Film Of The Year!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Brilliantly pieced together from assorted short stories by Denis Johnson, director Alison Maclean brings depth, humour, compassion, and darkness to the screen adaption. Heroin addict FH (ryhmes with Duck Bed) goes through a strange odyssey of loss and understanding his compassion. Brilliantly (and this is not an overstatement) acted by Billy Crudup (who should have been given an Oscar nod for his performance), he brings a complexity to his character that is missing from most actors around. Minor details are amazingly evident in his portrayel of FH, as the lovelorn, selfish, and sensitive junkie. Samantha Morton is outstanding as Michelle (FH's girlfriend), giving an intense and moody performance (which the viewer mourns the loss of half way through). The movie mixes moments of surreal madness, as the viewer is taken along existential scenes that could be described as hallucinogenic and funny. The scene where a gentleman (played by book author Denis Johnson) comes into a hospital with a hunting knife stuck in his eye is uncomfortably hillarious. Drugged up hospital attendant Georgie (Jack Black in a standout performance) proceeds to pop pills as he attempts to pull the knife out. But this is just one of the many great cameos that fills the screen. Denis Leary (looking a lot like Dennis Hopper in Easy Rider, Holly Hunter (playing a neurotic widow with a limp), and Dennis Hopper (looking amazingly like Dennis Hopper too) give great performances as well. Alison Maclean directs the film with great use of color and cinematography, but never crowding the actor's performance. Included as well, is a great music theme by Joe Henry, that incorporates the blending of psychedlic guitar and wurlitzer electric piano work. The rest of the soundtrack is great as well, with music by Wilco, Joe Tex, Neil Young, and Booker T & The MG's. This film was one of my favourite films of the year, and unfortunately didn't get as much notice as it deserved. Highly recommended!   "},{"Title":"A Window on the Early 70s","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although it is far from perfect, Jesus' Son stands as a shining example of what is to be valued in independent filmmaking. It's impossible to imagine this film being produced in Hollywood. The subject matter is thorny, the form is innovative and most characters are ambiguous. In short, there's little here onto which a mass audience can grab. Yet, anyone choosing to pass this little film by will be missing something worthwhile.Jesus' Son, which takes its title from a Lou Reed song, expresses itself as a narrative memory. The film has the feel of random pages read out of someone's diary. It opens with a voice-over and we are immediately aware of an eccentric approach the narrator has jumped the gun and needs to start over again. This sort of starting and re-starting may seem an affectation derived from the French 'new wave,' but it is handled so effectively that it succeeds in pulling the viewer into the film. Once officially on track, Jesus' Son moves from scene to scene with a method that seems wholly controlled by this main character/narrator, a young man known simply as F'head. We're never sure if he deserves this unflattering name, since his intentions are not always clear. F'head just seems to move through life, going where circumstances take him. Along the route, a wide variety of character types are encountered. Most leave F'head with something, and a few take something from him. For individuals who are roughly contemporary with the characters in this film, there is much here that rings true. The time period-early 1970s-was a strange, directionless time for many in their early twenties. In fact, the film almost makes an unintentional case for the rampant drug abuse of the time for so many, there was nothing else to do. But the intention of Jesus' Son is not to excuse drug abuse, nor is to preach against it. Rather, the movie takes its hero on a rambling journey through the undersides and back alleys of life so that he may discover a single reason for staying alive. F'head seems a variant of the wise fool character, bringing about change in the lives of those he meets, yet seemingly unable to evaluate any of the events or relationships in his own life. Some viewers may see the hero guided by a higher power, of which he is himself unaware. While the film's haphazard structure may be annoying to some, it admirably suits the time period and life-styles of the characters. There is a seeming discrepancy between several scenes. Some have a realistic, semi-documentary feel (when F'head first encounters Michelle), while others appear to be drawn from some bizarre cable-TV sitcom (the entire hospital orderly sequence, for instance). As in many independent films of recent years, there is much humor mixed with stark drama. The director, Alison Maclean, keeps a firm grip, maneuvering between wide-ranging emotional states. In the end, one is left with the feeling of having really experienced something. This is due not only to Maclean, but to the very fine cast. Not surprisingly, Jesus' Son is dependent for its success on the portrayal of its central character. Billy Crudup, an actor who could easily be dismissed as a pretty boy, brings an almost palpable reality to every scene. He exhibits a total identification with the character and is able to project perfectly the inherent ambiguity that drives the entire story. Is F-Head putting everyone on? There are flashes of nearly poetic brilliance in his dialogue, mixed with befuddled inanity. He seems to live around his world, rather than within it; observing, but not always participating. Although one might wonder how someone with his lifestyle could have such perfect teeth, F'head as played by Crudup, is a beautiful, confused and confusing angel.Other cast members are memorable as well. Samantha Morton, who made a huge impression in Woody Allen's Sweet and Lowdown, embodies the equally ambiguous persona of Michelle, who loves F'head, yet seeks to destroy herself. Dennis Leary effectively creates a man annihilated by his own life. The growing number of Jack Black fans will probably enjoy his over-the-top characterization, but to this viewer his George seems vaguely disturbing and threatening. Holly Hunter is the kind of performer who can bring a lot to a film with just a few lines. She plays a lovely crippled woman here with dignity and humor. Also excellent in their brief appearances are an understated Dennis Hopper and the vigorous Will Patton.Typical of many period films dealing with young people , the soundtrack of Jesus' Son is loaded with contemporary popular songs. But the choices here seem carefully made. There is new material as well a fine main theme written by Bob Dylan and the closing credits are supported by an absolutely superb song with a Woody Guthrie lyric, set to music and performed by Wilco. "},{"Title":"A neglected classic.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was buried here- apart from the acclaim in 'Uncut' magazine; I didn't manage to see this 'til this year. My initial viewing was a little underwhelmed- being a fan of Johnson's book I had worked this up to impossible heights in my mind. However, on a second viewing I enjoyed the film more- the nouvelle-vague via Scorsese editing & structure seemed much better 2nd time around.The film is closest to 'Drugstore Cowboy'- though parts such as the split-screen or the digital editing as F***head takes pills in the Emergency Room could have come from 'Requiem for a Dream'. The source stories have been extended and made more cohesive- as with the adaptation of Hubert Selby Jr's 'Last Exit to Brooklyn' by Uli Edel.The film is wonderfully shot- a great scene is the drive-in/cemetery that plays 'Carnival of Souls' (though I thought I saw Samantha Morton caught in an almost Anton 'Depeche Mode' Corbijin style!); imagine 'Zabriskie Point' without the metaphysical masturbation...The acting is uniformly great- Crudup & Morton are fantastic leads, while Denis Leary, Greg Germann, Holly Hunter are among the excellent supports. The short Dennis Hopper shaving scene is one of the greatest pieces of cinema I have seen in recent years; while Jack Black almost steals the film with his amusing listen to my shoes. And Denis Johnson is great as hunting knife in eye guy. Oh and Will Patton pops up as 'John Smith'- still he was in 'The Postman', so not quite yet forgiven.The soundtrack (chosen by Johnson) is great- Neil Young's 'Cowgirl in the Sand', Wilco's 'Airline to Heaven' & 'She's a Jar', 'Hang on Sloopy' and the great score. The highlight is Morton's gyrating dance to 'Oh Sweet Pea'- almost as great as that dance scene ripped off for 'Pulp Fiction' from Godard's 'Bande a Part'.Only quibble is- where was 'Heroin' by The Velvet Underground?'Jesus' Son' is a touching, funny, and tender film that deserves to find an audience. There are too many great moments here- Hunter's arm waving in the air, Beverly Home, the Amish, the laundry scene, the ER scene, the rabbits roadtrip etc. Terribly depressing that mediocrity like 'Human Traffic' & 'Trainspotting' finds an audience here- but a film like this isn't allowed to (except at a few arthouse cinemas). Pity- and Alison MacLean's debut 'Crush' is also excellent; here's to possible adaptations of Denis Johnson's 'Already Dead' & 'The Name of the World'- by David Lynch and Paul Schrader respectively (hopefully)...Check out Johnson's books- as this film's use of voiceover stems right from them. "},{"Title":"Well-Acted, Beautiful Little Road Movie Through Addiction","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I chose to see Jesus' Son for Billy Crudup and director Allison Maclean, who did the terrifically creepy romantic short I saw on the Sci Fi Channel a few weeks ago, Kitchen Sink. Jesus' Son is a picaresque road movie traveling through addictions, and manages to miss wallowing in the depression that made Leaving Las Vegas so unrelenting . Samantha Morton has incredible chemistry with Crudup who is fascinating to keep watching even as his character is a passive naif whom we really don't learn anything about. My biggest complaint is that the cameos by recognizable and/or famous actors (Denis Leary, Jack Black of High Fidelity, Holly Hunter, Dennis Hopper) make the source material of short stories--which I assume are where the chapter headings come from-- too obvious; I would have preferred intriguing character actors or complete unknowns.This is one of those little movies where you see a filmmaker in love with her tools of the medium, because it is both literate and explores the story visually, with judicious use of fantasies and hallucinations.The Joe Henry musical score is wonderful, and the soundtrack selection of alt.country, including several Wilco songs, and offbeat rock and r & b classics are also commentaries on the action (amusingly the only Henry song used comes in over the radio that an annoyed Crudup turns off in order to hear the dialog).(originally written 6/24/2000) "},{"Title":"Searching for Meaning","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Searching for Meaning could be the title of the movie as well as of the reactions of many people who didn't want to see below the mixed-up surface of the film. The story is the random ramblings of a reformed drug addict looking for some meaning to life, death, and the difference between the two.There are some interesting symbols a man with Jesus' heart, a singing Menonite mermaid in a shower, drugs as an escape from the drug called life, etc. Not the average stuff of a mainstream movie which explains why this is an independent film.We go along on an oddly comic journey during which we contemplate the price we pay for our dreams, explore the way we hide our deformities from the world, realize that we pretend to be normal because we want to be normal -- whatever normal is. We all want to find our place in a strange world where we have to consider the answers to the questions Why did God make us? and Why did God make us the way we are?The solution to the riddles seems to be connecting with all our fellow riddlers, realizing that we'll understand someday what it all means.This is a disturbing, funny, sad film -- not for everybody, but an interesting experience for people who don't mind thinking about what is being shown on the screen. "},{"Title":"It's really a light-hearted rhythmic piece. In the end, it's practically poetic.","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's not Panic in Needle Park 1975 or Rush 1991. It's not heavy at all. True, the subject is about the drug scene in the '70's, but how can anything be heavy with Jack Black in it? (Yes, the one who delivered a surprisingly impressive singing at the finale of John Cusack's passion High Fidelity 2000). JESUS' SON is neither your usual Hollywood glamorized drug movie.I was skeptical when I first heard about this film in Dec. '99 -- another one on drugs. Then when the trailer started, it grew on me. The image of framing an arc of a wreath above Crudup's head was the crowning influence that I must see this movie. In any case, Billy Crudup and Samantha Morton are quite an intense pairing.The whole film seems like it's on it's own trip (pun intended). Crudup is FH, a rather lovable character. He is actually a shy person. Now and then he emits a sense of humor and it comes across so innocently -- you just can't blame him. He's trying to do right. Billy Crudup carried the picture from beginning to end. We see him and hear him narrating. The words uttered are eloquent. Crudup's clear enunciation adds to the fluidity of the text that we're hearing throughout the film. Watching this film is rather like playing an album, you can go back and forth just by lifting the turntable needle. The vignettes are different tracks on the road trip with Jack Black and the rabbits, and dealing with the knife in the head emergency case during a hospital shift (with Jack Black contributing his comic rhythm and delivering his lines equally fun to hear); shaving Dennis Hopper and interviewing him at the same time; interactions with Holly Hunter before and after AA meetings; staff routines at the senior home in Phoenix; repeatedly watching the Amish couple through the window glass; going to Denis Leary's house and the aftermath; of course, the interludes and episodes with Samantha Morton as Michelle. Humor is ever present. Bravo to the script by three screenplay writers, based on Denis Johnson's short stories, and kudos to director Alison Mclean. She directed a film with such clarity and simple strokes. Billy Crudup would be the reason to see this film if not anything else, he exudes a halo of light about him -- his angelic face, even with his coy whiskers, still has a certain innocence about him, and according to FH, he does have ominous feelings in him of what to come. Jesus' son, he very well is. Enjoy this film, it's an excellent effort and production all round, including the soundtrack music and songs of the 70's.Don't miss Without Limits 1998, another Billy Crudup must-see, if you haven't yet.  "},{"Title":"Thank the lord","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Normally I am not a fan of drug or alcohol related movies as they tend to be a little bit protentious such as Requim for a Dream or Leaving Las Vegas.They try and say something specifically about the drug use, instead Jesus' Son tells a story about a person who just happens to take drugs.Here, like life, reality is confused and they choices we make haunt us.The main character Fuck Head is the ultimate loser. He takes drugs, only lives because his girlfriend saves his life, yet he lets her die in the same circumstance. He sees the sacred heart of Jesus on a man who tells him to go away. But ultimately he finds his own place in the world and sees beauty where others can't.This is an art-house movie, and the reason that art house movies don't turn up in mainstream cinemas is because they have limited appeal. So maybe you will hate this movie or maybe you will recognise the loser in yourself in Fuck Head. I know I did. Sure I want to be a cross between Mel Gibson, Brad Pitt with a touch of Edward Norton, but I know I am more of a Fuck Head. If you are too, watch this movie. "}{"Title":"I enjoyed viewing it but am left without much lasting effect.","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie had been on my 'radar' for several years, intrigued both by the title and the actors. Finally it came up on my Netflix streaming list. I had high hopes after reading the review by the critic Ebert, who I find usually helpful, and also the relatively high IMDb rating. But sadly when it was all over I found it to be not much of a satisfying movie at all.I like Billy Crudup, he is a good actor. Here he plays FH (short for F***-Head), and the moniker fits because as good as his intentions mostly are, he just has a knack for messing things up. He seems sincere, but almost a simpleton, and especially when we see him do some of the things he does. Like the time he hears a woman singing while in the shower, he goes into the home and lies down on the bed to listen to her. Until the husband comes in. Like, who would actually do something like that?The other key character is Samantha Morton as Michelle and when FH meets her she is already an addict. Her addiction pulls him in too and, while they genuinely seem to care for each other, you can't really care for another person when you are addicted to drugs and wonder how you will support your habit.The film has quite a number of other well-known actors, like Dennis Leary, Dennis Hopper, Jack Black, Holly Hunter, but mostly in brief parts. It is puzzling why the title is what it is. There are many funny, or just interesting, moments in the film but for me it did not add up to a worthwhile movie. "},{"Title":"I tell you things aren't quite the same","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being a huge fan of Denis Johnson and Lou Reed, I was curious how they could make a movie from such unusually random events. The movie does such a great job stitching together Johnson's stories. They are extraordinary, humorous, and often touching. Together they make, in my opinion, one of the best 'drug' related movies ever. It is Borroughsesque in its candid, accurate portrayal of heroin addiction. The flashbacks and fuzzy pieced together vignettes resemble the actual effect heroin has on time. Time seems to slow down with days starting to blur into nights. The movie really touched me as I saw some of FH in myself. I too am a recovering addict. I have been clean for over a year now. Thank god for suboxone!!! For anyone grappling with heroin addiction please consider suboxone therapy. It has truly saved my life, marriage, and sanity. "},{"Title":"Very Funny! If only the cast were used better.","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  JESUS'S SON, the new hallucination from the director of CRUSH tries to follow in the footsteps of DRUGSTORE COWBOY and TRAINSPOTTING but doesn't quite hit the mark.  I really wasn't all that impressed.  It had some funny scenes but it didn't seem to have an ending. I mean, it didn't seem like the director knew how to tie everything up at the end.  Billy Crudup and Samantha Morton were well used and did a fine job but the rest of the cast could have been used better.  The scene with Dennis Hopper was just there, it didn't seem to have any meaning or purpose at all. I would have liked to know more about the Holly Hunter character too.  Jack Black was great but he just disappears with no explanation.  Dennis Leary part was small but very effective though.  The director, Alison Maclean has potential but I think she needs to learn how to use her actors better. "},{"Title":"Tripping","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jesus' Son, directed by New Zealander Alison Maclean, is based on the short stories of Denis Johnson. The short story origins go a long way to explaining the movie's patchy feel. Billy Crudup is christened FH (F*** Head) by his mates because he fouls up everything and everyone he comes across. The common link in most of FH's otherwise random misadventures is Michelle (Samantha Morton), a junkie he meets at a party and falls in love with. It's a bare thread to hang the film on, but Morton manages to centre things for a while. She gives the film's liveliest performance, making Michelle a lot more interesting than FH and the other eccentrics he meets (played by the likes of Denis Leary, Dennis Hopper and Holly Hunter in cameo roles).Drug taking is not a spectator sport, and watching the semi-dazed FH wander wintry America in the early 1970s quickly becomes tiresome. We've seen this sort of material too often in independent American features for it to be fresh, and Maclean's fluid direction and ability with actors cannot disguise the episodic nature of the material. FH veers from boring to downright unlikeable, and I didn't care much about him or his potential redemption. Not helping was my failure to connect with the grotesque humour. There's only so many laughs you can wring from squashed animal foetuses and a man with a hunting knife stuck in his eye.  "},{"Title":"tired little tale","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This dreamy little film is well acted (especially by Crudup), and nicely filmed, but it really goes nowhere, and does so for a very long time. It follows FH, played by Crudup. A drug induced loser, and his failed relationship with his girlfriend, played by the talented Samantha Morton. Simply put, it's pretty to look at, but it's dull and nothing new. "},{"Title":"A smart-ass soundtrack for a life of squalor...","Date":"10 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Billy Crudup, as an aimless young screw-up and pill-popper in 1970s Chicago, has the mannerisms of a user down right, yet he doesn't convince as an addict. While riding on the dirty subway cars in the darkened city, interacting with the street life and the strays he seems to attract, Crudup certainly has the appropriate glassy-eyed expression and sheepish grin, but he's too lean and muscular and healthy-looking to be taken for a troubled junkie. The film, an adaptation of Denis Johnson's book of short stories, has been fairly well realized by director Alison Maclean (who has a vivid eye for detail); unfortunately, the protagonist isn't really a character at all, and this isn't entirely Crudup's fault. He hasn't been conceived as anything but a walking foul up, one with fabricated answers and--in his narration--'deep thoughts' soaked in the smugness of an elevated consciousness. Many stars help out in support, yet the film is less a dramatic achievement than an arty, somewhat indifferent passel of scenes. ** from **** "},{"Title":"The year's weirdest film","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I like an offbeat film as much as the next guy. Heck, the weirder the better, I say. But this film crosses the line even for me. At least I could actually sit through this entire thing, unlike its older (even weirder) cousin, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. I compare the two films because they're both drug-trippin', hallucinatory affairs. Both of them, for some reason, drew big names out of the woodwork to get involved. The star of Jesus' Son is Billy Crudup, along with the relatively unknown Samantha Morton. But also on board is Holly Hunter, Will Patton, Dennis Hopper, and Denis Leary in small roles. These films' defining stamp is that they are told in an intentionally haphazard manner. Put simply, this makes a film that's difficult to watch. Both films are based on novels (I've read neither) and I can safely say this storytelling style befits the page more than it does the screen. It's supposed to make the experience more challenging for the audience, leaving them to try and piece this collection of strange occurrences into something that means anything. Let's just say I don't prefer this type of movie-going experience. I didn't find anything particularly great about this film, nor did I find anything to be at all endearing. The result is an unsatisfying hour and a half of movie watching. Don't use drugs. Don't bother with Jesus' Son.Grade D+      "},{"Title":"A long strange trip","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a strange film, a combination of goofy, sad comedy and profound tragedy, but it is a very pleasant film nonetheless. FH (Billy Crudup) is a drug (mainly pills) addict who seems to have a life devoid of any direction or purpose, and yet he has odd abilities and premonitions, along with an everything will be okay no matter what happens attitude. He hitches a ride with a family, all the while knowing a car accident will kill most of them. He rescues the infant member of the family, and it strangely coincides with the fact that his girlfriend Michelle (Samantha Morton) had an abortion around that same time. FH lives through the horrible suicide of Michelle somehow, and begins to try to get away from drugs and have a life that makes sense. There are bizarre scenes involving baby bunnies, being able to put a hand through a glass window as if one were a ghost instead of flesh and blood, and an ensemble of characters whose lives FH touches in one way or another, played by Jack Black, Denis Leary, Holly Hunter, and Dennis Hopper. There is no solid plot as it were. It's just a tour through a lost, lonely soul looking for a place in the world where he belongs.A very different kind of film, with a cryptic story and main character, but it feels like a refreshment compared to many movies being made today. "},{"Title":"aaaaaaand.....ya lost me.","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being a fan of Jack Black, and trying to see all of his work, I decided to give this a try. He was actually only in it for maybe 20 minutes or so, but it was a good performance. Even when his parts were done, I was still very drawn in by the main story. Without going into the story itself, all I can tell you is that I was enjoying myself. I was being entertained and was curious to see the conclusion. After I was about two thirds of the way through. Everything really (and here come the spoilers) got stupid. The third act started with the main guy finding his girlfriend overdosing, she dies, eats her note, follows a guy into a laundry place, wonders if he is having a I might be gay minute, goes to rehab where he shaves Dennis Hopper, watches some Amish woman sing in her shower, hangs out inside and outside her house, meets another woman whose boyfriends keep dying, and then works at a mental hospital where he learns to touch people. Its like they just put in all this stuff for him to do. Made no sense and made the move suck. "},{"Title":"Wildly uneven but occasionally hits the target","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Following in the footsteps of The Panic in Needle Park and Drugstore Cowboy comes another 70's drug themed film Jesus' Son, the title coined from a song by the Velvet Underground's 1969 self titled album.  Bill Crudup plays FH ( short for F***head because he is a walking accident waiting to happen)as we see him wander through various escapdes as well as getting involved with a junkie ( played by Samantha Morton of Woody Allens recent film Sweet and Lowdown) who gets him hooked on heroin. The film is episodic with each scene unfolding like a new chapter in a book with a voice over by Crudup. There are many amusing vignettes along the way as Crudup gets mixed up with an assortment of different characters. The guest stars include Denis Leary, Dennis Hopper, Jack Black from High Fidelity and Holly Hunter who appears at the end and has a romantic fling with the lead character. The film has a meandering feel to it as we view FH's random musings and stream of consciousness digressions. As his existentalist journey unfolds, we the audience are unsure of his fate but by the end we are left satisfied. "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I loved this movie. Having grown up in the 70's, the music and fashion were right on. It gives a good glimpse into the life of a drug oriented drifter from that period. The character grows throughout the movie....along with some dark comedy. One of my favorite parts was the party scene when he meets Michelle (her dancing was awesome). The music at the party was so typical of the era. Another was when he was an orderly at the hospital. That is a scene not to be missed. All in all, I really enjoyed this movie. I would watch it or rent it again. Put on your suede fringed jacket before watching this one. It will bring up some memories of how it was. Peace, Man! "},{"Title":"Jesus' Son -- May it Rise Again . . . to Cult Status.","Date":"29 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Love, love, love this sometimes dark sometimes wickedly funny movie.I recommend watching it at least twice. It grows on you like a dog eared paperback. Captures your interest from start to finish. Wonderful episodes with Jack Black, Dennis Leary, Dennis Hopper and Holly Hunter, and a supporting cast of briefly yet deftly sketched supporting characters. Samantha Morton and Billy Crudup are excellent.Costume Designer Kasia Walicka-Maimone's work is dead on perfect at capturing the time, without being too in your face or cliche. The same goes for the wonderful songs on the soundtrack. The song that plays over the end credits (lyrics by Woody Guthrie, music and performance by Wilco) is a folky gem that could easily be mistaken for one of Dylan's early efforts.It's a downright dirty shame that a movie as wonderful and as human as this one gets trampled over by the soulless parade of dreck that Hollywood has become resolved to crank out in service to its sole manic obsession for big box office returns. This movie has a blithe spirit and is an unsentimental take on all our weary, beautiful lives. I have got to track down the book from which it was adapted.Jesus' Son -- May it rise again . . . to cult status. "},{"Title":"Billy crudrup is very very good","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Have not seen a lot of movies from billy crudup but have seen two movie of him this year, Walking the dead and Jesus' Son.  But this movie is one of the best by him so far.  The role is kinda difficult to get into but I think he does a very very good job getting under the skin of f***head, his character in the movie.  It is quite difficult to tell you the story but it is definitely one of the movies to watch this year.  It also has very strong performances from Samantha Morton, Holly Hunter (i wished her role was bigger.... ) Dennis Hopper, Denis Leary etc. "},{"Title":" A quasi blend of `Drugstore Cowboy' and `My Own Private Idaho'","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  JESUS' SON (2000) **1/2 Billy Crudup, Samantha Morton, Denis Leary, Holly Hunter, Jack Black, Greg Germann, Dennis Hopper, Will Patton.  Big-screen adaptation of Denis Johnson's collection of stories centering on oddball junkie and anti-hero Fuck Head (Crudup in a fine display of acting) whose odyssey of despair and significant frustration correlates with his unique relationships with its cast of strong character acting and hazy gleam cast by director Alison MacLean.  A quasi blend of `Drugstore Cowboy' and `My Own Private Idaho' with a bent perspective of a drug-fueled world bleakly attempting to clean itself for a better good.  A bit too much in spurts but has its distinct charm largely thanks to the acting and memorable black out sequences (FYI that's author Johnson as an emergency room patient with a hunting knife jutting from his eye).  Not exactly subtle but not forgettable either. "},{"Title":"Strong Acting By Crudup and Friends","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Billy Crudup shows us again that he's not afraid to work in a wide-variety of roles, and in 'small' movies. In Jesus' Son, he plays a low-life, clueless, heroin addict named Fuckhead. I don't think you'll see Leonardo, Tom, or any of the other young, A-list actors coming close to roles like this. The film is placed in the early 1970s and follows Crudup through a few years of his heroin-addled life. Narrated by Fuckhead, he chronicles his own life from his introduction to heroin, through his attempts to quit. The narrative moves backwards and forwards in time, almost as if Fuckhead is remembering something out of sequence which might interest the viewer. Definitely not for everyone, but in my opinion is a very interesting movie.  "},{"Title":"What a load of pretentious, artsy bull!","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Apparently, Billy Crudup is the male Jennifer Jason Leigh.  That is, there are very few scenes in which he isn't twitching and making faces and showing an endless display of mannerisms and doing everything but act credibly. This movie is so obnoxious in its preciousness, nothing in it is believable. Its only saving graces are the wonderful, vomit-colored cinematography, the always amusing Jack Black and the always enthralling Dennis Hopper, who could give Mr. Crudup some lessons in movie acting stillness.The myth of the innocent junkie is as tiresome and unrealistic as the myth of the hooker with the heart of gold. The quirkiness is such an effort that it's painful to watch.  The poetry is laid on so thick it made me cringe. Go see Jim Carrey's latest and have a good laugh instead.  "},{"Title":"Muffled","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The New Zealand-born director Alison Maclean shot this prototypical indie drugs-and-deadbeats movie in widescreen, but without the vast image's usual pearly, studio-style crispness. The movie seems vaporous around the edges, like the snowbound compositions of Robert Altman's QUINTET, and the images have a yellowy, rotten-Polaroid quality that seems based on Nan Goldin's portraits of the dispossessed.Based on Denis Johnson's novel, the movie is early John Irving meets DRUGSTORE COWBOY. FH (Billy Crudup), the zero hero, loves his partner in heroin addiction (Samantha Morton), but somehow keeps sidestepping happiness through a series of dropped balls--which involve a squashed handful of baby rabbits pulled from their dead mommy's guts, an ER patient with a knife in his eye, and (most painfully) a Lou Gehrig's patient abandoned by his wife. The worldview on display here was better articulated on the back bumper of a pick-up truck Life's a Bitch and Then You Die. The epiphanies are lame after the joky horrors the movie stockpiles. And as FH, Billy Crudup has the looks of a movie star, and the stick-to-itiveness of an actor, but lacks the personality or the truthfulness to suffice as either one. He is, to put it harshly, no Matt Dillon. And for all Maclean's evident talent, and despite the lovely pass-through performances of Will Patton, Holly Hunter, Dennis Hopper and others, this movie plays like uncharming, creep-inducing Gus Van Sant the insistence on Letterman-style ironic snickering at back-breaking tragedy comes to seem slightly nuts. "},{"Title":"Heroin Chic with Humor and Heart","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The latest in a growing trend of Heroin is Bad But In Some Ways It's Great films, Jesus' Son stands out with it's loopy, not-exactly-chronological first person narrative that pretty accurately reflects the mind of a junkie. Director Alison Maclean has some lovely and disturbing visuals here, in particular a scene where two junkies wander off a highway and into a field that could alternately be a graveyard or a drive-in movie.  The script, based on a novel, stretches out as a series of vignettes surrounding the travels of lovable junkie known only as F*ckhead (Billy Crudup, in a performance that will dethrone DiCrappio as The Next Big Thing) whose first-person narrations offers some almost profound, ideot-savant wisdom.A strong supporting cast includes Samantha Morton as F*ckhead's wild/tragic junkie girlfriend (Her scenes with Crudup play like Sid and Nancy with a little more heart), Denis Leary in his best role yet as a gruff, shaky-handed Cowboy Junkie, Dennis Hopper as a weary recovering addict, Greg Germann (from Ally McBeal)as a hopelessly limited doctor, and Holly Hunter, who in a small part rises above the tongue-in-cheek camp surrounding her character's tragic story.  And the true stand-out is Jack Black, the hefty young character actor who gets the most laughs as a drugged-out hospital orderly.  His scenes in the hospital with Crudup are some of the most frightening, funny and bizarre scenes to appear on film so far this year. "},{"Title":"A Good Adaptation Of The Novel","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" FH,short for Fuckhead, is a gentle and usually mellow young man.He sometimes knows things before they happen.In the movie,he tell us his story.He narrates the following how he met Michelle in Iowa; how he got the name Fuckhead; how she introduced him to heroin; their romantic relationship; his life as a thief; and his job in the hospital. Aside from that,he also tells his story about his life with Michelle in Chicago when she gets pregnant; and many more.As he tells details of his life,the viewers gets a view of FH and his gifts as well as his abilities.The acting of Jesus' Son is great.It is a delight to see Billy Cudrup as FH.Special Mention must also be given to rest of the castSamantha Morton, Holly Hunter, Dennis Hopper, Denis Leary, Will Patton, John Ventimiglia, Michael Shannon and Jack Black.Aside from that,the screenplay was written by Elizabeth Cuthrell, David Urrutia, and Oren Moverman were excellent.The direction of Alison Maclean is also commendable. Definitely,it is a good adaptation of the novel of Denis Johnson.Highly recommended. A 10/10 rating. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Movie","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" First off, I must say that I'm a bit biased simply because I'm a fan of the book. I actually had know idea there was ever a movie made for Jesus' Son. I was describing the story Emergency to my girlfriend one day and she said, That sounds a lot like this movie I saw with Jack Black and Billy Cruddup. Much to my surprise, we were talking about the same story...To me the book is about survivors. No matter how much you have destroyed things in your life, or no matter how badly things have turned out, you can still turn it all around. That was that message I used to get from the book, and I think the movie evokes this same feeling. Brilliant acting, beautiful soundtrack, and powerful stories... The scene with Samantha Morton dancing to Sweet Pea is one of my favorite scenes ever.If you're squeamish or turned off towards drug culture stories, Jesus' Son is definitely not for you. However, I would suggest both the book and the movie to just about anyone. "}{"Title":"No bunnies were harmed in the making of this film.","Date":"5 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Its interesting how this low-budget movies are much better than a regular Hollywood film.This is the story of FH (Billy Crudup) a lost guy that takes a journey to find happiness, he has a grate relationship with Michelle (Samantha Morton) and an abnormal job in a hospital, his relationship soon turns sour and she leave, he goes from town to town to find her and also to find his place in the world.Its an odd movie but it carries a message and its greate for all the people that haven't found theirs place in the world, it joins humor with a bit of tragedy.Well its hard to review this movie because is a little hard to explain, bun I surely recommend it for everyone, a grate film. "},{"Title":"greatness","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" it's not perfect but this is the sort of movie i love and wish could be made set in contemporary times. it mirrors, ever so lovingly, the spirit of the great 70's American cinema, the time period it is set in.there are a couple of unforgivable psychedelic freak outs but i suspect she had to throw those in to get distribution - because at it's sweet and wiggly core - this is a film that is deeply philosophical while being hilarious and transporting and challenging - everything the 70's outsider cinema was supposed to be about - nevermind the time it is set in.it is random partially because it is based on a book of short stories occupied by a character who is ever present in this film. billy cruddup aces it and is so gracefully in tune to the humor and zen of the movie that i will love him as an actor forever no matter what he does.no more pretending for him. he was completely and openly a mess. meanwhile, the rest of us go on pretending to each other.  all these weirdos and me...getting a little better everyday in the middle of 'em.i had never known...i never imagined for a heartbeat, that there might be a place for people like us. "},{"Title":"Last night I watched Jesus' Son...","Date":"15 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Last night I watched Jesus' Son I easily give it an A- Billy Crudup as Fuck Head gives a strongly addicting performance, showing his acting prowess to be well beyond his years. The range of humanity he is able to bring to this character is reminiscent of a young Robert De Niro. Although Crudup is cast seemingly at random with Samantha Morton, who plays Michelle the catalysts for much of Fuck Head's evolution; their performances together are gritty and riveting.This is a completely original telling of the over used genre of how a man from the 1970's turns from drug addiction and petty crime to a life redeemed by a discovery of compassion. With such a story, there are scenes of absurdity and excessiveness, during which I found myself about to write-off the rest of the movie until I realized that each spectacle of a scene came with a sudden blunt crash back to a harsh reality. This allows us as viewers to experience some of the roller-coaster ride the characters go through without the side affects usually associated with Heroin.Furthermore, this movie is splattered with brilliant cameos from Dennis Hopper, Will Patton, and two of my favorites come from Jack Black and Denis Leary.I suggest you turn the lights off, sit down, crank the volume, and watch this movie with a stiff drink; you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"moving, hopeful, dreary , funny movie","Date":"10 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this was one of the best movies i have seen in quite some time. The opening sequence and the unnamed main character played complicatedly by a mostly dazed billy crudup, is one of my favorites, when unnamed standing by the side of the road wrapped in a blanket thinks the rain drops were falling and i knew every one of their names i was hooked. this movie is thoroughly entertaining, and thought provoking , this is a grouping of interrelated short stories and feels like this as every new story is labeled with a text on screen naming the story. the time progression here, is not strictly linear, with a few special effects? maybe imagined (by who?) such as a nude woman flying thru the air by some type of harness suspended by something out of sight. there are so many good scenes in this thing. "},{"Title":"A great film with real depth.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There was only one other review of this film when I wrote this and it deserved more than that, so here I am. I'll refer you to that review for much more detail, but I wanted to second the motion that this film deserves wider recognition. It's a bit arty but in an unpretentious kind of way, with some good laughs as well as some deep ideas. It's also not a bad film to watch with your teenagers (if they'll do something like that!) as a surreptitious way to get them to just say no to drugs. It paints what looks like a realistic portrait of life on drugs.I wanted to stop here, but IMDb is telling me I need 10 lines before they'll accept a review, which I hope they'll change. So what to add? Great acting and some great one-liners. "},{"Title":"Trying to be more than just another drug flick","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" We are treated to the world as seen from the perspective of a young druggie (Billy Crudup) who repeatedly screws up through his mixture of bungling, passivity, and choice of companions. I frequently found my interest in the narrative and the characters waning, with particular memorable scenes that made it worthwhile to keep a watch. The uniqueness of the main character's perspective is presented in scenes with a mixture of surrealism at times (along with his own narrative that he can't quite remember). This could have made for an interesting production, but at times I just found it irritating. Maybe I've just seen too many loser druggie films and the mostly pointless lives they portray to empathize with these people and their situations, in contrast to the real-life addicts I have known. The film does have its own redemptive conclusion, however, and deserves credit for being more realistic in the way it is presented than we might have anticipated. In fact, the film's clever title may just have a double meaning, with reference to the Velvet Underground song Heroin and a semi-spiritual theme all in one; we're all God's children. Just having seen Crudup in Almost Famous, a film made around the same time from a similar period, may have typed him for me in this kind of role, although he was a far more succesful character in that far better film. "},{"Title":"real, terrifically funny, occasionally disorganised, and all too human - as anti-Hollywood as it gets","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If you're looking for a clean, linear story about someone who does drugs, sees the error of his ways and emerges, butterfly-like, as a model citizen, turn right around and walk back the way you came. Jesus' Son instead patches together anecdotal episodes of our amiably inept non-hero's life and acquaintances to give us a picture of a very human, very well-meaning but disconnected and directionless young man. Rather than eagerly awaiting the conclusion of the story, I often found myself mourning the brevity of many of the little segments, which are no less enjoyable alone than as part of a larger narrative.This film needs to be seen for the hospital scene alone. Without spoiling anything, Alison Maclean has assembled a beautifully disjointed array of characters - kudos has and will continue to be given for the deliciously disastrous Jack Black, who both steals the show and plays off Crudup magnificently, but the part of the reception nurse (played by Yvette Mercedes) is also brief but brilliant and deserves a mention.The acting makes this film - it's clever and human and warm, but without the necessary cast, its meandering structure may not have stood up to scrutiny. The quietly terrifying Dundun, the explosive Michelle, Denis Leary and Dennis Hopper's respective turns - all do fine credit to it.Crudup is wonderful; in his hands, the film skirts widely around the clichd Drugs Are Bad, Mmkay ground of too many films (for every great film of that ilk - Requiem for a Dream, Basketball Diaries - there are many awful ones), and he plays FH subtly and remarkably as a essentially optimistic and wide-eyed fella whose naivety, lack of direction and dubious associations get him into frequent trouble. The structure of his narration is great in its naturalism, starting to tell one anecdote before remembering he forgot to explain something previous - and it adds great depths to his character. One can imagine FH having been the kid at school with Must try harder written in red across every assignment.Jesus' Son seems to have divided opinion across the board. It's certainly not for everyone but to my mind, it's one of the best and most unusual films of recent years. Ultimately, if you're prepared to sit and watch something real, terrifically funny, occasionally disorganised, and all too human - a film that eschews neat edges, Hollywood trimming and concise plot structures for a fantastically life-sized character study of someone many of us will recognise in ourselves - then I doubt you'll be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Random, non-linear, living inside his own head.","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This left me slightly confused, but with some degree of hope. Too many random events that lead nowhere. FH was really lost, without focus and the narrative of the story reflected that fact. He meant well but was easily swayed into doing very stupid things, and allowing people to take advantage of him. He is a true innocent in many fashions, without anyone to guide him. I was surprised to see as many recognisable celebrities in this movie playing such small roles. If you enjoyed Drugstore Cowboy, then you'll enjoy this movie. Nice use of computer FX to alter reality too. Interesting all around although pointless at times... much like our lives. No mention of his family.. parents.. leaves you wondering if he's just a homeless drifter.. like Jesus perhaps? the truth is left unknown.. "},{"Title":"All a film could be and much, much more --","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have NEVER commented on a film in IMDb, and I NEVER will again. However, I must comment on this Film!! What is so Great about it you ask - well I'll tell you-- ready... take a deep breathe--- IT WAS REAL - you see I don't want to bash other films - but I admit - I'm a little different than the masses that flock to the theaters to see Spider Man, etc. See people that get excited about those kinds of films - want to be entertained, whisked away, they want to forget reality for awhile (which I COMPLETELY understand, after all we live in a cynical world- and most days I would love to forget where I'm at too!!)- (again this is not a bash) But for me - REAL LIFE - is sooo much more soul touching and interesting!! This film takes a unique kind of person to enjoy it- it is by far one of the most hilarious movies I have ever seen and its all steeped in REAL LIFE tragedy!! IN other words -- ITS GOOD NEWS FOR PEOPLE WHO LIKE BAD NEWS --My point is -- if your a Spider Man fan, Harry Potter wand waver, or waiting for the next Ben Stiller movie (no offense) -- Of course you won't like this - its too real- its not about whisking you away - its about shoving your face in the dirt, spending your last dime for a bite to eat, finding yourself completely alone in the dark, wondering if anyone else has ever felt this alone - and getting an answer -- NO ONE can argue that the acting was phenomenal - two thumbs up- The sad thing about this is, the fact that the people who don't understand the genius of this dark comedy ---- will never get it- no matter how many reviews they read- or how many times they see the movie -- Its a fact in LIFE, there are shallow people and there are deep people - Just in case you still don't have a grasp on what I'm saying -- If your favorite movie is Rambo 16, or Terminator 12 - I would pass on this - However - If you've ever felt lost, alone, unloved - been on drugs, or sat around just contemplating life and our existence, and what all this life means to you - This will be nothing less than your favorite movie - It will always be mine!! I have NEVER seen more originality and creativity- this is a masterpiece- In fact this film has inspired me to try for film school - I only hope some day I could work on a project that exudes such humanity and realism as this - Hats off to Crudup- how cool can one man be (sorry Tom Cruise)  "},{"Title":"The Black Angel's Death Song?","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Decent drug movie, complete with Velvet's reference in the title.  I thought it was about on par with Requiem for a Dream, which I also liked.  Crudup is a very watchable actor, and Black is always a good time.I had to laugh after reading a review on the Allmovie.com web-site.  Here's a snippet of that review;>>Along FH's journey to self-enlightenment, however, we're treated to a smattering of compelling moments the shocking car accident that opens the film; the split-screen overdose of demented building contractor Wayne (Denis Leary, in an all-too-brief performance); and the surreal hospital job FH and his friend Georgie (the ubiquitous Jack Black) keep in order to score drugs - any drugs. Our hero occasionally lapses into hallucinatory dream sequences which, at their best, recall Fellini; at their worst, they feel like warmed-over fantasy sequences from Ally McBeal.<<I was reading this online while watching the film, and just about blew a gasket when Greg Germann from Ally showed up in the 1st hospital room emergency scene (which was the best part of the movie for me).I think the thing that hit me the most (again) was the soundtrack, especially the Tommy Roe song Sweet Pea.  I haven't heard that song since my sister quit buying 45's around 1969, and I listen to a lot of retro radio shows (including a cool three hour 60's & 70's show every Sunday).  Kudos to Alison Maclean and the producers for unearthing that one.  I was really stunned, and had to go back and watch Samantha Morton's bump-n-grind to it again.  The rest of the period music was also good (including the recent Wilco cuts), but for some reason, Imdb doesn't have a soundtrack listing on the site for JESUS' SON!  What's up with that?   "}{"Title":"Holy Metaphor Batman!!","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The acting was great in this film.  It got a little caught up in the I'm stupid so I'm cool aspect and was very slow to start but half way through I caught myself trying to pick out every metaphor in the film. I think I counted 15. If I go back and watch it again I'm sure I'll find at least 20 more. Worth watching for the performances and to see how many metaphors you can catch.Anyone who has tried to overcome an  addiction of any kind will probably see more in this film than those who don't think they are addicted to anything.  "},{"Title":"Probably the best war on drugs movie EVER","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a movie about how drug use (self-medication) is a spiritual battle, not a logistical one.  As long as drug users are regarded as one-size-fits-all drug-consuming units without souls, the battle is lost.  It is for each of us to find our way.  The process can be weird, and may--or may not--involve drugs.  FH's just so happens to involve drugs.Jesus' Son invites us to read off of it the application of principles from Christ's teachings.  One example  When McInnes christens Our Hero F**khead, this is a case of calling your brother 'raca' (fool), and it does put McInnes in danger of hellfire.I'd seen this movie before, and liked it OK; but it didn't impress me that much.  I saw it again just a week ago, and perceived it on a whole new level.  There is so much that is beautiful about this movie, from the casting and ensemble work, to the editing, to the individual performances, to the text, to its ending which is at once totally, cosmically positive, successful, and integrated without a whiff of cop-out or wimpiness.This is *the* consumate success story, if you allow success to be measured not in how high you rise, but how much you achieve in this life; the difference between a lost and static starting point and a voyage into healing.  Of course, I may be biased  It's a movie about my people, as it were; ne'er-do-wells bumping into trees in Babylon.  I came up in the midst of this during the 70's and, I should admit, was a participant.Thanks to all involved for this majestic movie.  "},{"Title":"lovely, meditative, evocative","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As an adaptation of a book, the film works well - slow and meditative.  I can only speculate whether the title (of the book and movie) found its inspiration in Lou Reed's song 'Heroin', or not.  I imagine so. "},{"Title":"Down-to-earth","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jesus' Son does what most films cannot--it gives us the same messages overly pretentious films do, and even uses some pretentious gimmicks, while at the same time presenting it in a very down-to-earth fashion. And that's just what this movie is down-to-earth.  Billy Crudup plays the role of FH perfectly, as an innocent and awkward young man who knows he has to deal with life but doesn't quite know how, and tries to deal in some odd ways, which gives us a very entertaining story.  The supporting cast is also superb; my personal favorite sequence is with Jack Black.  All around this movie is just damn good. "},{"Title":"moved me in a way few films ever have","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was blown away by Jesus' Son when I first saw it in a theater, and went back to see it again within a day or two. It moved me in a way few films ever have. I've seen it a couple of times since its (unfortunately brief) theatrical release.  I'm about to buy the DVD, as I think it's an important, amazing film I'll be able to watch once a year, if not more often than that.  I don't have much to add to the many heartfelt, perceptive, well-written takes on Jesus' Son I've read here. I'm just glad to know that I'm not the only one who feels that  this unsung gem of a movie is a real, honest, powerful---and incredibly funny, for that matter---bit of moviemaking.  I see about a hundred movies a year---it's part of my job, believe it or not---and this one makes my Top Ten of the Last Ten Years list. Do you want to see a movie that really gets INSIDE the realities of addiction and recovery? This is one of the few that does. I love Jesus' Son. This movie never preaches (far from it!), but this movie helped me. Man, I'll tell ya what That's art. "},{"Title":"Odd in the best way. . .","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Billy Crudup has that special quality. . something just makes you WANT to watch him.  Almost Famous is a good example.  So is this.  Not an easy film to follow, but entertaining nonetheless.  Crudup's character FH nudges the boundaries of an antagonist that you feel sympathy for.  Should you?  Who the hell knows?!  I did at points.  And when he smiles, you smile. . and when he cries, you cry.  And what more could you ask for from a performance.  The guy's talented.  And Jack Black makes a great extended cameo.  He's typically odd and funny, and he fits in the storyline perfectly.  Definitely see this one.7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Why isn't this man more famous?","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A lot of actors in overdose (drug and alcohol) movies tend to play the effects rather than try to give you an idea of the character that took the drugs or swallowed the alcohol in the first place. In other words, what you see are the *results* of the booze or the pills.What I love about Billy Crudup's performance is that he lets you see the person underneath all the dope somebody nervous, funny, given to little poetic flights of fancy, thoughtless, caring, geeky, awkward... It's all there, from his shuffling dangly-armed, little boy walk to the startled looks he gives Samantha Morton when she dances for him the first time he sees her. Even though the film doesn't show us what his childhood was like, I finished the film feeling as though I'd known this character since we were kids together.This is first class acting in a gentle, beautifully made little film. "},{"Title":"No beginning, no end!","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is in many ways special film, which without a doubt will leave many unsure, both in regards to the subject and the film itself (including me!). The film is about a young man, which has the wonderful nickname F**khead (FH).  We follow FH as he explores the two loves of his life, his girlfriend and drugs.  For three year period we go back and forth, while he tells his story, realizing by each minute that he really deserves the title FH, or as one of his friends says to him 'Does everything you touch turn to s***'. Even though it is not a question that this is good film, with interesting camera style, dialog and acting, I couldn't help but feel that it was trying too hard.  Too many small sideline stories were started but never completed. There was also some scenes that were mixture of reality and the drug enhanced state of FH, but not clear enough distinction between what was reality and what wasn't.  The greatest criticism I could raise though is how the usage of drugs didn't seem to affect FH or his Girlfriend Michelle in any other way then producing some friendly dullness.  Never seemed there to be any desperation in buying the next dosage, or much of mood changes due to the consumption.  Finally, the ending was very lax, even though I hadn't expected any clear cut final.  From my point FH was just as confused at the beginning of the film as at the end of it!  Having said that, this is very interesting film, worth looking at. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Best film about addiction since the Lost Weekend.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is just terrific. Billy Crudup is amazing, Samantha Morton transcendent, Denis Leary wonderful and what can you say about Jack Black. Simply the best thing JB has ever done and he shines even in garbage like Orange County!The film jump cuts from scene to scene - but that is how an alcoholic/addict sees the world. I know a lot of people prefer BS flicks like Leaving Las Vegas and Requiem For A Dream - but you might as well go to one of those all night film festivals where they run a bunch of 30's propaganda films like Reefer Madness for all the accuracy those films have.I don't know what Alison Maclean is up to these days but I sure hope she's making another film.  "},{"Title":"loved it!","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i was upset to see that a few people here (at least two or three) really didn't like this movie.  it does take some time to really get into it and discover the deeper meaning, but it is well worth it.  this film is extrememly poignant and absolutely beautiful... one of the few movies that actually make me *think* instead of simply amusing me. i just wish that those who gave bad reviews of this movie would take the time to watch it a second time (or all the way through... you know who you are) and try to understand the symbolism of the drug addiction, the baby rabbits, the old folks' home, the amish family, the man from the subway, and so much more. almost everything in this movie has symbolic value, and once you understand what that means, it will absolutely change your life.definitely one of my all-time favorites!!! (if you liked this movie, see chicago cab) "}{"Title":"9/10","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wow, I don't know how many times I have changed my vote for this movie.  After my first viewing, I probably give the film a 5/10, after my second viewing, 7/10, and now, after seeing the film three times, I have given it my final vote, 9/10.The film is weird, and not for all tastes, but there is quite a big of genius at work with this film, and it's entertaining as can be.  Billy Crudup gives an Oscar worthy performance as the title character, F--- Head.  There is a lot of tenderness to the film, as well as a lot of comedy. A whole slew of actors make cameos, the most notable cameo being Jack Black. "},{"Title":"Impressive adaptation of book to film","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jesus's Son, a short story collection by Denis Johnson, is, I believe a masterpiece. So one can imagine my anxiety at finding out it had become a film. But even from the opening titles (in the same typeface as the original first edition cover) you know that you're watching an adaptation by someone who loved and respected the original work, and was up to the task of stringing together the separate stories into a coherent film narrative. Johnson, the author, has a (rather gruesome) cameo appearance and was the musical consultant, so one can guess that he approved of the film. And well he should much of Billy Crudup's voiceover narration comes straight from the pages of the book, and works beautifully. The film is not afraid to go beyond reality and into a drug-addled point of view. Crudup is terrific, as are Samantha Morton and Holly Hunter (in a small role--Dennis Hopper also has a cameo, and Jack Black once again nearly steals the show). Unlike most movies populated by addicts, you don't tire of these losers and want to share in a redemption that is far from a Hollywood ending. And while redemption is what it's about--the title is no red herring--the film is far from simplistic.      "},{"Title":"a beautiful tale","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  jesus' son, stands as one of the best films i've ever seen.  viewing this film was a humbling experience for me. few films manage to capture the rawness of humanity and the struggle in life to find meaning and hope. billy crudup is superb as fh, and it was his honest performance and characterisation of fh along with the beautifully composed shots and the poetic meandering of the film, that stood out for me. as the film is told from the perspective of fh, who is not the most reliable of storytellers, reality and dream are confused, blending to make a non-linear journey through a set of important events in fh's life. i found this a creative and inspiring form of film-making, and as allison maclean is a new zealand, woman film-maker, she is someone who i look up to and admire.  "},{"Title":"What an amazing, thoughtful film","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this to be a wonderful, uplifting story with many memorable lines and characters. Billy Crudup is definitely one of the most underrated actors of his generation. The writing and direction are superb. I was surprised by this film, its a real gem.  "},{"Title":"misleading title, BUT  Billy Crudup is suburb","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"     This is a strange film,& my opinion is equally strange.  The only real reason to see this movie is for the magnificent performance of its  STAR  Billy Crudup. This role should have won him an Oscar bid. Basically this is a story of drug abusers & truthfully I am not that interested in this type of drama. It is realistic in all aspects & thusly quite grim,even so there is some humor to alleviate there sordid lives.    Now as far as the  title goes, only in one very brief scene at the end of the film do we get any ideal of what the title means & even that is vagueDue to Billy Crudup`s great role this gets a  ***  ratingas alwaysJay Harris "},{"Title":"a very realistic film about addiction","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most realistic depictions of drug/alcohol addiction I've ever seen on film. And Billy Crudup's performance is simply remarkable. (I'm shocked that only Paris Film Fest. recognized his acting job here.) The film goes a long way in illuminating what addiction looks and feels like, right down to what people say when they're high and how they say it. The characters are so real, the acting is fantastic, and it all just rings completely TRUE. It's also a fun trip back to the early '70s. Jack Black is his usual hysterical self, and Holly Hunter turns in a compelling performance in a part that strays somewhat from her usual role. Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Liked it so much I made it my name","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though, admittedly, there is nothing really spectacular about Jesus son, a drug romp throughout the 70's, it is was good enough for me to change my imdb handle to jesusson.Billy Crudup does another fine turn as a scumbag that we all end up feeling sorry for by movies end. Personally, I prefer his scumbag in almost famous or even Sleepers, but still this is a pretty good movie.Also, this movie has a great turn by Dennis Leary, who I for personal reasons hate more than any other actor. Still watching him OD made me happy.Jack Black is, as usual excellent, as is the rest of the movie.9/10 "},{"Title":"Billy Crudup deserved an Oscar nomination","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Billy Crudup conveys more information about this character in the first 20 minutes of Jesus' Son than most actors are able to do in the course of an entire film. Just watch his reaction to Samantha Morton's character's boyfriend after he catches them together. Crudup would have been a superstar in the silent-era, as he can convey more with a sideways glance than most screenwriters can ever aspire to with an entire script. He is an amazing talent to behold. His performance brings as much joy and satisfaction as does the sight of a sunny Los Angeles day after the rain. I cannot recommend seeing his work in this film enough. GO BUY THE DVD NOW!!!! "},{"Title":"F***head Gump","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jesus' Son is well acted, keenly directed, but ultimately hollow. Jesus' Son, like Trainspotting and Drugstore Cowboy, is yet another whimsical drug movie imbued with black comedy, surrealism, (two of my favorite things) and a hapless addict musing about life. It has it moments of tragedy, symbolism, bumbling humor, and poignancy, but, for all its existential moments, it still manages to come up being shallow, especially in the wake of better films about addiction.The infuriating thing is that it plays like a sentimental Forrest Gump of drug culture. Through a series of vignettes, we follow different moments in the life of F***head, a wide eyed innocent, druggie, who rambles little insights about life, and despite causing misfortune, stumbles along with little regard for his actions. His coming into sobriety, near the end, seems to just be happenstance, and somehow, we are meant to show some kind of affection towards him.  He falls into becoming an addict and just as easily falls out of it, still remaining pure of heart. It's this sickening casual attitude about addiction and F***head's nature that ruins the film; that he doesn't learn from his misfortune, deaths around him, but he is still some great, almost mythic, figure cluelessly touching other peoples lives.  If you didn't buy into a millionaire simpleton (Gump), then you shouldn't buy into the thoughtful, forever innocent addict.Crudup is good, he lives and walks in the skin of F***head, but despite some greasy hair, unflattering makeup, and coy facial expressions, he's still so damn handsome he doesn't remind me of any addict I've seen or known. Samantha Morton is, yet again, note for note perfect as his girlfriend, who introduces him to heroin. Dennis Leary, Dennis Hopper, and Holly Hunter also show up, but none of their characters are in the film long enough to be heavily defined. In other words, they are good, but they remain just Dennis Hopper, Dennis Leary, and Holly Hunter, not anyone else- one of my gripes, do not cast major actors in small roles. Jack Black is fantastic, worth a viewing for the Tenacious One alone. But, ultimately the film is empty despite the good performances.  "},{"Title":"Lyrical","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was quite well-done. It's not often I find films poetic, but in this case, I found Jesus' Son to be quite lyrical. It's not necessarily a cautionary tale, it doesn't spit any messages in your face. It's merely a depiction of a certain period in someone's life, a picture so beautifully and non-judgmentally rendered, it reminded me of well-written poetry in texture and feeling. The pacing was slow, but not belabored. More American films should be like this. It's been said before, but the States could stand to take a lesson from European cinema.Crudup's character, F$@#head, is multi-layered, avoiding being pigeonholed as just a junkie, or an over-sensitive individual, or a young man just down on his luck. We feel bad for him, but we don't pity him; he's slow-witted, but smart enough to pull himself out of the trenches of self-abuse when maturity calls upon him to do so. He's an everyman, albeit with a golden heart, guilty of nothing more than some bad choices in tough circumstances. Who can't identify with that? I've been trailing his career since I first saw him in 'Inventing the Abbotts,' and while he hasn't produced a body of work comparable to other character actors I so admire, I look forward to seeing his career ascend. Ditto Samantha Morton. I loved her performance in 'Sweet and Lowdown,' thought it was quite affecting, and her role here, as Michelle, is no less astonishing in its emotional complexity; she's got a big but fragile heart, finally collapsing under the weight of her bond to F#$@head. My sense is that her career will resemble Emily Watson's, both in diversity of characters and, if there's any justice, longevity.If you're looking for a stylistic, gracefully acted drama about self-renewal, this one's for you. "}{"Title":"Strange, Solid Filmmaking","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  JESUS' SON is a tale like so many others that we've witnessed in the world of film young, purposeless man wanders about, falling in with similar people, a love affair destined for tragedy, and etc.  It sports an unremarkable look that would otherwise be remarkable had music videos and commercials already trumped it overexposure and vivid colorization. But from its opening scene, JESUS' SON establishes itself as something quite worth watching.  Despite the use of main-character-as-narrator, which can be a real sticking point, the film's writing and Billy Crudup's tremendous acting ability propel every scene into something charming and full, almost overflowing with ideas.  In the course of this movie's average length, FH (in case you haven't seen the film, F and H are the initials of Crudup's character's unpleasant sobriquet) runs in with a bizarre and completely original group of characters who are all like him in some way his manic junkie girlfriend (Morton), a down-and-out scumbag with a hammer (Leary), a perennial widow (Hunter), a Mennonite couple, a drug-addled orderly (Black), a crusty old con (Hopper).  However, these characters are not token or caricatured, but fully formed people who live in FH's bizarre reality and all connect with his desperate longing for escape or meaning in one way or another.  Much like Bruno Dumont's recent films LA VIE DE JESUS (hmm) and HUMANITE, JESUS' SON explores life in a particularly unforgiving world (in this case, 1970's Chicago, in Dumont's, bleak pastoral France) and claws for some sort of beauty therein.  Unlike Dumont's films, FH seems to find that beauty amongst people whom he can relate with and help.  The two sides to this film can be seen in a span where FH works as an orderly, and, with the frantically comic Jack Black, steals pills to make it through the long graveyard shift.  After a grisly scene involving the removal of a hunting knife from a man's eye, the two wander into the countryside, and, drug-addled and playing off one another (like the characters in Thompson's FEAR AND LOATHING. . .), marvel at the ghostly wonders of the night.  These scenes are priceless examples of writing and imagination that, in terms of sheer delight, probably eclipse anything to come out of recent Hollywood. In the end, the true glory of this film is to find compassion where our conceptions of characters would tell us otherwise.  The characters are not spat upon in their depiction; everything they do is earnest and according to their human value.  The viewer constantly waits for something truly horrible to occur (and this is, often, what the film portends), but instead we can find only light.  The movie has weak points, but they are few.  All in all, this is a triumph of acting and writing, and the direction sparkles at times.  The film fails to provide a coherent theme to speak of, but its disjointed pieces somehow fit together to form a wondrous whole that is never short on surprises or pure humanity.   "},{"Title":"A personal thank you to everyone involved with this film.","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This year I've seen many Hollywood films that I instantly forget upon leaving the theatre and lately I can't even seem to find solace with independent films anymore. They're playing to what's hip at the moment rather than speaking about the things which remain timeless and universal. What a pleasure it was to see Jesus' Son. Every moment in this film reminded me of why I love films in the first place. Interesting characters dealing with interesting situations that we haven't seen quite that way before. Bravo to everyone involved with this film, in making it you've let sunshine back into my heart and I hope to others.  "},{"Title":"Best Film of the Year","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's been a while since I've left a movie completely hopeful and rejuvenated. This is, by far, the best film I've seen in this (horrible) movie-going year-- it actually improves upon its source material in imaginative and truthful ways and uses perfect casting (especially Crudup in the lead role) to enhance the story. This film is full of memorable scenes, profound moments, and most of all, guts and truth. 10/10. "},{"Title":"A prettier version of Buffalo '66","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There's something very sweet about Billy Crudup's face and it was one of the best things about this film.  Don't get me wrong, the other characters were interesting enough to keep the story going, but Mr.Crudup did an amazing job, which I'll admit surprised me, because I've never considered him to be a great actor. The only thing I wished is that the other characters would have had more screen time.  It was strange to see Dennis Hopper in a cameo role, and I wished he could have come back later on. Holly Hunter is always great and Jack Black is hilarious. I was very happily surprised by this film, but don't see it if you're looking for a quick-paced film. It's a slow, meandering trip, but worth it if you give it a chance.  "},{"Title":"Great acting and black humour enliven drug infested journey through  1970s America","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Director Alison Maclean's follow up to Crush follows the tortuous journey towards redemption of a drug ravaged loser called  Fuckhead , played by Billy Crudup, stumbling through a series of unpleasant or off-beat incidents in 1970s America. His name refers to the way everything he touches goes horrendously wrong, but what saved this movie for me from being too depressing was the humour and pathos in Crudup's performance which almost made me like the messed up character he plays. His journey is shown in a series of separate segments, staying reasonably close to the style of the acclaimed short stories by Denis Johnson on which the movie is based.  FH  has an on-off liaison with Michelle, powerfully played by Samantha Morton who was so impressive in the badly under-rated  This is the Sea  and in Jesus' Son is once again utterly convincing.A strong cast includes cameo appearances from Will Paton, Dennis Hopper and most notably Holly Hunter who is mesmerising in a brief appearance towards the end of the film as a woman who has suffered from dreadful things which keep happening to her husbands.By this stage I had become a litle bored with the succession of losers and  gory incidents - a guy with a knife in his eye being treated in the emergency room for instance - but Hunter's role together with the overall strength of Crudup's acting re-ignited the final section of this interesting movie.At the end  FH  does find some kind of redemption and his surprise at this situation is almost a happy ending. I was surprised too how much of an impression the movie made on me afterwards with little incidents and lines of dialogue making me want to see it again. So Jesus'Son, although not for the faint-hearted, is definitely worth checking out - especially for Billy Crudup's perfomance - and I am certain that Alison Maclean is set to be a major directorial talent in the years ahead.(Jesus' Son shown at the London Film Festival, November 06, 1999) "},{"Title":"Nice effort, but a serious sense of deja-vu","Date":"10 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jesus' Son is a decently made independent film whose heart is in the right place. However, good intentions aren't nearly enough to make a good film, which brings me to the main problem of Jesus' Son. I feel like I've seen this film dozens of times before. The quirky independent film style, the offbeat but likable characters, and most of all, the junkie with a heart of gold road movie. Throughout the film, I couldn't help but be reminded of Drugstore Cowboy, which managed to pull off all these factors with twice the power of this entry. Its nice to see a movie which doesn't beat you over the head with a simplistic drugs are bad moral (such as the incredibly overrated Requiem For a Dream did), but the material in Jesus' Son is far too slight to have any lasting effect. This seems like a quirky indie road movie and really nothing more.Fortunately, the acting and direction are good enough that this might be worth watching if it turns up on IFC. Billy Crudup takes a bland character and does his best with him. Hes likable enough in the main role. Even better is the supporting cast. Samantha Morton, Dennis Hopper, Denis Leary, and Jack Black all give surprisingly poignant performances. The direction by Alison Maclean takes the rather uninteresting material and keeps it moving at a quick pace, quick enough to make you not realize the weightlessness of the film until its over. If only the screenplay (credited to three different writers!) had some more effort put into it, Jesus' Son could've been something special. Instead, it merely feels like a well-made but forgettable trotting of indie film clichs. (6/10) "},{"Title":"Highly recommended, dark, realistic depiction of what we call the drug culture","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Contains Spoiler--- Highly recommended, dark, realistic depiction of what we call the drug culture After you've seen it, read my reviewI Just saw the movie on the IFC. Incredibly powerful and affecting. I am a middle class retiree who never lived the life described, yet came close enough to have empathy for the characters. If the film had flaws, they only made it more realistic. We all have flaws. We do not think or live our lives linearly. We all mostly stumble through, only learning vital things too late. Just as poor FH only learned that Michelle has written a note asking to be saved if he loved her--- too late.I would not want, nor do I have the expertise, to analyze this film based on cinematic criteria. The film started with an idea, someone had something to say, each participant-- director, actor, editor, passed that idea along, cleanly and precisely. Every cinematic technique served this advancement of the expression The metaphysical surreal elements didn't seem like an affectation, but worked to express the idea.Emblematic of the tone was after the abortion when FH asked, what did they stick up you. Michelle's reaction. Her scream. She could have handled the intrusion into her body, the loss of a living being that could have been her child, but the coldness, the rejection of her beloved, was a cause for anguish, expressed perfectly in a primordial cry.And certain lines, as throwaways easy missed, were profound. FH's statement that he didn't even feel the holy water that the abortion opponents threw at him until many years later. The very disorganization and fragmented emotions presaged the awesome decision to end a life. Shallow loser slacker--I think not.In sharing my responses to this film I feel limited by the set of values imposed on artistic endeavor such as this. We search for criteria of excellence of a genre, that others can strive for. We want to see how this work matches up against such criteria. I would rather believe that this was a personal message from someone. And to that person, I just want to say, Thank you. "},{"Title":"what was this trying to be?","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Jesus' Son was sometimes unique,sometimes funny,and sometimes engrossing.This all fine and dandy,but it was all at the wrong times.I found this film to be just annoying.The moment that you think youll get something heartfelt or something of substance that the viewer can relate with,the film seems to just go off somewhere else and try too hard not take itself seriously-a fight,a drug fix,a shooting victim.All these wacky vignettes back and forth and wacky unbelievable characters could have been great accept for one GLARING problem did anyone care at all about any of these people?If no one cares,the viewer doesn't relate and loses interest to what happens next to our poor drifter.By the way, was the billy crudup character (FH) happy,depressed,content,etc. through the first 75% of the film and the characters he met?I have no idea.The film simply seemed to try too hard to be original in its depiction of this side of human existance and in the process I lost touch and interest.      P.S. The scene with the stabbing victim in the hospital was pretty darn good.  "},{"Title":"Last great movie of the 90s, or first great one of the 00s.","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Alison Maclean's 'Jesus' Son' was technically released at the end of 1999, but most people (including myself) didn't see it until the following year. So which decade you decide to include it in is moot. Either it's the last great 90s movie, or the first great 00s one. Yes, it's that good.The subject matter and era will inevitably give rise to 'Drugstore Cowboy' comparisons, but the approach and atmosphere are completely different. Both are strong movies, and both reject the simplistic drugs are bad, mmmmkay? theme of 'Traffic' and 'Requiem For A Dream' (two wildly overrated films!). 'Jesus' Son' offers no easy answers, no moralizing, no sledghammer message, and is all the better for it. The movie is very episodic, which is understandable looking at the source material, and grows on you. On first viewing, while I enjoyed it, I didn't totally appreciate its worth and beauty. Like Lynch's 'Lost Highway' and Gallo's 'Buffalo 66' it is a movie that improves with each viewing. Billy Crudup is impressive as FH, a loser with a good heart. Samantha Morton is also strong as Michelle, his troubled lover. Both are supported by a flawless cast of both familiar faces and unknowns. Jack Black stands out as a manic pill-popping orderly, and his two major scenes with Crudup are highlights of the movie, as is a superb and depressing star turn by Denis Leary, who has never been better as the alcoholic barfly Wayne.I can hardly fault 'Jesus' Son', it is close to perfect. A thoughtful, complex movie that juggles sadness, humour, despair and hope. Cherish it.PS 'Carnival Of Souls' clip is an ultra-cool touch! "},{"Title":"unsympathetic","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I always wonder why so much celluloid is spent on people who voluntarily waste their lives away on drugs. The quiet desperation of the Mennonites in this film I'd like to have known more about. Or even the fat nurse who teaches FH to touch the nursing home patients. What kind of insight can come from a drugged stupor? And how does FH know as much as he does about philosophy? Show him with a book in his hand once in awhile. I can just see my high school students admiring him. Only THEY are naive enough to believe a druggie can be worth watching for two hours. But they also think they can relate to Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. You know, the one with Johnny Depp. "}{"Title":"A travesty","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film bears so little relation to the book by Denis Johnson that I think it should be renamed Forrest Gump Does Smack or Jesus' Son's Girlfriend. The impulse to celebrate the work of a great American writer is a worthy one, but surely Mr. Johnson deserves better than this dumbed-down and feminized dreck. "},{"Title":"Some writing should be left well enough alone","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A strong argument could be made that there are just two types of writing 1) writing that is always and only writing and 2) writing that might, perhaps, be adapted to another form.  Denis Johnson's collection of short stories, Jesus' Son, is assuredly writing of the first type.  It's a shame that Alison Maclean and her team of scriptwriters didn't bear this distinction in mind before attempting to put these stories--or parts of them, at any rate--up there on the screen.  Theirs is truly an awful film, one that insults the source material in a profound way. "},{"Title":"See it for Billy Crudup's performance.","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Billy Crudup's performance is the only thing that keeps this movie afloat. The man has great range. Otherwise it is a poor attempt at film making. At times there are bright spots, like the interaction between Black and Crudup. With that said, however, you're constantly trying to figure out if this is an attempt at comedy or drama. Its not even a dramady (whatever that may be). "},{"Title":"Last Train to Sucks-ville","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the most sorry assed films I have had the displeasure of watching. How anyone can mention this film in the same breath as such films as Requiem For A Dream or Drugstore Cowboy is completely beyond me.The lead actors were really annoying. I have known a lot of junkies. Very few of them look or act too much like the actors in this film. I found them to be completely unbelievable and absurd. This film tries WAY too hard to be hip. The dialog in many of the scenes between the male and female leads often dives deeply into clich, psudo-hip dreck that may appeal to high school kids or 20 somethings who think heroin addicts in love are super cool. The delivery of said scenes makes Sid and Nancy come off looking like f***ing Hamlet. I was left with the impression that the book was better than the film.This theme has been done to death in other more brilliant films.  That's not to say that this film didn't have a few great visual moments and a few decent scenes courtesy of Jack Black and Dennis Hopper, but they were hardly enough to save this film from becoming a long, dreary Requiem For A Dream Light.If you find shows like The Real World to be really deep or if you are the kind of person who thinks attractive actors/actresses = talent then this film should really do it for you.If you have known any junkies personally then you know that their lives seldom if ever resemble the lives of the folks portrayed in this film and you will find it to be a complete fluff piece. You might even find it laughably unrealistic if the film wasn't so damn droll in general.Save your bucks and the precious moments that will be robbed from your life by watching this crap-tastrophe and just rent Drugstore Cowboy, Permanent Midnight or Requiem For A Dream.  "},{"Title":"A pretty but spiritually empty film.","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Jesus' Son Can be analyzed from various angles. From a cinematic perspective this is a really enjoyable film. The camera shots are very creative and well done. Diverse in color and imagery as well as in the kinds of characters you will see this movie is an interesting change from most coming-of-age and drug movies you will see.But let me tell you how this is a disappointing film. This actually bothers me the most. The plot seems to progress as if something pivotal is going to happen and you expect to see a resolution and a change in this man. I don't think this is portrayed well at all. With the deceiving title like Jesus' Son, this movie is very simplistic and shallow in its spiritual content. There are some references to Christianity and Jesus but thats about it. You do not see this man change or accept Jesus. There is nothing like that. What you are presented with is a very man-centered idea that its good to be a good guy and to be compassionate to people and not do drugs.But as if the lack of any substantial Christian content were not enough, I think this movie glamorizes sex and drugs instead of emphasizing their vanity. Even in the end, when you think that maybe he is changing there is no indication of any true Christian character in him. Even when you feel like the main character may be feeling compassion and love towards the wretched people he encounters he doesn't show it in any way.So, be warned, this is not a Christian movie, nor is it a good anti-drug film. Its a very cinematically pleasing noir-style indie film that simply tells you that people should be nice. It is sad that there are very few real Christian movies out there. I can only highly recommend The End of The Spear, Saint Ralph, Francis of Assisi, or Simon Birch as good Christian movies. "},{"Title":"A low rated film but good to see if you want to.","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is apparently not the best, especially with the drugs and alcohol and sex, but one thing I am proud of is this film was filmed  in a small town called Riverside New Jersey which I used to live one mile from there. Of course no one knows that, but the many lives in Riverside portrays FH's character particularly because the town has a bar or tavern at every corner, and also is about 11 miles north of Philadelphia where in Philly it's drug dealing central, along with Camden, New Jersey. Unless you are into stuff like this, watch the movie, I know you'll like it, because personally I don't. "},{"Title":"Slowly bored me to sleep","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Really slow, really boring, and confused. Yes, as others have noted, its fun to count the metaphors and allusions to religion. Ok, not really fun, but at least it gives you something to do until the movie ends. Apparently, without a written program you'll miss most of the insider knowledge that is the only thing that might make this interesting. Want to watch a movie about drugs? Watch Sid and Nancy. Watching them shoot up was so fascinating, I couldn't take my eyes away. Watching FH's girlfriend do it gave me the same reaction it seemed to give him So what. "},{"Title":"unsympathetic","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I always wonder why so much celluloid is spent on people who voluntarily waste their lives away on drugs. The quiet desperation of the Mennonites in this film I'd like to have known more about. Or even the fat nurse who teaches FH to touch the nursing home patients. What kind of insight can come from a drugged stupor? And how does FH know as much as he does about philosophy? Show him with a book in his hand once in awhile. I can just see my high school students admiring him. Only THEY are naive enough to believe a druggie can be worth watching for two hours. But they also think they can relate to Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. You know, the one with Johnny Depp. "},{"Title":"It sucks!!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this on HBO and was glad that I didn't rent or see this piece of crap in a movie theater. It sounded so good, but it sucked!! The general story idea was good but poorly executed with the most stupid dialogue and subplots! I stopped watching it midway through because it was so bad. The only good thing was the acting. Didn't see one bad performance, and Samantha Morton was outstanding. Too bad they didn't have a good movie to compliment them. "},{"Title":"Everything about this film is good except...","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ...the story is patently stupid. Jesus' Son (a misnomer), is a bunch of meaningless vignettes sort of strung together into a kind of wandering odyssey of a guy who's wide-eyed and stupid (Crudup). The problem with this non-story is it's not compelling nor evocative nor poignant nor interesting nor educational nor prosaic nor entertaining nor...etc. It's, well, just plain dumb.I was deluded by some good reviews (Ebert and others) and watched waiting for something interesting to happen. Unfortunately, nothing interesting did happen. No big climax, no great ending, no apocalypse, no epiphany, no nothing, nada..zip. Just dumb boredom heaped upon more dumb boredom. Good fodder for dilettantes but not recommended for anyone else. "}{"Title":"Liked the movie better when it was called Trainspotting.","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is better than the Olsen twin's latest effort, I'll give it that.Why would anyone want to watch (direct, act in, write, or even be the caterer on the set of...) a movie that follows a character that is, quite possibly, the dumbest person I've seen on film. The story - or lack thereof - is poorly written and just sort of wanders from one scene to the next, with no real meaningful sequence. The narrator is a burnout so, Surprise!, the story is told nonsequentially with him backtracking to fill in holes and blah blah blah. I'm getting so sick of the Post-Pulp Fiction Rip-offathon. Tarantino does it well, Fernando Meirelles did it well in City of God, but this is just another quasi-hip movie that has no plot and follows down-and-burntout fools that have no real insight on anything (even drug use) with a tired message. So there's another person out there that thinks drug addiction takes a devastating toll on an individual's life. What an effing surprise. He didn't even get his point across that well. The friend I watched it with didn't even think it had a message and thought argued with me (though he quickly gave up) that this movie wasn't showing the terrible toll heroin addiction took on FH's life. This movie had little to no effect on me, even though I did catch the message- I wanted to do drugs way worse after watching this movie than I did after watching Requiem for a Dream, Trainspotting, or Basketball Diaries. Mainly because I was bored out of my mind. This movie uses cheap tricks to make you think you're feeling something. I didn't care much for the characters, but I wouldn't wish some of this stuff on my worst enemy. Any abortion scene or a scene in an old-folks home full of deformed, disabled, and forgotten people is going to make your insides twinge no matter how much (or little) you care about the characters. Sorry dudes, this movie sucks. Anyone who says otherwise is probably one of these people that tells you about a drug reference in a movie before they tell you anything else. Most Potheads and drug-users (and I use these terms with affection because I am of both persuasions) like any movie with any sort of drug reference- and if all you're looking for is drugs on screen than I guess you should watch this movie. Sum it up Watch Requiem instead. Very similar MO's but Requiem was much more impressive. PS- It would be unfair of me not to mention how funny Jack Black is in this movie. The movie sucks, but he sure is funny in it.  "},{"Title":"A Point Would Be Nice.","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I waited and waited for something to happen. I waited and waited for sometheme or persuasive theory to emerge. Neither happened. I saw some nicescenes here and there, but saw no cohesive plot that could be called unified.  There was a lot of potential here, but no point at all. It's a shame really.Performances were great, and the production value was there. But there'sactually no point to the story. I can't imagine what those actors were thinking  when they agreed to do this because this film could never have had anycommercial potential whatsoever.  "},{"Title":"Strictly for Slummers","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not really sure what market movies like this & Drugstore Cowboy - highly artificial romanticized Hollywood fictions about life's total losers - is meant for. Possibly it's the losers themselves, a potentially large if unsung & untrumpeted demographic; or it could be for the great hard-working law-abiding shop-to-help-the-economy consumer middle class which needs to feel that there is really is some flip-side kind of bandit/outlaw culture out there whose lives make all their own compulsive security meaningful. It could be a combination of both.In any case it's the worst kind of self-delusional garbage. "},{"Title":"FAR from a divine work","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Billy Crudup (whom was only REALLY good in Almost Famous) stars as F***head because that's what he is thoughout the entirety of the film. He seems to go from one tragedy to the next in this slice-of-(druggie)life drama. All of the reflections on the characters seem superficial at best. One doesn't really feel for any of them. Sure, the film wants you to relate to F.H., yet it fails on this level. Good films based on literature should make you want to run to your local bookstore to feed your mind with more, this film fails on this level too. Yet there are bright spots in the film, both Dennis Leary as well as Jack Black are excellent here. And Dennis Hopper is ok enough in his elongated cameo.My Grade C-DVD Extras theatrical trailer "},{"Title":"very disappointing","Date":"6 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Don't be fooled by the reviews. Unless you really enjoyed Barfly you will not like it.  The only good thing about the movie is the crazy wallpaper. If you're a loser, it might make you feel good because it tries to make being an unemployed, drug addicted, petty criminal seem hip.  Otherwise its just tedious. "},{"Title":"Waste of Time","Date":"25 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My 9th grade son heard at school, from a classmate and from a teacher, that this was a good movie. So we rented it, and watched it. It is a complete waste of time. The only positive thing I can say about this movie is that it impressed upon my son how drugs waste your life. But he already knew that. I think he thought this movie would be comedic, similarly with Napolean Dynamite, but there is nothing comedic about this movie. And the characters are so completely worthless that you never develop an affinity for any of them -- you really don't care what happens to them. They are trashy people, living trashy lives, and this movie about them is nothing but trash. "},{"Title":"Oh My God! This One Was A Sin!","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  `Oh Christ!' What I thought was going to be a thought-provoking character study type film turned out to be a Joshua backstabbing piece of worthless art that should have been crucified during postproduction. Sorry! My Lord! I know I am being harsh. This movie did have potential. Its theme of a young man's adventure to the world of drug addiction, geriatric centers, hamish singers, deranged hospital orderlies, and the weirdest type of home remodeling that there is could have been something to yell `Halleluyas' about. However, the filmmakers sinned their cinematic art into making a movie that was way too abstract for us to enjoy. However, I do have to kneel down and bow my head to the actors- Billy Crudup, Jack Black, Holly Hunter, Dennis Hopper, Denis Leary, and Samantha Morton. But for the grace of god! Next time hand them a script that they enjoy! If you are looking for cinematic utopia, just remember that `Jesus' Son' is not the one. ** Needs Improvement  "}]