[{"Title":"Wenders succeeds","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is a top class film in so many ways.To start with, there is the amazing backdrop of dilapidated old Havana, which Wenders admittedly got for free.  Nevertheless, he pulls out shots which are so luminous and well constructed that they make you gasp, and all done on a digital betacam!  This makes BVSC one of the few documentaries I have ever seen which must be seen on the big screen to be fully appreciated. Although I've never been to Havana, it also appeared to me that Wenders may have judged well in his balance by showing Havana as a poor broken down city and not just a place full of '50s cars, grand old buildings and omnipresent faded glory.The stars of the film are the old folks, of course.  In some ways, the point of the film is not music - this could have been a film about people from any field. Instead, this is simply a record of what people have to say looking back on experiences from their lives which we can never repeat.Perhaps there was a slight temptation at editing stage to steer the film towards certain themes.  There was without a doubt rather a lot of places where the intended conclusion of the audience seemed to be wow - old men can be cheeky... and they still have libidos!, but maybe only they can say whether the men themselves consider the film to be a fair reflection of the whole of their personalities, and I doubt we will ever find out.Two points about the musical side.  First, I continue to worry about Ry Cooder and his son Joaquim.  Do they really need to be there?  Ferrer and the old timers all kept tight lipped about Ry's slide guitar, NOT, I thought a prerequisite instrument of the average Cuban son band, and dare I say it, distractingly awful in at least one place in the film.  Can't comment so much about Joaquim's style when playing the drums, but there must surely be some 50-90 year old cuban drummer cursing his luck that he isn't in on the party thanks to Cooder Jr.?Second, what do Ferrer et al think about the music they are making now? How does it compare to how they considered they performed in decades gone by? Might they freely admit (as I suspect, honest and carefree as they clearly are) that they are reproducing now something which they did a lot better when they were younger?  The question was never asked.It's a tough point to make, but the average son singer does not I imagine consider at the outset of his career that he will only be hitting his peak in his eighth or ninth decade!  If they do admit to having had a golden period in the past, why did Wenders not let us see footage of some of that. I doubt if any but a few of his audience have any knowledge of the Cuban music of the 40s and 50s so as to judge with any accuracy what merit there is in the music they are creating today.  And without that, the risk is that the players are being cheered not for their musical skills but merely as museum pieces and for the fact that they are capable of doing it at their age at all.  I had the slightly uneasy feeling by the end of the film that Wenders might have excluded old footage on the basis that it would show up the modern recordings as something less than the genre at its best.You should go and see it and then tell me why I am wrong on those points, which hardly dent my rating for this as a definite 9+! "},{"Title":"Flawed, yet touching and ultimately beautiful work","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Is this film perfect? By all means, no. In places the camera work waves out of control, and the constant featuring of Ry Cooder grows tedious. Yet despite all of this, there are certain images that this film captures that have refused to leave my mind. I get chills just thinking about Eliada Ochoa tearing up during her rendition of Silencio as she is filmed before an audience of thousands in Stockholm. I will never forget Ruben Gonzalez sitting at his piano basking in applause. And, of course, seeing Ibrahim Ferrer walk through the streets of midtown Mannhattan in utter awe is enough to make any man choke up. Though flawed, this picture never fails to stand as moving testament to the triumph of the human spirit. For these beautiful moments alone, I give this poignant film a 10. "},{"Title":"great music, wonderful images","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Besides the sones, guarachas and boleros (basic styles of good-old Cuban music), the beauty of this documentary relies on Wim Wenders' magnificent camera use.It is impossible not to feel the emotion of the crowded Carnegie Hall in the climax scenes, but there are also many other images that carry the viewer to more intimate experiences of La Habana, its music and musicians. Wenders' camera takes us to the Conservatory, where pianist Ruben Gonzalez rehearses surrounded by children; or to the Egrem Recording Studio, where singers Ibrahim Ferrer and Omara Portuondo look at each other's eyes while rendering one of the most beautiful boleros I've heard in my life.  "},{"Title":"Spirit Defined","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Loving Wim as I do, I was intrigued to see what he could achieve with this group of stellar musicians.In a word, Greatness.Having this group of warm, vital and oh so talented people sure helped him out.  What is captured, for me, is the incredible staying power of true, heart felt music. These people sing, play and dance with a sense of worship. Having seen many hard times and passed through trials and tribulations (that we in the US have little understanding for) these people through faith and belief, persevered and continue to shine like diamonds.Wim also conveys an old world beauty in a place run over by westernization. The surf smacking the coast line and spraying the ol' 50's cars racing down the road. The streets at night dimly lit, allowing the colors to permeate your senses. You feel like you can taste the blues and touch the pinks. The bright afternoon sun, sparkling among the ruin of buildings long forgotten to some but revered still by others. A magical yet very real place is given to us to explore in this film. I, along with many others, have an overwhelming urge to go to Cuba now and experience for myself.If you have a chance to see any of these musicians live, DO SO! You will not be disappointed. If you do not, see this movie and get yourself a taste that will leave you breathless for more. "},{"Title":"Well-done documentary about long forgotten Cuban musicians ...","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  1st watched 3/14/2001 - (Dir-Wim Wenders) Well-done documentary about long forgotten Cuban musicians and American country musician Ry Cooder's adventure into putting together this band.  The music is captivating, the musician's come across as greatful wonderful people who just happen to be able to play their particular instrument very well.  Tremendous look into Cuba and it's people with many shots of the city Havana. These musicians are very proud of their country and have no intention of difecting as we as Americans feel that they would because of our limited exposure into this culture. Rare opportunity to walk into a land and people that we don't often see.  "},{"Title":"This could have been a brilliant documentary","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"29 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  And why wasn't it? The editing, the shaky hand held cameras which made it difficult to read the subtitles, the musical numbers cut off before completion, the insertion of Ry Cooder and or his son into practically every frame, the story management - why did it not show the preparation and rehearsals leading up to the climax of Carnegie Hall. The touristy reactions in New York were too kitchsy for words and took the dignity of these brilliant musicians away.  I wanted more of these musicians' stories and my favourite sequence was of the pianist playing in Havana and all these tiny little ballerinas dancing around him, caught up in the magic. More of the history of the Buena Vista Social Club would have been wonderful also - this was sad in its omission. These incredible musicians were not served well here.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Music","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" When I rented Buena Vista Social Club I didn't have any appreciation for the type of music played by the Club; I still don't know what it's called. I rented the movie because I'm a Ry Cooder fan, and have seen some Wim Wenders' movies I liked. I wasn't expecting much, but the result is that I've just seen one of the best documentaries in my life. The premise is very simple, it's all about the old musicians and the wonderful music they make. You get to visit their modest homes, hang out in their neighborhoods, and listen to their music. Nothing more than that, but done so well, so effortlessly, you wish you could step through the screen and join them. I would recommend this film to anyone. "},{"Title":"Cuba delights, Cooder gets the credits","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" This movie was a must for me, not for cinematographic reasons but for the piece of music history it contains. I had heard Ibrahim Ferrer was coming to Romania with Buenos Hermanos Tour. So I tried to find out all about the Buena Vista history. I have found Cuba a far away, resolute place, nevertheless glamorous and melancholic. Popular Cuban music is an absolute jewel that had to be forgotten even in its' own country and then brought back into the limelight by the likes of Cooder and Wenders. Cooder is a scavenger that wanders the exotic musical destinations for the next big hit. The film is centered too much on Cooder, and I find the time allotted to Ibrahim, Omara, Compay, Barbarito, Cachaito and the others (the real musical giants) unsatisfactory. You only get a glimpse and then have to run away for the next character... Yet, Wenders manages to catch the sweetness in the Cuban relaxed lifestyle, beautiful Rembrandt-like sunshine coming through leaves and a touch of history and relaxed musicians in the act of recollecting. "},{"Title":"Lovely Film -- but...","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I just got to see this on video last night. It's a lovely film, and the protagonists are memorable. My one problem, however, is with Ry Cooder. Don't misunderstand my admiration for Cooder's past work. He's an original, often evocative guitarist and composer. I just felt that his additions to these recordings -- both in the studio and in their concert versions -- were intrusive at the least. That wailing slide guitar just about ruined some great songs. I'm surprised the gentlemen and ladies of the band didn't say anything. It was a relief when he sat out of a performance. I really  wanted to jump into the film, tap him on the shoulder and ask him to put down his guitar and just sit behind the mixing board!OK. That's my rant. This is an impressive and lovely film.If you have a chance, track down 1997's Black Tears (lagrimas Negras).  "},{"Title":"Charming film - the people behind the music","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" It's hard to imagine a better set up for a magical documentary Wim Wenders, Ry Cooder and a group of ancient and brilliant Cuban musicians. This film tells the story of the reassembling of the Buena Vista Social Club, as a sort of composite house-band including several popular Cuban jazz musicians, most of whom had given up their musical careers long ago. Ry Cooder helped get the players together, played with them, adding his respectfully subtle guitar work to the mix, and got their album released to popular and critical success worldwide.What I found most impressive about this film is the humility with which it was approached by Ry Cooder. Mr Cooder has done some great work in the world of music, and this must be counted among his triumphs. However, I would have to agree with Mr Cooder, that the credit for the magic of the Buena Vista Social Club was all in the chemistry and performance of its Cuban stars. To see what I mean by all of this, you should see the movie. Whether you buy the CD or see the movie first matters little. You should do BOTH.Wim Wenders also, intelligently and appropriately, lets this story tell itself. Only occasionally does his artistry (as potent as it is) flare up - such as the scenes with the pianist (who Wenders clearly adores, and understandably so). All in all, the American / German production team on this film takes a back seat to the music, and the stories behind the musicians. I found this a refreshingly honest documentary approach and I thoroughly enjoyed the film.My enjoyment rating is 10+. I gave the film an 9 because I am sure some will dislike either the music or the proactive approach toward Cuban/American relations. It's definitely not a film for all people. Don't watch it if Cuba brings up strong negative emotions for you. "}{"Title":"Give Ry Cooder a break!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  So a man who chases an enthusiasm for Cuban music and ends up spending his own resources to record and popularize a bunch of musicians who would have died in obscurity otherwise, takes great pains to present the music in a relatively unaltered state (unlike some such other world music experimenters like Sting and Paul Simon), and even removes much of his own contributions from the recording mix, is a self-aggrandizing cultural imperialist.  The proof of the man's real intentions lies on the disc, an understated and moving documentation of a era that got plowed under by the cold war.As for the film, indeed it's not perfect.  It would be nice to have full songs, but they decided not to go with a strict concert film and concentrate on the project and the stories behind it.  If you want more, the CD is easily available and highly recommended.  When I saw this movie at the Lincoln Plaza cinema in Manhattan, I decided when the movie ended to trek over a few blocks to the local record store to see if they had the Cd in stock,  As I walked down the street, I noticed that most of the people who had just seen the film were going the same way, and indeed, appeared to have the same idea I did (it was a packed show, by the way).  It is perhaps a weakness of the film that it depends on the album for it's interest and power, but it is a loving document of the process. "},{"Title":"An excellent, very educational movie with some amazing music","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" A long time fan of Ry Cooder, this was to me another of his explorations into music that is on the verge of being lost. Music in pre-Castro Cuba was very influential throughout the world; Dizzy Gillespie, the brilliant trumpet player, writer, and innovator drew extensively from these Afro-Cuba rhythms; also other seminal writers such as Gil Evans, Saxophonist Sonny Rollins...Ellington was influenced by his Cuban percussionist Juan Tizol...one could go on for days citing examples of how this Cuban music became part of the progressive North American musicians' lexicon. Even I Love Lucy exposed us to Cuban big band rhythms by way of her husband. Bottom line is this-if you are anything of an aficionado of music, this film is a must. If you are an aspiring musician it is indispensable to witness the musical interactions of excellent older musicians that really know what they are about, and that obviously love to play. Now we are seeing a new generation of great Cuban jazz musicians, such as Gonzalo Rubalcaba, Claudio Roditi, Paquito D'Rivera, Pancho Sanchez...the list is almost endless. This movie allows us to see what must have been very influential musical roots. A must see, heck. I own it! "},{"Title":"A flawed work from the master of humanist cinema (Major Spoiler)","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, Wim Wenders has made an excellent work in keeping with the bulk of his humanist work including Wings of Desire and Paris,Texas. With his use of spiralling cinematography, Wenders has given us a truly great insight into the work of magical musicians presented with respect and a love for the common language of music despite the ever present barriers of politics and, of course, language. However The Buena Vista Social Club has one fatal flaw. That flaw is the patronising presence of Ry Cooder. Ry has every right to be included in this work - he of course was able to get the social club together after years in the wilderness and was a driving force behind the film (he produced it). However what comes across in the scenes in which he is in, is an intense arrogance and total lack of modesty. What emerges seems to be purely for the enjoyment of himself and then others - not for the band members (whose enjoyment, while obvious, comes as a mere consequence of the main desire). Look at the scene on the boardwalk where he sways dreamily to the music. Have they gathered for their own enjoyment, our enjoyment or Ry Cooders. This patronising attitude towards the band members is reinforced by the structure of the film that ends in their Carnegie Hall experience. Why should it be suggested that the peak of their musical experience be playing to a crowd of chardonnay socialists and middle to upper class americans. Yes, I do get the symbolism of the band breaking down the wall created by the last 50 years of American-Cuban relations but the scene works on another level. Who are they playing for - themselves or a bunch of patronising Americans - who look upon these people as images, fitting nicely into their first world/third world views. Ultimately, the film begs the question - if a Cuban musician plays a note in a forest and there's no American around to record it and turn it into a consumer item, does it make a sound? Accordi "},{"Title":"A great collaborative effort","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is  one of the best movies on music that I've ever seen - a great collaborative effort by Wim Wenders, Ry Cooder and, most importantly, the Cuban musicians. The musicians portrayed in this documentary are truly beautiful people - not necessarily beautiful in the Hollywood sense, but beautiful in their hearts and souls.Wim Wenders takes us through the backstreets of Cuba and intersperses interviews, that show the roots of the music, with recording studio and concert footage.  The music and lives of these exquisite musicians are both sad and beautiful.  Several of them had all but abandoned music before Ry Cooder assembled this project.  Cooder and his son take a back seat to these Cuban veterans who deserve all of the recognition they are finally receiving.The scenes of two of the older singers looking at the statues of  American heroes in a souvenir shop in Manhattan is especially touching.  And the music, especially the songs from Carnegie Hall, are stunning.On both a sociological and musical level, this is a very moving documentary. "},{"Title":"It was an accident!","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Most people don't seem to have seen the movie from the very beginning. Cooder and Wenders were in Cuba to film with some Japanese Musicans who had problems with their visas or whatever and didn't make it in time, so they just went to look for some local musicians in order not to waste their time in Cuba. The revelation and worldwide success of these oldtimers was by pure chance and not by design. In my eyes that makes it more 'documentary' than any preconceived plans that other such movies had. They called off the artists from whatever jobs or duties they were doing at that exact time. Ibrahim Ferrer for example was shining shoes at that time and didn't even get the time to shower before they recorded the album.Give the guys a break! "},{"Title":"Get the wax out of your ears and learn salsa dancing.","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Wim Wenders, the director with the slow 70's German movies,   is exciting to film students because his older movies were so do-able. He likes to roll down the car windows and film whatever passes by. He's slightly more sophisticated about it than he used to be but you still see, feel and all but smell plenty of breathing, hard living, decaying Cuba in this film. The movie is about the making of a recording. It's a portrayal of the musicians and singers that Ry Cooder's son loves.Buena Vista Social Club is rated G which gives it the inherent challenge of creating an interesting movie with no swearing (thanks to the subtitles), no violence and no visual sex.  The film opens with Fidel Castro at the Lincoln Memorial and a discussion of Che and Fidel playing golf. Como no, it's a Cuban movie.Here is a chance to catch glimpses of Cuban women, infamous for liking their bodies in this time of Global shrinking standards. You should see the size of the cigar one of them is smoking. A large, firm-bodied woman walks by in a pink stretch cotton skinny strap dress. Now that's how to wear a pink dress.As with all Cuban movies there are thrillingly decrepit settings of formerly glorious Havana architecture, but this film catches also some of the light and pleasing building interiors, colorful old cars and rooms that have been maintained.Buena Vista Social Club is a wholesome contrast to Before Night Falls, which isn't to trivialize it. In some ways these are the lives of the winners, the artists who got to continue their work unimprisoned and untortured after the revolution. Even so, the musicians grew up in the times when you had to make your own way in the world. One was playing in public at five years old and passing the hat to supplement the family income. One was pulled protesting from his shoe shine job into the studio to meet his fate as a musician. Most of them were lost to the music world for decades before the recording.It's a really good model for doing your art just because you love to and you have to as you hold down a job and function in the real world.A friend who won't watch movies with any violence points out that the old men in this one are so integrated they get to NY from Cuba and instead of being overwhelmed they like all the activity.The feel is small scale, unpretentious, warm, highly skilled, happy and human. Everyone's eyes say someone is home. In spite of its slow pace the people in this movie convey something absolutely wonderful that's getting lost in a hurry. Aren't we glad someone caught it on film?And the music? Well, listen to it. By the end you will appreciate popular dance music even if you didn't at the beginning. Even if you don't see the film you might want to check out the sound track. You will love it more though if you meet the people.  "},{"Title":"One of the best music documentaries ever made","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This was an engrossing documentary which inspite of some minor directional pitfalls made great viewing. Some earlier contributors to this site criticise Ry Cooder's 'omnipresence' in the film, but if it wasn't for Cooder these musicians might have remained unheard of. In America, native Cuban musicians are not allowed to be paid for public performances.Some of the camerawork is brilliant, especially the shots around Havana's backstreets from Cooder's motorcycle and sidecar. What comes across to me very strongly, and on a personal level, is how badly sanctions have affected Cuba, and also the resilience of everyday Cubans who are stuck with a rigid government and an opressive US sanctions policy, yet manage to survive and keep their dignity intact.There are some great personal stories the 90 year old guitarist is wonderful and the songs are fantastic. If the film has drawn attention to Cuba's musical heritage that is a good thing and congratulations to Wim Wenders and Ry Cooder for bringing this brilliant music to the world. This film deserves to stand alongside Scorsese's 'The Last Waltz' as one of the best music documentaries ever made.  "},{"Title":"What do you expect?","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  What do you expect when you go to see a movie entitled Buena Vista Social Club, a documentary about the reunion of Cuban artists which had made some success in the first half of this century and hasn't got together ever since? The fact is I was thrilled at the moment the film ended, despite any prior expectation of it.This is not what I can call my favorite kind of movie, but I went to see it anyway. The idea of the movie appears to be superficial, but as the movie runs and the characters are shown, you start to get deeper in the story and to feel somewhat of what they felt before the event itself. Their world is another reality for us and you start to wonder how many of those men exist around us.In the beginning, it is shown as if you were there and as the movie ends, you surprisingly find yourself feeling as if you actually were there and even clapping your hands! Definitely, I recommend this title to every one of you, including those with musical taste which doesn't embrace Cuban music - e.g. myself. "},{"Title":"Left with a favorable impression of the film and Cuban music.","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Romano Rating 84%Now I understand why these people are known in Cuba as los superablos (the super-grandfathers)!  The presentation of Ibrahim Ferrer and the other Cuban musicians is accomplished at a wonderfully relaxed pace.  The film slowly blossoms before your eyes.  In seeing it, I gained a new appreciation for a type of music for which I previously had little exposure or understanding.Best Part    The insightful observations of the musicians. "},{"Title":"The Best Music Video You Will Ever See","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The Buena Vista Social Club executes its premise effectively-- it documents the unearthing of some amazing but somehow forgotten Cuban musicians. Ibrahim Ferrer is especially memorable. This is easily Wim Wenders' best film in a decade. The photography is poetic. "}{"Title":"Touching, languid document following the Buena Vista Club album phenomenon","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" The album, a disc of Cuban music performed by its most popular back-in- the-day exponents was a hit and so Wim Wenders made this film. It visits the performers at home in Havana and thence on the road in Amsterdam and New York. It's an uncomplicated, overlapping-chapter style affair in which the principal half dozen or so tell their stories to a digital camera following them at home, down the street or in the recording studio.There is a small precedent for this film in the remarkable Il bacio di Tosca (Tosca's Kiss) from 1984, which looks at a nursing home run specifically for former opera performers. Yet in that film, the stories are pulled into a synthetic focus by the incongruity of internationally celebrated musicians at the dusk of their lives, just like the rest of us. In Buena Vista the musicians are still performing. But this in itself is not incongruous. Rather, the performers transcend the 'aw, bless' school of appreciation by evincing an understanding of the music - a freshness, would you believe - that suggests that even at their advanced age they have something new to impart through the simply vehicle of common love songs.Wenders paces the film to match the subjects (not a criticism). One must put up with the digital picture quality but the benefit, the relaxed authenticity of the film is sufficient compensation. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Wenders' ultimate alliance with music","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Wenders' films always have a very delicate attachment to music.In his possibly most-known masterpieces, Paris, Texas and The Million Dollar Hotel, we have the most melodious cinematic journey. Even in Antonioni's Beyond the Clouds, he didn't forget to conclude the ending with Bono and Brian Eno's hauntingly beautiful theme, Your Blue Room, which is one of my all-time favorite songs from movies.Yet all those music played the supporting role until this one came. (I haven't watched many works of his, so if there were other music documentaries done by him before, never mind my words.) And that's when his film seems more alive and inspiring.I never write reviews for music 'cause I will never manage to transform all those musical feelings perfectly into words. The music of Buena Vista Social Club is even far more beyond words. All those passions, hopes and optimistic views of life it conveys simply overwhelmed me. All I can do is keep smiling and swinging to the music. It brings sunshine into even the gloomiest days.All those aged musicians are just ordinary Cuban people who wear bright color clothes, but as soon as they begin to sing or play their instruments, their power and devotion outshine even the greatest young athletes.That is not only a musical wonder, but a human miracle. And Wim Wenders was kind and intelligent enough to show it to us. "},{"Title":"Astounding musical experience SPOILER","Date":"16 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  SPOILER The opening scene of Ry and Joachin Cooder riding a motorcycle,ambient sounds of the ocean at Havana and of course Chan Chan performed by Compay Segundo and Eliades Ochoa really made me cry when i watched it for the first time, despite that the song is really a jolly one END OF SPOILERWenders has a certain ability to display the despair that makes him not another European wannabe art director but a great filmmaker. The angles of the camera, the lightness of the speech, makes the rather heavy monologue styled movie into a pleasant experience. The music was really divine! Moving, penetrating,extraordinary9/10  "},{"Title":"Wuuunderful musical documentary","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I never heard of the director before, or Ry Cooder, either, so I can't trash them.  I just know I was fascinated and enthralled by this movie, and I am SO glad they made it.  It is musical history that was almost gone, almost lost to us forever.  But now we have this wonderful documentary, and the music is preserved, along with the stories and the background that go with it.  And it is fantastic music -- beautiful, soulful music.  I offer my thanks to those who had the imagination and the foresight and the dedication to make it.  "},{"Title":"Great Documentary, but see them live","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I just bought tickets to see them live, for the second time (Omara this time). This documentary is great, and introduces jazz fans to a whole new level. It is moving to see, and hear the stories that come out of these old souls.If you get the chance to see them live - DO IT! It is hands down, the most amazing concert/show I have ever seen. And I have seen many.  "},{"Title":"Cuban music","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Guitarist Ry Cooder discovered that some old Cubans are very precious in keeping the traditional music that inherited Latin folk and Latin jazz to modern times.With concerts in Cuba,Amsterdam and Carnegie Hall-NY,Ibrahim and the others entertained the universe via the great CD with the same name.Wenders works in documentary style that will not capture the full attention.The musical value of the movie though is unique.  "},{"Title":"Movie NR  DVD B+","Date":"10 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This `musicmentary' documents the artists who perform on the companion album.  The film is shot very nicely in Cuba and cuts to concert footage in Amsterdam and New York.  Any music lover will find it more than worth watching.  Sound (and music) are excellent.  "},{"Title":"Revival of the Cuban Jazz sounds -- a Wender/Cooder musical documentary collaboration not to be missed!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The two names Wim Wenders and Ry Cooder caught my eyes. I remember the two German names since their initial collaboration on Paris, Texas 1984 -- it was truly impressive!  This BUENA VISTA SOCIAL CLUB is a superlative documentary. Yet merely a documentary it is not. It captures the heart and soul of the lively Cuban Jazz sounds. It follows Ry Cooder and his son Joachim in search of the veteran Cuban musicians of the Buena Vista Social Club of the '50s -- now in their senior years, some 70's or 80's (Ruben Gonzalez, a terrific energetic pianist in spite of age), and one 92 year old (Compay Segundo, who does not look 90 at all and such a darn good guitarist he is). The subsequent reunion on musical recordings and concerts of this group of musicians after four decades emanates sheer joy nonpareil. It is sight and sound and a sense of humanity all rolled into one. It is toe tapping all right -- you want to dance, sing, and sway with them to the rhythm! Such a heart-warming experience as each of the musicians talk about how they got started in their childhood and becoming passionate in their musical pursuit. The settings are easy, casual, touching, pulling our heartstrings. There are recounts of the times they had jammed with their bands and friends, of how they weathered and survived the years in between, revisits of the places they have been to, and impromptu throw out gems of their views on life! They are seemingly ordinary people. No Hollywood glamour yet lots of love and passion and exuberant joy in making music together -- again! Besides the revival of Cuban Jazz sounds, this film is also a celebration of life, affirming dreams can come true.If you like music, if you love life, if you're a true movie fan, this is a MUST-SEE. A rewarding experience guaranteed!  "},{"Title":"A triumph and a must-see","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Ry Cooder and Wim Wenders have outdone themselves. This movie is a great piece of cinema verite.  Great music, colorful characters and a very uplifting piece.  Also great motorcycle-eye views of Havana.  Go see it. "},{"Title":"Los Superablos","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Romano3 Rating  84%Now I understand why these people are known in Cuba as los superablos (the super-grandfathers)!  The presentation of Ibrahim Ferrer and the other Cuban musicians is accomplished at a wonderfully relaxed pace.  The film blossoms before your eyes.  In seeing this movie, I gained a new appreciation for a type of music to which I previously had little exposure or understanding.Best Part    The insightful observations of the musicians. "}{"Title":"Great Music / Personalities","Date":"20 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This movie is a tribute to the soul and spirit of the musicians in this film. If you already know the original album, check out Buena Vista Social Club Presents Ibrahim Ferrer . This is the album that is being filmed in production.As for the movie, a number of people in the audience left feeling sick due to the handy-cam work. I felt that it was over directed. All you need to do is give these guys a mic and let them do their thing. A better, more entertaining group of musicians would be hard to find. "},{"Title":"If you dont think it's your cup of tea, SEE IT ANYWAY","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  You cant talk about this film without talking about the music. This movie would have been great even if you just set a camcorder down and had it record that Carnegie Hall concert for two hours. I wont go into how the movie moves you-the documentary more than speaks for itself. I agree with an earlier review that said that some of the more interesting interviews were cut too short(they should have spent more time with Compay Segundo and the middle aged, heavyset guitar player- they told fascinating stories) but these are small quibbles. The song at the end had me and most of the audience dancing in my seat and stayed with me for the rest of the day. This film cannot disappoint you unless you are determined to harden your heart and intellectualize it away. You will find nothing but real people who make real music from their hearts "},{"Title":"For music lovers everywhere","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  When this documentary  was being filmed in 1998, the CD which was issued in 1997 had just been released and went on to win a Grammy.  It had been the result of American guitarist Roy Cooder's determination to  bring the musical sounds of Cuban music to the public.  Now he had with him the German movie director, Wim Wenders, who created this unique film about the music, the people and Cuba itself.The musicians are elderly, their musical skills developed from childhood and are living memorials to the music they love.  Once renowned in Cuba in the 40's and 50's, these men have lived through upheaval and changes in their country, and yet approach life with joy and freshness.  The camera picks up the wrinkles, but it also picks up the twinkle in the eye of 91 year old guitarist/singer Compay Segundo who playfully talks about fathering another child to add to his family, or lead singer 70 year-old Ibraham Ferrer's affection for this wife, the 80-year old pianist Ruben Gonzolez who finds it hard to walk, but has no trouble making his fingers fly over the keyboard. And Omera Portuando, the female adds an ageless feminine presence to the group.This is not just a movie about the music.  The movie IS the music. And there are long musical sequences which will delight anyone with a serious musical interest.  The movie is also about the individual people, whose interviews against the backdrop of a crumbling, but lively Cuba are testaments to the human spirit.  Before they were rediscovered  for this film, one of the men was shining shoes;  another was working in a cigar factory.  Politics are never mentioned, but the 1940s and 50s American cars and the disintegrating buildings is evidence of politics gone haywire four decades ago.The movie culminates with a concert in Carnegie Hall and the musicians' first trip to New York.  Their sense of wonder in viewing the skyscrapers, looking at store windows and visiting the Empire State Building is a sharp contrast to the confines of their restricted world in Cuba, which is nevertheless rich with the spirits of this indomitable individuals.The movie does lack dramatic tension, and drags in places, but I still don't hesitate to recommend it.  It spite of poverty and a humble economy, the movie captures the beauty and joy of the people.  And it surrounds you with music. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This documentary about the various characters that contributed to the wonderful music in the 1996 CD of Cuban music is truly a touching experience. I usually don't get emotional during films, but the Cuban musicians in this film are so fantastic and sincere that one can't help but to feel for their struggles and their eventual triumph. Furthermore, the music is superb! I especially like the Chan Chan song at the beginning and the end. I recommend this film to anybody who likes music. You will certainly want to buy the CD after you see the movie. "},{"Title":"Great musicians, a rare taste of Cuba, and Wim Wenders to boot!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Having just returned from a preview of this moving documentary, I feel that the music and 'ritmo' will definitely stay with me for some time to come. I was familiar with the recordings, having purchased the CD, but the film really puts the viewer into the atmosphere that exists when these musicians come together.Time is spent with each member of the group, as each recounts personal events that led up to a life with music. These scenes are nicely balanced with footage of recording sessions or other group scenes, which helps the pacing.Also, because the whole thing was shot in digital video (thankfully, steadicam was used too), there's a distinctive look to the finished products that is quite appropriate to the documentary genre.I recall some very beautiful shots, particularly those made in rooms and spaces that, somehow ornate and simple at once, evoke the essence of the Cuban spirit. If that sounds presumptuous -- and it does to me, since I've never been to Cuba, as most US nationals haven't -- suffice it to say that some of these visuals just left me awestruck.Lovely work, music, camera, human warmth, and all. I highly recommend it. Oddly, I found myself thinking the film was closing several times, because there were various Finis-worthy moments, but I was always pleased to find that we had not yet reached the end. "},{"Title":"Nice movie, but not original","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" When I watched this movie, I always had the feeling, that I'd seen it before. Then I remembered that I had seen Lágrimas negras by Sonia Herman Dolz (1997) a few years earlier. It has the same concept, the same story, I think it even is the same band in Lágrimas negras as in Buena Vista Social club (I'm not 100% sure, you can correct me with that).Anyway, it is a nice movie, because of the music, the pictures of Havana and the interviews with the old, smiling musicians, but the original is better. Wim Wenders proved that he has no own ideas as a filmmaker anymore. I give the movie a 7+, but this is not for the director, but mainly for the music which is very touching. It really gives you a Cuban feeling (Ry Cooder does a good job to abstain from dominating the Cuban musicians). "},{"Title":"Courage of Older People Overcoming Life's Obstacles Wonderful","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I couldn't imagine how an excellent movie could be made of old folks playing in a band in Cuba.....was I surprised?!!!!!  The joie de vivre shining out of that old man's eyes is now a mind-print to carry around and remind me of what staying power the human spirit is capable of.  The fact that their country is a sad bunch of decaying buildings and carrs with no industry to speak of, doesn't bother these musical artists atall.  They have their music and the love of a few women to keep them warm.  And of course, the sheer beauty of natural Cuba is still there, which Castro could never remove. I would love to find out, What do you Cuban-Americans think of this movie?  What do you think of these old men?  Had our government extended a helping hand to Castro in the early days of the Revolution, would there have been a different outcome? See it.  It's great. "},{"Title":"A Treasure saved for generations to come....","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Thank you....Wim Wenders and Ry Cooder need to be simply told Thank you. These two special men have let the world into the soul of the lost Cuba. Both through the stunning glimpses of the Cuban landscape and the heart warming stories of these world class musicians we gain insight into how this country only 90 miles from the USA has transformed dramatically since the 1950's. I saw this film with my girlfriend, who is a first generation Cuban, and she was moved to tears. The thought that these special men held the end of who she really was made her extremely sad. Those men hold something so special.....and Wenders and Cooder need to be thanked 1,000 times for sharing this with not only generations of Cubans to come, but the whole world. We are able to share in the music of an island nation who's beauty is ready to explode upon the rest of the world. I will never forget the Cuban Nate King Cole....what a tremendous compliment.....my only problem with that statement is that maybe Nate Cole is the American Ibrahim Ferrer.  "},{"Title":"To touch the sounds of hope","Date":"16 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Beyond the music of this film, of which there is a treasure trove of, there is an undercurrent of the hope beyond hope.We see Cuba, torn apart after years of senseless revolution and senseless retaliation, filled with some amazing individuals who still strive for the brass ring of beauty.  They are all older, having been thru the pre and post- revolutionary facets of their mother land, who where either quietly retired of slowly fading into the night.  This film shows them revitalized, renewed and as vibrant as ever.  Against the bleak backdrop of the spent and tattered Cuba they shine even more brightly.The scenes in New York are perhaps most telling for me.  Having been a new yorker for some 30 years now removed from there for the last two, I can see in thier eyes the wonder of a person seeing it for the first time.  More amazing still is to see them come to grips with how far the world has come outside of their stifling motherland's revolution. This is a must see for anyone who treasures music, beauty, and the hope that infuses both. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing for the characters and the music even if it could have been more","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" In a tribute to the spirit of Cuba and in reference to a dance hall that has long since gone, a group of elderly Cuban musicians to record an album together. Many of the musicians either left Cuba before Castro or were expelled or escaped once he took control. Each artist has a story to tell and they tell them while we follow the group perform a show and putting together their album, leading to the show at Carnegie Hall in New Yok on 1st July 1998.Although it is not something I listen to a lot, I do quite like the beat and the rhythm of music from Cuba &#150; it has a certain style to it that is unique to that country and it is very easy to listen to or to dance to. For this reason I decided to watch this film although I also had hopes that it would be interesting as a documentary of sorts as well. In one regard the film really works and has plenty of great music performed live by a variety of artists, some of whom I had heard of but the majority I had not. It is very easy to listen to and would almost work as background music if you doing something else. This is punctuated with contributions from the artists who are filmed walking around Cuba or sitting in their homes talking about themselves.These bits tend to lack structure and are a bit lesser than I had hoped they would be. They were still interesting mainly because those involved seem to have a life experience behind them and are interesting just to listen to for a while. The problem for me was that, even as I was watching it, I felt that there were bigger stories behind them that would have acted well as a historical frame for the rest of the film and been for interest to the audience; although maybe the assumption was that anyone watching this film would already have a good working knowledge of Cuba. Despite that I didn't think that I had learned a great deal from the film even if I had been able to listen to a couple of the artists chatting and had been engaged by what they had been saying.Overall this is a cool film that is worth seeing for the music and the chance to listen to some very pleasant and rather inspiring elderly characters who all seem to have the spirit of 20 year olds in them. It may annoy some that the film never really steps behind the stories to provide a bit of a historical frame for the audience &#150; it would have made it better for me if it had but it was still worth seeing nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Resurrection","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Wim Wenders' documentary seems to have been made as a companion to the best selling CD. Ry Cooder was responsible for resurrecting these old Cuban musicians from oblivion. We saw this film in its debut day at the Angelika and remember the emotional response by many people in the audience as the documentary unfolded. Having seen the DVD recently, it brought back memories about that June day.Actually, all praise has been directed at Mr. Cooder, who is the man who had the clout to bring this group into the attention of the world, first with the recording, and then with this film. However, no one gives credit to Juan de Marcos Gonzalez, the man responsible for getting all these forgotten musicians together. It's because this man's love for that type of music that one is able to appreciate the men one sees in the film.The tremendously talented Cuban musicians are finally given the tribute they were due because their contribution to the kind of music that will always be heard because the way it resonates with the listener. As far as the document go, the Cooders, both Ry and Joaquin, are given a special treatment, but then again, without them, who would have even heard of the Buena Vista Social Club? No one!Ibrahim Ferrer, Eliades Ochoa, Ruben Gonzalez, Pio Leiva, Guajiro Mirabal, Compay Segundo, Cachaito Lopez, Omara Portuondo, and the rest of the players are shown with great respect by Mr. Wenders, who seems to be enjoying directing these all timers doing what they do best.One can only cry for what the regime in that unhappy island did to this great musicians for such a long time until the powers that be in Cuba found out how much money they could make by exporting the same people they had chosen to forget. "},{"Title":"Simplicity at its greatness","Date":"27 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" One could describe it as a life lesson. A seminar for anyone involved in any art form. The internal recognition and peace with no need for wide acceptance, glory or money. Giants of the musical firmament that their food was the greatness of their soul and their love for music. Human sensitivity and romanticism at the height of their beauty. Their gold, the human values, honor and dignity. Lovers of love and truth. All these huge musicians appearing give us a life lesson. Simplicity as something more precious than all the treasures of the world. Wenders once again shows its quality. And a big thanks to Ry Cooder who brought to light these diamonds of world civilization. "},{"Title":"Buena Vista Social Club","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" This is my first post-WINGS OF DESIRE Wenders movie, and despite all the hype around it at the time, my first experience with the music of the Buena Vista Social Club. The music itself is fantastic, featuring memorable and rich songs with accomplished musicianship and great passion. It was a pleasure to spend time with the players and learn a little bit (unfortunately, not a whole lot) about their lives and careers. However, the cinematography is simply awful. Undoubtedly there are limitations involved with filming in Cuba, but the use of early digital video cameras gives the movie a cheap, amateurish, washed-out look. It's very unpleasant to behold, especially with the shaky camera-work. It feels like it was all done rather haphazardly with little thought. You're probably better off just buying the CD. "},{"Title":"Cuban classics","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" In Wim Wenders's Buena Vista Social Club, Ry Cooder goes to Cuba to bring some of the island's great musicians to the world's attention. Obviously the best part of the documentary is the music, but we also get to learn about the singers' lives. One of the neatest scenes is when the club goes to New York and performs in Carnegie Hall. During that sequence, Ibrahim Ferrer and Eliades Ochoa go to the top of a building and have a look at the city, and we even catch a shot of the World Trade Center*.But more than anything, it's great to hear this music. Ferrer, Ochoa, Compay Segundo, Omara Portuondo, and the rest show us that Cuba's culture will never die.*It will soon be the tenth anniversary of the attack. "},{"Title":"Summer nights","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Most documentaries these days are nothing more than masked narratives, some semblance of reality (often largely fictitious) structured as a story meant to grip. They grip and hold on to. This is not that type, although it's loosely a story. It's more properly a frame, a portal; into the lives of ageing Cuban musicians brought out of retirement and obscurity for one last round, recast as memory of a time and place.Like their music, the film is not about spine-tingling rhythms or crescendos. It is mostly a colorful lull with the sweet pull of a hot summer night. A pull into anecdotes about life in old Cuba and snapshots of the present one. We never get to know any of the players well enough, but we spend with them time enough to soak up the atmosphere of being there.Being there is what the movie is all about. The wise choice of digital video abets this, the palpable immediacy. Wenders' camera tricks are superfluous then, because the material doesn't need any mediating. The only thing required of the camera here is to transport us.And it does. Watching this, I felt like it was the first time I was seeing New York (when eventually the band flies there for one night of apotheosis at the Carnegie Hall). We walk the streets, also back in Cuba. Glimpses of life abound, some spontaneous others not so much. Wonderful architecture, colonial remnants wasting away with the last signs of a revolution heading south. A building sign reads KARL MA X, the R missing and no one bothered to replace it. But we so rarely get to see these things in movies, that it's a breath of fresh air. But in order for the film to breathe into you, you need to have devoted part of yourself and have an affinity for untravellled cinematic space. For the place, despite the narrative. We get plenty of that here. "},{"Title":"Made me a fan of Cuban music","Date":"11 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I was recently lucky enough to be dragged along to a one-off re-screening of Wim Wenders' film about the eponymous musical institution in Cuba. I say dragged since I had beforehand formed the opinion that there was not much to like in Cuban music, but I came away with a very different view.At the heart of the film is a simple structure whereby each member of the revived and reunited Cuban band are interviewed about their lives and the part that they play musically. The live performances that open the film are given an extended and exhilarating showing at the climax. This format is very successful in picking out the subtleties and stories behind each voice and instrument in the band and by the film's finale I found that I could hear more clearly and read much more into each part being performed. The layers of the film thus illuminate the layers in the music and before the film was through it struck me as truly awe-inspiring to hear so many virtuoso performances weaving in and out of the overall sound.The film is also startling for its then-innovative use of hand-held cameras to shoot footage of performances, recording sessions and interviews. The camera rarely feels like an intruder and some very amusing scenes are captured on film (the guys playing dominos was a favourite moment for me).Anyone with an interest in music needs to see this film. "},{"Title":"This gets you moving","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Fantastic music !! Great for cleaning house to D I caught the documentary on this group. I had never heard of them before - boy, was I missing out ! The documentary was wonderful and it got me to appreciate even more what these musicians have gone through on a personal level. It is amazing to be able to sit there, listen to the music, remember what I saw in the documentary and feel like I was in on the sessions these very accomplished musicians had in Cuba. Anyone of any age will enjoy this music immensely. This CD is packed with tracks that make you want to get up and dance and some are so soft and beautifully light that they almost lull you into pure heaven. It reminds me a lot of the music my grandmother appreciated and yet I feel a close connection to it, as if it was music of my own time. The people involved in the making of this CD also come through - you can really see how much they loved the Cuban music and that they miss those times of such happiness that used to be Cuba in its heyday. I wish I could have seen it !! Go get this CD and look for the individual CDs that some of these musicians have put forth as well. Alsolutely delightful. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Buena Vista Social Club","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Wim Wenders heads to Cuba with country music guitarist Ry Cooder to produce an album about traditional Cuban music as played and sung by those artists still alive to play the songs. With most of the artist's ages topping the 80's, the power with which they sing and play will knock your socks off. Each person has a story. One didn't sing for ten years before this because there was no money in singing in Cuba. Another worked with a blind bandleader who would get uproariously drunk and chase after people in a blind, drunken rage. The movie was about more than just the music. The people themselves are the reason why the movie and the music is still around. True that can be said about all different kinds of music, but it's these people's spice to life that make their form of music all the more interesting. Would the Beatles be the Beatles today had Paul and John not been in fierce competition with each other? They all had the music in them, but sometimes it's the people that make the music interesting. After the album, The Buena Vista Social Club reached popular success in the States, Cooder took the group on a worldwide tour to play in Amsterdam and finally in Carnegie Hall in New York City. Some of the movie takes place during these concerts, showcasing each artist's particular addition to the band. This is then paralleled by a personal showcase of the artist playing their instrument as the camera swirls around their bodies, examining every part of them in an attempt to uncover and find out what makes them so great. This is probably my favorite Wim Wenders film as the topic is so nostalgic it fills my heart with grief to think of pre-50's Havana as gone. And I was born in 1985. Picked this up at the University library on VHS. Would like to see Wim Wenders' commentary on the film on DVD. "},{"Title":"Beautiful nostalgic documentary","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" More than a beautiful musical movie, I would classify this picture as a documentary. Who hasn't heard about Cuba's legendary Buenavista Social Club?? The story is nothing more than a recreation of the now aging stars of this club, back in the middle of the past century. Two main aspects can be judged here The poverty of these in their native Cuban environment, and their joy of life that permits them to be happy even with all their limitations, and the contrasts they encounter while traveling to the USA for a presentation at the Carnegie Hall back in July 1998. It is a very shocking impact to see them go from their impoverished surroundings to the fascination of New York, where they now realize that this is where the other half of the world lives. The magic of the picture itself is brought to a sudden stop when one realizes that even in our 21st Century there can be so contrasting differences between human beings living in different parts of the world. Regardless of this sudden awakening to reality, the picture is beautiful and transports us back in time. "},{"Title":"Inspiring!","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I just read a really negative review and I do not agree. Whatever intention the producer had to bring these wonderful artists together, who cares. This film is incredibly inspiring. And it's not due to the film director or the producer who brought these people together. It is all the artist's individual stories and their love for their craft and their passion for life that makes this movie a wonderful experience! Oh, and let's not forget the music! It's amazing. Really! This movie is a collectable. Especially if you love this type of music. You have to add it to your library. Wow...I'm floored...it was awesome. In the beginning it'll take some time to stick with it, but the payoff at the end is wonderful!  "}{"Title":"Cheap and brilliant but Ry Cooder partly ruins it","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is a fascinating glimpse of a bygone world alive and well in modern day Havana - is 'modern-day' Havana an oxymoron? Seems every building is stuck in a time warp from 40 years ago, though strangely enchanting it all is.All the old Cuba cliches - cigar factory, pastel coloured 1950s Buicks and Cadillacs, plus that famous music.  Of course, a few Eastern Bloc Ladas thrown in for good measure.The music is excellent except for one thing - Ry Cooder!  He ruins a lot of the music with his idiotic twangy instrument, presumably insisting on taking part.  It just sounds so incongruous, cacaphonous.  Get rid of him next time (surely Win Wenders can for once make a film without Cooder?).The Cienfugos section (section 11 on the DVD) is eerily poignant - first a glimpse of an incredible resort coastline now sadly totally dishevelled, then into a deserted and faded hotel with just one sound to distract, that of a solo piano player as you go up the steadicam stairs imagining all those rich people in the 1950s.  And then there he is, the old man piano player, born in 1919 from what must have been a totally different world.Why are films like this not cheaper to buy, either?  This is all hand-held, steadicam stuff with somewhat poor quality filmstock.  There are NO vast fees for actors and so forth - surely this should make it cheaper in the stores than blockbusters etc.?  Or is Wenders and co actually secretly exploiting the musicians they claim to revere so much?  Buy them all a cheap plane ticket to New York and that'll make 'em happy, eh?  American imperialism (or German) with that vast box office revenue, lol.Good film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"wonderful music, glamourous characters, exciting pictures of Havana","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is a documentary about the people behind the Grammy-winner Buena Vista Social Club album. Three components make this movie excellent the wonderful music, the glamourous characters (almost all of them old, forgotten Cuban musicians) and the enchanting pictures of the wonderful but extremely poor and neglected city of Havana. The contrast between Cuba's closed (and despite all misery somewhat idyllic) world and the glitters of the busy western world adds special spices to this movie.  "},{"Title":"Good documentary, great music, if a bit too long and somewhat creative subtitles on occasion.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  This is a very well done documentary, showcasing some fine Cuban singers and musicians and is worthwhile for bringing them a wider audience if nothing else.  It probably should have been about ten minutes or so shorter as it tends to drag in spots and a working knowledge of Spanish is helpful, as the subtitles altered some of the more colorful language used by some of the performers.  But, oh that music!  Thanks to Ry Cooder, Wim Wenders and all members, past and present, of the Buena Vista Social Club!!! "},{"Title":"Awesome Musicians--Terrible Documentary","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Of course I was blown away and inspired by the musicians in this documentary.  They are living legends.  But this documentary really sucked. First of all, it focused too much on Ry Cooder.  Sure, he deserves all the credit for bringing these musicians back together.  But I'm sure he'd be the first one to say that the focus of the film should be on the musicians, and not on himself (or his SON, for godsake!  His young son got more camera time than some of the Social Club members!)For every musical jam session, the camera would cut from one performer, to Ry Cooder, then back to a different performer, than to Cooder, with the overall effect being that Ry Cooder was the main performer and the living legends his back up.  And then the documentary didn't follow one song longer than five minutes before cutting to an interview or something else.  All I really wanted to do was watch these legends perform, because, God knows, I wouldn't get the chance to see them live together (neither will anyone else).The worst, though, was most of the key pieces of music in the documentary had Ry Cooder's tangy, bluesy guitar as a centerpiece, ruining an otherwise beautiful duet between Ferrer and Portuondo, or a piano solo by Segundo. I'm sure Cooder is a great musician in his own right; but what's the title of this documentary?  If Cooder had a hand in inserting himself so prominently in this documentary, SHAME ON HIM.Should you watch this documentary?  Absolutely.  Sadly enough, this is probably the only film that has all these legends playing together.  All I'm saying is that it is an excellent opportunity wasted by poor filmmaking and perhaps the ego of some second-rate musician named Ry Cooder. "},{"Title":"Not just great music","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The Buena Vista Social Club is pure energy, and it's not to be missed. Every song has its own story behind it. I thought all the characters were great, and the editing was teriffic. The best part was the ending at Carnegie Hall. A great documentary, worthy of its Oscar Nomination. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cuban Passion","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Excellent documentary...This project of Wim Wenders and Ry Cooder brings us all the Cuban passion via music. Well, all the music is quite excellent; these are the songs that make me feel the emotions like love, hatred, passion, humour, romance so strongly. It's like they are the songs that breathe and talk. So, music, automatically, gets you inside of the movie; and once you get inside you start to see brilliant scenes by Wim Wenders. Soundtrack of his movies have always been so important for Wim Wenders and he has worked with Ry Cooder since Paris-Texas. This project was actually Ry Cooder's idea, but Wim Wenders gives a brilliant directing for this movie. Actually, he just puts his camera and let the music take you inside of the movie. He doesn't interrupt much.Members of the band are so funny and sympathetic that it is almost impossible not to like them, especially the band's carismatic and legendary singer Ibrahim Ferrer.  I think everybody must see this movie. "},{"Title":"Joyful, heart-warming and exuberant -- a great film","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I had assumed, wrongly, that this film was about the process of Ry Cooder tracking down these aging Cuban greats and convincing them to come out of retirement for the production of the CD from which the film takes its name.  This is covered, of course, but the film is shot more than a year later and after the commercial success of the recording.  I guess this was to be expected, since few would have predicted the phenomenal interest that the recording would generate, so no one would have even contemplated doing a documentary in advance.  This is a wonderful film that captures the warmth, humanity, and exuberance of these great musicians despite the circumscribed nature of their Cuban lives.  Compay, Ruben and Ibrahim are as vibrant, engaging and genuine as they are eccentric.  Their concert at Carnegie Hall in New York is a triumphant and emotional climax to the film an emotion fuelled by the realization that this is a never-to-be-repeated occasion. My only quibble -- and the only thing that keeps BVSC from being a ten in my books -- is that Wim Wenders avoids any attempt to tackle explicitly the political context of his story.  Why shy away from the fact that it is the disgusting political regime of the past forty years that has kept Cubans locked in poverty and isolation from the rest of the world, and forced a great musician like Ibrahim Ferrer to shine shoes in order to put food on his table?  "},{"Title":"Certainly interesting but hardly innovative","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Wenders' latest is a documentary on a group of Cuban musicians who become international stars due to a little luck and the sharp ear of Ry Cooder.  The movie jumps around three locations Amsterdam, Cuba, and New York but only comes alive in Cuba.  I doubt I have seen colours so vibrant since I first glimpsed Munchkinland.  All this said, it is a mediocre movie.  We learn the history of the band members (many born into poverty) and see much of beautiful Havana but the movie is really nothing more than concert footage with some biographies thrown in.  See it for the colours and some lovely steadicam work. "},{"Title":"great great great","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The movie is absolutely wonderful, to say to least. I assume that this is a different style of Wim Wenders, comparing to his other works. This is the best documentary I've ever seen. No doubt, Wim Wenders is a really good movie maker (director, writer...etc). But, if I had to give the credit to the person who deserves it, I would give most of the credit to the musicians. This movie gave the whole world a great influence on Cuban music. I thank Wenders for fascinating me with the music. This is a movie music lovers have to see, and take advantage of this wonderful music. I gave it a 10. Just one thing I don't understand, why Ry cooder?? Yes, maybe he found the musicians. But why is he getting most of the credit?? And everybody knows that his slide-guitar doesn't fit the music. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Music, but Questionable Filmmaking","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The Buena Vista Social Club is filled with great music. It is the music of people's lives, and as they often say during the film, the musicians feel the music as well as play it.  The way that others talk and think is the same way they create music.  It is natural.  The scenes of the musicians in concert are great and exciting. The problem is that the director, Wim Wenders, chose to focus on things other than the music and the people who make it.  His constantly spinning camera, while technically dazzling, serves no real purpose here.  Sure, there are some wonderful shots that move long distances, but the story is in one place and needs no amplification. It is almost as though he thought we would be bored with the people and the sounds of the film.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  The stories the musicians tell are engaging and funny. Their music is rich and timeless.  Since it is a film about Cuba, one would expect some political overtones, but strangely there are not very many.  Only at the end, when the musicians reach New York, does Wender's seem to interject his political views.  The musicians are all awed by New York and the director allows them to degrade themselves by saying that ugly buildings are lovely.  The irony-that if these men had been produced in New York there would never be any music at all-is lost on everyone.  Also, the viewer may be left with the sense that they have been forgotten due to Castro and the revolution, but this is not really the case.  All over the world and all around the USA artists are forgotten in their old age.  Only in a nation that loves and understands art are artists given their proper place of respect.  Cuba and the US both fail in this regard.  And ultimately the film fails too.  It misleads and it misdirects are attention and pulls us away from the enchanting music created by older musicians who rediscover life through expression.    "}{"Title":"Revolution is Eternal","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I don't know anything about the Latin jazz music and yet Buena Vista Social Club became for me less about the artisan music and more about the inconsequential lives of these old masters in a dictatorial state which doesn't know one person from the next.  Through the efforts of the jazz musician, Ry Cooder, we have these men and women recorded in album and in live performances and this film by Wim Wenders is a wonderful example of the cinema verite in rescuing these forgotten treasures.  When one of the Cuban masters can come from his squalor to New York City and remark over and over again, lovely, then it speaks volumes about a free society.  This film is a painful reminder of how much the arts and freedom itself can be repressed and how little it takes to awaken fervent spirit and unconquerable talent. "},{"Title":"bad documentary on a great band","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  It's quite embarrassing really... Buena Vista Social Club is one of the best and move lively band around and all Wim Wenders seems to have been able to come up with is this  a rather cold and pretentious documentary. Most members of the BVSC are incredibly intense, funny and deeply human characters and it's as if Wenders couldn't figure out how to let them talk, or simply how to listen to them... The best shots are promptly cut, not-so-interesting moments seem to last forever, the movie never seems to be in the good mood... Too bad really cause the band is really worth seeing. Maybe a good director could have done them justice.Ps  It has to be said that Ibrahim Ferrer is one of the most moving persons ever seen on a screen.  "},{"Title":"less than the sum of its parts","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" Great music, interesting musicians and a fascinating project by Ry Cooder.Hand it to Cooder for getting these guys together. But Wenders should have followed Cooder's search in more detail. And for that matter, he might've shown how these great musicians fell into obscurity. Was it some sort of Maoist Cultural Revolution that purged Cuban society of supposed classist vestiges? Was it simply that their musical styles were lost in the more recent currents of Cuban music? Most of the storytelling in the film was about the musicians' early years and how they got into music. That was pretty interesting, though not altogether unique. It seems like lots of great musicians have humble beginnings.Did Castro's regime control what Wenders was able to film? If so, the project might have worked better as a book with accompanying music CD.The music is the film's high point. The jam sessions and solo reveries were great, even though virtually all the other music and more is on the CD soundtrack BVSC. "},{"Title":"This movie was awesome. Very social, very clubby, and in Buena Vista.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I liked this movie. I felt that it was very heartfelt and genuine. A real moving film. Jonathan liked it too. He also liked the transvestite opera star in King of Masks. These were both very touching, sweet movies. King of Masks, was by far, the best picture of the year. I could not believe how great it was. And it touched both Jonathan's heart, and butt at the same time. These were so really good producers and characters. "},{"Title":"A Treasure saved for generations to come....","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Thank you....Wim Wenders and Ry Cooder need to be simply told Thank you.These two special men have let the world into the soul of the lost Cuba. Both through the stunning glimpses of the Cuban landscape and the heart warming stories of these world class musicians we gain insight into how this country only 90 miles from the USA has transformed dramatically since the 1950's.  I saw this film with my girlfriend, who is a first generation Cuban, and she was moved to tears.  The thought that these special men held the end of who she really was made her extremely sad.  Those men hold something so special.....and Wenders and Cooder need to be thanked 1,000 times for sharing this with not only generations of Cubans to come, but the whole world.  We are able to share in the music of an island nation whose beauty is ready to explode upon the rest of the world.I will never forget the Cuban Nat King Cole....what a tremendous compliment.....my only problem with that statement is that maybe Nat Cole is the American Ibrahim Ferrer. "},{"Title":"an OPEN minded commentary","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":" I would like to start off by saying how angry and distressed i was to read the foul narrow minded commentary by whichever person wrote the review stating that it is the worst documentary and a complete hash in fact i don't blame him/her that much because we are all in titled to our own opinions but IMDb should not have put that as the main page of this movie's commentary. The person who wrote this commentary is obviously incapable of watching and giving credit to anything apart from big budget Hollywood American stereotype films. therefore do not take it as a exact review.Unless you are not a musician it is quite hard to not like this movie. why? because (i have actually forgotten all of their names so if you bare with me)these ageing Cubans don't read music they don't have the best instruments, all except one have not had a musical education they don't have the money to muck around with these things they have been gifted with the basic. An instrument and they go on from there so having taken all of this into account they produce an emotional salsa with beautiful lyrics and sound ,not frankly giving a damn about their badly made instruments they embraced what they had and sheer determination and musical talent and a drop of luck brought them to the prestigious Carnegie hall in new york. most of them hadn't even stepped a foot out of heir own town let alone a different country.And to see their faces when the crowd started applauding is unbelievable you can read their minds they just can not believe that they are there. so as they are walking round New York streets admiring each figure in every glass window they seem like children lost in Disney land but once they have been given their microphone or piano or guitar they come to their own and you give them fully credited respect and they look in control.By America cutting them off from advanced technology of the day all of there cars in the streets are some old Reno's and Beatles paint drying of the city walls bumpy roads the burning sun the public bus made out of old cars and trucks painted pink and their simple humble homes beautiful men and women. and children who are still children not dressing over their age or acting like twenty year old women its almost impossible to not fall under charm of the Cuban people.Yes this documentary was filmed badly with rubbish cameras but doesn't that add to the whole thing? i think so. So if you have actually kept on reading to this point you must have at least some interest in the film then give it a go if you are different and not American glazed then i guarantee you will love it. it is by far the best documentary i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"We're not worthy...we're not worthy...","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I just saw them in person here in Seoul!!! Hurray!!!Well, the moment I pressed the PLAY button on my VCR with BVSC tape inside, I fell in love with all those wonderful Cuban senior citizens.Their hopes & dreams, sorrows & despairs, pasts & futures are all beautifully mingled into their music. I loved them in the movie, loved them on stage last night and will love them forever on CDs...This documentary by world-famous German director Wim Wenders is very well put together. I liked it very much when he shows musicians playing their songs to a couple of musical instruments in the recording studio or in their room, and then suddenly on the stage with a full-scale band surrounded by thousands of fans.Whether you know BVSC just from CDs or the concerts, this wonderful film is a must-see to fulfill your Cuban nostalgia.  "},{"Title":"Lack of cinematic self-control destroyed the music.","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I went to this movie expecting the wonderful experience that all the reviews claimed ... knowing that the music would be great. What I got was a splitting headache from Wenders unceasing camera movement.Not only was I unable to read the subtitles due to the constant motion - thus preventing me from enjoying the story of the musicians' lives - but what should have been the center of the movie - the music - was chopped off time after time. Wenders has no sense of the music he was ostensibly documenting.All together, an abomination. "},{"Title":"A beautiful work of art","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I first picked up the CD Buena Vista Social Club on a whim two years ago, and I was stunned.  I could not believe such beautiful music existed.  I told everyone I knew about it, and even though not all of them enjoyed it as I did, at least they experienced it for themselves.Flash forward two years.  I am sitting in the local art-house theatre, waiting for the new movie by Wim Wenders, also called Buena Vista Social Club, to start.  My heart is racing; as the lights go down, my anticipation grows.  And I am once again stunned.  Not only is the music wonderful, but the film is amazing on every level.Every shot, every scene, every word spoken and every note played adds to the greater whole of this film.  Wim Wenders, Ry Cooder, and the entire Buena Vista Social Club should be congratulated on a fine accomplishment.The interviews with the members of the band (especially with Ibrahim Ferrer, a true delight) are magnificently filmed, and each player's story is a treasure.  When the recording of Ferrer's album is filmed, one can see the determination, effort, and love for the music on the faces of every musician.  That love shines through, onto the screen, and the audience is bathed in its splendor.The film is most at home in Cuba, with its ancient cars and tumbledown streets.  Wenders knows better to comment on the state of the Cuban people's well-being; simply filming the surroundings is comment enough.The most amazing moments in the film, however, are when the musicians are free to roam around New York, near the film's end.  Their insights into American (and North American) culture are humorous and quite touching.  Ferrer's evening walk down the streets of New York is simply wonderful; when he stops on the street to take a picture, the audience can feel his excitement.A wonderful film.  Not only one of the best documentaries I have seen in a long time, probably the best film of the year to date.  10/10. "},{"Title":"Making a documentary about interesting people does not alone make a good movie.","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I had heard many good things about this movie, and finally found a rep house playing it at a time I could catch it.  Boy, was I disappointed.  Sure, the music is wonderful, and the musicians are interesting people.  But what did Wim Wenders (who has not made a good movie in nearly 15 years) do to make this a good movie?  Where was the insight into the old Buena Vista Social Club?  why didn't he take us back to it, so we could get a feel for what it was like?  Why didn't we hear more about the past, about the difficulties the musicians faced? About Cuba and being a musician in Cuba? Instead we get a 2-hour commercial to sell Cuban CDs.  Not that they don't deserve that, but I have seen many documentaries where the heart and soul of the story is told in a moving way.  Here, there was a story to be told about people who have a lot of heart and soul, but the opportunity was completely wasted by Wenders, who instead just told the much less interesting story about a handful of older Cuban musicians who got together to put on some new concerts and record some new albums.  His style of just going through each musician one-by-one with a brief interview lacked any originality whatsoever.  Good music, bad movie, and almost no insight into Cuba the country (aside from a few nice visual shots of the streets of Havana).  For a good documentary, see Hoop Dreams or 35 Up or Children of Fate.  For a good film about Cuba see Strawberries and Chocolate.  And for good Cuban music, buy the CDs or go to the concerts, if any of the musicians make it to your hometown.  The only thing redeeming about this movie are the musicians and the music, which is what makes it better than Million Dollar Hotel which was awful. "}{"Title":"Unlike the vibrant music, this film is woefully under produced","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  People develop knee jerk reactions to  celebrity.Say the name Wenders, and people cannot supress exhalations of admiration.The fact is that Wim, more or less, phoned this one in. We know about WW's longtime collaboration with Ry Cooder on such moving classics as Paris,Texas, and there's no doubting that their potential collaboration on this erratically conceived and directed documentary, promised great results. You know, their names alone pretty much guarantee accolades. Of course the real glow, energy, and (only potential) pathos of The Buena Vista Social Club comes from the musicians, themselves. Fortunately Ferrer, Gonazlez, Ochoa, Segundo, et. al. bring themselves richly and uninhibitedly to the screen. Ry and son Jaochim always appeared self conscious to this viewer. The director rarely shows them interacting directly with the Cuban musicians.As a fan of this music and its inspired rhythms ( with a healthy respect for Mr. Cooder's intelligence and intuition), I was sorely disappointed at Wenders decision to cut  away in the middle of songs. The music, the song, is where the art is,  so the abridgement never worked for me.There's no doubt that the decay and ferment of Havanna, deserves our attention, but the relentless circling camera became a technique to actually separate the audience from scenes and characters. The fact is, this film was made as a hurried afterthought. The CD had been in stores for over two years before this film reached the screen.While I was hoping to witness scenes of creative collaboration, I was served (tasty) left overs. The idea to go back to Havanna and recreate the magic just didn't cut it for me, but the passion, artistry, joy and perseverance of the musicians is an inspiration to all of us. As a film maker, Wenders should have taken more inspiration from the music and its makers and looked more carefully at the enigma that is Cuba today. "},{"Title":"Fourth time lucky, hopefully.","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  I only want to say that Wim Wenders has been directing very bad films since his glory days of the late 70s/early 80s, and this is another one.  The problem is that concepts and weighty ideas have taken over from character and sense of place as his main concerns, and that his cinematic fluidity has deserted him.  This film is a case in point.  Its ostensible subject is rediscovered Cuban musicians, but its really about Ry Cooder and - I must choose my words carefully - I feel his intervention is self-aggrandising, and that he leeches the music of its soul.  Worse, I feel Wenders is complicit in this, refusing to criticise Ry's hubris, offering timid political comments which verge on the patronising. "},{"Title":"Hard to see how Wenders could have made a greater hash of it","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  If you have already listened to the CD then I suppose it can't hurt - well, not much - to watch the documentary.  Otherwise, DON'T.  Do NOT turn on your television if it's being broadcast; put down the video as quickly and decisively as possible and rent something else; run, if you have to, from the cinema.  If you don't already know the music you won't be properly introduced.  And considered as a creation in its own right the documentary is just plain awful.I'm forced to use the word documentary - this isn't a film.  No silver nitrate was used in the creation of this - this thing.  It was all shot on some Sony device or other.  The result is a horrid digital blur.  I don't know what effect it will have on you, but it made my eyes ache after a few minutes, and the sensation didn't go away - although this could partly be due to Wenders's shaky, random camerawork.  (You know the kind of thing.  Look! says Wenders, I'm THERE!  I'm not a film-maker, I'm a JOURNALIST!  And a pretty darned committed one at that notice how I REACT to everything and FOLLOW the action, even when there isn't any.)  It's made worse by the fact that Cuba is so beautiful ...  Would Ry Cooder, for instance, really have been willing to record these musicians on a hand-held tape recorder hidden in the pocket of his overcoat?  Yet Wenders does the visual equivalent.The first hour is the most intolerable.  Musician is interviewed - cut to performance of a song.  Another musician is interviewed - cut to performance of another song.  Third is interviewed - cut to performance of third song.  Over and over and over, until we've run out of the old-timer musicians and we're down to the young percussionist who was roped in just for the recording sessions, and one of the sound engineers.  We never see enough of any one person to feel involved; the songs arrive when we're not in the proper mood (and they're snippets of song, not complete songs, in any event); there's nothing whatever that the interviews seem to be ABOUT; and the rhythm of the whole talk-sing-talk-sing-talk-sing sequence is likely to lull you to sleep.  Towards the end of the film there's a welcome change of pace but Wenders has little more idea what the point of his footage is than he did at the start.  Few documentaries are as uninformative, or as dull, as this one. "},{"Title":"SMOKIN'","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  The music will have you swaying. The tales will have you laughing, interested and maybe crying. Wenders best film, and really it happened by accident. Ultimately the documentary genre seems to be producing some of the most original, innovative and emotional work in contemporary cinema. Special effects cannot compete. "},{"Title":"Great real-life story doesn't translate to great documentary","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  By now, most anyone who would go out and rent this movie knows the story behind it.  A group of aging Cuban musicians, discovered by a visiting American, record a classic album in the son style, and the album unexpectedly goes multi-platinum.  It's fairly heartwarming, and the spirit of the music is enchanting.Here's the problem, though  you can get all of that by listening to the CD.  Beyond the music, this film is, if anything, slightly LESS perceptive and insightful than an average episode of VH-1's Behind the Music.  Essentially, this film consists of shots in the recording studio, concert footage, and superficial, introductory interviews with each of the band members, done one at a time.  If that sounds interesting to you, fine.  Personally, I was expecting a lot more from the union of a world-class filmmaker with these marvelous, enchanting musicians.Of course, none of this will stop BVSC from winning the Best Doc Oscar -- I expect the voters, having failed to actually WATCH the nominated films, judging the film based on only the underlying story, rather than on the film's merits.  What a shame. "},{"Title":"violates one of the fundamental laws of documentary film - love for the heroes","Date":"13 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  After a stunning opening scene, a spectacular concert in Amsterdam, the film goes on to Cuba to look for its heroes - this part is not very well done and sort of lengthy. The interviews, introducing the musicians are sort of okay, but lack empathy. It remains completely unclear, what Ry Cooder and his son are doing in this film at all and why they get so much space. The further, the worse the heroes travel to New York to do a concert in Carnegie Hall. Prior to the concert we see disoriented old men stumbling thru New York, followed by the complete antithesis to the opening sequence lighting, sound, hte guys themselves - everything contradicts the performance in Amsterdam. We're being told don't care about these guys, they're about to just drop dead - that's not a way to treat your heroes, Mr. Wenders.  "},{"Title":"Rockumentary? Propaganda? A Masterpiece of Marketing?","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Don't misunderstand me the music is splendid, just as it was on the million-selling album. But as a stand-alone documentary -- one that's winning far too many year-end awards, simply because the pickings are so slim -- it's quaint and lovely, but it's a bore. It's really just another rockumentary, albeit the stars are not 20-30 but 70-90. Their longevity is admirable, but the biggest disappointment is that Wenders never conveys how the Club's international success has impacted its members, if at all.You get no real sense of the crippling poverty prevalent under Castro's regime (certainly no indication of Cooder's stated fact that he could barely find enough food to feed the performers while they were making the first album!) and how they survived it; no indication of their national renown apart from the 40-year-old groupie who pulled the band together for Cooder to play with; and, considering the film was shot AFTER the album's critical and financial success (each and every members has a solo album currently in release) whether they're reaping any of its benefits.Yes, you can love the music and respect the performers, but when they arrive in New York for their Carnegie Hall show, you don't see it through their eyes when Ferrer wanders around the city and says he's never seen anything like this, we don't care because WE do every day. You do get pretty pictures of somber Cuban life and see the beautiful interiors some of them play in (Gonzales as the pianist for the children's gymnastics class, for example), and they can TELL us about music's role in their lives, but Wenders (and Cooder, to a lesser exent) has forsaken a remarkable opportunity to SHOW how music has impacted the band's life of today in favor of a hip yet benign travelogue, i.e. style without any substance.And who's PROFITING from all this, anyway? The Club? Castro? Cooder and Wenders? Is this propanganda -- did it require Castro's blessing before its release? Is it a sign of how capitalism neuters everything in its path? Or maybe my response is an indication how we Americans have become so completely desensitized and I'm disturbed that I wasn't outraged by the poverty and the citizens' apathetic acceptance of it. (Why do so many Cubans risk their lives to leave it if it's so wonderful, at least as Wenders paints it?)I'll stick to the album, thanks, but for anyone expecting anything beyond that in the film, prepare yourself for major disappointment, an immensely wasted opportunity.  "},{"Title":"UPBEAT TO THE CD?","Date":"1 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  One may be carried away by the great music of the elderly Cuban gentlemen, by their charm, by their vivacity and their general attitude towards live, I would gladly defy anyone to inform me about the history of the Buena Vista Social Club as such and their place in Havana society before and during the Fidel Castro regime after watching this documentary. I think the information would be very slight. What did Wim Wenders had in mind conceiving this documentary? He lets the members of the Club introducing themselves extensively (there is no disturbing interviewer), but this is limited to the 4 main members of the club and takes already one hour!. With all due respect to the gentlemen it must be said that these introductions have a high percentage of meaningless anecdote. It seems that Wenders started the documentary without the faintest notion what the Buena Vista Social Club was.The artist within Wim Wenders could not refrain from an extensive iconoclastic view of Havana, during day time, night time and any other time of the day. This may have worked if Wenders would have limited himself; but after 60 minutes of another drive through the town, the ploy begins to bore and the point Wenders wants to make becomes repetitious. Moreover, Wenders is not the first documentary maker to show the poorness of Havana and the American 50's oldtimer cars.I was carried away by the music (who wouldn't?), but I felt betrayed by Wenders that not with one song he could be patient enough to let the viewer hear and see the complete performance. No one with real love for the music would have done this, unless the whole venture is aimed at letting us buy the by Ry Cooder produced cd's. I know that that is a strong thing to say, but I can remember another venture by Ry Cooder in the 70's, when he suddenly introduced the forgotten Hawaiian musician Gabby Pahinui; what ever became of him? (anyone out there who knows?)What in the end the documentary does is to give the gentlemen and the lady singer their long awaited 15 minutes of world fame; both Ry Cooder and Wim Wenders can have a good feeling about this. In two years time no one will remember anymore what the Buena Vista Social Club was and both Cooder and Wenders will be busy on other projects. (6/10)  "},{"Title":"Out Of Tune","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Music","Review":"  Here's a relief.  I had tried to get my music mad son Alex along to see BVSC on its first visit to Manchester.  He couldn't be persuaded, despite glowing reviews.  I didn't even attempt to entice him on its brief second season.  Phew!  Alex to his credit believes that Pete Townsend made the wrong decision by actually getting old, and that the pre-Britpopping of Radio 1 stuff that I sometimes listen to is from another planet.   What would he have thought about these coffin dodgers?  Not a lot I would venture.  Well, if not the music then surely their rich history?  Nope.  Parochially dull I'm afraid.  All right.  The backdrop of decaying American imperialism - a perfect follow on to our GodFather part II Christmas present?  Teasing - but all over in a matter of seconds.  Big disappointment!Ron  "}]