[{"Title":"Intense, enjoyable thriller IF VIEWED IN ORIGINAL GERMAN LANGUAGE!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"46 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I was very curious about Anatomy (aka Anatomie) and if I was going to see it, I was going to have to buy it since no video stores in my area carried the film.  Since it was not a low-priced DVD, I did take a chance and thought I'd take a peek at other comments on IMDb.  Many of the comments didn't give me enough hope of forking out lots of bucks for a film I had never seen nor had any clues about.  I basically got the idea it was a sexy youth-oriented romp being compared to many cookie-cutter teen thrillers. Well, something in the back of my mind told me to ignore those types of comments and buy it!  I did, and was I pleasantly surprised!If it is going to be compared to any other films, I would say it's a variation of Coma and Extreme Measures.  I couldn't see any comparison to films like Scream, Urban Legends, et al.  Yes, the cast is young (that's because they're med students! At least they aren't the increasingly boring high school type characters), and yes, some are lusty (basically the character played by Anna Loos is, and it is handled quite tastefully in the German language version), but Anatomy is well constructed, there is a tense mood throughout, the sets are amazing, the makeup effects are a wow, and Franka Potente is very credible in her role.  I found myself enjoying all of it despite a few gaping holes in the plot!  The story of a student discovering a sort-of secret society doing autopsies on still-living patients is a rather creepy scenario and what happens to those patients afterwards is quite clever.  Sure, you could ask why didn't she just GET OUT OF THAT TOWN?  Okay, but then the film would be over within a half hour.This was the first effort from the German part of Columbia Pictures, and it's actually quite an impressive one.  There was a bit of care in the production and to actually offer some genuine thrills is an accomplishment. It is a bit mature in mind, as it doesn't resort to constant opportunities for sexual encounters(a breast fest) or juvenile drug jokes.  Anna Loos' character, while often making sexual remarks and looking for some fun, was actually a nice touch--having a character that was a woman more intelligent than any of the men in the school.  She found that sex was really just a distraction for her and the men rather lacking.THE IMPORTANT STUFF  Watching this film in the original German language with English or French subtitles is the BEST way to enjoy it.  I saw the theatrical trailers dubbed in English and was disgusted by the change it made in the film's tone.  I have never seen a properly dubbed film in my life--they never can find voices that suit the film's actors or characters. Sure enough, I tried to watch some of Anatomy dubbed in English and the intelligence level of it dropped severely, making it seem more like a comedy. A good example is when one guy was freaked out at being cut open and screamed to be sewn back up--hearing it in German he sounded frantic, but dubbed in English he sounded like a comedian. Frankly, I'm sick of hearing people say they can't handle reading subtitles or watch a letterboxed film.  Anatomy comes off as silly with dubbed voices that seem octaves too high for any of the people you see in the film, and Anna Loos' sexual comments then just sound like awful remarks right out of Fast Times At Ridgemont High. I wonder if the negative comments about Anatomy are from people who watched it dubbed, it just doesn't seem like the same film at all!  This is not a cheap horror film and deserves to be viewed as it was created.  Interesting to note that some of the English subtitles are different in scenes in the feature and the making of supplement.As it turns out, I gambled and won with Anatomy.  It's a competent thriller with likeable characters and doesn't try to go for cheap thrills.  "},{"Title":"it gets derailed on its way to the third act","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" When Medical student Paula Henning (Franka Potente, of Run Lola Run fame) wins a highly coveted scholarship, she's understandable enthused. But strange experiments are being done on live sedated bodies somewhere on the premises. When she recognizes a corpse as the boy she met on the train there, she decides to snoop around. What starts of as a reasonably captivating little thriller derails completely by the third act and becomes a carbon copy of any other slasher film made, which is a shame as if the film just stayed on target, it would've been something special, as the acting was good into then and the camera-work was pretty good throughout.My Grade C DVD Extras Commentary with director Stefan Ruzowitzky; 2 Deleted scenes with commentary by director Stefan Ruzowitzky; Anna Loos - My Truth (music video); 2 & a half minute Make-up featurette; barely 5 minute Making-of featurette; Talent files; Production photos; Storyboard comparisons; Dubbed Teaser & Theatrical trailers; and Trailers for Circus (2000) & Run, Lola, Run "},{"Title":"Gruesome shocker exploits audience's worst medical fears","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ANATOMY (Anatomie) Aspect ratio 2.391Sound formats Dolby Digital / SDDSA brilliant med student (Franka Potente) is pitched into a conspiracy at Heidelberg University, where a secret fraternity of medical deviates practice dissection on living subjects...Stefan Ruzowitzky's superior thriller - the debut feature of Columbia Pictures' European production arm - derives inspiration from similarly-styled US shockers of the period (SCREAM, I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER, etc.), and exploits the audience's worst fears about invasive medical procedures. Beautifully photographed by STALINGRAD's Peter von Haller, the film contrasts picture-postcard Heidelberg with the silver-grey starkness of the anatomy rooms where German superstar Potente struggles to disentangle herself from an ancient conspiracy of horror. Second-billed Benno Fürmann (THE PRINCESS AND THE WARRIOR) - the film's 'token' beefcake - emerges as a key player around the movie's halfway mark, beginning with a nerve-shredding set-piece recalling the potato truck sequence in Hitchcock's FRENZY (1972). In a happy turnabout from standard practice, all the nudity in the film is male-oriented, including what Ruzowitzky has described as Fürmann's famous butt shot!! Who says modern horror movies aren't camp? Great fun, and followed by ANATOMY 2 (2003).(German dialogue) "},{"Title":"Disappointing, dull and completely overrated","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anatomy is a somewhat decent film if not entirely all that great.**SPOILERS**Preparing for her studies, Paula Henning, (Franka Potente) is accepted into Heidelberg University with Prof. Grombeck, (Traugott Buhre) in his Anatomy Class, said to be one of the most advanced and prestigious around. Meeting with other students Gretchen, (Anna Loos) and Caspar, (Sebastian Blomberg) in the class, she wonders if her family reputation will affect her chances. When she gets back to her classes, she starts to wonder about the selection of corpses used, and begins to suspect that something isn't right. Investigating the situation, she finds evidence that an illegal practice of outlaw doctors performing unethical experiments is linked to several professors on the campus, and she soon finds herself targeted to keep the secrets hidden, and she races to stop them from doing so.The Good News There wasn't a whole lot to this one. One of the best parts to this is the mystery angle that's played up about what the practice is really doing and who's involved, generating some tension to this one later on. The fact that it does this is actually a fun idea, as there's plenty to be crept out at by the rather large amount of time spent among cadavers, which is enough on it's own but here, using the practice is where it really scores a lot of great scenes where she's investigating them. That the look to them is really creepy is another big plus, as the look where they remain intact but are displayed so that the inner workings and organs are visible, often-times while the skin is still attached to the rest of the body, producing a cool and creepy visual. The film does include a little sleaze with it's really fun striptease in the morgue. It works nicely and really gets those elements into the film. The last good plus is the fact that the last half of the film is a full-on traditional slasher movie sequence, complete with a creepy stalking through the library and out into the rest of the campus and is done with a lot of fun times and come really good moments to come along with it. It's one of the better scenes in the film and they're all quite well done, leaving these as the highlights of the film.The Bad News There was a couple of really big flaws noticeable for this one. One of the main ones is the complete lack of true horror atmosphere for the film. The idea behind it isn't exactly the greatest one to provide some horror elements, seemingly set-up like a thriller instead with the inclusion of the evil cult and the very way it's handled in here. The fact that it's introduced into the film so very late as it is does account for some flaws, as we're left with the utter dullness of the first half's focus on the special classes and the behavior surrounding them that not a lot of horror-specific elements are presented into the film, but also because it does this, we don't really know a whole lot about the cult to begin. Seemingly, it relies on the notion of being practitioners of illegal experiments to create it's fear of them, since we know nothing about the other than how they work, which can work if they only went into action more often as they don't really do that much anyway. That manages to make the cult hardly involved in the film about them and completely nonthreatening due to their absolute non-appearance and complete cluelessness over what they are actually doing, effectively reducing their fear. The last flaw here is the fact that this one is really dull, as it doesn't have a whole lot of stuff that manages to stick out as being worthwhile for the longest time due to the inclusion of all the other elements mentioned so far make it all the more boring. These here are the film's flaws.The Final Verdict Not entirely worthless, but not all that enjoyable either unless you happen to be a fan of these films or like the concept. If either of these apply to you, then this will be highly recommended viewing, otherwise this will most likely be a severe disappointment and should be viewed with caution.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity and a mild sex scene "},{"Title":"Kopferwelten alive","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Before Franka Potente became famous with the Bourne trilogy she made this German movie. As a student in, you guessed it, anatomy she has to go to the most important school to learn that but there is a secret. Some people joined a kind of mason. She notices that something is terrible wrong in the school and she starts to investigate. Wrong. What happens next isn't really horror it's more some kind of thriller but you really have to watch it for the effects. A few years ago it was a hype to see the exhibition Kopferwelten. What you saw there is what we have here only they didn't used real bodies but it was so nicely done that it could be used in classes. It never becomes gory or even bloody, it is really the atmosphere that creates the movie. But it is one that you must have seen because, some people fears that it could happen to you.... "},{"Title":"Bad dubbing hurts but I liked it","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw (unfortunately) the dubbed version on Encore.Student Paula Henning (Franka Potente who was also in the cult favorite Run Lola Run) stars as a serious medical student who gets into a prestigious school in Germany. But she soon discovers that some students go missing and the bodies they work on in the anatomy lab are incredibly fresh...I was stuck seeing the dubbed version on Encore. It hurt a lot (the words not matching the lips got annoying real quick) but I still liked what I saw. The acting was good, it was beautifully photographed, it wasn't TOO gruesome and I was never bored. Even more refreshing was a likable heroine who fights back when the bad guys go after her. The (mild) nudity was, in a refreshing twist, male! A previous poster mentions Benno Furmann (who is excellent) showed his butt but I don't remember seeing it. Regardless this is a well done, scary and excellent thriller. From all I've read the original German language version is the best (I don't doubt that for one second) but the dubbed version is watchable. I give this a 7. "},{"Title":"4 out of 10","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Medical student Paula Henning wins a place at an exclusive Heidelberg medical school. When the body of a young man she met on the train turns up on her dissection table, she begins to investigate the mysterious circumstances surrounding his death, and uncovers a gruesome conspiracy perpetrated by an Antihippocratic secret society operating within the school. Disturbing and gross, lots of scary parts. It even has a good script and ending. But it has a one poor part. What else could you see from this movie? It's a good mystery and horror movie. But, of course, if you like it, Go buy it. If you don't, there still is not reason to waste your money on this.Rated R for Extreme Graphic Violence, Sexual Situations and Profanity. "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a pretty lousy picture.It offers nothing unique or original or even interesting.A medical student discovers that a secret society at her university is engaged in macabre medical experiments.And of course she becomes involved in solving the weird deaths at the school.This movie started out promising with a few cool special effects in which a guy is partially dissected while alive and tries to get away after he wakes up but then even that fizzles and the rest of the special effects are pretty routine plastic models of the human body and that unreal looking blood that these second rate horror movies always seem to have.And as if the routine plot and the lousy acting wasn't enough this movie had subtitles that many times didn't even match the dubbed English that you hear being spoken and then add that to the mouth movement not matching the dubbing ..well let's just say trying to coordinate all that in your head isn't worth it for this mediocre movie.I was at least counting on some skin in this movie and except for a bit during the opening credits this movie didn't deliver on that either.This is a boring routine run of the mill horror/gore movie---short on horror and gore.Skip this movie unless Ernest goes to Camp is the only rental left. "},{"Title":"A mess.","Date":"22 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Okay, I had reasonably high expectations for this. The controversial subject matter was a good concept. As a horror fan I admit I was fascinated and very excited about this.It turns out they had a great idea, but it was terribly executed. Let's see. This movie seems to run in 3 modes Happy, Sex and Dark. The problem is that the movie never decides what it wants to be. The Happy parts I believe were meant to contrast with the Dark parts, but it doesn't work. The soundtrack is one of the reasons.The movie transitions between these 3 modes very badly, I can't even begin to say how much the directing and editing suck. There's sex in the most unappealing and unerotic way. I'm not complaining but even for Horror standards they were unnecessary and filler.The characters are all unlikeable with the exception of Paula (Potente). Her friend from Munich is a slut and possibly one of the most annoying characters in movies I've come across recently.There's a bit of plot which I won't go into detail... It's not stupid and in more talented hands would make a good movie. There's even a nice twist and a cool conspiracy going on. Don't try to understand everything because there are giant plot holes here.It's all so shoddily done that you don't care for the victims, the perpetrators, anyone. And to think this could have been great. I can say ONE good thing about it which is, the movie shed some light on today's unethical medical procedures. With genetics and controversial sciences advancing, this could have been a great philosophical film that raises and discusses these questions. But you won't find that here, just a series of scenes loosely pasted together with people and things that you don't care about.Skip this and go watch Flatliners instead, you're welcome.3/10 "},{"Title":"An entertaining, but unfulfilling, German take on the Scream/'teenhorror' genre.","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomie (Anatomy) is an entertaining and engaging film that falls short of delivering the discomfort that should be connected with the films subject matter.  The idea of ethical ignorance in the medical science world is one that pushes the viewer towards discomfort, and the realism of the institutions ('Heidelberg') and the special effects make it a not-entirely easy film to watch.However, the characters, the script, and the gloss of the film all seem too familiar with the Scream movies that repopularised this sort of genre. Sadly, then, whilst the subject is one to care about, the viewer is presented with another movie full of college student characters that we don't really get a chance to care about, unresolved subplots, and hammy stage-killings that have been reinventing themselves since the memorable Drew Barrymore opening scene in Scream several years back.Steven Ruzowillzky makes a fair effort of the script and the direction, but pushes no boundaries other than the general theme.  Whilst we are presented with an entertaining film with some reasonable performances, we are unfortunately left with the old feeling nothing is wrong with this film, but nothing is extraordinary either.An entertaining film, and an interesting chance to see how foreign filmmakers have been influenced by the post-scream 'horror' culture.  6 out of 10 "}{"Title":"OK thriller, but a little too predictable...","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" 1st watched 6/24/2007 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Stefan Rujowitzky) OK thriller, but a little too predictable. This story is based in Germany, which is also where the movie is made. It is about a young medical student who gets a shot to go to a premiere school in Heidelberg and arrives seeing some strange things occurring. Someone she met on the train there and saved, shows up on the school's experimentation table and she's suspecting foul play right away. She does some investigation and the disappearance of her friend leads her to a secret society called AAA(and no it's not Alcoholics Anonymous) that has something to do with the anti-Hippocratic oath and is used to perform experimentations on live people that doctor's wouldn't normally be able to do. She finds out her grandfather(who was a dean at the school) was a big part of establishing it and it's pretty readily filled by members of the school. It's an interesting story but the problem with this movie is how quickly the audience is told what's going on and then it's kind of a horror movie with the heroine fighting off the bad boy of the group that's taking things to the next psychotic level. Although this movie was made in Europe, it plays to a young American audience with it's focus on gore, sex and the horror film premise(which is really it's big downfall) and explains why it probably made good money and spawned a sequel but doesn't necessarily make for a good movie. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Finally got to see this movie last weekend. What a disappointment..it barely reaches made for TV level. Given the list of actors, I would have expected something substantially more sophisticated. The movie lacks a good story, well, actually any story for that matter. It has no credibility, instead lots of predictability. Save yourself the money and the time. "},{"Title":"A cut above the average horror flick.","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomy tells of an attractive young female medical student who attends the University of Heidelberg where she discovers an ancient secret society of doctors who practice human vivisection. The film is an artful shoot with great anatomical props and a story which is a little more intelligent than typical American horror flicks where hockey masked hulks go around butchering teenagers. The video release I watched was also very well dubbed. Overall a cut above your average horror flick and an mildly thrilling and suspenseful watch for most. The last two words of the film are particularly telling. "},{"Title":"I can't believe this movie was given such good reviews!  It's horrible!","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This movie had such a good premise to start with. Suspense, slashers, a secret society, and you really couldn't figure out who the bad guys were until the last quarter of the movie.But it contained so many dumb clichés from the worst of the old American slasher/horror movies. Now, I love slasher/horror movies, but there are all the old clichés that have long disappeared from American cinema. For example, the old I hear noises in the basement and I'm home all alone and the basement light doesn't work, so I'll go down to investigate cliché.Three examples of these clichés just really irked me to no end 1) When Potente finds out that there may be a secret society at work at the medical school carving up live bodies, she proceeds to ask questions and tell EVERYONE -- very publicly. In essence, she is saying, I found you out. Come kill me because I am telling everyone your secret. And then she wonders why she finds blood smeared all over her bed and is brought her roommate's severed finger in a towel.2) Even after one guy she met two weeks ago ends up on the dissection table and she finds out about this secret society disemboweling live people, she goes to the lab where all the dead bodies are stored 2-3 more times BY HERSELF AT NIGHT to investigate.3) Her roommate gets killed. She gets chased by the killer, whom she knows, doesn't report him to the university or the police, then leaves the school to go home to visit her parents. Then she returns to school, apparently thinking that this guy who tried to kill her will let bygones be bygones and not try to kill her, even though she knows his secret. She was, of course, wrong.For someone who was supposed to be so smart (she was studying to be a doctor in the best school in Germany), she acted like the cliché bimbo in a horror movie.These things just made a potentially good movie very frustrating, and made me wish the ending would come even sooner. Halfway through the movie, I stopped routing for her and wished that she would end up on the dissection table, too. "},{"Title":"Creeeepyy","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomie is a great horror/suspense movie.It's different from the horror teen movies which are always the same and very boring.Inded!The movie is very well produced and with a lot of creative and scary.I had never watched a german movie in my life ,and now I'll give more attention for them. Because this move deserves attention especially in the rest of the world.Franka Potente is just superb and pretty.I think she's very cute and has a lot of potential.She's one of the most promisor actresses on hollywood.And now she's only success after she played `The Bourne Identity' and in the next `Try Sennteen'.She has potential!The movie goes well until the end.In the final hours you'll be a little upset with the twists in the story and some facts not very understandable.But you'll survive!The autopsy scenes are incredible and horrible at the same time.Imagine you, seeing people stripping your body, your organs and muscles.It's just terrieble!But,I think that these things really happens with innocent people.Some `doctors' must go on the streets looking for beggars and deficient people to anatomize their bodies.I think that some institutions do these sort of things and it's really sad!It's brutal and degrating the way that ,in the movie, doctors do the autopsy in common and nondead people.You can see that this motion picture isn't just to entertain us but for raise doubts about the medicine system in the world.These atrocious facts could be happening right now on your city , and you won't know anything.This movie is essencial for those who want to follow the medicine carreer.It's a great database!And it worthwhile!P.S.ConclusionPay attention to the other countrie's movies cause it's not only North America that does it well!  "},{"Title":"Foreign Film Feels American","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, this movie works in the fact that it is disturbing.  I really did not like seeing all these scenes where people get cut up alive, etc.  The weirdly erotic introduction gives one a sense of necrophiliactic wonder. It is somewhat... distastefull to me personally.  But the movie really works in that respect, and it is suppposed to be scary, so I give it credit for that. Yup, a few points there for those scalpels and....well, damned disturbing idea of getting disected alive.But what this movie lacks is an interesting plot, characterization, or real surprises.  The whole teen-flick horror genre usually goes in a very simple, predictable way.  Lots of 'tense' moments, creepy guys who are insane, and the big question of all is the boyfriend the murderer?  This movie fits into the category of Scream and countless others which have spawned over the 90s.  Well, I won't spoil it for you, but it's not exactly interesting who is the killer.  We find out who it is half way through... and from there on, the movie drudges on, trying to fill in some time... rather boringly to say the least.  I was looking at the clock a bit on this movie.The lead actress is great, as usual, but the carboard acting box she is placed into makes one groan in pain... the college girl who is a detective who everyone thinks is insane, but she is the one who really knows whats going on.  And the cops?  Ahhh, they just laugh and eat donuts.  Very predictable, flat, disturbing at times, and most of all, boring and dull... It's like an American film company took a flight to Germany to shoot a movie to make it foreign..... hmmm..... or did they? "},{"Title":"German suspense beats American slashers!","Date":"22 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (minor plot-spoilers coming up)Anatomie is the kind of film that actually proofs how low the nowadays American horror industry has sunk. This German thriller/horror film is nowhere near perfect (or even 'great'), yet it's a lot more refreshing, original and imaginative than what we've seen from Hollywood lately! Unlike the tedious and uninspired US-slashers, Anatomie brings forward quite a lot of suspense, gruesome violence and a couple of interesting ideas and settings. The wholesome of this interesting mixture still is somewhat flawed, but at least the attempt is there and you have to respect that. The story of Anatomie handles about a super-intelligent group of students who're selected to enjoy a special education at Heindelberg University! One of them, Paula (Franka Potenta) soon discovers that a traditional foundation of surgeons is still active in Heindelberg. They perform unethical experiments on dead bodies...Now, within this organization, there are even bigger weirdos who suffer from some sort of strange fetish for human intestines! It's up to Paula to put a stop to this unorthodox manners but who else can she trust?!? Indeed, this basic plot is a little far-fetched and therefore, Anatomie goes over the top multiple times. Also, some of the characters are really difficult to take serious...They're supposed to be the most intelligent, young medicine-students in all Germany and all they ever talk about is sex and...more sex! Franka Potenta (the over-talented girl from the cult-hit 'Lola Rennt')does succeed in making herself believable, though! There also is a good use of music, scenery and - very important - medical slang!! Your head will start to spin when hearing all those Latin names for diseases and drugs...Nevertheless, I hardly think it was necessary to try and make this film look even more intelligent than it is. It remains entertainment in the first place! Anatomie was a huge success in Germany and the neighboring countries. It also found its way to the American cult-circuit and a sequel was released in 2003. Especially recommended if you need a break from the overblown Hollywood screamers!  "},{"Title":"Honor thy father","Date":"27 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is Anatomy, a German psychological thriller film from 15 years ago. It is actually one of the more known German movies abroad and it features Franka Potente playing the lead character briefly after her breakthrough in Lola rennt. Looking at how long ago this was made, it is a bit surprising that so many actors in this film are actually still very popular today. This includes Benno Fürmann, Oliver Wnuk, Sebastian Blomberg, Anna Loos and maybe Rüdiger Vogler, who already worked in the 1970s with Wim Wenders. The writer and director is Stefan Ruzowitzky, from Austria. He won an Academy Award in the Best Foreign Language Feature category for Die Fälscher a while ago, but Anatomie or maybe also Die Siebtelbauern were his breakthrough films.Here we follow a young medicine student who gets accepted at a prestigious university, but quickly finds out that there are dark forces performing unethical experiments on a regular basis. The most interesting fact, however, is that these are not the real antagonists in this movie. It is more the radical wing of this group I just mentioned who are not scared of killing whenever and whomever they like. Now my general perception of this film is a double-edged sword. I liked parts of it and felt is was a decent thriller, but other parts I was not too fond of at all. This already starts with my perception that Fürmann, Loos and Wnuk are simply no talented actors in my opinion. Especially Loos did nothing for me here. Literally, the only reason why I felt she was in this film was to show her in the end when she was dead. Apart from that, Holger Speckhahn is not an actor by any means. Not even a good television show host, but even worse as an actor. Blomberg, who has more range, has been given a stupid role of a love interest to the main character that adds almost nothing to the film where he cannot put his talent on show at all. The only somewhat good thing was that you could wonder about basically every character in this film if he was good or bad and keep changing your opinion throughout the entire film repeatedly. For example, I was fairly certain that Loos' character would be actually evil and her friendship with Potente's character was just facade.Talking about Potente, she looks stunning in here and she is also maybe the best actor in this movie. Sad to see her career has gone south a lot since then. The ending credits include a nice German song names Alles (Everything) and the refrain says something like do you believe this was already everything?. This does not really make sense in terms of the story in this film, but it makes sense looking at the fact that Ruzowitzky made a sequel a couple years later. About this one here, I recommend it to fans of horror thrillers or fans of scalpel action, but everybody else can do without it. It's not half as good as it's famous. "},{"Title":"Competent mystery / gore","Date":"3 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I've watched a fair few German films now as part of my mission to improve my language skills so I feel confident in pointing out one or two commonalities I've noticed among them No matter what year/decade German films are made, they always feel like they were made in the 90s. Granted, Anatomie was made in 2000 but even more recent German films (and TV shows) always have a 90s feel to them due to various reasons, the most prominent being the typically all-white cast. German films are very 'Disney' in the sense that there seems to be this 'ideal' vision of what Germany looks like or rather, what the German audience looks like but the reality is that times have changed and even Disney is finally updating its thinking. German films need to diversify, stop portraying women as simple stereotypes, and stop promoting smoking in films. I am sick to the back teeth of seeing the main protagonists light up in every single German film I watch. Not just because 'morals' but also because it's distracting. As soon as someone takes that first drag, you know their breath absolutely stinks so if this is happening right before a love scene, it's completely off-putting.Another thing I've noticed is that German films will often have a fascinating premise and will start off strong but will then falter towards the middle, like they don't know how to properly pace a film or write an engaging story from start to finish. I sometimes wish people would send me their scripts for review before selling them to studios! I did feel that the film was very predictable but luckily, Anatomie doesn't try to be a 'true' mystery. The bad guy(s) is revealed fairly early on but there was at least one twist which I didn't figure out until near the end.A special mention for Benno Fürmann; a powerful actor who simply terrifies in every scene. He also worked with Franka Potente in the superb Der Krieger und die Kaiserin (2000) where he put those tremendous eyes of his to good use too.After the opening and an initial genuinely gruesome and terrifying scene, the horror of which Hostel (2005) later replicated, Anatomie loses momentum and meanders down an irrelevant path instead of focusing on the daily duties of the students at the medical school. That was a huge missed opportunity and like so many other German films I've watched, it felt like a case of 'the audience is invested now, we can switch to auto-pilot'.I only watched this a few hours ago and already, I can't remember the ending. There was another ending during the credits so maybe that's interfering. No, I've got it it was an extremely predictable, although fitting ending.If you have time to kill, this is definitely worth a watch. It will however, be almost instantly forgotten.6/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome German Horror!","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This German horror film from 2000 stars Franka Potente, the breakout star of the 1998 film Run Lola Run. It answers the question how do they really get the bodies for those amazing Body Worlds Exhibits? Real human bodies injected with a plastic like substance leaving their muscles and vital organs on display in amazing detail. Medical horror movies seem hit a nerve, so to speak, as they prey on primal fears that everyone can relate to. All the way back to the original Frankenstein, medical horrors have been a staple of the genre. The environments are cold and sterile with lots of stainless steel instruments from scalpels, saws, and drills. Putting you life in the hands of a possibly insane stranger, is their anything else more scary? Yes there is being operated on while still awake! Ahhhhh! Paula is a bright med student who gets accepted to the prestigious Heidelberg Medical School who discovers the existence of a secret society. Heidelberg opens its new state of the art anatomy wing where the students have access to all the corpses they can handle. But when Paula recognizes a guy who ends up on her table she starts to investigate his death. She finds a mysterious tattoo on his ankle and a very unusual blood sample. It is found to have a sort of plastic polymer in it. Paula's investigations lead to a ancient secret society called the Anti-hippocratics. All doctors take a Hippocratic oath to help patients, but not this group. Their research is paramount as they use live people to practice on and learn from. Putting aside medical ethics for the greater good.Although this movie is pretty dark and disturbing, their are several moments of dark humor that lighten the mood a bit. The effects used are pretty awesome and the highlight of the movie. It does however suffer from a poor script and doesn't hold up to a reality check. Anatomy is and intense and graphic ride that is worth at least one watch. The Body Worlds exhibits that continue to travel around the world did originate in Germany but thankfully use willing donors. "}{"Title":"the soundtrack was off","Date":"25 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anatomy is a movie best enjoyed by those who are between 16 and 45 who enjoy horror films, particularly those horror films with a medical/hospital theme. This is not a prime time film, but a late night or rainy afternoon film. I usually like horror films but this one lost most of its enjoyment for me because the sound track was off. It was either the sound track or the actors were not speaking English. The mouthing of the words did not match up with the speaking of the words. This pretty much destroyed the film for me. The film is rather a slow paced film, until it nears the end. Then, during the chase, the pace picks up. However, the ending has a little bit of a twist on it. Popcorn and pizza make great snacks for this low budget film. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"SoSo","Date":"13 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Medical student Paula Henning wins a place at an exclusive Heidelberg medical school. When the body of a young man she met on the train turns up on her dissection table, she begins to investigate the mysterious circumstances surrounding his death, and uncovers a gruesome conspiracy perpetrated by an Antihippocratic secret society operating within the school. Haven't we heard THAT one before?It's not an especially good film. It's clearly directed for the youth, but all of it is so predictable the suspense is non existent. I was rather bored for most of it.Also there are really dumb scenes.....For example Paula thinks someone is going to kill her and there is an extended scene where she runs away but then once she is safe, she doesn't even report the incident. Reality check.I will say that I say the English dubbed version, which may have taken some ooomph out of it. I know for example that there are other German flicks I've seen with subtitles and then re-watched dubbed and the dubbing takes away from the experience. Dead Snow is one of those. The Troll Hunter another (altho in this case, not German). "},{"Title":"An Exciting Horror-Mystery Movie","Date":"19 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" A young med student by the name of Paula Henning (Franka Potente) is thrilled to learn that she has been accepted into the University of Heidelberg. Another female student by the name of Gretchen (Anna Loos) has also been accepted and becomes her roommate. While traveling from Munich to Heidelberg they encounter a young man named David (Arndt Schwering-Sohnrev) who has heart problems and passes out on the train. Paula administers CPR and manages to revive him. However, once they begin their anatomy course they find his body laid out for dissection. Thinking something is wrong Paula sends some blood and tissue samples to a friend for analysis. At any rate, rather than reveal the rest of the story, I'll just say that this is an exciting horror-mystery movie with good suspense and a couple of twists at the end. Although originally filmed in German, the version I saw was dubbed in English and may require some people to make allowances. Even so, I found it to be quite enjoyable. I also liked the performances of Franka Potente, Anna Loos and Sebastian Blomberg (who played the role of Paula's boyfriend, Caspar). As a side note, it won the Audience Award for German Film of the Year at the German Film Awards. And while that's certainly not as impressive as an Academy Award, it is a good indicator that this could be a film that fans of horror or mystery might find interesting. "},{"Title":"Anomaly","Date":"13 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" From the get go I could imagine this would be a sick movie-- thanks to Brazilian's advertising and IMDb's reviewers. The film begins quickly and in a matter of minutes we already have bunch of informations, which probably will be useful to the denouement of the story. Things happen soon, making the movie become interesting, entertaining and suspenseful. One thing I have to mention is the phrase one doctor said in a lesson We live in the age of psychological disease, or something like that. In fact, he tried to show that nowadays many diseases come from our minds, and it is interesting to notice that a 2000's German movie says something very current, even in my society. Anytime I have a health problem my parents say it's from your mind, you don't have anything. Anti- Hippocratic Society is very creative, delivering an original story with a good development, as well as revealing good unknown actors. The end is a classic cat-and-mouse thing, but doesn't spoil the movie's quality. Give it a chance, whether you like medicine or not. "},{"Title":"Poorly dubbed slasher with lots of promise","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There may be some slight spoilers in this review, but no worse than what you'd get from reading the plot synopsis.I'm surprised that people are comparing this to Scream and other teen slashers. The protagonists in this movie are students in medical school, not high school kids. That may be a minor distinction, but the movie is obviously targeted to a slightly older demographic than teens. For one thing, most teen slashers are rated PG-13, making them really quite limp and inhibited.At first, I thought this was going to be more torture porn than anything else, given the outrageous and over-the-top torture sequence early in the movie. Interestingly, it actually turned into a somewhat derivative slasher movie, despite having an interesting setup. The basic plot involves a gifted medical student discovering a secret society in her university. Long thought dead, they are composed of Machiavellian physicians who believe that sacrificing a few innocent people to advance medical research is more important than ethics. Predictably, they have some psychopaths among them who are more interested in live dissection than any kind of research.I liked the idea of this secret society, and there were some truly disturbing scenes in this movie. The whole concept of that secret society got under my skin, partly because the characters really did seem to believe that what they were doing was for the greater good. However, there were so many stupid scenes involving the characters being goofy and horny that I found the movie difficult to take seriously. As I understand it, this is mostly because I watched the dubbed version, which is supposed to truly destroy any mood or atmosphere set by the original German actors.Still, I liked it, despite the best attempts by the American voice actors to sabotage the movie. If I'd seen the original German version, with subtitles, I think I'd like it better. Still, no matter what language the characters were speaking, I think there was too much filler in the middle and not enough time spent developing the secret society.I recommend this movie to people who like conspiracy thrillers and slasher fans. However, thriller fans might be grossed out by the horror elements, and horror fans might be bored by the dramatic elements. Make sure you see the subtitled version. I've heard worse, but it's still distractingly bad. "},{"Title":"Jawohl, einen guten slasher from the post-Scream era","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Genau zo! A German horror/thriller from 2000 that has more suspense then a lot of American slashers made around the same time. Decent flick and one of the more original slasher-orientated movies from the new millennium. But still, don't expect any mind-blowing or genre-pushing stuff. Just a decent and entertaining suspense-flick, with fairly fine performances and good bloody make-up effects. Franka Potente, of course, was the best actress amongst the cast. I didn't really like the pop/rock soundtrack. It felt like they were trying to imitate that American slasher-flick feeling just a little too much. Still, more than worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Age Actabile Antihippocrate","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" ANATOMIE is a German horror thriller which main topic is an interesting issue the ethic and the limits in medicine. The plot isn't very different from the typical horror flick but this specific thematic turns it a bit more interesting. In the film it's described a secret Masonic organization called A.A.A (Age Actabile Antihippocrate) - which I suppose to be fiction &#150; that denies the Hippocrates's ideals of helping and healing. Medicine is a science, and it must be developed without caring about ethical thoughts they say. It's precisely this implicit debate what I found more attractive in this film and different from other flicks. I'm not telling it's completely original or brilliant, I just say it's a bit different, in good way... Apart from that it's a typical movie from the psycho chasing victim type. It has nice suspense scenes, mainly in the last 15 minutes, but nothing outstanding... I score it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Run Paula Run.","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Talented anatomy student Paula (Franka Potente) is delighted when she wins a place at a top medical school in Heidelberg, but is shocked to discover that the esteemed establishment is home to a secret society, The Anti-Hippocrates Lodge, who dissect live human subjects in order to advance medical science.Although German horror flick Anatomie occasionally strays a little too far into clichéd American scary movie territory for its own good, for the most part it is a refreshingly original effort that delivers a wonderfully sinister premise, plenty of suspense, a macabre atmosphere, stylish direction from Stefan Ruzowitsky, a morbid sense of humour, and solid performances from the largely unknown cast (only Potente has achieved much success outside of her home country).Despite the film's extremely gruesome subject matter, the level of gore is kept surprisingly low; plenty of nasty stuff happens to the characters, but careful framing and editing keeps it from being overly explicit. What gore there is, though, is very well handled (there's a great scene in which a victim stares down at his hand to find that parts of it have been stripped of skin and flesh to expose muscle and bone).One of the best things about this film are the dissected plastinated corpses on display in the university's gallery which were inspired by the work of creepy German doctor Gunther von Hagens, best known in the UK for performing a live televised autopsy on Channel 4. Not the 'real McCoy', but rather amazingly accurate plastic replicas created specifically for the film, they are quite fascinating&#x97;stunningly detailed, grotesquely surreal works of art.Also pretty damn eye-catching are the impressive curves of actress Anna Loos, who plays blonde nymphomaniac/brainiac Gretchen; unfortunately, despite playing a total slut, she never strips down past her undies, which is a crying shame. Had Loos gone the whole hog for the sake of her art, I'd have possibly given this an 8/10; as it stands, it gets a still very admirable 7/10.Oh, and if you enjoy this film, I also recommend Pathology (2008), which explores similar themes (and is much gorier). "},{"Title":"A Noteworthy Horror Movie That Rises Above Most","Date":"15 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" But wait? Is this really a good horror movie that brings the viewer to some provocation of critical thought? Leave it to a foreign film to actually accomplish a terrifying narrative that includes a factually based philosophical under theme. I do enjoy awful horror movies, (there are plenty of them), but I also appreciate good cinema. Horror movies can very rarely be called good cinema but Anatomy comes close to accomplishing the thoughtfully written horror movie genera. A quick non-spoiler synopsis Main character Paula is accepted to historic and prestigious Heidelberg medical institute. Her father is a dieing physician who expresses some qualms about her acceptance. Upon arrival, she is thrilled to be able to access world famous professors and a museum/library of complete cross- sectional anatomical items. Meddlesome inquisitiveness arises however when she recognizes one of the corpses. Paula attempts to piece together the historic universities dark secret that allows the institution to maintain its progressive research reputation. What destroys most horror movies is predictability, and this movie is able to lead the viewer to come to false, (or partially false), conclusions; much like a good mystery novel would. The cinematography is pungent, allowing emotions to permeate the scenes, uncorrupted by stereotypical deutch angles and other horror strategies. Also worth noting is the soundtrack which combines with Anatomy's cinematography to give the movie a very progressive American movie tone.This movie is subtitled and to get the full advantage of its cinematic quality requires a bit of attentional resources. If that's a problem, you're not in the mood for a noteworthy movie, pick something else. Otherwise this is a horror movie that will stand out from its other American slasher movie contemporaries. "},{"Title":"The perfect specimen is always the unwilling one.","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Student Paula Henning has been provided a scholarship at a significant medical school in Heidelberg. On her train trip there, she meets a fellow student Gretchen and saves the life of a young man David, who has a bad heart condition and is on his way to someone who could help him through it. When Paula arrives , during one of her class the following the day, David's body is on the autopsy table. So she starts to investigate the death and soon digs up dirt of a secret society known as the Anti-hippocratics, which experiment on unexpected victims for the good of science. Now that Paula knows, she isn't safe.I recently caught this one on TV a couple nights back and its hard to make something of it. As the rave reviews this highly praised German medical horror film receives, simply goes beyond me in what I just watched. I see it none other then an American influenced slasher from Germany this time, which is basically made to look better by Stefan Ruzowitsky's sophisticatedly assured and tension filled direction. When its not concentrating on the brimming eeriness, effectively gruesome shocks and menacing suspense. It stumbles into the hole of falling away too far from the terrifyingly clinical concept to lead onto mind-numbing clichés and unwanted predictability in its story-telling. The evocative mystery is just never realised and basically seems happy to tread old ground. Not helping was that the characters themselves aren't that interesting, when it decides to focus on them. Franka Potenta (who does run a bit here) is naturally convincing and capably sound as the heroine Paula. Benno Furmann is sinisterly deceptive and Anna Loos delights as the voluptuous buxom student Gretchen. The rest of the performances are reasonably straightforward, but still truly stereotypical. While the pacing is constantly zippy, the real lack of surprises and a drawn out script (with medical jargon aplenty) does make it feel longer than it is. There's a grippingly urgent sense in some nail biting patches, but never throughout the whole picture. At least flowing through its veins is a morbid sense of humour that fits the style and the creepily cold atmosphere made possible by the dreary settings do hold tight. The polished cinematography is skilfully handled and its music score can raise sweat. Standing out on the technical side has got to be well-defined and graphically portentous make-up special effects that are simply astounding.Rather traditional and nothing too much out of the blue, but Ruzowitsky's ambitiously slick approach and some skin crawling and demented visions make it worth a glance. "}{"Title":"Comment","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I found the film quite good for what I was expecting. Although I weary, because I have a fear of injection needles, I sort of came to expect when they were coming. So if you're not into needles, blood, the human body, and some good medical fun, put this movie back and rent another. As the other user commented, I was also please at the German attempt at a slasher film. I'm an American who just moved to Germany to stay with a family and saw this lying on the shelf. I love psychological thrillers, and I'd say this is somewhere along those lines. A character falls into places and feels misconstrued. While trying to dig her way out and find some truth to a situation, things get a little sticky and other aren't so sure she's on the right track. So throughout the film you're kept on edge about who's anatomy you might catch a glimpse of and who's rounding the next corner. "},{"Title":"German version = original voices","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I've read a lot of mistaken reviews about this movie affirming that its original shooting language is in English. That's not true. Those who has been watching the English version were listening to a poor dubbing. Anatomie was actually shot in German and that's the original language of the players. Anybody who pays attention to the sound quality can easily notice that the German version keeps clearly the acoustics attributes and shape of direct sound recording on shooting. On the contrary, the English version just sounds like what it is a poor, flat studio dubbing. Watching the German version with English subtitles is definitely the best option if you like seeing films in the shape its creators really made it. "},{"Title":"Questioning the ethics of science","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  To me, Anatomie is certainly one of the better movies I have seen. I don't think Anatomie was primarily intended to be a horror movie but a movie questioning the ethics of science. If you watch it with that in mind, it turns into a really good film. The only annoying bit was the awful voice dubbing for the English version. How can you expect any non-German person to listen to these unbearable German accents for two hours? Let native English speakers do the talking or use subtitles instead!! "},{"Title":"Anna Loos sang to me","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*So a smart girl goes to medical school. She stumbles upon a secret cult, the AaA club. They like dissecting people while they are still alive. It's better that way. It has something to do with preserving the pieces for study. Her and her horny roommate, (Anna Loos), have fun and frolic among the dead bodies and psychos.This is a slasher movie made for women. There were no female breasts exposed. However there were about four or five naked guys in it. The gluteus maximus was being flexed with abandon. I was slightly disturbed. There really wasn't any doubt who the killer was so when he's exposed it's not surprising. There's no masked psycho killer here. It's the guy with the hottest body! Let him chase the girls around! And tell him to take off his shirt!As a slasher movie, it's fair. There is enough blood to make it worth seeing but not anything to get overly excited about. Thank the DVD Gods for Anna Loos though. On the DVD, one of the extras is a music video with Anna in a leather jumpsuit singing, My Truth. Her leather dancing in the video and her stripping on the cadaver table during the movie were the two highlights. Thank you Anna. Since the video has the cadaver table stripping scene in it as well, all you really need is the video. Good song too.  "},{"Title":"Stupid 3/10","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unoriginal, uninspired, unimpressive. Also completely unscientific,despite being a medicine flick.  Majority of the characters weresupposed to be intelligent to genius, although none showed it,scalpelling themselves, dropping organs on the floor and  gettingupset over a familiar face on the dissection table. The brilliantmedical student slash psycho goes around killing people hitherand thither, sporadically attempting to cover his tracks, more oftenthan not impulsively losing his temper and lashing out with hisalways handy scalpal in the name of progressive science.  In factthe secret AAA society which was supposed to be the backbone ofthe plot became a mere subtheme that made the main femalecharacter hate her beloved grandfather for seemingly unconnectedreasons to the attempted murder of her and her friends.Suspiciously reminiscent of Michael Palmers Extreme Measures,it  adds a main female, german language, a few overly usedsurgical knives while taking away the entire point -science. "},{"Title":"Really Bad.","Date":"5 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I thought this movie was sooo bad. The acting was so terrible, the effects looked incredibly fake, the plot was just okay, the sequence and writing made NO sense at all.Overall, it was disgraceful. I have taken anatomy/physiology class, and honestly, the things they talked about and tried to make seem cool or somehow realistic, were really off.The plot was okay. The whole foreign country evil people horror thing has been played out way too many times. You will not like this movie. I couldn't even finish it, and I've seen worse. Do yourself a favor and don't see it. Even if you have the time, and boredom. "},{"Title":"Trashy horror movie","Date":"13 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There is an endless supply of trashy horror movies. It seems that people never get tired of trying to scare and thrill. Alas, very seldom these attempts succeed. This, unfortunate movie has almost no redeeming value. The story is highly predictable, most of the actors very uninspired, or just plainly miscast, special effects of very low quality. It took a lot of effort not to switch off the DVD and go to bed. With such a limited number of foreign movies issued in the USA, why in the world would anybody want to import this drivel. To top it all, apparently there is an Anatomy 2 , for those who have nothing better to do. I'd rather watch the paint dry. "},{"Title":"Promises more than it delivers","Date":"11 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anatomie is an OK movie if you have nothing better to do, but it promises a lot more than it delivers. It follows Paula, a brilliant student of anatomy and granddaughter of a famous doctor, at her new, elitist school. The gloomy atmosphere at the school is well made, and the sequence that reveals early on what is really happening there is very effective and chilling.Unfortunately, the narrative tension goes down quite soon, and the rest of the revelations, the action scenes, etc. come along in blurts. I believe even in horror stories -or maybe especially in horror stories- there must be at least some character development, so that the viewer really relates to the victims and feels the tension, but there's none of that here; and the climatic ending suffers from the poor narrative and the unidimensional nature of characters.Anatomie had potential for a lot more; it was a small disappointment. "},{"Title":"How corny.","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  ~Spoiler~Those words sum up my thoughts on the movie.  I saw the ratings for Anatomy and noticed that they were rather high.  Therefore, I expected a fairly good attempt at foreign horror.  I was extremely displeased.  Germany takes on the teen horror genre and doesn't do it any justice, not that many movies do.  It's basically med school Scream, but not done half as good (and I'm no lover of Scream).  I don't know if the dubbing made the acting look horrible, or if the acting just was horrible.  I hated every character to boot.  The storyline is also pretty pitiful to say the least.  A secret medical society dissects and studies people while they're still alive because they can somehow preserve the bodies better that way.  I guess.  I think it's a load of crap myself.  There was one short sequence that I loved.  It involves a young man waking up, disoriented, and finding himself sliced open with people removing his organs.  It's everyone's worst nightmare.  Even so, it's still just another bad slasher movie. "},{"Title":"Too cool","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't quite get the thrill of this movie. It was too fast, the editing was too quick. Something went wrong here, apart from the absolutely jerky screenplay, which cannot decide whether to be scientific or `cool'. The film has a certain casualness in connection with quite disgusting events, and this unwavering approach was too much for me, supposedly. Can anybody explain the sense of this film to me? "}{"Title":"Germany's answer to Scream","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  A horror picture set ultimately to parody but still in it's play out could scare a few of those that are frailed nerved or easily disgusted when they see whats under their skin. I laughed at it though. It was easy to decipher the true killer and his acting didn't help. This only led to Potente looking even better. Anatomie is not much of a horror picture for those foreign of the genre but those contained should get a few unintentional laughs and an interesting peak at German horror cinema.  6/10  "},{"Title":"Couldn't be worse","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far the worst non-English horror movie I've ever seen. The acting is wooden, the dialogues are simply stupid and the story is totally braindead.  It's not even scary.  2 out of 10 from me.  "},{"Title":"The result of  too much influence from Scream-type movies in a movie which could have been somehow different.","Date":"18 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  -The Best The majority of the characters and an interesting plot at first which spoiled the whole movie by the last 20 minutes. -The Worst By the last 20 minutes, the writer seemed to be running out of ideas as the final product is a move that has a beginning, a middle, but doesn't have a suitable end. Rating 4/10Medical student Paula Henning (Franka Potente) wins a place at an exclusive Heidelberg university division in conclusion of her efforts as a brilliant student. Being daughter of a doctor himself, Paula communicates her acceptance at the university, which his first opinion is a little sceptical. During her train trip Paula meets two friendly persons, Gretchen (Anna Loos), a hotshot beautiful brilliant student which is heading to Heidelberg and an other boy that apparently looks nice and on the next scene appears mysteriously dead. Paula is quite excited on her first university days, but when the body that she has to autopsy is of the boy that was dead at the train she starts acting out weird alongside the facts that some of her colleges are doing things to scare her.Fro this point on, the movie starts going down. This movie's second part can be resumed in three simple sentences Paula's friend's start dying. The revelation of the killer and his motives. The villain/hero chase. Strangely enough this last part turned out to be another Scream-like movie, which couldn't have been this way. After all, this only reveal a simple conclusion the writer rushed to have the movie written and done as fast as possible to be one summer popcorn movie, never wanting the viewer to think too much in order to understand the movie.Nothing more than 4 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Doesn't cut with me","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomie was a German made Movie and subtitled.It was also overlong and boring.If it was supposed to be a horror movie,it failed miserably for me.The actors went through their paces looking more like they wanted to be some where else.The film work was ok but more attention should have been applied to the awful banal script.I paid nothing to see the video and I still feel cheated.Go read a book and save your money. "},{"Title":"Imitation of Death","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It seems that with considerable effort German film-makers are nowadays able to produce ... bad American horror movies. In the era of the silent pictures films appeared in Germany that were the vanguard of horror movies. Films like Murnau's Nosferatu, von Galeen's Der Student von Prag or the ground-breaking Das Kabinett des Dr. Caligari helped to define the genre plot-wise and aesthetically. During the Nazi-Era and after WWII real Horror movies became very scarce in the German film output. It seems that German people had already witnessed too many real horrors and preferred lighter genres. After some feeble attempts in the Sixties and Seventies the genre died in that country, apart from the work of non-mainstream directors like Jörg Buttgereit. And then came Anatomie. The first big German horror film for a long, long time. And what a disappointment it is! It borrows unashamedly from American Scream-like slasher-movies and becomes overly formulaic without adding new twists. If you think this film is scary, then chances are that you have never seen any horror flick before. Otherwise you are bound to be bored by situations you have seen in countless other films. While the production values are unexpectedly high, the screenplay is an awful mess. The plot was apparently constructed by following the usual American guides for writing screenplays. This is not unusual for recent German movies. By looking at your watch you are able to detect where the plot points are. But the problem is that all the rules won't help if the plot is underdeveloped. About one hour in the film we are informed that the female lead is in some way connected with the organization behind the gruesome murders. She wants to find out, but comes too late, because the person possessing the solution dies. Later on, nothing is made of this plotline in favour of a supenseless chase with the bad guys. While Scream cleverly imitated the earlier slasher pics of the Seventies and Eighties by making fun of the self-referential character of the film, Anatomie only imitates well-known horror clichés. "},{"Title":"Wanna-be-Scream-ripoff!","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This is just another miserable attempt to cash in on the current horror-revival-thing. But it doesn't work. German moviemakers should stick to their stuff and shouldn't try to copy successful American horror-movies. Hey! Schuster bleib bei deinen Leisten...stick to what you do best! "},{"Title":"Leck mich am Arsch","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had never seen Franka Potente before The Bourne identity, and I fell in love with her immediately. So far, I have only been able to get my hands on one film featuring her, and it's a real winner for those that like mystery/suspense with a little gruesomeness.No, it doesn't feature her bod, nor that of the incredibly beautiful German TV Star Anna Loos. Anna was hilarious with her naughty comments throughout. (As an aside, she is supposedly the lead singer of, or a member of a band called Leck mich am Arsch, which is also the name of a Mozart composition. You can have a lot of fun googling that bit of German.) She does do a song in the movie soundtrack.She is a doctor doing some research and stumbles on an old German medical society that does autopsies on people while they are still alive, using some sort of paralyzing drug. Lots of suspense as they discover she knows who they are and come after her - sort of like Extreme Measures.Also stars Benno Fürmann, who was in the superb Joyeux Noël, and who I am sure many will see in next year's Speed racer. Yes, it's not just Frake and Anna; there are plenty of German hunks for the ladies. "},{"Title":"A very generic horror movie","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Anatomie isn't very unique in horror genre, in fact it isn't even scary at all. It reminds me of its American cousins, horror slashers. It's just a copy of any other horror slasher and as a German movie it's just too American with nothing to add to it.Actually Anatomie is too predictable and boring, its plot is not intact and consistent. It's got stupid scenes to it which don't even fit into a horror movie genre. Amusing sex scenes with pop music and topless women in underwear. Why do they need to have it all in just one movie? They should have made a cheap German adult movie instead.I can't recommend this movie to anyone because it's just too boring. "},{"Title":"The German Scream","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was shocked at how good this German version of films such as Scream was. Surpassing all the modern American efforts at slasher films.It as what all those films don't. Likable characters, genuine mystery, suspense, graphic murders and a brilliant soundtrack.This stylish horror film is one of the best of its kind to come out in years. German cinema is going from strength to strength just lately. Its a shame more people wont go to see such films because they are missing out. It is easily available on DVD so even if you hate subtitles I think you should see it. It will be one of the best horror films you will see all year. "},{"Title":"Waste of Potente..I mean potential.","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Every horror fan should feel excited at the very least when they read the premise of this movie. It's something that seems fit for a Saw movie or an Eli Roth movie perhaps. It makes it all the more a shame that the film-makers seemed oblivious for the great material they were granted to work with. They all too obviously were not at ease within the horror genre and basically had no idea what they were doing.Not to make it sounds like the worst horror movie of all time but it's just such a shame to see how they waste all potential, by taking a completely wrong and stupid approach to its story.Problem is that this an horror movie, that has not idea how to handle or build up its tension or mystery. Or rather said; it doesn't seem to care about its mystery or tension at all. It's more busy with the soap series like developments and problems of the characters, that are more drama related than anything else really. I don't even think you could call this a thriller, since there is complete lack of the right required type of build-up.It causes you not to be grabbed by any of the movie its tension or mystery, which in return also makes you less interested in the overall movie and all of its characters. Another strange thing is that the main character, played by Franka Potente, disappears for too long out of the story a couple of times throughout the movie. All things that show how poorly told this movie is and how lacking its approach by director Stefan Ruzowitzky is.Of course the movie is not without its gore and it also has a pretty good atmosphere but the rest of the movie really brings it all down. As a genre lover I really wouldn't recommend this movie, despite its great (sounding) concept.If you are still looking for a movie to watch on Halloween...this is not the one.5/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "}{"Title":"Disappointed","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I had high expectations going into this film, but alas, I feel let down. I bought it for 5 bucks at a used VHS place, and the version I bought was the English dubbed version. The dubbing is awful, so beware. Lola just wasn't as good in this film as in Run Lola Run, and the bad guy just kinda came out of nowhere. And Lola starts to catch on to what's going on the second she gets to the university. Seems unrealistic to me. I was also wondering if in the original version there were American songs in the soundtrack... they seemed extremely out of place. Too bad for this film, I really thought it was going to rock. "},{"Title":"A new territory for the german movie","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  With Anatomy the german film producers have tried to make something totally new. Usually there just drama or comedy movies - in the horror genre is(or was) totally new at that time.The story's also new and shocking. Franka Potente plays her role brilliant and I bet you won't find out who's the murderer. It's possible, but difficult. A really great movie with a lot of talented actors. "},{"Title":"Hospital Waste.","Date":"5 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" If you're looking for a horror story with plenty of gore, fright, shock cuts, helpless young women, pursuits through dark hospital corridors, conspiracies at high levels, and an innocent student (Franka Potente) who gradually becomes aware of and finally unravels the Anti-Hippocratic plot, this is your meat. The meat may be drained of all proteins and lipids and thoroughly plasticized, but it's still meat -- of a kind.I thought it was unworthy of the writers to victimize Franka Potente's roommate at this elite medical institution in Heidelberg. Not so much because she was a flamboyantly feminine nymphomaniac but because she had an IQ of 150. At the moment, the world needs all the geniuses it can find. (On the other hand, her taste in music was execrable, so maybe it evens out.) Franka Potente is the only thing I found worth watching in the film. She's very touching as a naive who goes about discovering evil. She's relatively chaste and vulnerable. And she's not drop-dead gorgeous by Hollywood standards either, looking as she does something like Lilly Taylor, but she's a fine actress. I can say that because she shown her aptitude elsewhere, as in Lola Rennt and The Bourne Identity. You can't really judge her talent from this film because her voice is horribly dubbed, along with everyone else's. It's hard to imagine why, because she speaks perfect English.I didn't bother watching the end of the film but if you like this sort of thing -- it holds no surprises whatever -- you'll probably enjoy it. "},{"Title":"must watch movies in their original language!","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw Anatomy when it came out and recently bought it and the 2003 sequel and as I watch a lot of foreign films in various genres, you have to watch movies in their original language for sure. Not only is it annoying to know the voices don't belong to the actors, but they always seem cheerful, like the whole movie is one big long toothpaste commercial or something. It makes an otherwise awesome movie seem horrible and I have had to convert a lot of my friends who used to think foreign films aren't as good as North American films - that they aren't Hollywood enough. Also, they translation is never right, it's too literal, and screws up the vibe of the movie, even if it's basically saying the same thing. I watched Anatomy by myself the other week in German then with subtitles with my roommate because he was on his laptop and didn't want to have to miss parts when he couldn't see the subtitles because he was typing. 30 mins in and he begged me to let him finish his work then start the movie over with subtitles. He loved it! Both movies are awesome as intellectual horror films! Kelly "},{"Title":"A German take on the teen-horror. Smart and well-made.","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I was going to use 'The German Scream' as a summary but that was already taken lol. It sums up Anatomy nicely. Provided you're not alien to reading subtitles, Anatomy fits in snugly with the Scream/Urban Legend pack. It's a teen-horror set in a medical school where the students are going missing then turning up as experiment subjects in the dissection lab. Cue one plucky student investigating herself and uncovering a giant conspiracy.Provided you're watching the original German language film (I can't comment on the dub, having not seen the English edition) Anatomy is sharply written and cleverly plotted so that the tension never really lets up. In comparison to it's American counterparts, the mystery is uncovered much faster, meaning that instead of being a slasher right up until the final reveal, Anatomy evolves during it's running time from a slasher-come-body horror movie into a smart and exciting thriller. It's a gripping ride from start to finish.Hats off to the actors involved as well. Franka Potente proves once more that she's an intelligent, smart actress who can make any role come to life. Her central performance as Paula is a great foundation for the movie to build from. The spooky lecturers and their teachers pets are equally good, a truly foreboding presence at all times.It's also astounding that the movie doesn't drag much. The pace is fast and punchy, very similar to the earlier Urban Legend, meaning that there's always something going on to keep your attention high. If there's one downside it could be that some will find Anatomy too gruesome for them, but if you persevere through the first half's admittedly graphic dissection sequences, the latter half with it's exciting thriller overtones will reward you. I recommend Anatomy to anyone who enjoys a good teen-horror but is a bit jaded with the American take on the matter. "},{"Title":"Great German slasher, that's often quite suspenseful, and creative, with a fun story and solid performances","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" This is a great German slasher, that's often quite suspenseful, and creative, with a fun story and solid performances. All the characters are cool, and Benno Fürmann is great as the psycho killer, plus Franka Potente gives a fantastic performance as the main lead. It did take a little while to get going, but it was never boring, and it had some good death scenes as well, plus the music is wonderfully creepy. I was lucky enough to get the subtitled version, instead of the dubbed, and I thought all the characters were quite likable, plus it's very well made and written as well. It has some really good plot twists too, and the effects are extremely well done, plus the ending is great. The finale is especially suspenseful, and Franka Potente was the perfect casting choice in my opinion, plus I wish Arndt Schwering-Sohnrey(David) didn't get killed of so soon, because he was a really cool character. There were actually a couple of moments where I felt uncomfortable but in a good way, and I must say this film deserved all it's praise, plus while it does have plot holes, it's not enough to hamper the film. This is a great German slasher, that's often quite suspenseful, and creative, with a fun story, and solid performances, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Stefan Ruzowitzky does a great! Job here with excellent camera work, very good angles, great close ups (see the opening sex scene), doing a great job of adding creepy atmosphere, and just keeping the film at a very fast pace.There is quite a bit of blood and gore. We get cadavers cut open,plenty of very gory surgery scenes,lots of bloody stabbings,people are dissected while still being conscious, severed finger, self mutilation, gutting's, bloody slit throat, lots of wicked looking frozen corpses, plenty of blood and more.The Acting is very solid!. Franka Potente is fantastic as the main lead, she was very likable, remained cool under pressure, was vulnerable, easy on the eyes, and we are able to care for her character, the only time she seemed to suffer, was when she had to spurt out some bad dialog here and there, but that wasn't very often, she was wonderful!. Benno Fürmann is excellent as the psycho killer, he was simply chilling, and wonderfully OTT, he really gave me the creeps, and was one effective killer!. Anna Loos played her role very well, as the smart slut, I dug her. Sebastian Blomberg was great here as Caspar, he was quite likable, and had a mysterious character,his chemistry with Potente was also on, and there was a great twists involving him at the end. Holger Speckhahn was good as the Idiot Phil and did his job well. Traugott Buhre is good as Prof. Grombek. Arndt Schwering-Sohnrey was great as David, he had a really cool character, and I wish he didn't get killed of so soon. Rest of the cast do fine.Overall I highly recommend this great German slasher!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Post-mortem horror...","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Despite of its well cared production, Anatomie is nothing but a conventional artifact to be gobbled up by the youngsters. The only thing out of the ordinary is the fact that it has been made in Germany, but only because it's unusual that a German movie come to Spain. So there's not much to tell about this film university-horror, predictable, some dialogues seem to have been taken from Austin Powers or from a porn movie. (Two thumbs up for the writers!!).Anyway, you may have a good time watching Anatomie, especially if you're sort of any kind of post-mortem stuff!! For me, the more valuable thing in the movie is the presence of Franka Potente. I just love her.My Rate 5/10 "},{"Title":"Has anyone seen the second one?","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" I saw Anatomy years ago -- dubbed at a friends house I don't remember it much, and then I saw at the video store there is a second one -- not really related to the first one Franka Ponte makes a little cameo. And that one was okay not as good as the first one. I'm seeing the first one again tonight -- not dubbed collectors edition. I really like German movies like this one it's very interesting and people and cults like the one in the movie could exist i think, i dunno. But it's very grossly entertaining and scary. Anatomy 2 is a little different and the characters are not as good as the first. But if you really thought Anatomy was interesting and good you should see the second one. "},{"Title":"Well-made, but not for the weak of stomach","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" There's more than passing resemblance here to the Spanish film Tesis from a few years before. Same basic set up, same relationship of heroine to other characters. This film just ups the gross-out ante of that snuff-films-on-campus opus several times over.The palpable threat hanging over everyone in the film, throughout, is that they will be drugged, strapped to a stainless steel table and wake up as the subject of a vivisection in progress. I have to hand it to the makers of Anatomie I have a hard time imagining anything much worse than that. Given this extremely unpleasant premise, you never really rest easy at any point during the film. Not once. There isn't much blood here; the grisly stuff is dry as a bowl of rice-o-roni for the most part. But blood might actually be a relief from all the taxidermy. I felt my gorge rise a couple of times during this flick, as I never did during the Texas Chainsaw remake, as hard as that film tried. Anatomie succeeds brilliantly, over all, as what experts call a really icky experience. I give it an 8 because it is, even if extremely unpleasant, also very well made. It scares and disturbs, and the suspense is very taut. It's good at doing the things that make you watch it to begin with. --The total revulsion the film engenders is just a fringe benefit, or a problem to be overlooked, depending on how strong your stomach is. "},{"Title":"A feminist slasher flick?","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this basically for the sole reason that it was supposed to have Third Reich references in it. It turned out a pretty brainless and predictable slasher film that appeared to be made to appeal to feminists or something.Let me tell you something, if you wait an entire movie to see the attractive female lead's breasts, the last thing you want is a tastefully done sex scene with annoying camera angles that don't show anything. Her busty friend didn't get hers out either, but we saw plenty of men's butts and pubic hair and guys with their shirts off. And at the end you have our heroine magically dodging the scalpel thrusts and swings of the villain (who turns out to be the hunk, funnily enough) and she easily out fights him (uh huh) while her male love interest is tied down and waiting to be rescued. The funniest part was when she picks up a chair and swings it at the guy and it breaks over him. Now it'd be about as much as she could manage to lift the chair let alone smash it against a person with enough force to break it! It looks ridiculous, she basically brushes it against him and it falls apart. If you are going to do this sort of role reversal rubbish (which has already been done to death) then you have to at least make it semi plausible.There was one good bit though. The bad guy did get the better of her slutty friend, teaching her a lesson for being such a tramp and sleeping around. That's not exactly something feminists would like.Pretty stupid really. Not that American slasher flicks are generally much better, but you have to wonder why they bothered. It brought nothing new to the genre at all.5/10 "}{"Title":"Good and scary","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I liked this film a lot. The actors were great, particularly Potente, who is different in every role; Fürmann, who is also able to play anyone; and Loos, who spices things up (she is also a talented singer - she sings the song My Truth, heard when one character cranks up the stereo in the lab).Anatomie is a good horror flick, which pays attention to its characters. It is also very gory at times, and the set design is innovative. It is too bad they had to make a sequel, which is nowhere near the original.On a side note, two other things definitely worth mentioning. The DVD is not dubbed, which makes for a better experience of the film. Also, make sure to keep watching after the final credits start rolling.  "},{"Title":"What alternate universe was this movie made in?","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Now, I don't expect a film to be completely based in reality, but I do believe that a solid, rational, realistic foundation makes a thriller or a horror movie much more effective.  Sadly, this film squanders the viewer credibility it needs on all sorts of unrealistic and unbelievable touches. For example... (Minor spoilers!)Ever been to a medical school?  I have.  Trust me, medical students are sharp, dedicated and rational, particularly at the finest institutions (as is the school represented in the movie.) The behavior the students exhibit in this movie is completely out of character.  Most of the cast seems to be surprised that they are playing doctors...as if they were selected randomly from other professions.And in spite of the fact that their anatomy professor constantly warns them that half the class will be flunked out and then piles on the special assignments and tests, the students never crack a book.  Not once!  In fact, most of the students seem to get along with absolutely no sleep at all, but they're still too busy to study.  Plenty of time to murder, dissect, plasticize, attend secret meetings, investigate crimes, sleep with other students, swim at the lake, travel back home, and play practical jokes on each other, but no time to study.  Too bad!This was a good idea for a story, but a touch of the real world would have helped.*** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Intelligent suspense","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Firstly, the best option for watching Anatomie is with subtitles. Secondly, I don't believe this is 'womens film' as some people have suggested, unless they have a preference for dead naked people. Anatomie is a great film which shows off the talents of Potente and many other less well-known German actors. The editing and acting deliver a suspense and sense of intrigue that is rarely seen in many big-budget American films. Another rarity in films which this film aclpompishes is the ability to keep the viewer guessing as to its outcome. Right up until the end I was unsure as to whether the film was going to have a 'happy' ending or a lack of closure like in Twelve Monkeys. The gothic nature of the horror and subject matter seems further enhanced by the ability of the storywriters to ground it in a sense of reality and an intelligent and plausible backstory for the macabre incidents at the school. "},{"Title":"Special Effects suck.  but the Movie is very good.","Date":"9 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  (spoilers?)I've heard some gripe about the special effects.  But that should detract from the movie.  THe movie is a suspense film.  And it's very good at that.  So from that stand point, this movie rocks.  Franke rocks.  Enjoy to one's plastic hearts content.  So no complaints for this movie.  Unless you watch the english dub, which is a total farce.  It creates the illusion it's a B movie.  One complaint I do have is the music video on the dvd.  It doesn't say who sings it.  I'd love to know.  8/10Quality 10/10 Entertainment  10/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this one","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  OK, Anatomie is not a reinvention of the Horrormovie-Genre, but nevertheless it is well done. Good actors (Potente and Führmann at first) and some nice ideas made me happy. Maybe i would have been not so positive if this wasn´t a german movie, but who cares. It is good to see familiar faces in a good, thrilling story, with some gore and some good jokes in it. All of you complaining about the dubbing i didn´t see a dubbed version (of course) but i believe that it is not easy for you to watch dubbed movies. We (Germans) are used to watch movies like that, so it´s not a big problem. But try to watch in german with subtitles. The actors are really good! "},{"Title":"A curiosity","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After seeing the excellent 'El espinazo del diablo', I decided to give other European horror offerings a try. Along came 'Anatomie' and all I can say is that I was disappointed. 'Anatomie' is a derivitive German horror film that tries to copy all the cliched elements of American teen/student slasher flics. The talented lead actress, Franka Potente has since started to carve out a name for herself in rather more worthwhile roles (Run Lola Run etc...), in fact, I was surprised to see her having made a sequel to 'Anatomie' this year (I suppose everyone has to pay their mortgage and supermarket bill!) There are some gruesome special effects, but the story is so predictable that you can tell who is responsible quite early on in the film. This is not to say that the film is not an entertaining no brainer, should you have 90 minutes to kill sometime. I would not, however, recommend that you go out of the way to obtain it. A curiosity in the sense that it is German, but really, a film of very little merit. "},{"Title":"Oops, I Goofed!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I posted about this movie before, but made a HUGE mistake!  I've watched both the dubbed and subtitled versions, and erroneously thought that the dubbed version was not dubbed at all, but was filmed in English (must have watched it after leaving a German beer hall!).Anyway, I still believe the dubbed version to be better; the subtitled version doesn't fully translate the script.  You know, when you can see that an actor is speaking for fifteen seconds and the subtitle merely says something like Who me?  Plus, the subtitles seemed to be a lot tamer than the actual raunchy talk in the dubbed version.  In other words, the dubbed version is perhaps R rated, while the subtitled version is only a PG.  It's distracting as well, as this film is very visual and you need to be watching what's going on.The one complaint I have is that the only cute guy in the movie didn't have enough screen time, although he did meet a killer end! "},{"Title":"What a disappointment!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I really had high hopes for this one as some of the most impressive horror movies I've seen in recent years have been from Europe. To add to that the background and feel seemed reminiscent of 'Nightwatch' (the Danish original, not the awful American remake), a movie that I enjoyed a great deal, and the main character is played by Franka Potente, who was so very good in 'Run Lola Run'. So you can imagine my disappointment when 'Anatomie' turned out to be a dumb, cliched slasher-by-numbers, without any interesting characters, situations or suspense, and one that was so predictable you'll have it all worked out before the first 25 minutes are up. A few realistic looking corpses aren't enough to drag this one out of the b-grade horror trash heap. 'Anatomie' is proof that America doesn't have the monopoly on asinine horror. Europe can make crap too.  "},{"Title":"well, it certainly is...shiny.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  **** SPOILER ALERT - YOU'VE BEEN WARNED ****this film is absolutely CRIPPLED by terrible dubbing - the film's absurdly light, shiny, european feel combined with some of the most distracting overdubbed dialogue (voices are either obviously taped in a booth in a recording studio or drowned in excessive amounts of echo to provide the illusion of space).on top of that the film just isn't that good - the sets are quite expensive-looking, and some of the special effect pieces are brilliant and even artistic, but the characters are barely formed, the plot is tired and predictable (main character discovers Big Evil Conspiracy, anyone who has seen an american horror/suspense movie in the past 20 years can fill in the blanks in the rest of the plot easily), and it resorts to some of the CHEAPEST shock tactics this side of an 80s slasher film.the film feels rushed, far too light in tone for the subject matter, and lacks any kind of emotional or intellectual interest, it isn't even good for a scare.  i would definitely give this film another shot if i could see it with subtitles instead of the horrible dubbing.for this kind of mix of suspense and horror, i would forget about this and go with something japanese like cure (kyua) or audition. "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It´s quite a long time ago since if seen this German attempt to make a horror film, but then IMDb didn´t submit my review for reasons I  don´t know..! Now this is my next try! Anyway, my opinion hasn´t changed, I still consider Anatomie more as a movie for television then for the big screen! There´s too much talk, an immense lack in gore and suspense, and the acting of fine German actors like Benno Führmann or even Franka Potente, whom I liked much better in the fabulous Lola rennt, is just mediocre. The best moments has Anna Loos playing a horny little slut and her appearance is the only thing that brings a little tension into the plot! And, yes, the corpses looked quite scary... Anatomie was a huge success at the box offices in my home country Germany, however it is just another proof to me that commercial success doesn´t make a good film! At the moment they´re shooting Anatomie 2, just after the old Hollywood rule, to make a sequel to every successful movie! If you really want to see a good German horror film from the 1990s check out the much funnier and gorier Flashback - Mörderische Ferien instead!  "}{"Title":"**1/2 out of 4","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  An anatomy student notices some weird things going on at her college and eventually discovers a secret society that kidnapps people and kills them for medical experimination.Fun, stylish, and often very sexy at times, this film is certainly better then most of the other films in this genre, but still suffers from a premise that has been done way too many times. "},{"Title":"Predictable, old-fashioned and enjoyable","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed this, i'm not afraid to say. After the Scream-trilogy and all those in-jokes, it is almost refreshing to watch a horrorfilm that pretends Halloween was made last year and Scream never existed. Anatomie plays it's cards totally straight (thank god!!) and you know all the way how the plot is going to unfold. After the stylish opening credits, we are immediately thrown into some (obviously fake) dissections of living humans (nothing too messy, but scary enough). The heroine is introduced and we know right from the beginning she will be alright at the end of the movie. The same can not be said for her female friend who has a healthy appetite for sex and, accordingly, heads for certain death (Anita Loos makes the most of her part with a very vigorous performance). All nasty things happening are hung onto some conspiracy plotline (secret ceremonies by candlelight is also thrown into the stew) and keeps the viewer watching, even if the interest flags sometimes. We have a final confrontation that's really quite suspenseful, adequate performances that play it straight, terrible dubbing (you will warm up to it as I did) and a final twist (although a minor one). Almost old-fashioned horror (70's - 80's style) by and for people who knows the horror-slasher genre. Competent all the way! "},{"Title":"The best German movie I've ever seen","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomie is one of the most entertaining horror films I've ever had the pleasure of seeing.  There is a bit of originality to this flick that I have not previously seen in U.S. horror flicks.  Franka Potente is a wonderful actress who lights up the screen in every movie she's in.  I cannot say enough nice things about what her presence means to this movie in particular.  Do yourself a favor and pick up the DVD at once! "},{"Title":"Vapid film","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I had great expectations for this film but I was let down. Now let me say that this is much better than any of the vacuous mainstream horror the US has released in the last year or so but it is not on par with other great european films of the past. The potential was present but just not implemented. Parts of the film were so insipid that I found myself FForwarding sections of the movie. Try Alessandro Ammenebar's Thesis instead.   "},{"Title":"horror from germany","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  When you have seen too much of this cheepy american-teenie-horror-tvquality-movie,its time to change the country. Germany has produced a shocking good thrilling movie with fantastic protagonists and a director,who know,what is good looking.With this I don`t think only of the brilliant optic,no,especially,I think of anna loos,a very talented actress,who is looking incredible sexy. And another reason for watching this movie,is franka potente. Its always a pleasure to see a film with such a mythos in it.Franka is the only actress in germany,who really deserve the title star. "},{"Title":"'Handsome' Appealing for Great Research","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  At the start, people enjoy the nice Heidelberg and the beautiful students Potente and Loos and male Fuermann. The young director leads the spectator in a weird sphere of 1990s post-modernity and rural traditional social-structures of the 19th century. This clean area seduces to approximate to the handsome actors, but while it is growing insecure as strong as for Potente as 'severe' for the spectator, the environment threatens persistently. The coolness of the enforcement-medicinists shudders.  In comparison to Lola's Run (Lola rennt), oneself is permanently bound to Potente, and her acting is better, Fuermanns women appealing is great, female spectators say. His acting is quite as well as Potentes'. An excellent young-adult movie.  "},{"Title":"One of the best horror movies of the last decade...","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomie is one of the best horror movies of the last 10 years, that is if you accept horror to be psychological and not just assume horror to be lots of disgustingly twisted dead people - that's not horror, that's disgusting.I liked the fact that the movie could be real, the bad guys are just normal people that can do their fearful deeds without warping from one place to another or having giant strength. The story is also rather well developed and although it could have been better in some parts (Paula's family-history) has much depth for a horror movie.The visuals of the movie are also very well done, especially the exhibits in some of the rooms are quite nice. Special effects are also well done but not needed extensively.Some elements of the movie remind somewhat of Nightwatch, originally from 1994, but in our time it is almost impossible to do something completely new...  "},{"Title":"Probably the silliest movie ever made","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, the one line summary is maybe a bit too harsh - but if so, then just a little bit. Anatomie proves once more that the German film industry is not capable of delivering a decent slasher film (the similarly bad made for cable Schrei, denn ich werde dich töten, i.e. Scream, because I will kill you already showed it three months earlier). Everything in this film is just lacklustre and stupid. The characters are flat and without any hint of depth, and the story - not a bad idea as such - is wasted by scenes that were filmed better in the worst US-slasher flics of the early 1980s. I've got the impression that director Rutzowitzky has only watched the most putrid slasher films made years before Scream. Or - maybe - he just watched tame and boring kiddie-horrors like I know what you did last summer, Urban Legend or the extremely disappointing mess Halloween H20. Anatomie makes one thing clear A watchable German slasher movie doesn't exist, and that doesn't seem to change in the near future. Rating 1 out of 10, which still is too much praise for this thoroughly BAD movie.  "},{"Title":"adds something new (and great) to German cinema!","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Technically this movie is a fine adaption of his genre colors, cuts and music - everything done very well. The ironic changes between the in- (the institute of anatomy) and outside (Heidelberg in the summer) give the audience a chance to relax as tension builds up. And yes, the audience is tense! What i did not like has been the attempt to connect Paula´s family history to the things she discovers, this stops tension and things get a little loose before the grand final. Also sometimes jokes were more high-school-level rather than university-style...And here and there too much cliches. But as the director, Franka Potente, Anna Loos and Benno Fuehrmann did a great job i give this movie 8/10.   "},{"Title":"Germany does Hollywood","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Listening to Director's Commentary on the DVD and watching making of features, one hears this message several times The writer & the director wanted to prove that Germany is able to do a proper, commercial, Hollywood-style slasher movie.They succeeded. The story is about a medicine student who is shocked to find an acquaintance on the dissection table in class, and who then begins to investigate further into the cause of death and the big conspiracy behind it...Essentially, the story is the backdrop to a simply structured slasher movie. But this movie does have its advantages The setting, the visually impressive sets, and most of all, the Bodyworlds-inspired human plastinates. These eery artificially fossilized (fake) human bodies are the core of the creepiness of the film. (In the movie, all plastinates were artificial. In the Bodyworlds (Koerperwelten) exhibition, all of them are real human bodies. PS You must see the phoetus collection in the exhibition, currently in London! Amazing!)Apart from the setting, another interesting part of the movie is the conspiracy, the anti-hipocrates-society. While entirely fictional, the movie manages to convince people that such a society could actually exist, and a previous comment shows that some people are actually naive enough to believe that there is truth in the concept.... Well, there is not.But eventually, the movie is just as hollow and empty as any Hollywood slasher. The setting and cinematography bring a new element into an otherwise average movie. It's entertaining (and quite gory), but just as empty and pointless as Scream.Still better than most other Scream imitations, though! As good as any part of the Scream trilogy.8/10 "}{"Title":"A copy","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Not bad, but it looks like a bad copy of Tesis, by Alejandro Amenabar. If you haven't seen Tesis, I recommend it to you. Both movies have similarities but Tesis is a lot better. Anatomie is entertaining but it's not scary (I guess it should be) and it's easy to find out what's going to happen next. There are no surprises. The final scene is predictable, especially if you've seen Amenabar's movie.  "},{"Title":"One hell of a film","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this film last night and I was wowed. I have a strong stance on dubbed films but I rented it after reading it in Fangoria Magizine. It has every thing I love which includes gore , a thrilling plot, and a great cast of unknowns. If you love terror and need a gore fix rent Anatomie for a good scare. "},{"Title":"A truly great movie","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have to admit that I had a pretty bad anticipation before I had seen Anatomie, but I was totally blown away when I left the movies afterwards. I could hardly believe that a German team was capable of such a thrilling and well produced horror-thriller-comedy (which in my opinion beats Scream tenfold by the way). Not only the horror elements are fantastic (everything looks quite real), the most compelling feature is the combination of great acting (a mostly VERY talented cast) and a slight tongue-in-cheek humor throughout the movie... What really makes this one a great movie (in my opinion) is the feeling that all of this could easily happen at any university without any outsider noticing it. To wrap it up, I congratulate the German movie-scene for such a fantastic edge-of-your-seater and advise anyone who has the slightest urge to be thrilled intelligently to take a look at this one. "},{"Title":"Overall a rather unpleasant offering.","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Paula Henning (Franka Potente) one of the top German medical students is accepted into the medical school at the beautiful Heidelberg University.As a grand-daughter of a former renowned medical scientist now retired she questions some of the unusual practices occurring at the Department of Anatomy. Working alone and often secretly at night, she takes specimens of human tissue from cadavers for microscopic examination.  What she finds astounds her and sets her on a path of further investigation.The screen play is designed to shock.  A dissection room is eerie enough but when dead bodies begin to twitch, beware...  Add to this unethical students using scalpels like lethal weapons and hyperdermic needles in reckless abandon.  Further there is much blood and even a decapitation.  This film is not for the faint-hearted.  The department has developed an astonishing plasticising method of preserving humans as life-like specimens.  These are shown in the film.  A spooky atmosphere is generated because much of the action takes place in the laboratories and shadowy corridors at night.Mention is made of some of the Nazi experiments on living human beings as if to justify the research work designed to help mankind. This adds even more horror.After the frantic chases around the corridors, one is left with a pounding heart.  And in the end one wonders what the people of Heidelberg think about their doctors in training - not a particularly reassuring thought. I wonder how many hospital appointments were cancelled after prospective patients saw this film. "},{"Title":"It's OK..","Date":"3 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" but resembles too much American teen slashers. Plot is explained in other comments so I only share my feelings about this euro horror...The start is fine A young female medical student finds out that on her Academy there's something evil happening on.. This really sounds very good to my ears...like Argento or another giallo or euro horror...But...But after this, we get some acts of cliché-ridden teen slasher. If you have seen any of those, you can guess what happens next. Really. There's no suspense at all.. even you'll see The Bad Guy after an hour and next 30 minutes you just wait who he'll be slaughtered.. (well, there's a hint on beginning, so..) but after all it's stylish, well acted (especially by our heroine Franka Potente) and fast moving thriller so I give it 6/10 ) "},{"Title":"What happened?","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" European cinema has long had a reputation, or so I have heard, for avoiding the trappings that are dragging Hollywood down. Forgetting that the vast majority of ticket-buyers are aged above eighteen, insulting the intelligence of a guaranteed audience, or just plain putting out crap as a tax write-off, are all things that French, Dutch, and Spanish cinema had shown me were not to be expected in Europe. So the question when viewing Anatomie is what the hell went wrong. Perhaps I had my expectations lifted by one reviewer who claimed that the film managed to be frightening and suspenseful without resorting to unnecessary gore. This supposedly put it a cut above the recent slasher films such as Scream, he said. Well, that it might do, but where Scream was at least amusing with its in-jokes, and touching with the depiction of its lead heroine, Anatomie is just plain boring. Franka Potente does a reasonable job at making a very flat character likable, but the support cast are such utter so-and-sos that their demises ring utterly hollow.The plot, such as it is, begins in a medical school. Our heroine soon finds evidence of a secret organisation that, in the English dub, calls itself the Anti-Hippocratic Association, or something to that effect. Dialogues from the members revolve around how Hippocrates and his Oath get in the way of advanced research, or the like. Correct me if I am wrong, but in light of recent events, would it not be more correct to depict a group who want to speed up efforts in research as big supporters of Hippocrates and his tenets? After all, keeping patients suffering chronic illnesses that ruin their vascular systems or frequently threaten their ability to breathe flies right in the face of the do no harm rule that Hippocrates placed above all others.So now that we have the screenwriters showing they don't Hippocrates from Hannibal, what of the meat of this film, the autopsies? Well, I am not an expert in medical matters by any means, but I am having the hardest time swallowing sequences in which the victim of an impromptu autopsy looks up and peers into his opened torso. To not die of shock from this wound, one would need to be on a level of anesthesia that kind of rules out being able to open one's eyes, leave alone lift one's head. How the psychotic students are able to preserve corpses in order to turn them into dioramas, and do this with their fellow students while escaping notice, the film never details. I'm not sure this ever became clear to the screenwriter(s), either. Matter of fact, while I am writing this comment, this part of the concept seems doubly implausible within an Australian society, leave alone one where the police supposedly have a much tighter reign upon citizenry like Germany. Aren't the cadavers in medical schools meant to be tagged and strictly accounted for, much like guns in a military base?The support cast are not exactly anything to rave about, either. While I understand it is difficult to find distinguishing characteristics about actors performing dialogue in a language one does not understand, the characters here all have the approximate depth of a child's wading pool. If the people who claimed that stereotypes were all that George Lucas knows were to see Anatomie, they'd walk away with a readjusted perspective on Lucas' characters. The fact that Lucas only understands stereotypes anyway only serves to highlight how superficial things are here. Which breaks one of the fundamental rules of horror storytelling - without building up the victims into something the audience cares about, the death scenes become utterly pointless. Potente's character is the exception here, but in this case, it was more due to recognition of the actress than anything to do with the screenplay or her performance. Admittedly, her methods of getting out of some aspects of her fix were clever enough, but that only further highlights the fact that, where Anatomie is concerned, Ms. Potente is a sliver of mithril poking through a seam of lead.I gave Anatomie a 5 out of ten. It is competently shot, competently acted, and even competently written. But in this market, where films come out every week by the dozen, competence is just not good enough to win out. Especially given that in contrast to distinguishing itself by rising above the mediocrity of Hollywood, as most European cinema does one way or another, this German piece sinks right into it. "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":" Though a German film, this film ranks up there with so many of the bad big-budget Hollywood films being produced these days. Plain and simple there are no real payoffs you would expect if you are a serious film lover. If you like this kind of film, why bother with a site like this, being that film analysis is too high brow for you. Most crappy nickel and dime video rental stores (ie. Blockbuster or Hollywood Video) or your local 50 cineplex usually has most of their fare showing uneventful gurgitation like this to kids looking for a way to kill their evening full of uneventful boredom. If you've got to see Franka Potente in something worthwhile, stick with Run Lola Run. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Comparison to Scream?... I Dont think So!","Date":"10 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomie is a fresh and surprising horror film that uses some unique and original fx that far surpass any modern day Hollywood horror standards.I notice a lot of people comparing this movie to the likes of Scream and other recent slasher movies and it really irritates me. First of all, this is a `Genre' film, as was Scream and it's many clones. I think one realizes Anatomie's genre just by watching it&#133; that doesn't mean we should automatically compare it to Scream&#133;. We may as well say that Scream is a rip-off of Halloween. And that Halloween was a rip-off of Psycho&#133;. Etc etc. It's ludicrous!This movie is original in it's own right. There is a lot of stuff in here that we haven't seen before and I doubt we would see if Hollywood got it's mittens on it (it's only a matter of time). If you are the type of person who hates watching subtitles, then just don't bother watching this movie. If you watch it in it's Dubbed version, you are only cheating yourself. With English accents it sounds more like a bad episode of `The Press Gang'.I give this movie 9 out of 10  "},{"Title":"In tradition of american slasher movies","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie tells a story about a young medicine student called Paula, coming to the university of Heidelberg. There, a group of Anti-Hypocrates making forbidden, medical experiences. For this, they kill people. As Paula see a dead guy, she met on her way to Heidelberg, she searches for the reasons and find out of the existence of the Anti-Hypocrates.Anatomie is filmed in the tradition of american slasher-movies like Scream or I know what you did last summer.  As these movies, Anatomie combines horror with an interesting story. German movie and TV productions are copying american productions, this movie easily reaches the international ( or better american ) standards in good movie productions. It may be a rip-off of american movies, but also rip-offs wanted to be done perfectly... "},{"Title":"poor dubbing but good","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this the other day and I must say that I think it's rather good! Don't know if there is an undubbed version of it out there, but if there is I sure want to see it. Something gets lost in the poor English dub. I would preffered Subtitles.But As I said, I liked it. Pretty original script even if some of it seems old and done a few times before. I'd recomend this one! 7/10Movie-Man "}{"Title":"Prepare to feel a lot better about Hollywood","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  If you feel let down by the movies that Hollywood makes nowadays you should watch this movie because it will make you feel a lot better about some of our worst movies (ie Pluto Nash, Battlefield Earth).  This movie has a clever idea for a horror movie yet completely wastes a good opportunity by giving us gifted students who act as though they are too cool for school.  I found it extremely cliched that the main character had a father and a grandfather who were also medical doctors. Her nympho friend who was supposed to be the smartest med student in germany seems to come straight out of a Porky's movie.  In fact the lack of character development here would be more suitable for that type of movie (Lemon Popsicle movies).  The voice of the main bad guy in the english dubbed version will remind you of Emilio Estevez.  Plenty of american songs in this movie in a shameless attempt to americanize it. This movie ends up being similar in tone to Skulls and Antitrust but somehow manages to be sillier than either one. "},{"Title":"Simply great!","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  It really surprised me when I first watched it. The plot may seem just like millions of others when you hear of it, but it's much better than that. Anatomie is certainly one of the best thrillers I've seen lately. We find mystery, action, drama and much more is this film starred by talented Franka Potente and directed by Stefan Ruzowitzky. I high recommend it!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie - But Best Viewed in English","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike the previous commenter, who only saw the dubbed-English trailers, I watched both COMPLETE versions.  I have never minded foreign-language, subtitled movies, and do feel that MOST of them are better in their own language.  Anatomy was better in English, however,  mostly because it wasn't dubbed  -  the actors really did speak English, or tried to, and did a darned good job!  Like most foreign movies, there are a lot of visual things that have to be seen, and the subtitles really detracted from viewing, especially because many of the sentences had strange-looking letters in them that looked like ancient Greek!Besides the gaping holes that the previous commenter spoke of (like the main character returning to the school even though there were people there trying to kill her!), the movie was unique and original, and I enjoyed watching it very much.  It's one of those movies you can watch again and again, if you can understand it, that is! "},{"Title":"Seventeen ***'s out of ten","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this film twice now. The first time I saw the dubbed version which left me cold and the second time I saw the subtitled version which gave me chills..in a very good way. Movies are much better in their original form and Anatomie certainly proves that theory. This film is a great nail-biter and I recommend the subtitled version without reservation. Great fun. "},{"Title":"super","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I haven't seen many german films like that. Because it's top. I think it's the best german film I've ever seen. And i don't know why it wasn't so successful in America. It's quality reaches the level of first class Hollywood films. "},{"Title":"Nightwatch versus House On Haunted Hill","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This flick is really an okay movie, but in my oppinion it is not as scary as it could be.The plot is okay, the acting is good but the scary parts is to predictible.If you liked Nightwacht and House On Haunted Hill, you will like this one too.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Not a very scary movie","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this American (Columbia) production of a German film.  Franka and Benno are very good actors. The entire production is smooth, slick and professional, just not very scary.  I guess I need something more than special effects that make it look like a live person is being dissected, or bad guys with scalpels jumping out from behind doors.  If you want to see a truly frightening film Requiem for a Dream should do it.  Still, Anatomie was fun and entertaining. "},{"Title":"if only the English could start to make films as good as this.","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is simply amazing; yeah it is aimed at the people who go to watch films like Scream so I guess that's the teens to late 20's and so what, it's fabulous stuff full of tension and humour.  This film has so many things going for it, a wonderful script, which flicks from tense horror to humour with skill not seen since &#145;An American Werewolf in London'.  And the script also has a depth and emotion which Scream (a film that I like) and the rest (most of which stink) don't have and don't even attempt to have, simply going from one killing to another.  This film is different because the center of this film is the story not the murders, really this film is more of a detective horror then slasher Horror.  The film also contains great acting especially from the always-wonderful Franka Potente, but Benno Furmann and Sebastian Blomberg also deserve a mention.  The look of the film is also fabulous and the directing superb.  I love the way that the Psycho is revealed 50mins into the films and it leaves you guessing at who is the other nutter.  There are so many great moments but my favourite bit has to be when you find out what exactly happened to Gretchen.  WATCH OUT; don't watch the dubbed version it's atrocious.  I got Anatomy on DVD and watch it only in it's original German language because dubbing always takes something away from a film even if it's done well which in this case it isn't.  10/10 for me it's one of the best films I've ever seen.   PS under goofs it says that the scar on the killers chest disappears when he takes his shirt off.  Well this isn't true, that was what I first thought but if you look carefully you can see a white scar, OK I'll admit that in the previous scene it was red, but there is a scar.    "},{"Title":"Lola on the run again, from the bad guys.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  On the heels of `Run Lola Run,' a major international success, its star, Franka Potente, appeared in a medical thriller called `Anatomy' (2000). Its American distributor, Sony, dropped it into eight theaters one weekend; it grossed a ludicrous $5,725 (not a misprint) and was relegated to video. How could that happen? `Anatomy' must be one dog of a movie! But it's not. Far from it. This is a fine, creepy chiller in the mold of `Coma.' Potente plays a medical student chosen for special anatomy training at a school founded by her ailing grandfather, to whom she is close, but who is estranged from her father, also a doctor. Her father's motivation becomes evident as she learns, to her horror, what's really going on at Grandpa's school. As with virtually all movies of this type, credibility suffers as the climax nears. (The solutions are never as interesting or believable as the puzzles.) But that's no reason to miss the fun of getting there. "},{"Title":"Finally a non-typical german movie.","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomy is a fun-movie. You just go into theatre and get afraid. It's not something you must take too serious or thing about. It's just a horror-movie and it's a great one. It was a blockbuster in Germany after many, many movies that didn't make it, because they were too boring or typical german. So, people have to realize that movies are something people want to see to have fun. After a hard day we go into theatre to relax and not to solve the big world-problems. In my opinion George Lucas is right when he talks about movies as old fairytales. Just sitting there and having a good time! That's what people are paying for! "}{"Title":"mixed thoughts","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This movie gave me different feelings and I have mixed thoughts about it. The first part gives some scares and keeps the tension up and strong. Sadly the mystery is discovered too early and this really lowers the high tension of the movie. The second part of the film is a bit of a mess and I think that with a little more work the film would have been great. The director also tries to explore the border between love and death. See the really physical scene of Paula making love opposed to the corpses of the initial scene.  "},{"Title":"Thrilling and amazing. Even more when you wouldn't expect...","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  I must say I like movies like Scream but Anatomie has been a nice surprise for me. Good story, built with characters that try to be different from stereotypes and different from usual American characters. The plot is well developed and never boring. Someone could say the final part is a bit weak but it's just where the plot leads...Surely it's better than the usual surprise final. I think is a clever movie because even the monster sequences keep an ironic point of view. I liked it.  "},{"Title":"the German film industry is getting better","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  After the German movies have been mainly comedies or have dealt with complicated relationships for years (Der bewegte Mann, Das Superweib) it's such a relief to see a movie that is about a totally different topic. A thriller and a really scary one! The story contains a lot of good ideas and it seems quite realistic.  A new generation of young talented actors is on its way Franka Potente and Benno Fürmann, but as well the quite unknown Sebastian Blomberg are giving an excellent performance. The characters in the film are much more likely to identify with than in American movies where you see mostly artificial characters! I think that this movie is a sign that not only Hollywood can produce impressing movies. "},{"Title":"Promising Start!","Date":"16 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Anatomie truly is a very promising start for the new founded german branch of the well known production company Columbia Tri-Star. It goes without saying that - of course - this movie does not claim to compete with international block busters like Scream. Shooting star Frank Potente (Run Lola Run, Blow) and german newcomer Benno Führmann are brilliant, and it's getting even more interesting when you know the filming location Heidelberg. I really enjoyed watching this movie and everyone in Germany hopes, that this is only the beginning of a new era of the german cinema. We're looking forward to watching more interesting stuff like this. See it! "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This film is a lot of fun. It's even funnier if you get the chance for a little sight-seeing after the film when you live in Heidelberg. So you'll recognize which cuts are actually fake ;-) I dislike most german movies, but this one makes appetite for more. It's bloody, dark, scary and funny. The actors did a really nice job. The story was interesting. The end was a little bit weak but it's still worth watching it! "},{"Title":"A bit exagerated, but quite okay as a horror film","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Being a medical student myself, I rather enjoyed watching Anatomie. As I have passed the Anatomy lessons two years ago, memories to the Anatomy Lab (called Präp-Saal in Germany) are not so intense, and you can enjoy the horror knowing, that many items (not all) are exagerated. Students, who just passed their Anatomy exams disliked the film thinking it was full of clichees, but I enjoyed it. It's not the horror, it's also the very appointed picture of the typical medical student drawn in this movie (which is not as exagerated as it looks). "},{"Title":"Nightwatch meets Urban legend meets Scream","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Finally, a good german horror film. You may have seen this before, but the film delivers some great scares and a weird atmosphere. The actors are quite good, especially Anna Loos, which reminded me of Tatum in Scream, and Franka Potente is always nice to see. Maybe the final half hour they were running out of ideas, so it seems a little long, but I was never bored, and this says something. If you want to see a german horror film, and Premutos is too much for you, check out this one, you won't be disappointed. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A quality horror movie for fans of medical curiosity","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  This little gem reminded me of such films as delicatessan as it has that unique foreign quality to it. If you like thriller horror with a medical theme to it, then this is a must see. Don't let the subtitles put you off because you'll be hooked enough to pay attention all the way through the film. This film shows us that blockbusters can be outdone by unknowns. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Routine horror film.","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  Entertaining for sure but not really exciting;the screenplay borrows from a lot of superior works for axample,the dean character resembles Richard Widmark's part in coma(1978) while the heroine's role is similar to that of Genevieve Bujold in the same film.Some ideas are taken from reanimator as well ,but without the black humor which made that work a lot of fun.The secret society recalls skulls but this work and Anatomy were released the same year so..Average. "},{"Title":"Too lazy to read?","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Thriller","Review":"  As of this moment, I have made nearly 100 comments here on Imdb.  This is the very first one which will involve discussing other reviewers of a film.  What exactly is my beef?  Those of you complaining about the dubbing.Please...those of us who are literate and intelligent don't want to have to wade through all of the whiny comments made about poor dubbing.  This is, of course, a German movie and it should be listened to in its native language.  After the first few times, reading subtitles is no longer a distraction and you will find that it makes viewing a foreign film much more natural and enjoyable.  American movies are not judged by what kind of a dubbing job is done on them.  Don't you think it would be childish if they were?Anyway...as far as the actual film goes, it is well acted and delivers some truly spooky moments.  Its major downfall is the significant plot holes that occasionally pop up.  Better attention to logic and details would have made this a fantastic thriller.  As it stands, Anatomy is an entertaining slasher pic that is a step in the right direction for European countries which want to make crossover films that will entertain American audiences.  I look forward to seeing more films in this vein.  5/10 "}]