[{"Title":"Personally, I love this movie!","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Heh heh, what isn't there for me to love Godzilla 2000? Minimal computer graphics, well built city models, awesome looking makeover for the big G and a neat and fierce looking foe named Orgah. Oh, and not to mention a cute little girl named Iyo, who shows a big interest for Godzilla and Orgah (perhaps a nostalgic refrence to the monster loving kids Ken Yano and Rokku-chan?).Alot of people seem to hate this movie due to it not having too much CG, no super sexy model actor or actresses or were just spoiled off of the recent Hollywood trash cinema. OMG, and someone even compaired the recent Godzilla movies to Evangellion (GAG ME!).I however, stand up for Toho. Long live Toho! Long live the King of Monsters! "},{"Title":"a monster movie ne plus ultra review","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the latest in the Toho Films series, and it should be noted that this movie is a GODZILLA movie, a genre unto itself. Not only is it an intelligent film, with likeable characters ( the Godzilla Prediction Unit is great, in the enthusiasm of scientists trying to understand Godzilla as a force of nature; besides that, who wouldn't want to be part of the GDU and have that cool Godzilla logo on the side of their transport vehicle? ) and a truly kinetic, enthusiastic script by Hiroshi Kashiwabara and Wataru Mimura--the most telling line of dialogue in the movie, which could be used to describe the love and respect the writers have, occurs when a television reporter comments that the entire proceeding is like something out of a 1950s science fiction film.And that is the point of this movie, to remind every one of us who grew up on monster movies that in the midst of all the ALIEN-stylized cinematic drool, that the giant UFO perched menacingly over Tokyo, shimmering with mysterious electronic pulsations while Godzilla ( with an underwater swimming scene for Godzilla that is priceless) stomps in for a classic samauri-like duel with the alien craft and its occupant, with all the Man In Suit and b-movie special effects you can stand, is the reason why many of us creature feature lovers continue going to the movies TODAY, because we're looking for something like GODZILLA 2000. A movie crafted with exquisite passion and respect, both for its subject and for its audience.Go see this movie in a theatre, or be sorry you didn't. Thrill to the magnificent musical score (the best I've heard in a film this year), and the superior direction that provides Godzilla with power and heroism (yes, heroism; Godzilla's reasons for alternately destroying Tokyo, but fighting against alien forces to save it, demonstrates what all us monster freaks know Godzilla is intelligent, and has his reasons). I dare you to go and see Godzilla blast away with his atomic breath and not be ready to come up out of your seat with joy. This movie is undiluted greatness, from beginning to end. "},{"Title":"GOJIRAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was fortunate enought to see the original Japanese version of Godzilla 2000. I have to say that this is The Best Godzilla Movie Of All Time. Instead of the futuristic technologies of the Heisei series (maser tanks, mechas and ESP), G2K presents more or less ordinary Japanese life. The only thing slightly futuristic in the movie are the JSDF's Full Metal Missiles (and the UFO itself).I loved the human cast. G2K will be the second movie that I loved which has a human cast I enjoyed watching, the other being Gamera Guardian of the Universe. Katagiri and Shinoda shined throughout. Yuki Ichinose and Io Shinoda are just as good to. One of my favorite scenes with the humans is Io and Shinoda giving Yuki the runaround in their little headquarters (a scene deleted from the American version, I believe). The Godzilla Prediction Network is very well thought-out organisation. Shame they don't really exist ^_^*MireGoji (the fan name for the 2000 suit) is one of the best G-suits in existence. The new dorsal plates are just great, especially as they light up. They seem to heat up from the inside, rather than flash. The new heat beam is just marvellous. Shame Goji lost the ability to blink.The UFO and Orga are one of the greatest enemies Goji's had yet. Shame Orga didn't get much to do. However, his destruction was new and refreshing.The special effects are fantastic. It's so relieving to see missiles hit their target. The CGI shots are great. My favorites are the shot of Goji swimming underwater and the tracking shot of the Full Metal Missiles under the bridge. The music by Takayuki Hattori is also fabuluous.To sum up GOJIRAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!! "},{"Title":"Ah, the old stomping grounds of Tokyo...","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Godzilla 2000, actually completed in 1999 (and was released during the summer of 2000 in America), was the first Toho-backed kaiju-eiga film to receive a major theatrical distribution in the U.S. since 1985. I saw Godzilla 2000 at the theater and wasn't disappointed, even though a lot has changed since Toho killed off their iconic monster at the end of 1995's Godzilla Vs. Destoroyah.I'm 19; I've been a hardcore G-fan since I was four years-old and of course, I was quite hesitant about seeing a new Godzilla film, being that the Americanized 1998 version wasn't that good. The Toho logo that appears during the opening credits reassured me that Godzilla 2000 was taking me back to the good old days when Godzilla wasn't afraid to knock down a building or stomp down the military when they threatened him.With their third generation of Godzilla films being kicked off with this flashy new movie, Toho continued a trend that was seen in generation two, where they discard the events of the previous Godzilla incarnation and instead start with the original 1954 Godzilla and work from there.Toho took full advantage of this new series by designing a distinctly reptilian Godzilla, who as the film opens, has already popped up on the radar of some brainy scientist who argues that Godzilla should be studied, instead of destroyed.And Toho didn't skimp on creating a new monster either, which is a giant UFO that yields something a lot more than just martians. This new foe is actually a nasty little creature that's never given a name, though subsequent debate about the film has concluded that its name is Orga, who proceeds to try to consume Godzilla and his powers, thus creating one powerful monster.Godzilla 2000 has a lot of problems too, which may or may not mar an otherwise decent stomping experience. Though on the whole, it's nice to see Godzilla back in form (somewhat) and this Toho production firmly returns their most beloved creation to dominance, it also suffers a lot from the problems that have plagued its predecessors, and some of those problems may have been due to Roland Emmerich's 1998 Americanized version of the big green guy.Of course, since I never really cared for the people in a Godzilla movie and those feelings haven't changed, it must be pointed out here that the people have been drastically short-changed in favor of the all-out monster showdown that is the film's climax. You're really given a reason to not care about humans in this picture, whereas any previous Godzilla movie may have made you have an inkling of feeling for them.Godzilla himself has changed a lot, with massive plates that line his back and he's also been given a pretty nifty set of fangs. But the thing is, this Godzilla looks and behaves quite... different. Though it's evident with this production that Godzilla is the bad guy (pending on your view), this was one of the things that really struck me as unique about the previous generation of kaiju-eiga films - in that you never really knew if he was the bad guy or not - this movie makes that pretty clear to you, even though the new monster Orga is clearly the bigger problem for the people of Japan.The special effects in this third generation Godzilla film seem to actually be a step back too. The previous generation (the first two movies at least) had really beautiful and thoughtful effects that put you into wonder about how they were achieved. This series doesn't have that level of wonder for some reason. You'd expect their effects to improve over five years or so, but these effects look rushed and unrealistic.Aside from these quibbles, Godzilla 2000 doesn't suffer a whole lot, but I was glad to see that it firmly reestablished Godzilla back to his good old, stomping self.7/10 "},{"Title":"Hey pretty cool.","Date":"12 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed this flick.  Sure it wasn't the best movie made and it surely would not win an award, but it was a fun film.  There are a couple of the Godzilla movies in the 90's I liked more, but this one did not disappoint.  The dubbing is rather good for everyone except the guy who is trying to kill Godzilla.  He sounds a bit to deep voiced and at one point when he laughs he goes Ha, Ha, Ha, but other than him the dubbing is good.  There is also a bit of dead zone where godzilla isn't around between godzilla's first encounter the flying saucer and the final battle, but it is not to bad.  Also, they kind of ignore the movie Godzilla vs. Destroyah even though they show Godzilla's son taking over the reigns this fact is ignored and all the characters from the 90 films are ignored as well.  All and all it is a fun movie and there is a good battle at the end. "},{"Title":"He's back, and badder.","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After the good but overblown Godzilla 1998 Toho took their monster back and made him badder than ever, tons of atmosphere and dodgy but cool special effects are thrown into this movie which sees Godzilla coming up against a creature called Orga who by using Godzilla-Cells is able to regenerate any damage he suffers. You'll probably have guessed the plot isn't exactly stellar but there's enough atmosphere, monster violence, property damage and nifty special effects to tide you over. Not the best Godzilla movie ever but not the worst either and at least it isn't Godzilla '988/10 "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"5 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is my second favorite Godzilla film.It has a good enough story, a great enemy, and good enough special effects. If you own this on DVD and you live in the USA, then please watch it on the Audio Commentary. It will change your view of the movie. Plus it's a great come back against Godzilla (1998) which disgraced Godzilla. If you are a big Godzilla Fan, I fully recommend this film to you. It's a great start to begin the Millennium series which also has some really good films, among my favorite.Anyway, I give this film an A-. If you watch it with the Audio Commentary, you will too.  "},{"Title":"A film worth watching","Date":"6 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Originally in 1995, Godzilla vs Destoroyah was meant to end the Godzilla franchise, putting it in a hiatus until 2005 (according to Executive Producer Shogo Tomiyama). However, after the release of the 1998 remake by Ronald Emmerich, Toho Co. didn't want to wait 7 years until his return, so they brought Godzilla out of retirement one year later. It was released in Japan on December 11, 1999, and August 18th, 2000 in the U.S. It was the first Godzilla movie since Godzilla 1985 to be released theatrically in the U.S.To the fans, it was a dream come true, but to the general public, it was overlooked. Most people thought it was a sequel to the 1998 remake, but us fans knew it was the real deal.The synopsis is once again another reboot to the series, ignoring the sequels from the 50s up until the 90s, and taking place only after the original. Another Godzilla comes to Japan and wreaks havoc once more. It's very similar to The Return of Godzilla, however, unlike Return, 2000 has Godzilla fighting a new monster. We first see this monster as a UFO throughout most of the movie, but near the end, we see his true form. The monsters name is Orga, and he is (in my opinion) of of Godzilla's best foes. He takes G-Cells and tries to become like Godzilla.Now for Godzilla's new look. It's a personal favorite of mine. The giant jagged spines, the fanged teeth, the facial structure, even the roar has been modified. I also like the yellowish, orange like color for his atomic breath. It's a nice change of pace compared to the past films. It's also fun to note that Godzilla is green in this movie, despite the fact that the past Godzillas always had a charcoal-black coloring. Another fun fact, this suits structure was inspired by the KingGoji look from King Kong vs Godzilla.The acting is pretty decent for a film like this, and the effects are spectacular. Although there are some underwater scenes where Godzilla is in CGI, and they don't look good, and the English dub can get pretty goofy at times, which such lines like I'm not saying we wouldn't get our hair mussed, and Great Caesar's Ghost, other then that, the acting is decent, and the miniatures are still as fantastic as they were in the old age.If I had any complaints with the film, it's with the origin of Godzilla himself. No one knows if it's the same one from 1954, Jr. from the Heisei films or if it's another Godzilla all together. Ever since 1999, and still to this day, no one, not even hardcore fans know about his where a bouts. I like think however that it's another one of it's kind. In the end, Godzilla 2000 is a great entry in the series, some fans maybe put off by the continuity being re-imagined, but once you get passed that, it's still a very good entry in the series, probably one of the best the Millennium Series has to offer. Give it a chance.My Rating 9-10 "},{"Title":"Takes the nasty taste of TriStar's disaster right out!","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is a delight! It was SO COOL to see the Big G on the big screen again, minus Devlin & Emmerich's retooling (emphasis on tool) The crowd that afternoon was small, but enthusiastic. Granted, the dialogue is just as stilted as previous films, but still fun. And fun is the operative word here. Whereas the aforementioned Tristar release was somber and bloodless, this one brings back the sheer joy of the original series with the verve of the Heisei series. Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"Godzilla's return --and Okawara at his worst.","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  **possible minor spoilers**While it was fantastic to see a Godzilla film in theaters, and I will always enjoy it it's still not very well made. Takeo Okawara has done worlds better in directing, frankly I'm not sure what he was getting at here. He gives us his used tired formula of a film in the most obvious way this time around, and in trying to give us a new Godzilla, for a new millennium he gives us the same anti-hero character of Godzilla we got in the heisei series, only his looks have changed. We have the Godzilla Prediction Network, a small network following Godzilla and seeing where he'll strike next to warn people, but at the same time not destroy Godzilla and find a way to contain and study him. However Crisis Control Agency aims to flat out destroy Godzilla without thinking twice. At the same time the CCI uncover a mysterious rock. (Which they immediately predict to be a vessel from space..uh-huh...) While the military attacks Godzilla the rock flies over to find suitable cells to become the supreme being on earth...well it chooses Godzilla! Eventually this UFO reveals that a giant alien is inside it, and the alien, now with Godzilla's cells, turns itself into 'Orga' a half alien half Godzilla...but to be a total Godzilla it he needs Godzilla's entire body. The result is a battle, that comes off as a notch cooler than the Heisei battles, and some cool surprises. Okawara has done much better, but he gives a few new things to enjoy including some of his best crafted characters. However the writing is so lackluster, the old alien takes over earth plot has been used in Godzilla too many times, it's death to do it again. At least the alien was unique this time in that humans had to figure out it's motives rather than be told. Godzilla 2000 is a fun, entertaining movie, but not a very good return and Okawara's last G movie being his worst. ** out of ****  "}{"Title":"Slight but cool","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yes, Godzilla 2000 ain't the most stellar movie ever made. It's slow in some spots and the story is very slight. But I liked it. The previous reviews posted before mine makes me wonder if they saw the same movie.A tragic waste of talent? Eh? You mean the US version was a tragic waste of talent AND money. For what little money they had with Godzilla 2000, I'm pretty impressed with what Toho made. Some FX scenes were really cool, like when we see the van driving on the road with Godzilla in the background. The battle at the end is great and I love Godzilla's new look, even though he should see a dentist with his really toothy grin. Anyway, I'm a Godzilla/Japanese Monster movie fan since I was a kid and I'm glad I finally saw a Japanese version of Godzilla on the big screen here in North America. "},{"Title":"First of the Godzilla Millennium series.","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Four years after the supposed last Godzilla movie, Toho brought back the Big G to star in another series of films called the Millennium series. This movie was made as a direct sequel to the original Godzilla film, but the monster simply appeared on cue - his origins and cause of his return were never explained. Aside from slight references mentioned by the characters of the monster's prior appearances in the 1960s and 1980s, you cannot really tell that this film has any relation to the original Godzilla movie. To me, I think there should be a suspense built-up to signal the return of Godzilla since 1954, like it was portrayed in Godzilla 1985 (1984). Instead, Godzilla was just spotted as he began his rampage, with the military trying to stop him - nothing new here. Meanwhile, a UFO lands on Earth, and Godzilla does battle with it. Thrown in the mix are people from the Godzilla Prediction Network (GPN), out to study Godzilla and spare him from the military; I think they really weren't relevant to the story, though. The acting was lame, especially Shirô Sano's character. There is really no new material or anything special about this film, aside from the introduction of a new monster. The plot was boring, which lead to an unexciting story and an unremarkable movie.Kenji Suzuki's special effects, though, were amazing and Takayuki Hattori's music score was OK. I didn't really care for the monster suit for Godzilla - not really well executed. His radioactive breath, though, is given a more powerful purpose, as he only used it a few times in the movie. Overall, a very dull movie to be made as the direct sequel to the original Godzilla film. This movie is simply another monster-on-the-loose flick, which ended up being my least favorite Godzilla movie. Grade D- "},{"Title":"Old School Godzilla","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is old school Godzilla plain and simple.  Nothing terribly exciting, no super cool computer effects.  Just a guy in a rubber suit and godzilla breathe drawn on the film.  Actually there is a little computer stuff, but nothing that hasn't been done for years.This is not a great movie, by any stretch of the imagination, but nostalgia makes it enjoyable.  I think this is also a better movie for kids than most of the action monster movies coming out.  Almost no one dies in the movie and there is little swearing or sexual overtones.  This might make it too simple for adults who are not nostalgic for the old movies, but others should enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Only the First One Is Superior","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I found this 1999 offering to be quite a nice piece of work. I was prepared to see the same old same old, and in some sense, it is. But the producers of this film decided that there needed to be a little more of a human story, a little more plot. The issues here are the scientists versus the megalomaniacs who see intent on destroying the big fellow. As they try to understand him, a gigantic rock emerges from the ocean floor. It is sheltering an ancient space ship/flying saucer. The amazing advancements in science become apparent. The problem is that like Independence Day, these guys are up to no good. They confront Godzilla and defeat him for the time being. He is resilient and his cells begin to regenerate. Meanwhile, the military does its all out thing to destroy this. We know they are in trouble when the most advanced weaponry is useless against Godzilla and the new kids on the block. There is a sort of sappy story where three researchers become the focus, but the special effects and the general presentation dominate. There is a really cool final scene too. "},{"Title":"Just bad and a real letdown for fans of the big G","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Egad, this was horrible. Unfortunately, the version I watched had only the awful, awful English dub, which featured an insufferable brat kid who delights in calling a female reporter an imbecile and such memorable dialogue as, why does Godzilla always protect us? with the moving (sarcastic) response, I guess there's a little Godzilla in all of us. More significantly, the storyline was incoherent, dumb and (worst of all) just boring. Basically, Godzilla resurfaces around the same time as an alien ufo that had been underwater for something like 60 million years, for no good reason. The alien (there only seems to be one) decides to somehow use Godzilla cells or some such nonsense to adapt to Earth's environment and synthesize a (yep) giant monster body, presumably to use to ravage humanity. Human weapons prove absolutely ineffective. The main human characters are a pro-Godzilla ex-scientist (the one with the idiotic ending dialogue quoted above) and his former friend (who more sensibly wants to kill Godzilla, but that guy turns out to be a moron as well). The brat kid is the daughter of the first guy. Godzilla spends most of the film letting himself get shot by both human and alien weaponry while he just roars, stands there, and takes it-- what is this sh**? What happened to the awesome king of the monsters? Finally, much too late into the movie, Godzilla starts using his atomic breath, which is about his only effective weapon here.Naturally Godzilla ends up saving the Earth from the alien. But there is an idiotic scene afterward where the anti-Godzilla dude just yells at Godzilla and stands there like an idiot while Godzilla swats and kills him! Pro-Godzilla dude yells at anti-Godzilla dude to take cover and tries to save him, but the dork just ignores him and lets himself be killed. What was he doing, trying to prove he was a tough guy? In the dumbest way possible?I'm a pretty big Godzilla fan, but this is not a movie I'll ever care to watch again. "},{"Title":"Japan Cannot Be Proud of This.","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Godzilla 2000 (1999)Dir Takao Okaweara / Cast Takehiro Murata, Hiroshi Abe, Naomi Nishida, Mayu Suzuki, Shiro Sano Inexcusably dumb with cheesy special effects and terrible dubbing. The giant lizard storms through Tokyo and the sight is so hideous that I wondered if Barney was a double. It is an unwelcome entry to a new century and surprisingly worse than the Roland Emmerich 1998 version. We are given no indication as to where this creature came from but before long a spacecraft hovers down on the tallest building. Godzilla knocks out Japan's energy source while the spacecraft feeds off energy from the sun. The two titans will meet in a brawl that any pay-per-view event would be embarrassed to showcase. Director Takao Okawara does a horrible job with really bad acting performances to further insult it. Are they proud of their efforts? Do they feel that they have contributed to a franchise that Emmerich pretty much proved is dead in the water? Perhaps they should all get together and compare notes on who screwed this franchise over the worst. And how about the idiotic dialogue. One guy states, Therefore I am convinced that this object came from another galaxy. No sh*t Sherlock! Another guy states that Godzilla was protecting them. That hardly seems believable since it was putting the city up in flames. Now they can do the same thing to this pathetic candy-ass film. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Run-of-the-mill Godzilla movie...","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Once you have seen one of the Japanese Godzilla movies then you have essentially seen them all; a monstrous threat stands against Tokyo in the shape of a massive creature and Godzilla emerges to fight the creature.The story in Godzilla 2000 (aka Gojira ni-sen mireniamu) was another copy-and-paste storyline of basically every other Godzilla movie. And it is a wonder that with almost 30 movies that there still is a market for the 1954-born king of monsters Godzilla, and even more so impressive that Tokyo still stands.The effects in this 1999 addition to the Godzilla franchise was actually quite alright and did help the movie as being entertaining.I watched a version that had only an English and French dubbed audio track, much to my irritation. I do prefer movies in their original language. And yes, Godzilla 2000 had one of those really bad dubbed voice tracks that makes you wonder just where did they dig up someone who talks like that.Godzilla is a force to be reckoned with and has been so since 1954. "},{"Title":"I'm not saying we wouldn't get our hair mussed","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Oddly enough, this picture references two Stanley Kubrick movies a trigger-happy general quotes STRANGELOVE'S Buck Turgidson on casualty estimates (at least in the American dub), and from certain angles the silver spaceship strongly resembles the genital sculpture with which Alex commits murder in CLOCKWORK ORANGE. I'm no purist, but I like GODZILLA 2000 because it's the same as it ever was. Like that beer from the glass-lined tanks of Old Latrobe, Godzilla movies are a vaguely unsatisfying commodity. With Rolling Rock, you have to put up with watery taste, lack of kick and flatulent hangover. With Godzilla, you must endure the insipid reporter, precocious child and idiotic dialog. But Rolling Rock will eventually get you drunk, and if you wait long enough Godzilla will stomp Tokyo.For my money this is the best Godzilla suit design - the villainous, toothsome saurian head is a vast improvement over the cuddly teddy bear of the 60s and 70s, and the body is significantly more athletic. We don't need a comic Ali shuffle anymore to convey the Lizard King's agility, because he no longer looks like he might fall over just out of awkwardness. And the flaming halo around his mouth before he breathes fire is a very nice touch. What's remarkable is that the special effects for these films didn't change much for almost fifty years. After this one, the Toho movies started using a lot of CGI, which is okay with me; but this is mostly old school, models and practicals on wires, with the computer effects reserved for energy blasts and morphing. 2000 has a marginally more sophisticated greenscreen technique than most of its predecessors, and a big enough budget to knock down a variety of structures without repeating itself. In fact this late entry is one of my favorites as far as exploding miniatures are concerned. The sets are complicated and intricate and look great on fire. The scenes of rampage and of battle are well-photographed and nicely edited. One questionable leap forward is the footage of real tanks spliced with shots of those wonderful plastic toys. Unfortunately, this movie lacks the surreal absurdity of the old Toho B-plots. The space invaders aren't arbitrarily simian; nobody falls in love with a cyborg; there are no doll-sized Okinawan Andrews Sisters. Also, Godzilla's new clothes seem to have sucked up the money the older movies spent on a stable of rubber foes - Godzilla fights only one enemy here, not counting the Japanese people, and it's not much of a fight. As Naomi Nishida says, Boy, that's ironic. It woke up after 60 million years, and then Godzilla destroyed it the very next day.But for the first time in awhile, Godzilla is not your friend. After the original movie, he spent two decades inexplicably protecting humanity while we shot at him; this Godzilla is a mysterious threat not looking to do us any favors. Here, he brings down a meddling Interior Minister (another CLOCKWORK ORANGE reference?), then systematically burns the city over credits. Kind of like Alex after he wakes up from enforced politeness, Godzilla is ready to cause trouble again. "},{"Title":"Godzilla vs. the ...Um... Downloading Rock?","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Godzilla 20007/10 Promoted with a kick ass trailer (which was infinitely better than the film itself) Godzilla 2000 roared into theaters a few years back on a mission to erase the memory of that American Godzilla. For many of us it would be the first time seeing a Japanese Godzilla on the big screen. (I may have seen Godzilla 1985 in the theater but my memory is a bit fuzzy). Turns out while there is something charming about watching a Godzilla film in your pj's every Saturday morning during Million Dollar Movie on channel 9 a lot of that love disappears when you plopped down seven-fifty. (It also helps needless to say when I watched Godzilla movies every Saturday morning it was 1978 and I was ten.) The movie starts out strong enough with a couple of brilliant scenes that ape both Twister and Jurassic Park. You got to love them Godzilla tornado chasers and when the big guy himself blocks a tunnel and breathes on the windshield it is the pinnacle of Godzilla film-making.It of course is all downhill from there. For one thing Godzilla himself pretty much disappears from the movie. He is replaced by a pet rock. Yes a completely inanimate object. Needless to say the fidget factor is high. Add in subplots you couldn't care less about and characters more irritating than anything else and you would be excused for reaching for the fast forward button. (Much easier at home than in the theater) Godzilla reappears and the rock, which has planted itself on top of a building and is apparently downloading all the contents of Tokyo's computers, shows its true colors as an alien that resembles of all things that American Godzilla. Godzilla certainly doesn't stand by and lets some illegal alien destroy Tokyo. No way some wetback union busting scab is going to muscle in on big greens action. Destroying Tokyo is Godzilla's personal gig. The effects are actually pretty good (with the exception of the underwater scenes) and the dubbing is particularly bad (even for a Godzilla film. It is also strangely profanity laden especially considering Godzilla himself doesn't kill anyone on screen.) The last scene however is a true What the F**k moment with one of the silliest lines ever uttered on film. It made me feel ten years old all over again. "},{"Title":"Well, I wasn't disappointed... 100% CHEESE!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I grew up watching the old Godzilla movies.  We all grow up with stuff, and that's one of the things I grew up with.  When the 1998 American version came out, I was excited, but after seeing it, I was so disappointed.  It was missing all of the things that made Godzilla great The bad acting, the poor Japanese-to-English dubbing, the cheesey special effects, a guy in a suit smacking another guy in a suit, and total monster-crushing-city havoc.  But, when I heard about Godzilla 2000, I honestly didn't care.  I thought I had grown out of Godzilla movies.  Well, I was wrong.This is not a good movie.  Anyone who calls this movie bad is, well, right.  Godzilla movies are made for Americans to laugh at the scared Japanese people with bad voice-over and to say Whoa, that was pretty cool at the cheesy special effects.Well, this movie, like all other Godzilla movies, is 100% cheese.  The bad acting is there, as is the dubbing.  I was surprised at the special effects.  Sure, compared to the 1998 version, this sucks, but you have to feel impressed at the great modeling work done here.In conclusion, Godzilla fans rejoice!  This is a GREAT Godzilla movie.  Not a great movie, but a great Godzilla movie.  So if you like the old Godzilla movies, you'll like this.  IF you don't like them, well, you might not like this.  If you've never seen a Godzilla movie before, well my friend, you haven't lived.My Rating (WHAT'S THE POINT?  IT'S G-O-D-Z-I-L-L-A!!!!!!!!!!!!!) "}{"Title":"Godzilla vs.The Frisbee!","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Took the kids(9 and 13)to see 2000 and we all had a great time.This is definitely a picture you had to see in the theater,because it loses some on television.Big G takes on Orga,and the audience was the winner!Sure,there was some poor english dialogue,and the effects were a little shaky insome scenes,but who cares?We were entertained,folks,and that's more than Hollywood seems to be able to do, nowadays.Also,if I see the words corny,cheesy,orcampy about one more time from you MST3K-wannabes,I may lose my lunch AND dinner. "},{"Title":"Mr. Devlin, Meet the Real Godzilla...","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  MORD39 RATING  **  (of ****)Whew! Godzilla is back. Let's forget Dean Devlin and the nightmare that was the TriStar version of '98.The latest Big G adventure actually offers nothing new giant dinosaur stomps city. Tanks shoot at monster. Little kid feels for monster. Bad villain wants to kill monster. New creature battles monster. But I must say that Godzilla has been given a cool new look, and I loved the new effect used when G breathes that famous radioactive breath!The new foe for Godzilla turns out to be quite a match, and the monster battle scenes are the best part of the movie. The rest of the film is familiar stuff, and in fact the whole dreary look of the movie reminds me of the dark and unsettling aura of GODZILLA VS. THE SMOG MONSTER.Nothing too spectacular here, just the return of an old friend and the birth of a worthy adversary. It's refreshing to get some morality into the story as well, even if it comes across as corny to the youth of today who have grown up with guns in school and forgot what morals are...if they even knew to start with. "},{"Title":"Not too shabby, he cried","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the second Godzilla movie I have seen in the movie theaters, the first one was Godzilla 1985.I must admit that the special effects and camera work were outstanding. Even the rubber suits were simply out of this world (no pun intended).The alien monster reminded me a lot of the aliens from the movie ALIENS starring Sigourney Weaver.One thing that brought back the memories from the early Godzilla movies from the 50's and 60's was the famous Toho-Godzilla music and the English dubbing. The thing I missed were the toy tanks and the sophisticated weaponry. Another item that was clearly missing was the famous line that was given by many of the Army generals in previous films and that was Evacuate Tokyo.I must be an oldies nut because I really enjoy the very early Godzilla movies, especially Godzilla, King of the Monsters which came out in 1956. Godzilla was actually destroyed in that movie by a Japanese scientist. The special effects that they had at that time were in no way comparable to Godzilla 2000, but the whole story and what they had to do in that film to get rid of Godzilla were to me quite believable and quite possible.Godzilla 2000 was very enjoyable and maybe in a few years I'll watch it again when it comes out on video.   "},{"Title":"Gott in Himmel!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand the negative reviews for this movie on this page. Hey, it's a Godzilla movie! We all know it's a guy in a rubber suit smashing cardboard towns. And yet I was pleasantly surprised by some of the effects in the movie. The cardboard towns and toy cars were kept to a minimum. The rubber-suited guy was digitally inserted in most of the early scenes (although the budget ran out by the time he got to Tokyo). There were some detractors. The middle of the movie had plenty of talking and staring into electron microscopes. Not exactly exciting stuff.  Loved the fight scenes. Loved the cheesy lines(Did you see that giant rock...?). It all appealed to my inner Godzilla (You know, the one inside all of us?). And was it just my imagination, or did the monster in it's final mutated stage (when it was sucking up all the Godzilla DNA) look a little like the Americanized Godzilla from the '98 flick?  "},{"Title":"You really do have to like old school Godzilla to appreciate this film.","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    I'm sorry to say that this movie just didn't seem like cinematic genius to me.  You may get upset with me for saying this, but since I didn't see any other old school type Godzilla movies before this one (I did see Godzilla 1998 and I liked it), I guess you probably think I don't know what I'm talking about.  And maybe I don't.  But this is how I feel. I won't go as far as one reviewer went, as I have an open mind, I really do... but there were so many corny scenes in the film.  And some of the effects were just plain cheesy.  And the last line... oh God.  My boyfriend and I (I'm female) and another friend who is a guy went to see it in the theatre.  There weren't many people there.  The boys loved it... but it just didn't click with me.  What is it with guys and these types of movies?  Anyway, I could probably think of better things to do, but I don't usually say I hate a film... I just didn't really like this one.  But it's better than Girls School Screamers, I guess. "},{"Title":"SMASH!!!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Godzilla topples buildings.  Godzilla trashes the opponent.  Godzilla tramples cars.  Godzilla smashes bridges, crushes tanks and destroys everything else in his path.  THIS is what Godzilla does, and to want anything more is silly.  Watch it for these reasons, and for the famous, SKREEEEONK! and you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Tokyo is mine!, sayeth Godzilla","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The real Godzilla is back and he has some competition--A flying saucer that wants to wreck its own havoc on Japan (it probably represents the recent devastating earthquake they had there). But, Godzilla will have none of it!  Either he destroys Japan or nobody does!First the flying saucer must find out the secret to Godzilla's regenerative powers so they can make their own indestructible creature (why they just just didn't level Tokyo with their ray gun is beyond me!).But the aliens soon find out that there is more to Godzilla than his recuperative powers  He's a bad ass mother who knows how to defend his territory.At the end Godzilla makes it clear that only he has the honors of leveling Japan.  Right on. "},{"Title":"Godzilla for a New Generation","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Godzilla saves Tokyo from a flying saucer that transforms into the beast Orga.There are some noteworthy firsts in this film we have the first green Godzilla (no longer the dark gray we are used to), and the first Toho Godzilla using CGI (for better or worse) in some scenes.No, could this be the best looking man-in-suit Godzilla yet? I think so. While a bit more rock star this time around, he looks incredibly mean and aggressive, the monster you do not want to mess with.This may have been the last good Godzilla movie made (as of 2014). Although, I suppose that is all a matter of taste. Some people probably dislike this one while others probably love the Gareth Edwards version. "},{"Title":"Godzilla Millennium (1999)","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not the best start to a new series of Godzilla movies, but it'll do. It did have some work to do after the shitstorm that was the American Godzilla. It mostly makes up for that. We get a guy in a suit, looking better than ever. The film also brings us some CGI, with a wonderfully dodgy looking spaceship. I praise this film for not holding back on its imagination. I wish people would stay away from the American dubs. I've never seen one, and I've enjoyed the series thoroughly. This film had everything I'd come to expect, but seemed scared of being too outlandish. Hiroshi Abe also ruined a lot of the movie by having ONE look. Was it fear? Was it determination? Was it confusion? I'll never know. "},{"Title":"Pays tribute to the big guy's history while ushering in a new age","Date":"10 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In truth, I was planning on coming here and stating how disappointed I was in this movie the second time around . . .HOWEVER, that was before the movie ended. This may be the only Godzilla film I've seen thus far where I've enjoyed the later half more than the beginning, but I have reasons for that. Firstly, in the old movies, Godzilla didn't normally appear until the second half, allowing for background information and characters to develop. This film introduces him right away, and I believe that is so the on screen characters can begin their study and dissection of Godzilla on a scientific level (which is a no-no. Godzilla is not science).Also, the first half of the film relies heavily on special effects, something I wouldn't recommend to any nation other than the U.S. (not because other nations are poor at producing good CG. It's just that America has such a reputation for pretty colors). Godzilla started as a guy in a rubber suit. Since then, the technique has greatly improved and I love it.Anyways, after the halfway marker, the two monster begin their final battle which is as glorious as ever in any film. I highly enjoy the miniatures and models more than any CGI. I can't remember a Godzilla flick with more on-screen destruction, and in such a modernized Japan as well.The very ending, I would also like to bring up, is very romanticized, exciting, and visionary. Probably my favorite ending of any Godzilla movie.Finally, I want to mention the music. Most of the soundtrack doesn't really make an effect on me, and sometimes it even stole the mood away from what it should have been . . . but as I said before, I liked the ending. I even spied the theme song from the original 1954 Gojira in the ending credits (Cool!) as well as other familiar tunes which I couldn't forget.I did, however, think that the acting could have done with some work. Otherwise, the storyline and ingenuity matched all previous film plot lines.There will always be fans of Godzilla, and from what I've seen there is only room for improvement. "}{"Title":"First G movie for 21st century","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is the first of the installment for Godzilla sporting its new looks for the 21st century. Toho after doing few good Mothra movies decided to get back to its Godzilla roots again. For some reason, the special effects weren't as good as the '90s G series on this movie. Orga floating on water looked like it was computer generated and didn't look real at all. Then the rampage and battle happened as it should in Godzilla movies, and things got better but.... I'm not sure how Toho pools their talent when making movies. Since this movie came on the heel of Gamera 1999 (Special effects director Shinji Higuchi on a loan to Daiei) with spectacular CGI effects, this movie should have or could have been just as good, but it wasn't. But it was the return of Godzilla and entertaining just for what it is. "},{"Title":"Better than a sharp stick in one's eye","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As Godzilla movies go, this is not one of the best or worst; however, the effects are better as is the costume of the title character.  In fact, the Godzilla from this movie looks way cool and ultra-bad.But, what is it with contemporary Japanese film that forces the directors to use people who remind one of Ted Kazinsky?  The Godzilla-hunter looks as if he'd been stranded in the woods for many days before wandering onto the set and making the film...If you enjoy Godzilla movies, this one should be fun.  If you don't enjoy them and you buy or rent this movie expecting to enjoy it, then you should be ashamed of yourself...you know better than that! "},{"Title":"Thank Goodness, The Real Big Fella Returns","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Godzilla has been and will always be a Japanese creation and thankfully Godzilla 2000 has no Hollywood input. The American version some years ago was a disaster with the story plot focused on Hollywood actors, not the big fella. In this film, Godzilla once more comes to the rescue of an ungrateful planet. Godzilla always saves the world from some creature or aliens that would take over the planet Earth. The military tries it's best to kill Godzilla without success of course. The whole plot involves a flying, ancient rock that has a flying saucer hidden within it. The saucer attempts to clone itself with the cells of Godzilla. This film brings us the fight music of the original movies beginning with Godzilla, King of the Monsters. If you enjoy Godzilla then you will be pleased with this film. "},{"Title":"Oh no!  Godzilla is back!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is japanese cinema at its best.  It has all the classic elements, plus a shapeshifting alien spacecraft/organism.  The battles are brutal and godzilla is as powerful as ever.  I would really recommend watching this movie because it's a perfect example of the genre. "},{"Title":"A Godzilla fan's wet dream.","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is the big lizard at his cheesy best. Crappy CGI, big rubber suits, cardboard buildings, bad dubbing, it's got it all. The effects have improved since the days of Godzilla vs. Monster Zero, but not by all that much. The dialogue is as corny as ever, taking a back seat to the main attraction rather than trying to incorporate him into a silly storyline. You can't spend $80,000,000 importing Godzilla to Hollywood and expect the same magic as the original. We've seen the results. But never fear, the guy in the rubber suit is back and better than ever. You can still almost see the zipper. 7/10. "},{"Title":"There is a little bit of Godzilla in each of us...","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The feel-good comedy of 2000!  Monster eggs, recycled audio effects, annoying Japanese children who know more than the scientists, a Tokyo shopkeeper who shouts Gott im Himmel! when he sights Godzilla, and a final message and warning for all of us who foolishly insist on exploding atomic bombs on the ocean's floor near frozen monsters.  Yes, there is a little Godzilla in each of us...what? you thought that was tuna in your Tekka-maki? "},{"Title":"A return to the REAL Godzilla","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Pay attention, Hollywood. THIS is how you make a Godzilla movie. No giant, stupid-looking, computerized iguana running in terror, eating fish, and laying more eggs in MSG than the Rangers. Godzilla is a man in a rubber suit, destroying well made models of Tokyo buildings just moments after saving it from another man playing an alien monster. Godzilla isn't killed by a few basic missles, he simply can't be killed. Not by tanks, missles, helicopters or machine guns. Nothing! Not even nuclear weapons can kill him, they just make him larger and more powerful (see Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah). Godzilla doesn't burrow under ground and he isn't asexual. And above all, Godzilla is NOT a coward!This is a good movie, way, way, way better than the Hollywood bomb in 1998. I loved the remade Godzilla suit, a fresh look that doesn't go too far from the original style. I give this movie 7.5 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Godzilla 2000!!!!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge fan of Godzilla and being so disapointed with the 1998 US version I thought this Godzilla 2000 was going to be alot better and it was. This is what the 98 version should have been. Godzilla 2000 boasts tons of special effects and it it has one heck of a finale that in MY opinion is one of the best endings in a Godzilla movie. The enemy monster Orga, is is one of the neatest monsters Godzilla has fought and I am really happy how this movie is.  "},{"Title":"Now this IS Godzilla","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Forget about that 1998 atrocity which bore no resemblance to Big G. The GODZILLA here is the real deal. This movie is an absolute joy for the Godzilla fan. A nice mix of CGI and traditional FX and A Godzilla that actually looks and acts like he should. Some people criticize the film for lack of monster battles but I disagree..I think limiting the battles makes the final showdown much more significant. There's a lot of charm and fun to be found here as well. I probably said Wow!Cool! while watching this far more than for any other film I have ever viewed..makes me like a kid again. "},{"Title":"BOR-ING !!","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The only good things about this movie is...A. It features the return of the Real GodzillaB. This movie features the coolest looking Godzilla of all time. The way his spikes crackle with energy when he uses his fire, to his cool GREEN skin. Plus the update of his spikes, looking more jagged and impressive then ever before. In fact this costume is an update of that cool costume used in King Kong VS GodzillaBut despite this, this movie was a snoozer! At the beginning Godzilla fights a flying rock! Disappears for almost 40 minutes while boring human actors talk about DNA and computers. And concludes with Godzilla fighting a huge chunk of rubber that can barely move called Orga. Is it any wonder why this movie was ignored by audiences and the media alike when it was released here? "}{"Title":"What a blast!","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After reading numerous reviews of Godzilla 2000 (G2000) on several web sites, the old cliché `either you love it or you hate it' comes to mind. As for me, I love it.  I've seen around 20 Godzilla (G) movies and I've enjoyed them all (yes even the really silly ones).  To me, G movies are kind of like the rides at Disney World the characters aren't real and some of the effects are old, but, with a little bit of imagination, it's just as much fun.Of all the G movies I've seen, G2000 is my favorite.  I think the director really understood what Godzilla is.  Godzilla isn't a sympathetic friend to mankind, he's more like a F5 Tornado that destroys everything in its path - very dangerous yet very interesting.  And this is how he's portrayed in the movie - like a force of nature (with an attitude).  I liked the storm chaser (ala Twister) feel of the beginning of the movie.  One review of G2000 perfectly described the terrific scenes where there is action in the foreground and you see G tearing up everything far in the background like a bad storm cell looming in the distance.  The overall dark, brooding tone of the movie has just the right feel.Many have complained about the special effects in G2000, but I thought they were great.  Yes, I know some of the CG effects were a bit off, but as an amateur scale model builder, I can appreciate what went into making this movie.  To put together a project of this magnitude with suits, models, etc. and produce a movie like G2000 is truly amazing!  If the critics think it's so easy, they should try it themselves.  Try this get a camcorder, some legos, and toy G figure and see what you can do.  Yes, my son and I have done it and it ain't as easy as it looks.  So, I guess the quality of the special effects really depends on your perspective.  As many have pointed out, high quality special effects (like those in the Big Ol' Iguana, er, '98 Godzilla version) do not always equal a good movie.  Godzilla movies (the real `guy in a rubber suit' versions that is) are literally handmade and I hope they never change.In addition to the technical aspects of the movie, G2000 has some interesting subtle touches that I haven't seen in past G movies.  For instance, when G becomes truly angry, his dorsal fins (they look like flames to me) not only glow, but they crackle as they heat up.  Then you see fire welling up in G's mouth before he rares back and `throws' his fire breath like an erupting volcano - a nice touch.So finally, here are some recommendations for enjoying G2000.  First, watch one of the old ones (King Kong v. Godzilla for example) prior to watching G2000 and you'll appreciate how far Toho has come over the years.  Second, take time to check out the details like all those model buildings, bridges, etc. (it's amazing that with all of the horrific destruction in the final scenes that most of the city still has power, but never mind).  Finally, relax, enjoy and don't take it too seriously.  It's just for fun!  And it lasts longer than a ride at Disney World!  "},{"Title":"Godzilla 2000 is great!","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is what a Godzilla movie should be-monsters, rampant destruction, a Godzilla that doesn't look like a mutated rat(as he did in Roland Emmerich's insult to Toho's legendary franchise), and just plain FUN!Godzilla looked great in this. No more of the little wuss that was destroyed by missiles in the '98 version, this is the ass kicking, fire breathing, city stomping lug that we have come to love.If you thought this film was bad because of the acting and writing, go see another film because most every Godzilla movie is about destruction, awesome fights, and monsters beating the snot out of each other. This is a film for those who love fun action adventure movies.With that in mind, I thought the acting was quite good. Nothing that would win an Academy Award but for a film that is about monsters, the cast acts well and is involved in the story as opposed to just filling up time before the big guy shows up.Get this on DVD, pop some popcorn, and get ready for an awesome adventure!Now if only a kind soul would destroy all the prints of Roland Emmerich's Godzilla, the world would be an even better place. "},{"Title":"Now this is the way Godzilla is supposed to be made, Tristar!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Considering the critical and financial flop of the US-made Godzilla (1998), I am very surprised that anyone bothered to release this movie stateside.  I am also very glad they did, since this shows exactly how to make a G-movie...you use the original Big G himself!Even though a lot of the effects in this film still involve the man-in-a-suit-a-saurus style of monster, they are excellent! There is a lot of fairly good CGI eye candy and the revamped Godzilla suit is truly a sight to behold. The big guy hasn't looked this good since his initial escapade back in 1954.It's always hard to figure out where the movie exists in the Godzilla canon (there are basically four eras The first two movies, the movies after that up until the initial series ended in 1975, then the revivial in the eighties that began with Godzilla 1985 and ended with Godzilla Vs. Destroyah, and now this film), but it seems to begin another era of G-films, with no apparent links to any of the other ones, other than the original movie Gojira.This is basically just a fun movie...full of action and a bit of suspense and a lot of crunch time! Just what a G-Fan wants! "},{"Title":"why did they make this movie","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" As much a travesty as this movie was, it did have some good points. I don't know how many of you were fans of the old Godzilla movies, but I'm sure you remember the grayish, grainy, depressed look to the films. That technique is used in this film which is sort of entertaining. I liked the design of Godzilla also, but I must say the years being absent from the camera hasn't been good to the lizard king. Yes, people Godzilla has gained weight. He has a double chin, wider hips, thicker thighs and he doesn't have the energy to run anymore. Then again, I suppose eating cities would do that to you. One thing I hated about the old movies that I liked about this one is the fact that Godzilla wasn't the friend of the city ( I mean come on, he was a monster). There wasn't some kid running behind Godzilla calling his name like the little boy in the movie Shane.I found myself comparing this version of Godzilla to the hipper (or so they thought) version released in 1998 which was directed by Roland Emmerich (INDEPENDENCE DAY). As much as I hated this movie, I must say I liked this one better than the hipper one. As I stated before, I like the look of Godzilla in this one as compared to the reptilian crack baby of the '98 version. This movie has flaws all over the place. The script leads you to believe things and even takes you in that direction, but when you get there, they completely change the angle. For example (and I have no qualms about giving this part of the movie away), after a land attack by Godzilla, the ocean's temperature rises. The scientists all say it's because of the lizard. Without warning (or an explanation), we see this big rock (which is an alien in drag) being lifted to the surface and later (much later) you get the impression that it was the rock raising the temperature. From here, the movie turns into Independence Day. I mean it literally turns into Independence day. If you remember the movie, you will see the similarities when the aliens ship cast the shadow over the city and the powers that be try to figure out how to kill it. It was so similar that I almost turned it off.As a theatre major, I was taught that when you analyze a film or piece of theatrical work, you should never look for one sentence or paragraph to define the central thought of the work. The director of this crap tried to sum the movie up in a short monologue. The little girl in the film inquired as to why Godzilla appeared, defended the people and the retreated to the ocean all the time. The doctor, whom was also the little girls father said that there was a little of Godzilla in all of us. That statement isn't supported anywhere in the movie. I'm still trying to figure out why they think Godzilla defends them. He spends a good portion of the film destroying the city. Ok so you're saying, but he did kill the monster,didn't he? Well yes he did but it wasn't for the sake of the city. He was on his way to destroy the city (again)and this monster got in the way. Godzilla never defended the city. As a matter of fact, he burned half of the city down before he left.I hated hated hated this movie.  "},{"Title":"Toho's Revenge!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You could do worse for Bad Movie Night.The great fun is catching all the swipes it takes at Emmerich and Devlin.First there's the huge saucer that sits atop a building; then there's the pseudo-Godzilla monster the aliens create (with a funny-looking jaw that reminds one of the Emmerich-Devlin Godzilla).  But of course it hasn't a chance against the real thing.Tons o' fun. "},{"Title":"Now this is what Godzilla should be...","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let's all think back to the wonderous year of 1998, shall we?  Dean Devlin and Roland Emmerich, the schlock-meisters who brought us the snazzy and brain-dead ID4, give up yet another big-budget hollywood CGI-fest named Godzilla.  I go to see it, for some odd reason.  I leave lamenting on our American society's belief that we can always do things better.  Sure, just add some CG-wait, better make that a LOT of CG, some rip-offs of action movies of the time (cough, Jurassic Park, cough) and a blatant disrespect for the source material, and you have a sure winner, right?  Well, it made some money, and was destroyed by critics, but oh well.  At least it was better than those cheezy old Japanese pics, right?Toho obviously thought differently, and brought us Godzilla 2000-a wonderfully-old-school return to the Godzilla we know and love.  Yes, it's a guy in a big rubber suit.  Yes, he tramples on cardboard buildings.  Yes, it is a Japanese film with laughably-sub-par dubbing.  So why do I like it better than the big-money one?  Because this one is really Godzilla!  He doesn't run away from the army, he takes them all on!  He doesn't hesitate to let loose with his primal scream or his ATOMIC BREATH!  He doesn't have kids!  He makes sense in what he chooses to fight, when to defend Tokyo and when to destroy it!  He's just plain freakin' awesome!Okay, so this probably doesn't make much sense unless you've seen the older Godzilla vs. movies.  If you have, though, you know what I'm talking about. It's all in the spirit of the thing, and that's all that the Hollywood version laughed at and stomped on.  Go rent this, and see how it's supposed to be done, silly dialogue and all.  No, it won't give you any new insights into the human condition.  But it may restore a bit of your joy with it, and that's worthwhile in my book. "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on In Demand this past weekend and I thought it was excellent.  I am so glad they brought back the man in the rubber suit and gave him his nuclear breath back.  The other Godzilla movie with the lizard was absolutely terrible (you can read my comment to that movie).  I really don't have that much to say about this movie - I enjoyed it 150% and I would watch it again and again.  I have been a rubber monster lover since the time I started watching television over 30 years ago back in the 70's  DO YOU GUYS REMEMBER CREATURE FEATURE.  I DO..........EXCELLENT. "},{"Title":"A half decent return for the big one.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Godzilla is back! To show his appreciation and well being to everyone, he destroys Tokyo all over again and does not let up one bit. Meanwhile, an underwater research team uncovers an old rock with a life of its own. And on another place, a father and daughter committed to understanding Godzilla have uncovered the gene that helps regenerate the big lizard so many times over. All the stories converge (rather sloppily) at the end when the UFO takes on a form of its own and battles Godzilla in a climactic finish. Although GODZILLA 2000 was rather disappointing, I think TOHO 's main goal was to get a half decent Godzilla movie out before the 1998 bomb had a chance to spew out a sequel. In either way, the blatant and terrible use of the translation was jumped on by Sony spending only one million dollars on it while burning ten million dollars on advertising. TOHO may have succeeded in getting out their Godzilla to pleased fans, but Sony failed in capturing anything mainstream with such lack of effort. In the movie itself, Godzilla 's new breath of life was just a little too good. The monster has a bigger brain in this movie than he ever had and knows who is good or bad among the tiny humans. The Godzilla Research Team has the worst dialogue of all, yet they get their own little spot light when the father ends up scrambling to get out of a building rigged to blow up. It probably was not necessary to add them, but they were just so boring and they needed someone to explain the 'Regenerator G-1.' Just our luck to endure it. The UFO was a small bonus, as it proved to be quite an effective adversary to both the humans and Godzilla. If it had a longer fight (and far faster if the two slugs could ever get something really started), the match could have been Godzilla 's best, but it didn't come close. Nevertheless, an effective return with all the flaws to keep anyone curious away. "},{"Title":"The REAL Godzilla's back and baaaaad. And that's gooood.","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" GODZILLA 2000Three years ago a fake Godzilla movie appeared that featured a giant (size matters) lizard that looked like it escaped from Jurassic Park.Now, the REAL beloved behemoth with the radioactive breath is back and he's baaaaaaad.In his 23rd screen appearance, the big guy in the latex suit suddenly resurfaces on the shores of Japan and, as expected, stampedes through cities.  But this time he wastes power plants in particular.Meanwhile, back at the lab, scientists raise a meteor from the ocean floor.  But it turns out to be a long dormant alien spaceship powered by sunlight.  It revives and immediately seeks to destroy mankind by sucking all the energy and information about humans from electronic taps. But Godzilla stands in the way of world domination. So the aliens create Orga from Godzilla's own cells!  Has the Big G finally met his match?This wonderful retro version resembles Ishiro Honda's 1954 original in many ways. Even though replete with numerous computer generated effects, it has the look, staging and bad dubbing (certainly intentional here) of the very best of the early Godzillas.And yes, this Godzilla stands upright, breathes fire and his great scream is back enhanced in full Dolby Surround!Bonus material includes a short making of documentary as well as an interesting commentary track with Mike Schlesinger, the uncredited writer/producer of the American version, Michael Mahoney, the editor, and Darren Paskal, the sound editor for the domestic version respectively. This version has been tightened from the slower paced original Japanese release and there is no original Japanese language track. (Columbia TriStar, 2.351 aspect ratio, 16x9 enhanced, English language 5.1 channel Dolby Digital mix, 89 mins "},{"Title":"The REAL Big Guy is back... and better then ever!!!","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yes, the Godzilla we grew up with... is back.  With some modifications here and there.  I hope the non Godzilla fan can give this movie a shot. It's really good and Godzilla is an enduring icon that has thus far spanned nearly 50 years and 24 movies.I had an absolute thrill watching this in the theatres with my friend and I hope you give it a chance.   "}{"Title":"Oh no! There goes Tokyo!","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't believe all these people and their bad reviews. For example - The Godzilla should be reborn in more fresh and creative ideas. &#133; 1. Volcano erupts or islands are blasted to show that the Godzilla backs once again. 2. Troops and weapons are just helpless. 3. Rampaging a city (most likely Tokyo). 4. People get panicky and look on the rampaging and fighting.What the hell do you want from a Godzilla movie! That's like going to a Jackie Chan flick and expecting intelligent storytelling instead of a framework for the stunts. That's what you get here. The barest of plots, aliens with no back-story and motivation other than to show up and put the beatdown on G, and **BIG** **ASS** **FIGHT** **SCENES**. You want Shakespeare, go watch that Mel Gibson flick or something. Leave my Kaiju out of it!As for a alien creature from outer space? what the hell was the writer thinking?? - Duh, like Godzilla is normal.Any movie with a Troma stamp on it is great. - Troma used to produce good schlock, until they started making fun of themselves. 'look', they say - 'we're making <wink, wink> a Bad Movie. <nudge, nudge>. This movie is superior to the Troma studios because Toho takes the movie seriously. It may be camp, and everyone may KNOW that it's a big block of cheese, but that doesn't mean that they don't make a sincere effort. They do put their heart into it - and it shows. Surprise, the writer and director managed to treat G (and the audience) with respect, passion and of responsibility due the series. - far more than the 1998 over-hyped, overblown US version did. The US version is just a cheap action flick with, unable to stand out amongst the crowd of Hollywood schlock that the industry churns out every year.Is it an example of good film-making? No - this is not the level of Casablanca or Citizen Kane. To expect otherwise is foolish. Is this a good G film? Hell yeah! Compared to the other G films in the series, this one is a clear winner!The King of the Monsters is back, baby.  "},{"Title":"Simply Horrible!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Funny how a movie can be made 30 years after an original and not change at all. This was a classic Godzilla movie, and if you are in the mood for a 1960's type of movie then this is for you. I expected an updated version with great graphics and special effects. Instead, I got 60's type of special effects, a 60's type of story line and a HUGE disappointment. The acting and script were particularly horrible. Too bad. They could have done something great with this. Perhaps our friends out East need some lessons in how to make a modern film? This was sort of like a Power Rangers movie except Godzilla is the star. "},{"Title":"Far better then the American Version","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can remember leaving the theater frustrated that I wasted 4 bucks on the worst film of 1998, Godzilla. (In fact, I thought Godzilla was about as silly as The Naked Gun-which was supposed to be)!  I received a free pass to Godzilla 2000 and was surprised how enjoyable it was. Rather then ripping off Jurassic Park as the 1998 version did, it went back to the old formula; simple plot, simple characters, and great monsters. The only problem? Godzilla wasn't given enough to do. But when he's on, its SHOWTIME!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"He's Back!","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Finally, a Godzilla film of which fans can be proud. Godzilla 2000 is a vast improvement over the Tri-Star release of 1998 and better than most of Toho's releases of the past 10 years. The first 30 minutes are worth the price of admission. The producers have brought the Zillster down to a more human level, allowing us to see the aftermath of his destruction and its affects on the citizens of Japan. The costume redesign is inspired and the special effects convincing. Try to catch the Japanese release (Godzilla 2000 Millennium) as the dialoge isn't as Westernized (or as silly) as the dubbed American version. Either way, Godzilla 2000 is a real treat! "},{"Title":"There is a bit of Godzilla in all of us!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I LOVED this flick. A total throwback to the Godzilla of yesterday. No Stupid 3d computer effects; just a man in a suit! Excellent.Film drags a tad in the middle. But otherwise pure pleasure. Found myself laughing out loud several times. I dare say, so bad it's good.Great overhead shots of Tokyo. Also, scenes of Godzilla blowing fire out his mouth RULE!I highly recommend seeing this in a run down theater as I did. This will add to the camp quality. I am not being sarcastic.The final scene showing a guy commenting on how ironic it is we try and destroy Godzilla as he saves us is the BEST DIALOGUE EVER! When he says, perhaps there is a bit of Godzilla in all of us, the camera pans down and shows Godzilla literally leveling Tokyo!  This shot had me laughing so hard I couldn't breathe. I LOVED THIS MOVIE!Godzilla rules. "},{"Title":"a magnificent return to form","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I get disgusted reading all the comments by people who use loaded terms like campy,schlocky,etc in reference to this film. Apparently, there's a large contigent that feels if it is not done with CGI effects, then it can't be any good. What utter tripe. What Godzilla 2000 offers us is simply the best man in a suit monster film ever made. This is the apex of this rare and esoteric art form.Director Okawara shows more originality and inventiveness with his camera work than any previous kaiju director. I won't mention anything more about the miserable 1998 Sony version, but compare how compact and lively Godzilla 2000 is compared to that dreary and dragged-out mess. I'm thinking of the brilliant POV shot where a jet pilot closes in on Godzilla as he is making his way onto land. Or the opening sequence where he lumbers past the light house and drops the huge ship that he has clenched in his jaws.The miniature work here is also tremendous. Not even Eiji Tsurabaya could have constructed the exquisite cityscape that Godzilla and Orga destroy during the film's climactic battle. But according to the rarefied likes of Jack Garner, Marshall Fine and a fair amount of contributors, this work is high camp and schlock. To say I disagree with this assessment would be the grossest of understatements.True, it would be a mistake to rate the film too highly. After all, it is a giant monster movie. But even these films can exhibit craftmanship, inventiveness and a love of movie-making. Godzilla 2000 is such a film. The action is hot, the pace is quick, the characters are likeable and what the hey, it's the ever-lovin', fire-breathin' city-stompin' Godzilla we are talking about. The REAL one!Enjoy him for what he is and try and give some credit to the craftsmen who bring him to life. "},{"Title":"They're getting better at it!","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was in love with the first Godzilla (Gojira) movie made back in 1953. Then came Gigantis in 57 supposedly his brother. Both movies had very serious intent and the B/W helped make up for the suit effect. I kept watching as King Kong VS Godzilla then, Mother, Gihdra, and Monster Island. By then they got so stupid and poor I gave up being a fan. Then came Godzilla 85 and I stood in line with the I can't wait. Sort of ok but still one scene good the next lame, not to mention the plot SUPER X. When Devlin and Emerich came out with our version I was blown away with the quality. (Sadly to say, They should of either made him look more like the original or gave the movie a different name. Now here came the TOHO response, including paradies of the US version and I must admit, the story was much better than past TOHO stuff along with a great improvement on some of the effects. I've heard that their next effort is gonna try to be more impressive. (due to the weak theater response.) I can only say Good luck TOHO...keep-em serious and spend a little time.  "},{"Title":"More! I demand more Gojira! Now!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wow! I have so much love for this movie, it's incredible! Godzilla 2000 is a movie experience, baby! I really didn't really know what to expect from this one. I knew it was a re-dubbed version for American audiences, but I wasn't going to be disappointed if it wasn't as cool as the old Godzilla films a remember enjoying as a kid. Well, they did a terrific job dubbing this one. I find most times they tend to follow they Japanese dialogue a little too closely, but you could tell they went nuts with it this time! There are a few really memorable lines in here. Classic giant monster movie stuff. And that last line is so great, it had me laughing in hysterics! This is the first real Godzilla film I've got to see on the big screen, but I hope it's not my last. I hope this makes enough money that they start re-releasing all of them, and maybe the Gamera films that I've heard so many good things about. But I have a bad feeling that it would be a hard sell, since these things are of limited interest to the general public. It's a shame, because this was more entertaining than a lot of the films I've seen this summer.I really hope this does well, and I encourage everyone to see it. It's almost like going to see a cult classic movie in many ways. Everyone at the show I attended must have been Godzilla fans at some point of their life, because they loved it. I've been to a hell of a lot of movies over the years, but to my recollection I can't remember one that ended to such thunderous applause and laughter. I left with a big smile on my face that didn't go away until much later. I guarantee that everyone there had a good time, because the fun of the movie is contagious. It's cheesy for sure, but it's good cheese. And there is something classically beautiful about the original guy-in-rubber-suit Godzilla. I still get a charge out of seeing buildings get demolished under his huge feet, watching as his tail destroys skyscrapers, and seeing his radioactive breath fry the bad guys (in this case, a big living alien ship). I might not be the typical movie fan, but I believe that this is a movie that everyone can enjoy. Just lie back and let it sweep you up in its campiness. Amazingly funny stuff, and I have to give it an 8/10 stars. Whoever re-dubbed this has a wild sense of humour! G'night!  "},{"Title":"Same formula, better effects","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You have to take a Japanese made Godzilla movie with a grain of salt. It's not going to be a special effects masterpiece. Just be glad it's better that the previous versions. The plot will be weak. And in the end, it's two guys in monster suits duking it out.  Spoiler The corniest line of the film comes at the end. There's a little Godzilla in all of us. Everyone in the audience was cracking up. They couldn't believe they heard that.For what it's worth, I enjoyed it better than the 1998 U.S. version. "},{"Title":"Best movie of the summer","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having seen a few flicks this year, I must confess that this is the best movie of the summer....near as I can tell. Four of us went...one 52 years old, one 37, one 14 and the other 11 and we all agreed that the movie was terrific...and that is what it is..a real summer movie...a totally wonderful waste of time. Cheesey is the word that comes to mind...cheesey dubbing, chessey effects, and of course the patented Godzilla walk. The plot, such as it is, makes little sense...but who cares? The absolute definition of a popcorn movie....this is a must see for all ages....at least if you have a sense of humour. "}{"Title":"Gott in Himmel!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Despite the fact that some of the dubbing in this movie was done purely for comic effect (and generally succeeded), this is the first Japanese Godzilla film in a LONG time to get theatrical release in the U.S. without some idiot producer cutting in scenes of some washed-up American actor looking pensive.  The cast is all Japanese.  Godzilla 2000 is almost given some respect as an actual foreign film.Not that it really needs any respect.  Seeing the real Godzilla, rubber suit and all, is enough.  The first scene with the Big Green One is a doozy, and the film keeps going from there.  The few parts that drag are easy to ignore, since the characters in these movies say basically the same things all the time.The fight at the end is worth waiting for, as Orga is an even more interesting monster than Desuturoyah was.  The special effects are improved on.  It's probably just one or two movies away that Toho figures out how to perfectly integrate the creature, model and digital effects so that it looks almost truly realistic.  That is also important... Godzilla does not need to be CG.  In fact, quite a number of American movies that use CG look worse than this.  The matting is cleaner.  The discoloration in matted figures, though, still needs to be worked out.Despite this, Godzilla 2000 is one of the few things worth going to see at this time. "},{"Title":"A hoot","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The entire series of Godzilla movies has always been cheerfully cheesy, with cornball plot, shameful acting and hilariously poor special effects. Sort of like the Original Star Trek series. Still, we kina loved them for what they were, and what the did NOT try to be.Tha previous Hollywood Godzilla, as well as the earlier semi-American effort with what's his name (the Perry Mason actor), were just plain horrible. But happily, Godzilla 2000 returns to the original 'formula', albeit with slightly better production values.Godzilla still walks like a guy in a rubber suit; rather tippy, on his heels, toes never touching the ground. Falling boulders from a Godzilla induced rock-slide bounce like the rubber they are, and we don't care.Does the plot make any sense? Yes. How much sense? Very little, but you can follow it.But, what really made this movie for me was the Quentin Tarantino-esque dialog in many places. I figure that whoever adapted the script to English from the Japanese decided to make this film special. I really seemed, over and over, that some film-wise person had searched the film for scenes that were similar to memorable scenes from other movies, and used the dialogue from the originals. Play thisa game for yourself and see how many you can find.My favorite...there was a 1970s film about World War I air battles, where a German farmer is fighting with his wife in the cow shed, while a fierce dog-fight takes place overhead. He steps out of the hovel just as a burning plane falls towards the building. He looks up, shouts Gott in Himmel!, and the plane crashes into the building next to him. In Godzilla 2000, Godzilla is about to stomp a small shack, and a fiesty guy steps out, looks up at the descending foot, and shouts Gott in Himmel!, although the mouth movements suggest that the original script called for him to say something more profound, perhaps Aieeeeee! I loved this, but nobody else in the theatre laughed at this point. Maybe they don't speak German?Another scene, where Generals are debating with civilian leaders about how to battle Godzilla, and whether civilian casualties resulting from simply getting Godzilla mad are worth the chance of killing him, the lead General throws his hands into the air and says I'm not saying we won't get out hair mussed, but I guarantee only 200-300 dead, tops!. Almost verbatum from George C. Scott addressing the President in Dr. Strangelove (re reciprocity in nuclear bombing). Who knows what the original actor was saying in Japanese.There are many similar instances if you know your movies and keep your ears open. You can catch lines from Terminator 2, etc.I suggest attending this film at a matinee, taking a friend(s) who also knows movies, and give it a reverse Mystery Science Theatre treatment! "},{"Title":"Welcome Back!!!  But this sucks.....","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It was great to see the big guy back in his true form.  Although, the pointy spines were very distracting.  The meaner, tougher look was great except for those overly pointy spines on his back.The firepower was awesome.  But what's with this flicking of the neck to throw it.  Or that Gamera type of ball of power building before releasing.I was hoping this movie was like the previous timeline version of Godzilla vs Mecha-Godzilla or Godzilla vs the Destroyer.  These were excellent renditions of Godzilla.  The kind I wanted my friends who had not seen Godzilla like I did when growing up.  They would have seen why I so like Godzilla, and yes Gamera movies.  But this just allowed them to kick dirt in my face, and hey, I kicked some in my face too after seeing this.Note to TOHO.  Please review the aforementioned movies before any writing, screenplay, or concept of the next Godzilla movie.  I'm a diehard and I'll be back.  But before I drag any non-believers out, this next one needs to kick-butt like the other two movies I mentioned. "},{"Title":"What more could you want?","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Godzilla 2000 (aka Gojira ni-sen mireniamu) offers a very satisfying Godzilla movie viewing experience to those who really understand the fine points.  It has everything you could want an incomprehensible plot, rubber suits, cheezy specials, grainy film and incredibly bad dubbing.  It is exactly like the Godzilla films I loved when I was a kid.  Nothing is missing.  Nothing is different.  That is the magical thing about Godzilla films -- they exist outside of time, unchanging and unchangeable, a genre as indestructible and immutable as the big radioactive lizard himself.During the first minute of the film the people who did the dubbing give a preemptive demonstration that they have no intention of trying to match the dialog to motions of the actor's lips.  The first three spoken lines go on for at least three seconds after the actors stop talking.  What a treat! It was obvious that the people who did the dubbing had a certain amount of fun with it.  At one point a Tokyo shopkeeper comes out of his shop, sees the giant monster and yells Gott im Himmel!! and runs back inside.  At another point a newspaper editor sees Godzilla and yells Great Caesar's Ghost!! (ala Perry White in Superman)The specials were, as is traditional, pretty bad, but that said, the film had a look to it that was oddly beautiful.  There are scenes where there is action in the foreground and Godzilla tearing up the scenery in the background but he really looks far away and elemental -- like a thunderstorm viewed across the plains.  The film was filled with these oddly compelling images.  It has lots to look at.One is tempted to think that the retro-camp feeling of the film is deliberate on the part of Toho.  All of the characters dress and act exactly like they did 20 years ago.  The addition of a spunky kid taking care of her absent-minded dad is a welcome touch.  She gives the film a certain anime feeling that keeps it from getting too heavy.I had a great time.  You can too.  Just leave your adulthood at home and get in touch with your inner, Godzilla-loving child. "},{"Title":"Warning! This movie is for die hard Godzilla fans ONLY!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's always nice to be able to see Godzilla on the big screen again, whether it's that overproduced Americanized version or a good old fashioned overdubbed Japanese version. However, I have to warn people, this movie does get pretty campy, sometimes even too campy for me, and saying something. But overall I liked it and would say it was a lot better than that Americanized version. The only real problems I had were that they never explained how Godzilla survived his nuclear meltdown from his last picture. I had heard this was supposed to start the big green afresh again, but in the movie it was a given that he'd been around a while. They also over used the chroma-key special effects. I gave the movie an 8 because, like I said, I liked it, but Godzilla has done better.  "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable despite not being a masterpiece","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let me first say that I thoroughly enjoyed this film.  I'm not saying it is an original film, or a profound film, or a masterwork of Japanese cinema.  No, it isn't any of those things.  It is, in summary, a movie about two big monsters duking it out in the middle of a major Japanese city and destroying as many buildings as possible in the process.  It's loud, fast-paced, and is probably the best, production value-wise, of any of the recent Godzilla movies.  It's also poorly dubbed and has a plot like most of the other Godzilla (or other kaiju) films, but who cares?  It's fun to watch, and that's what counts!  Ironically, this is also a much better movie, dubbing and all, than the 1998 Godzilla... Hollywood should take note that sometimes impressive special effects do not equal fun. "},{"Title":"Just revenge for the American Godzilla Farce","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While not the finest in the long line of high quality plot driven Godzilla films (Insert Sarcasm Here) Godzilla 2000 showed that Godzilla while 40 years old still the man (If the man could be a forty story Green lizard that belches plasma rays).Obviously disappointed by the poor efforts of our favorite Independence Day producers efforts to make an over budget American Godzilla that lets face it looked like a giant computer generated Iguana.  Throughout the film they place small and subtle jabs at the film work of Roland and Dean.  For Example the Alien when just prior to turning into Orga looked just like the aliens that were kept in Area 51 in Independence Day.  They also placed in a gratutous scene of Godzilla swimming in the exact way the Iguana did, and when the Alien ship arrived in Tokyo they pulled the same ID4 Shadow coming over the shocked crowd, you'd think with all their Godzilla experience they'd look up and say Huh...Whatever.  The Buildings did also explode like they did in ID4.One major disappointment in this film was the lack of all the pointless and unnecessary Godzilla fighting equipment.  No Mazers were seen and I was really hoping they'd show us the new Super X 3, or what ever number they are up to with the cool reflective mirror and Fuzzy Dice.Despite a few slow parts in the middle, IE Godzilla didn't appear for about forty minutes, the ending was most satisfying.  Not only does it have one of the lamest wrap-ups in history, the line delivered was reminiscent of Doogie Houser's line in Starship Troopers when he said it's afraid.  I love the fact that after he delivers the line and they are left in quiet contemplation about how Godzilla isn't that bad because he defeated the alien, G-Man goes off and continues to smash Shinjuku.  But hey, he's only doing it because he loves us... "},{"Title":"Some short observations.........","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I think I can sum up this movie in one word Fun! As long as you don't set your expectations any higher than that, you're sure to enjoy GODZILLA 2000 MILLENNIUM.My favorite lines Did you see that giant flying rock go by?....We're all going to die; and I'm part of the reason, aren't I?....There's a little of Godzilla in all of us.and my VERY favorite Gee, you stink!Like I said, it's fun. Don't see it for any other reason than that.  "},{"Title":"Don't mess with Japan - They've got Godzilla!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  8/20/2000  I'm talking of course about Godzilla 2000.  I saw the American version - didn't like it.  Godzilla isn't a dinosaur - he's an icon.  This version of Godzilla was perfect - it's the Godzilla I grew up with and although they added a few modern special effects, the Japanese didn't stray too far from the old effects of the classic originals.  This is what made it good.  I recognized this Godzilla!  The story wasn't the best in the world I have to admit, but it reminded me of the 50's version.  They used computers more in this one which goes right along with the computer age we're living in and of course there is always the hero.If you're into nostalgia, this movie is for you!-- Celtic Lady  "},{"Title":"a true monster movie realistic affects","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie was very good. special effects look very realistic much better than computer-generated imagery of the American version of Godzilla.The plot typical Japanese little hokey but you really felt that Godzilla was a huge monster and was very realistic if you like the Godzilla of the '50s you will appreciate this movie. In the movie you actually felt a little scared and thought that there was a giant monster really the sound was excellent, I thought this was the best Godzilla movie ever. see it. "}{"Title":"The Best To Date","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You know, if you do something long enough, you will eventually get skilled at it, whether or not it's something that people can appreciate.Case in point  Godzilla 2000.Toho Studios has been cranking out man-in-rubber-suit films for almost half a century, and the quality of experience shows in their latest fare, Godzilla 2000.For those of you who don't haunt every Godzilla-related website scrounging for data, this film takes the premise that only two prior Godzilla films are within continuity; the first one (1955) and Godzilla 1985. Don't expect him to do a victory dance like the one in Monster Zero.  It ain't gonna happen.This is simply a fun film.  I'm not saying it's a GOOD film, but for sheer entertainment it does the job.  It's got a very basic plot, basic characters, and of course, the foam rubber wonder himself, Godzilla.  The not-so-jolly green giant is back to being a bad guy, being in that he is wont to trash cities rather than defend the innocent.The computer effects are mixed, in that some of them are done fairly well and others look like they were done by a student on his powerMac.  Being that you're already buying into the concept that a gigantic green lizard is stomping Japan, this is a little jarring, but it can be overlooked.  Think of it as the new millennium's version of the Tonka Toy army.The American voice dubbing is unexpectedly hilarious.  A few attempts to modernize the dialogue surprised me, with lines like bite me and quitcher bitchin' thrown in.  Check out the shopkeeper who spouts German and see if you don't crack up in laughter.The only truly bad thing about this film is only truly bad if you aren't already a Godzilla fan.  If the idea of some guy in a rubber monster suit fighting another guy in a rubber monster suit doesn't appeal to you, then you should probably give this one a big miss.  If you prefer your gargantuan reptiles to be of the CGI variety, then go rent Emmerich and Devlin's G.I.N.O. (Godzilla In Name Only).  Yes, you can e-mail me, and I'll give you my own dissertation on why Tri-Star's version completely fell flat (without mentioning Matthew Broderick or Maria Pitillo, too!).At any rate, I found this to be one of, if not the most entertaining of the Godzilla films since the first one.  Go check it out, catch a matinee, see it on DVD, just remember to take it in the spirit that it's meant. FUN. "},{"Title":"Tokyo really gets it in this one!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised by this new and improved version of Godzilla.  I loved the Big Guy's movies when I was a kid and I (somewhat sheepishly) went to this one on opening night with my brother-in-law, also a childhood monster movie fan.  We were both impressed with the story, the more-than-decent FX (for these kinds of movies, that is), and the human characters.  I couldn't help but notice a few little visual details that were obviously inspired by the horrendous American version of 1998, which rather surprised me.  Maybe the Japanese were grateful to the American filmmakers for reawakening interest in Godzilla, despite the American's utter ineptitude in reinventing the story.  The Godzilla in this flick is back-to-basics MEAN, and  goes on an extremely destructive rampage through Tokyo, which is totally what I want to see when I go to this kind of thing (the American Godzilla was the wimpiest giant lizard the cinema has ever seen). Best of all though, Godzilla STILL manages to fight and defeat a deadly-to-humankind alien monster in the film's second half, affording his adoring fans a glimpse of his other,*softer* side.  This is a good Monster Mash. 7/10 "},{"Title":"AMAZING!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I've watched Godzilla movies since I was little... I've seen almost all of them, but this was the first one (neglecting that awful american made attempt) I've actually seen first run in the theater.And it was AMAZING!Face it, we don't love Godzilla (or Gamera, for that matter) for their amazing dialog, or insight, or even aethetic appeal.  We love Godzilla because we love seeing men in rubber suits crush cities, breathe fire, and fight other monsters.  This movie had AMAZING effects (the fire breath is _realistic_! and G & Orga look SCARY!).  Not perfect Matrix caliber CG stuff, but quite wonderful & entertaining... and the best I've seen in any kaiju movie, including the new Gamera series.The human interaction, although trivial compared to the big action, was actually not that bad.  The dialog was slightly better than par for G movies (funnier, but intentionally, I think), and not just an annoying diversion. Of course, you're not going to see this movie for plot, so that really doesn't matter, but it did make for an even more enjoyable movie.In short, if you are a true Godzilla fan, you will see this movie no matter what.  If you're halfhearted, see it and be amused.  Don't take it seriously.  If you are the typical movie viewer, I pity you for wasting your money on Hollow Man or The Cell- see this instead.PS I found the presence of one of those the incidents and characters that have been depicted are fictional.  any resembalance to real persons.. etc. messages at the end of the credits incredibly funny... ) "},{"Title":"The real Godzilla returns!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After watching the disastrous American Godzilla in 1998, I was glad to hear that Toho would bring the original, Japanese Godzilla back to the big screen.  The wait has been worth it.  The real Godzilla is back and better than ever.The movie's place in the series is unclear.  No references are made to past events from either the original 1954 movie or the more recent Godzilla films of the late 80s and early 90s, so it's hard to tell just where this version of Godzilla came from.Plot-wise, Godzilla films have never made a great deal of sense.  This film is no exception to that rule.  Godzilla arrives on the scene and the Japanese military attempt to destroy him.  Their plans are interrupted by a UFO that has emerged from the bottom of the ocean to battle Godzilla.  When the UFO lands on top of a building in Tokyo, the military attempt to destroy it.  Of course, they fail and it's up to Godzilla to do the deed.The inhabitants of this film's world seem amazed at the prospect of an alien lifeform that has remained dormant for 60 million years, but think nothing of the fact that a 500 foot tall monster regularly attacks their country. Strange, but a fine example of the logic that thrives in Godzilla movies. Teamed with the corny dialogue, somewhat less-than-spectacular special effects (although these are the best ever for a Godzilla movie) and the standard issue bad dubbing and you've got a classic Godzilla flick.One thing that's kind of cool about Godzilla 2000 is that it seems to mock the American Godzilla in a few scenes.  From the scene where Godzilla's eyeball peers into the camera in a way that's too close to be a coincidence to a battle with an enemy monster named Orga, who's face is quite similar to the American Godzilla's mutated iguana creature, there are many scenes that recall the horrible Devlin/Emmerich movie from 1998.  All of them seem to say, Look, this is the way it should be done!Godzilla's appearance has changed for this new entry as well.  This is definitely the meanest looking of the many Godzilla suits to grace the screen.  The fangs are more prominent and the dorsal spines are almost like daggers.  He's quite imposing looking, even for a man in a rubber suit! Thanks to the new effects that are used, it's a lot easier to suspend your disbelief and enjoy the scenes involving Godzilla's rampages through Tokyo or his battles with the aliens.  If the movie's script and direction could have matched up with the quality of the suit and the effects, it would have been perfect.Unfortunately, Godzilla is off-screen for way too long during the second act and the movie's characters don't quite have the strength to carry the picture in Big G's absence.  Godzilla's adversary is also rather uninspired and not that interesting.It may be hokey and cheesy, but that's the way I like my Godzilla movies. And this one definitely is worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie...!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In the USA, many people have fond memories of sitting in front of the TV as kids watching the Godzilla movies on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon. There's a lot of nostalgia.  For most of us, we remember hideous dubbing and terrible special effects.  But you know what?  It doesn't matter.  I went to see this movie with friends, and we laughed our sides off.  I'm sure that the directors did not intend that.  It holds up so well to what I remember from the past films.  Fellow Saturday-Afternoon fans and those who loved watching Mystery Science Theater 3000 would NOT be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Toho's answer to Hollywood???","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I must say that when I saw the previews for this movie, I was very excited.  I have never been a huge fan of Godzilla, but have enjoyed several of his movies in the past, until Hollywood got ahold of it.  Now with Godzilla 2000, Toho could take the series back to where it needs to be...a guy in a rubber suit destroying cities.  When I actually saw this film however, I was gravely disappointed.  It starts very slowly.  Godzilla attacks for a minute, then is not seen again for 40 minutes.  The story doesn't make a lot of sense, especially toward the end.  A lot of random thoughts are thrown at you, and you are supposed to understand where and why they fit, but they don't.  I was impressed by the ending though.  The way it was done is probably one of the coolest last couple of minutes I have seen in any movie.  All in all, I am glad I didn't have to pay to see this movie.  It might be worth checking out if you are a Godzilla fan, but those who just want carnage might want to look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Kaiju-rific!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I heard Godzilla 2000 was coming to American theaters, I was really excited.  For the first time ever, I'd get to see Godzilla on the big screen.  I was not disappointed.  Godzilla looks great with a meaner, leaner look.  The special effects, although not without their bad shots, are generally very good.  The enemy UFO/Monster is really cool and the final fight is fantastic and exciting.  The dubbing is fine, but it did have its bad moments.  Tristar's edits were fairly unobtrusive, so I didn't mind. Would've liked it if the they did make a few shots grainy. Oh well.  And the movie dragged a little.  Despite its bad points, though, Godzilla 2000 is a very fast paced and exciting entry into the Godzilla.  It's one of my favorite Godzilla movies.  And I the movie left me with a big smile on my face.  I can't wait to see it again. 10/10(kaiju = monster) "},{"Title":"Excellent Updating Of the Godzilla Saga","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Godzilla 2000 Millennium is the dark, but eerily beautiful updating of the Godzilla saga. It features stunning SPFX, passionate performances by a well assembled cast and great action. Takehiro Murata as Yuji Shinoda and Hiroshi Abe as Mutsuo Katagiri give inspired performances as men in opposite camps regarding Godzilla. In fact, the drama between the human characters is just as satisfying as the effects scenes- which are great. The score by Takayuki Hattori is moving and effective in conveying the various moods of this well-made kaiju eiga (Japanese monster movie). Godzilla 2000 Millennium also has moments of humor as well as scenes which give us insight into the lives of the people tracking Godzilla and who must then deal with an even greater threat. The scenes between the father/daughter team of Yuji and Io Shinoda who head the Godzilla Prediction Network (GPN) are entertaining and moving, especially at a very dramatic moment in the story. The monster battles are well done as are the confrontation between Godzilla and the Japanese Self Defense Forces. Godzilla 2000 Millennium also vindicates the traditional Japanese way of making giant monster movies. Made with a fraction of the budget for the American Godzilla movie of 1998, it delivers a more authentic, satisfying product. Godzilla 2000 Millennium is probably the second greatest movie in the entire series, exceeded only by the original Gojira.  "},{"Title":"Still the King of the Monsters after all these years","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I recently obtained a subtitled copy of this film and I must say that I was impressed. Godzilla Millenium is a great monster movie and beats outs the entire Mothra series, G vs. Space Godzilla, G vs. Mothra, Return of G, and various entries from the first series (no need to name them all). In short, this movie is one of Godzilla's better movies. The story is pretty good, with a fair amount of suspense thrown in. I liked how Godzilla's regenerative powers are discussed in this film. The characters are well-defined and sympathetic. Unlike many previous movies, there aren't too many characters thrown in. The special FX are best since Godzilla vs. Biollante. I guess it took a hint from Gamera and made some changes. There is a sense of realism seen in this film that wasn't seen throughout most of the Heisei series (Godzilla 1985 and Godzilla vs. Biollante being exceptions). The last half hour is simply awesome, especially the final scene. A great Godzilla movie for fans and nonbelievers alike. "},{"Title":"It's a great Godzilla movie and I have always loved Godzilla from the start.","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love Godzilla but I really think that the U.S. should not have made a Godzilla of their own. I like the original a lot better. I also love the new look of Godzilla he looks meaner and more destructive even though he's a bit smaller. "}{"Title":"The best Godzilla in nearly a decade!","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  No review from a die-hard G-fan (who has NEVER disliked a Godzilla movie) could be very objective, but here it is. I thought the film was excellent, much better than the early press would lead one to believe. In fact, I haven't enjoyed a new G-film this much on the first viewing since GODZILLA VS. KINGGHIDORAH. I felt the plot was very engrossing and very well paced. Despite reports that this film was slow or boring, I found myself very caught up in the story, and certainly never bored. Everything develops at just the right pace to make the payoff scenes(monster/UFO scenes and battles) all the more satisfying. The human characters were genuine and sympathetic, and their reactions to the monsters and such were credible. Their fear seemed real. They also held their own admirably when there were no visual effects on screen, a credit both to the performers and the writers, for crafting a tight storyline. The effects themselves were nothing short of outstanding. Toho's effects team did a good job of blending live action and CG seamlessly, avoiding the attractive but often obvious CG of Tristar's Godzilla, or Daiei's Gamera 3. With no offense intended toward the very good Gamera 3, G2000's visuals were breathtaking, but not to the degree that they were intrusive to the story. G3's flashy visual effects, in my opinion, sometimes undermined the realism they were shooting for by being too cartoonish. Anyway, G2000's effects were nearly perfect in both execution and integration into the storyline. The oft-maligned musical score is actually pretty solid, and I enjoyed the brief incorporation of Ifukube's Godzilla March into the mix. It did not distract from this film's new music, which I felt was an excellent combo of American, John Williams-style scoring and traditional Japanese monster music. My only complaint with the score is that there is too little music in Godzilla's early scenes. Overall, though, the music, like the excellent effects, supports the story without overshadowing it.On the old rating scale, I'd give G2000 a 4.5 stars, out of a possible 5. If they had avoided the temptation to play with Godzilla's roar(holding back on the traditional roar and adding more growling and rumbling, ala Tristar), and fleshed out the score just a little, I might have given it a perfect score. It felt very much like the Toho films of the mid-60s, right at that point when the monsters were still being treated as monsters, but the stories started to become more and more fantasy-oriented. Perhaps this is why, like G VS KG, watching G2000 felt more like watching a classic Godzilla film on some Saturday monster matinee show than watching a bootleg of the latest Heisei film.In other words, I loved it! "},{"Title":"The quintessential Godzilla movie.","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In 1995, Toho decided to give Godzilla his second break by killing him off in the film Godzilla vs Destroyah. Three years later, Tristar did their American remake and, while a commercial success and an entertaining movie itself, it greatly disappointed tons of fans like myself. Japan was pretty upset over the mutant iguana that attacked New York City, so in the next year, they made this awesome movie, which was released in the U.S. another year later.Plot For years, Godzilla has terrorized humanity and ironically saved them from other monsters. Dr. Shinoda and his organization, The Godzilla Prevention Network, have been studying the monster for a long time and has made a wonderful discovery. This discovery not only draws attention to CCI (Crisis Control Intelligence) that's dedicated to killing Godzilla, but also a mysterious alien with extraordinary powers that has been asleep on Earth for 60 million years. Sensing that the planet is in peril, Godzilla heads off to face this foe in a battle that will have Tokyo tremble before their might.The timing can not be more perfect. Godzilla, the real one, coming to theaters out of vacation shortly after the American wannabe film in the year 2000. The story is great, having lots of cool parts and centering around a unique characteristic Godzilla has that is not often discussed in most of his movies. Human characters are pretty decent in my opinion, each having their own strengths and weaknesses. The action scenes are some of the best in the series, especially Godzilla's final battle with the alien Orga as they destroy anything in their path to kill each other. The suits for the monsters are just excellent and pretty iconic.There's no doubt about it, this one of the best Godzilla movies I have ever seen, if not the best in the series. Definitely worth the watch. All hail the King of the Monsters! "},{"Title":"Better than the American version","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Much better than the 1998 American film, but then again, all Japanese Godzilla films are.The plot - as it were - serves once again as time filler while building up to the monsters clash finale. A UFO is discovered, a single parent scientist obsessed with protecting Godzilla and his daughter join forces with a semi-attractive reporter lady to cover Godzilla, the UFO and other conspiracies while a rival government agent tries to destroy both Godzilla & the UFO any which way he can. Later they discover that the UFO was housing a deadly alien monster trying to take over the Earth - either by adapting Earth to fit its needs or by adapting itself to suit the Earth. Guess what the alien tries to model itself after Godzilla, and when the UFO gives Godzilla a royal bitch smack, you can bet your Blockbuster rental card that Godzilla won't take that lying down, because no one wrecks Tokyo, Japan but Godzilla!The usual run through - bad dubbing, men in rubber suits, cardboard sets are destroyed, and some CGI is thrown in for good measure. A fun romp of campy madness. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A noble addition to the collection.","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  All kidding aside, this is great addition to the series, that is if you care for Godzilla movies.  Personally, I could watch these films all day long.  There's something endearing about a huge radioactive lizard who trashes everything but then protects mankind from evil spacemen and other monsters.Godzilla 2000 features the big guy taking on a flying rock that's really the cover for a space vehicle - they want to take over the planet, natch.  As a side plot, there's a friendly scientist, Shinoda, and his daughter, Io, who run a Godzilla tracking network, and an evil businessman, Katagiri.  Shinoda wants to protect Godzilla and learn from him, Katagiri wants to kill him.There's not a heck of a lot to the plot.  Katagiri's men uncover what they think is a huge meteorite from the ocean, but it turns out to be the spacemen's saucer.  Once freed and able to draw power from the sun, it takes off for Tokyo where it begins to drain all the data out of the computers so as to learn how to seize control of the Earth for themselves.  Godzilla is one one of his regular rampages and goes after the saucer - big fight ensues with much collateral damage.After trashing the space monster (the saucer morphs into some sort of thing that kinda looks like a big version of the creature from Alien), Godzilla goes after Katagiri and finishes him off.  Film ends with Shinoda and the girl wondering why Godzilla keeps saving man when all we try to do is kill him.  The answer we created him and there's a little bit of Godzilla in all of us.OK, some gratuitous philosophy amidst all the carnage, but maybe this is the beginning of a zen-like take on the Godzilla myth.  Maybe future Godzilla films will have the big guy seeking to balance the planet and save mankind from himself.   "},{"Title":"Same Stuff","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Same old standard Japanese production Godzilla movie that tries to get back to basics with a little bit of newer CGI effects here and there.An ANTI-RADICAL CHANGE for Godzilla movie if you will. Only for big fans of this genre. They could have done much better for this movie. I have seen much better production for the TV Series POWER RANGERS compared to what was presented in this B-Movie...... "},{"Title":"Godzilla Meets Quatermass or Toho's Seriously Flawed Step Back in the Right Direction.","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** The first Godzilla movie in the third movie series, whereas GODZILLA VS. DESTOROYAH, the previous entry, aptly ended the second series.  What else can I say?  Well, let's break it down.I once liked the 2nd series of Godzilla movies (1984-1995), even though I found something annoying about those movies (as either the bad or good guy, Godzilla was so sympathetic that the human characters came off as obnoxious).  Then, in 1995, along came a movie called GAMERA GUARDIAN OF THE UNIVERSE and its two successful sequels, all directed by master filmmaker Shuusuke Kaneko, who singlehandedly changed the face of Japanese monster movies forever.  I was spoiled!!!  The Series 2 Godzilla movies were suddenly looked down as half-hearted, heavy-handed, auto-piloted and lazy attempts at recreating the original Godzilla, and end up being an insult to the memory of genre masters Ishirou Honda and Eiji Tsuburaya.  GAMERA 3 THE AWAKENING OF IRIS, released the same year as this film, was simply incredible.  Once Hollywood moviegoers saw that movie, they would never look at Japanese monster movies the same way again.Then, along came Tri-Star's 1998 GINO (Godzilla In Name Only), which was understandably met with bitter hatred by true Godzilla fans the world over. The worst portrayal of Godzilla seen by the human eye, making Marvel's 70s comics and Hanna-Barbera's cartoon look better.  Then, MOTHRA 3, released later that year, bombed at the box office.  Toho was in deep crap.  They felt as though Godzilla was about to lose his fans, because of this red-blooded American box-office disaster, so to make up for it, they made this movie, GOJIRA NI-SEN MIRENIAMU (Godzilla 2000 Millennium), which was a take that to GINO.  This movie is definitely better than GINO, which isn't saying much.Is it the BEST Godzilla movie?  Nope, not by a long shot.  In fact, it quickly bombed at the box office in Japan (starting out at 4th place, and sinking to 8th in the second week!).  A lot of Godzilla fans in Japan didn't like the movie.  Is it entertaining?  Not if you're spoiled by the Heisei Gamera trilogy, but if you don't take the movie too seriously, yes, it is very entertaining.  In fact, I hadn't been entertained like this since TERROR OF MECHAGODZILLA (Toho; 1975), and despite the movie's MAJOR flaws, GODZILLA 2000 MILLENNIUM is still very entertaining.First of all, Godzilla has never looked better!  His design has been in a rut since 1989, where his design was great, but once they stuck to it, he began to look slapped-together in each new film, but finally, a NEW Godzilla design!  As Riverdancer Michael Flatley once said, It's important to change, because if you stagnate, you die.  I think this is a very good change, and one that stays true to Godzilla's spirit.  Godzilla's design is a streamlined version of the Kin-Goji design from KING KONG VS. GODZILLA, with jagged DARK CRYSTAL-style dorsal fins that give him an evil look.  I was neither bothered by the orange-colored Radioactive Heat Beam (most fans are used to blue), nor Godzilla's green tone (this is the first time Toho made Godzilla officially green, whereas he had an ambiguous green-gray tone).  I was very happy with this Godzilla.  For the first time, Godzilla was played by former JAC stuntman Tsutomu Kitagawa (a veteran of Toei's Sentai Series), who just started out in the Toho Monster genre (he played King Ghidorah in MOTHRA 3).The UFO and the Millennian Alien/Orga were excellent and unique ideas (which the previous movie series wouldn't have allowed, for fear of being over the top, but this was the cleverest portrayal of aliens in a Godzilla film), but half the time, they are poorly handled on film.  That brings us to the story part.  The Millennian, Toho's first CGI monster, is a really bizarre creation, and Orga reminds me of GINO (the intention) as if over-mutated by comic-book artist Todd McFarlane!  Definitely not your average Japanese monster!The story has great ideas, and a more realistic feel than the previous Godzilla movies since the 90s.  However, the main problem is that things were not spelled out for the viewer (mostly because production was rushed in the second half).  As a result, lot of people did not know what was going on.  After reading about the plot/story and having purchased both the Official Movie Compendium (which has TONS of useful info that Americans don't know about the film) and the manga adaptation by Mondo Takimura (which is a MUCH better version of the film than the film itself!), I've seen critics/reviewers make up their own conclusion.  Read the plot below so I'll help out.Throughout the film, there are parodies of both GINO and INDEPENDENCE DAY (one scene had a taxi driver in Shinjuku getting out of his taxi, staring dumbfounded at the UFO while his car gets smashed by another!  Part of this was cut out in the US version; It shouldn't have been)!As of 1999, the special effects are probably the best in any Toho Godzilla film since Teruyoshi Nakano's breathtaking work in the 1984 GODZILLA. Kenji Suzuki's FX are a vast improvement over Kouichi Kawakita's work in the films from 1989-1995.  This is his second FX direction job (his first was MOTHRA 3).  Definitely not up to Shinji Higuchi's work in the Heisei Gamera trilogy (which Toho had been trying to keep up with), but definitely not too shabby for a Toho Godzilla film!  The downside is that some of the FX looked rushed (especially in the climactic fight scene between Godzilla and Orga; Toho was definitely behind schedule).As for the human characters, after 1975 (and probably 1984), we FINALLY get characters from all walks of life!  Thus, they may not be the BEST characters, but very amusing ones (and thankfully, not too many of them, whereas previous Godzilla movies had byzantine amounts of important characters you didn't care for).  Takehiro Murata, no stranger to Godzilla films (he appeared in 1992's GODZILLA VS. MOTHRA and 1995's GODZILLA VS. DESTOROYAH), takes his first lead Godzilla film role as Yuuji Shinoda, who runs GPN (Godzilla Prediction Network) with his little daughter Io (Mayu Suzuki), and wants to study Godzilla to discover the secrets to life. Actress Naomi Nishida very well plays the part of O-Parts magazine photographer Yuuki Ichinose, who joins GPN to get pictures of Godzilla for the magazine.  TV & movie heartthrob Hiroshi Abe totally steals the show as the ruthless Mitsuo Katagiri, who runs CCI (Crisis Control Intelligence Agency), the faction that wants Godzilla destroyed, period.  Godzilla's rooftop confrontation with Abe at the film's end is a shining moment!  And there's actor and longtime Godzilla fan Shirou Sano as Shirou Miyasaka, Shinoda's old college buddy/CCI executive, who provides a conflict between the two factions.The music by Takayuki Hattori is an improvement over his own score for GODZILLA VS. SPACE GODZILLA, but in the film, it was done absolutely no justice.  When one listens to the CD soundtrack, one finds that some of the best tracks aren't even used in the film, thus Toho's music editors do the same slapdash job of cutting & pasting tracks all over the place, but some of the important tracks are left in the right place.  And as much as it livens the film, Toho's throwing in a token stock track of Akira Ifukube's Godzilla Theme (just to tell us that this is a Godzilla film) does detract from the film.  It seems the fogeys over at Toho have a problem with simply doing new arrangements of Ifukube's music (cost-effective, maybe?).Then, there's Takao Ookawara directing his last Godzilla film before quitting the series.  Ookawara doesn't care much for Godzilla, though his work is actually okay.  He's better than Kazuki Oomori (not only the worst Godzilla director, in my opinion, but he is completely embarrassed with monsters and stuff), though.And last, but not least, Tri-Star's US English-language version.  Well, I've seen the Japanese version on tape, and when comparing it with the US version, the Japanese version actually makes more sense.  Some of the US editing patronizes the original material by cutting out some important scenes and changing parts of the dialogue for PC reasons (like changing Organizer G1 to Regenerator G1, and editing out all references to Millennium).  However, the US version makes up for it with tighter pacing and some really fun dialogue, not to mention one bit of profanity (Nice try, a**hole!)!  About time Godzilla movies started growing up!  The US music by J. Peter Robinson is okay, but really cheesy most of the time (noticably, much of the score was recycled from the 1998 TV movie, GARGANTUA, which was made by Fox to one-up GINO).  Hattori's original score is about 50-75% intact, though.  Robinson actually rearranges Ifukube music with two tracks, the best in the scene where Orga makes his appearance, the worst being the scene in the end (after which, said token stock Ifukube track is repeated before cuing the complete original ending credits track). Speaking of which, the worst part of the Americanization was the tacky THE ? END title card at the end of the theatrical version of the film (blessedly removed for TV/Video/DVD versions).  I was really embarrassed.Speaking of embarrassing, a lot of people in the US seem to have lost sleep over the closing dialogue, the last part of which is a direct translation in the US version Godzilla is . . . inside all of us!  And yes, Japanese fans were pretty embarrassed with that scene!  I didn't mind it, though. The US version is still fun to sit through, and still manages to have respect for the original film.  I did hear, though, that the US version was put together at the last minute (to meet a tight deadline), which explains a lot.Before I close this review, well, everyone pretty much knows the plot, but here's my version anyway It's basically Godzilla crossed with QUATERMASS AND THE PIT.  This movie is a direct follow-up to the original 1954 GODZILLA, but HOW Godzilla came back is unexplained (a MAJOR weakness for the film).  For what it's worth, GPN (Godzilla Prediction Network) led by Yuuji Shinoda and his daughter Io, try to predict Godzilla's city attacks so that he can evacuate precious lives in advance.  In foggy Nemuro, Godzilla crunches a fishing ship with his powerful jaws in front of a lighthouse, smashes a bar, attacks a city and for some reason, destroys a power station (all this being among the best highlights of the film).  According to Shinoda (in the Japanese version), Does Godzilla hate the energy that mankind produces?  Meanwhile, CCI (Crisis Control Intelligence Agency), led by Mitsuo Katagiri, discovers a HUGE rock fragment beneath the Japan Trench, and try to transport it, but the rock transports ITSELF by floating to the surface of the ocean!  CCI member Shirou Miyasaka suggests that the rock might contain an alien life form, and to their surprise, it does some weird things like stand right side up over the ocean.  At the same time, despite Shinoda's warnings, Katagiri, CCI and the Japan Self Defense Forces prepare to attack Godzilla in Tokaimura (where, at the same time of filming, a nuclear accident happened in real life) with a new set of super-missiles called Full Metal Missiles (Yes, they're called that in the Japanese version!  No doubt a tribute to Stanley Kubrick's FULL METAL JACKET).  The weird thing is that when Godzilla appears, he does absolutely nothing!  He just lets the JSDF hit him with everything but the kitchen sink, to no good effect, although the Full Metal Missiles did kinda' do a number on him. Just then, Miyasaka finds that the giant rock follows the sun, so it starts to fly away and heads toward Godzilla, the two titans shoot rays at each other, and in the process, Godzilla is defeated, and the rock is revealed to be a huge, solar-powered metallic UFO!  It flies to Shinjuku, where it lands on a network building (same building as O-Parts Magazine!), and starts draining info from the Internet so that it can find out more about Godzilla (it discovered that Godzilla has quick-regeneration process; Upon further study with Miyasaka, Shinoda calls it Organizer G1).  It also starts transmitting message words such as Millennium, Kingdom, etc.  Come evening, Katagiri even suggested blowing up the building with the UFO still on it (where a crazy mix-up gets Shinoda into DIE HARD-style hijinks), but guess what?  The UFO stands triumphant and destroys the rest of the building!  Shinoda emerges a survivor, and shows everyone why the UFO wants Godzilla The Millennium Aliens (Millennians) want to start an empire on Earth by converting our planet's air to make it more suitable for them. When they crashed on Earth in prehistoric times, they lost their solid composure and were reduced to anti-matter in the process.  They need Godzilla's cells to regenerate their bodies.  Then, Godzilla shows up from Tokyo Bay, and has a fight with the UFO, which overpowers him (telepathically using underground cables to lasso him) and clones Organizer G1 from his body, thus, the Millennians emerge from the UFO, regenerating into their original form, a single giant squidlike alien!  But unfortunately, Godzilla's DNA overtook the alien's shape and causes a painful Hulk-like transformation, thus Orga (named from Organizer G1 - Get it?) was the tragic result.  After Godzilla trashes the UFO, Orga proceeds to beat him silly (also telepathically controlling what's left of the UFO to bash him around with it!).  Can Godzilla destroy a giant alien mutant with many times his own healing speed?Whew!  That was a lengthy review!  Well, I still think that the next Godzilla movie, GODZILLA X MEGAGUIRUS THE G ANNIHILATION STRATEGY, is even better, and that it was the type of movie Toho should've made (and the movie that should've been shown in US theaters)!  Nevertheless, enjoy GODZILLA 2000 MILLENNIUM, either in its more straightforward Japanese version and/or the campy-but-fun US version!  A VERY flawed, yet entertaining step back in the right direction.GOJIRAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Godzilla 2000 is INCREDIBLE!!!!!!","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am kicking myself for not getting to a theater to see this when it was out last Spring.  But at least the video came out.  I've just watched it for the second time and it just gets better!The new Godzilla is definitely edgier than his father.  The look is more bestial, the creature's actions more savage.  After victory, the earlier Godzilla would walk off to the sea.  THIS one kills the human who tried to kill him and then burns down another half mile of Tokyo as an afterthought!Traditionally Godzilla is considered a metaphor for nuclear warfare.  With the new one, I wonder if Godzilla is more a metaphor for the gods we worship. This Godzilla knows who you are and can kill you any time he wants.  Just like a god.     "},{"Title":"The Big 'G' stomps his way back in style.","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After the headache inducing (not to mention insulting to longtime fans) American film, Toho set out to set the record straight that if there aren't guys running around in rubber monster suits, it's not truly a Godzilla film.Godzilla 2000 does most everything right. There aren't any annoying kids running around who worship Godzilla, the bad monster is actually kept concealed until the final battle, and the special effects make up for in scope what they lack in technical prowess.Of special mention is the new Godzilla suit which marks a return to the more menacing look that the 90's films started reverting back towards.The only weak thing was that the middle seemed to drag just a bit compared to the rest of the film. But that's really just nit-picking.A great film for longtime fans and newcomers alike.rating9 "},{"Title":"The REAL Godzilla Returns","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Understand I am under no illusions about this movie. The dubbing is ridiculous and obvious. The dialogue would is laughably cheesy. The special effects are about a decade old by Western standards. All that said, this is the best theatre-going experience I've ever had! I've been a huge Godzilla fan since kindergarten, and I still say this is one his better films. The SPFX, even if sub-par over here, are a huge step forward for the Godzilla series, and the music, direction and writing are great too. I really like the GPN vs. CCI conflict about Godzilla, and the characters are better thought out than in most of the Heisei series. The monster battles are some of the best Toho has ever filmed, with far more detailed models and suits than ever before. Even if you're not a Godzilla fan, I still say you should see this movie. "},{"Title":"Definately one of the better dubbed films.","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I managed to see the original Japanese language versionof this movie before going to see the dubbed theatricalrelease and in comparison, the dub is not as awful as Ithought it'd be.  I've seen other dubbed Godzilla films and,by comparison (and admittedly, they were the older films),they were worse.  I felt that most of the characters (exceptfor Katagiri ; he had far too many weak moments) workedand there was emotion than cheese behind it.  The key  ingredient seemed to be in using English speaking  Japanese (?) voice actors (I stayed to see who was used inthe dub-over).  Also, there was very little ad-libbing (based on what I couldunderstand of the original).  The only variants I picked upon were the insults being made, but that's something thatcannot be translated appropriately.This film really must be seen on the big screen to feel theimmensity of it all.  Watching it on television diminishes thescope of giant monster movies.  Sadly, the only tradeoff isthat people can notice the cheapness of the sets that weredesigned to be smashed, bashed and destroyed but it  wouldn't be a Godzilla film, without it. -)  I've been a 25-yearfan of the saga, and this film is worthy for the big screenthat it was intended for.  Sadly, the US marketing of this filmsucked (Get ready to crumble?  yuch).  If it were onlymarketed better, it definitely would have made it to the top 5and put Delvin & Emmerich's version to shame.  I neversaw their version (refuse to), but to borrow on a Highlanderphase, There can be only one ... and that's Toho's versionof Godzilla. "}{"Title":"Great at being what it's supposed to be.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I know some of you are going to think I'm nuts, but I give this film a 10. Not because it's the greatest film ever made, but because it's great at what it's supposed to be. This film is just like all of the other Godzilla films - corny dialogue, cheesy special effects, bad dubbing, - and I loved every minute of it. IMHO, it beats out all of the other Godzilla films. My son, a Godzilla fanatic, says this is the best one of all of them, except for Godzilla vs. MechaGodzilla. He liked the blue ray that Godzilla shot then.If you like the classic Godzilla movies, you'll love this!! I give it a 10. "},{"Title":"I must say","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Though this film has a pretty cheesy and corny plot and characters to match, i have to give this film some credit.  It goes back to the old style Godzilla- a little Japanese guy in a Godzilla suit destroying Japan and fighting other creatures (and not some computer animated iguana that is supposed to be Godzilla in New York).  While some might say it is a corny film, I say if you have to do it corny, this is the best way.  With bad dubbing, incredibly bad actors and a alien that destroys the world by taking data, this film has a place up high in the B movies.  In fact, I consider this the best B movie of the year, by not being afraid of being bad.  B+ "},{"Title":"Damn fine tribute to the old rubber suit monster","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First off, I have to preface this review with the fact that I am a child of Godzilla.  The only nightmare of my childhood (that I can remember) came after seeing the original Godzilla. At the age of 6, I woke in a sweat after dreaming I was belt strapped into  the stands of a football stadium and Godzilla was ripping through the other side, coming towards me.  Because of this, Godzilla has been a part of my life ever since. (I've made an 8mm film and written a treatment for a full length feature, no less.)So now the stage is set for my review.  I LOVED THIS MOVIE but not because it was good technically or a well crafted script but because it's not much worse than the original that terrified that little boy 39 years ago.To be technical, the special effects look 40 years old, the dubbing is awful, the dialog comes out of left field, the logic of what's going on is in defiance of itself.  If it were not a Godzilla film, there would have been nothing here worth seeing.The script felt like an adaptation of Twister (another awful script) and the alien creature that Godzilla fights, at time resembles the one from the US (Centropolis) version (but you have to look for it.)BUT despite all that, it's HILARIOUS to see on the giant screen. This film is a laugh out loud bad film - riot.  I whish I could have watched this with Joel and the 'bots.  If I had kids, I would take them to a weekend matinee to see this wonderful throw back to the bad monster movies of the 50s.  The only thing missing was Raymond Burr.In conclusion Don't spend full price, don't take your date to this (unless it's a drive-in), don't go expecting to see cool special effects, this is Godzilla unchanged. "},{"Title":"Heh heh, it's great!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's nice to see Toho come in and show us how Godzilla is supposed to be presented 1) CGI BAD / Man in rubber suit GOOD. 2) Trash Tokyo. 3) make a lot of noise. 4) Trash Tokyo. 5) Trash Tokyo. For those of you who, like me, are familiar with the above Godzilla formula, and have grown as fond of it as I have, you won't be disappointed. Sure, the special FX have been updated. While not up to speed with the Hollywood effects, they have their own appeal. And keep in mind that G2K was made on about 1/10th of the budget of that afore-referred to American made flick. But aside from that, it's still a lot of destruction, Godzilla having that Get Some! expression, and of course, the futility of the humans and their war machines trying to put a stop to the big guy. Adults, check it out. It'll make you feel like a kid again. Kids, you see it too. You'll all but forget about that giant iguana with spikes that showed up in New York a few years back. And rightfully so. "},{"Title":"For the little bit of Godzilla in all of us...","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let's face it &#150; the reason we like going to movies is to be entertained &#150; which means having fun!  It's nice to be intellectually stimulated by carefully crafted dialog; and wonderful to see talented actors and actresses bringing to life the vision of a director.   Yet there is something about a giant Japanese monster performing urban renewal on downtown Tokyo that is satisfying in a way in which a movie like  `Shakespeare in Love' could only dream of.      I really liked this movie!  It is definitely my favorite of all the Godzilla movies ever made, and, up to this point in time, the best movie I've seen this year.    My congratulations to the people at Toho.   I was afraid that after the Emmerich/Devlin CGI &#145;Zilla, we would no longer see anything from the parents of the Big Guy.  I'm so glad I was wrong!  This film has everything that makes the Godzilla franchise the emotionally exhilarating experience that it has become for millions of fans around the world.   There's the reporter/scientist connection.   There's the Japanese Self Defense Force pumping thousands of rounds into the monster as he makes his way towards his favorite food nuclear power plants.   And as always, the JSDF fails to stop him from advancing. (Though at least they learned enough to get the tanks out of the way before he steps on them&#133;)    And to top it all off, we have the wanton destruction of downtown Tokyo, as Godzilla battles one of the most interesting foes I've ever seen him take on.   Sure, the acting leaves something to be desired, the script makes use of every cliché' in the book, and the plot has holes big enough for an army of Godzillas to march through,   but  I wouldn't have it any other way.It looks as if Toho learned a trick or two from Emmerich's Americanized Godzilla &#150; and Toho makes good use of the tricks in a way that is very complementary to the story.   Yet in many ways, this film seemed more like a remake of `Godzilla vs. Biolante.'   There were more parallels to that film than to Emmerich's.Just when you thought crass American commercialization was about to destroy yet another of the world's great icons,  the folks at Toho ride to the rescue showing that the Japanese are still the masters of the giant monster movie.   As another reviewer put it so succinctly accept no substitutes.A final note  say what you want about the Japanese army,  at least they were able to HIT Godzilla multiple times with their tanks/rockets/planes/helicopters.   It's not there fault the G-man is a quick healer. 10/10 "},{"Title":"The TOHO Godzilla.  Accept no substitutes.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Face it, America  1) Nobody makes monster movies like the Japanese; 2) Godzilla impostors just don't cut it; and 3) technically polished special effects alone do not an entertaining movie make.  Emmerich & Devlin learned this the hard way.  Fortunately, the real thing is back to remind us what a Godzilla movie should be--campy, yet downright irresistible.If you hate the big guy, feel free to use your browser's back button right now.I love Godzilla's new look.  It restores a sense of menace that had previously been lacking.  This plus the guy in a suit gives him something a CGI lizard couldn't dream of having--SOUL.  ATTITUDE. And CHARM.Yup, I said it--I find Godzilla charming.Though the effects are not really polished (nor should they be), they are quite good for a Godzilla film.  The spaceship is a bit reminiscent of the one in Disney's Flight of the Navigator, and it wreaks havoc by first demolishing a skyscraper, a la ID4.  (Note the Emmerich-Devlin connection here.  Coincidence?)  And Godzilla looks SO much better photographed in a 2.351 widescreen ratio!  The King of the Monsters demands a king-sized screen.  (And a king-sized surround system too.)Why do I like Godzilla so much?  His films are campy, but everyone from the audience to the filmmakers (especially the translators and dubbed actors) know it's camp.  It's as if the films are in on the joke, but Godzilla manages to rise above it.  Also, Godzilla is the only monster with the ability to play both hero and menace at the same time.  He is actually neither hero nor menace, but rather a man-made force of nature.  He can't help what he is, and he doesn't choose sides; it's just that if you get in his way or fire a missile at him, you just might get hurt.  Yet when he faces a formidable opponent, you just can't help but root for the guy.  At the end of the film, the female reporter asks why Godzilla always saves humanity despite our constant attempts to destroy him, to which the reply is 'maybe the TOHO Godzilla is a part of us.'  I can't speak for others, but as for me--He certainly is.  He certainly is. "},{"Title":"A huge disappointment, seriously=(","Date":"7 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Godzilla 2000, the return of Godzilla and the beginning of the 3rd series of Godzilla films the Shinsei series. Or Alternate Reality series. Or Millennium. Either name, the point is from now on each film is set in its own time line. No more continuity, at all. Now each director will change Godzilla's history and each film will have a different tone and style. I think its an all right idea, but just this once!! Anyways, after GINO was unleashed to horrify us all, this film was released, thankfully in American theaters. Unfortunately, dubbed.Now right here I'm going to point out the several negative factors in this movie, and then you can weigh them with the few positives ones. First off, all those ridiculous campy lines, ranging from Bite me!!!, Great Caesar's Ghost!, and, one of the worst, This missile will go through Godzilla like crap through a goose. WTF!!! These were the source of ridicule from American critics and they bugged the hell out of me. Luckily they're not in the unreleased Japanese version. Unfortunately, those lines at the end are. It was good till Then why does he keep protecting us?... then it goes to crap. It was just horrendous! Then we have the opening scenes with people comically surviving Godzilla's attacks. WTF!! To me it just showed Takao Owara had gone soft. Too damn soft.The music by Takayuki Hattori, and by the American composer, was terrible. The Ifukbe ques were great, but they added their own version of two others, and it just didn't work. The story was concocted by one of my favorite G-writers, Wataru Mimura, with one of the worst, Hiroshi Kashiwabara. It re-introduced aliens and at best was OK and nothing more.Godzilla looks better than ever, only that his head looks big from certain angles. The heat ray is magnificent and CGI plays its vital part. The rampage at the start of the film is nicely done effects-wise, just too light hearted!! Orga was a Rancor rip-off from Episode VI pathetically, and provided a slow-paced battle that wasn't that entertaining to be honest.I'll stop here, because I could go on forever, but I think you get the point by now; Godzilla 2000 was a huge disappointment, seriously=( "},{"Title":"Godzilla reborn, Japan barely notices","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's hard to believe there could be a worse Godzilla film than Godzilla 2000 Millennium, a reboot that heralded the beginning of the third series of films in 1999 with the big feller back on the bad guy team and returning to 2.351 widescreen after the second series was shot in 1.85. Sadly, that's about all the film gets right. It's almost as if there was no-one left at Toho who could remember how they were made. Godzilla gets a new look &#150; not only is he toothier and thicker-necked but this is the first film where he is actually green (he's gray in the others) &#150; but nothing as drastic as the gila monster makeover Hollywood gave him. He's still recognisably Godzilla, but without any of the old magic. A big part of the blame comes down to the man inside the suit, Tsutomu Kitagawa, whose movements are unconvincing &#150; he just moves like a guy trying to walk normally in a big rubber suit &#150; and who brings no personality whatsoever to Gojira.At least he gets a great entrance, attacking a lighthouse in an homage to The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms, the lighthouse keeper following a boat that appears at his window to reveal it's firmly clenched between the big feller's jaws a hundred feet or so in the air. There are some fairly good moments in the early scenes as he makes his presence felt in the neighbourhood, but after the buildup he's quickly forgotten. No-one really seems that bothered by Godzilla's reappearance, not because he's gone on the rampage so many times it's no longer newsworthy (which might have been an interesting angle to pursue) but because the film can't summon up much energy about anything. Even the human story is only sketchily filled in, more one suspects out of disinterest than an attempt at subtlety. We know so little about the plot, characters or context that it's a bit like coming into a serial after missing the first two or three chapters and having to pick it up as you go.As is all too often the case, Godzilla's little more an aside for most of the film. Instead, everyone seems to be more concerned by a 60 million year old meteorite raised from the ocean surface that reveals a solar-powered spacecraft with an eye on polluting the atmosphere to make Earth a habitable colony. There are a few potentially interesting ideas the ship is pretty much the Millennium Bug personified with rather cool electronic tendrils that can only be seen through special lenses, while the Godzilla Prediction Network &#150; the monster version of storm chasers &#150; are a neat spin on the usual Toho heroes that offer a poorly executed Scooby Gang element to the proceedings. But there's no weight to it, just tedium and half-developed ideas en route to the inevitable monster showdown with an alien creature partially created by Godzilla's self-healing body cells. That wouldn't be so bad if it had a sense of fun, but that's even more conspicuous by its absence.While there's a brief moment when things look like they might rally when Akira Ifukube's classic Godzilla theme gets an airing and there's one impressive image of a mushroom cloud of smoke enveloping the top of a skyscraper after an explosion, the action scenes are static and completely uninvolving, shot in a matter-of-fact fashion that lends them neither credibility or excitement. Despite a few encouraging early shots, Takao Okawara's direction is resoundingly flat and lifeless, while the sporadic CGI is nothing to write home about (rest assured, most of the action is men in suits crushing toy tanks and balsa wood buildings). Of the cast only Hiroshi Abe's second male lead stands out, and for all the wrong reasons standing still while doing an impersonation of a stern Gregory Peck no matter what the circumstances works for him, so he does it for the duration of the movie until making a brief, disastrous foray into changing his expression in his last scene. If he could summon up the enthusiasm, Clive Owen would be proud of the sheer dedicated monotony he brings to the screen.It's no surprise that this was cut for export (the shorter dubbed US version apparently also has a bit more explanation of what's going on, although I saw the longer Japanese cut) the less than entirely successful but still much-maligned American movie was much better than this. Dispiriting stuff. "},{"Title":"Pretty crappy","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Disappointed with this one. Let's start with the dubbing...it's terrible, I know Godzilla movies are supposed to be badly dubbed but they actually used professionals. Godzilla is missing for most of this movie and we have to watch boring characters we care nothing about blabber on and on about Godzilla but I want to see him fight and stomp Tokyo! The plot was even better in the American version. The ending is by far one of the worst and cheesiest I have ever seen and don't even get me started on the horrible CGI.Overall, this was pretty crappy. Monster fights were minimal and there was even less stompage. **/*****  "},{"Title":"I guarantee it'll go through Godzilla like crap through a goose","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Viewers of The Rachel Maddow Show know that she considers infrastructure sexy. If so, then Godzilla must be one heck of a stud as he manages to destroy more infrastructure in 20 seconds than we can build in a year!This may be a 21st-century Godzilla, but it hearkens back to the first one in the early 50s. Nothing much has changed about him in 55 years. He is still massive and the absolute center of attention. Here, he competes with a space villain that wants to be the ultimate monster - shades of the Joker! So, who wins the greatest battle in history up to the time of The Batman and The Joker? The transformation of the alien from a 60 million old rock to a sleek spacecraft to a magnificent creature was beautiful, but such beauty is still no match for Godzilla. Needless to say, a whole lot more infrastructure was destroyed in the final beautiful battle. Rachel would not doubt find that very sexy. "}{"Title":"Godzilla is inside all of us!","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Just a year after Roland Emmerich's version of Godzilla blessed the world with its presence, Toho decided to start all over again. This rendition of Gojira eschews all the previous sequels, and takes directly after the original 1954 film.The film certainly has its moments. Godzilla does his thing as usual, stomping on buildings and crushing things like it's nobody's business. This time, however, there's also a UFO in the mix, which wreaks even more havoc and transforms into one ugly mother... Inevitably, the two beasties duke it out, and Tokyo is destroyed yet again The film will appeal to fans the best, because it's all back to basics with this film. There are no gimmicks, tricks, or fads pulled out in this film; it's just a straightforward monster flick with straightforward action. Unfortunately, that also means that the film drags in certain spots, as it focuses on characters who never really amount to much of anything. The story overall is pretty weak and flimsy, and nothing really stands out about it.The film is also marred horribly by its overall quality the SFX are terrible by any standard, the monsters and models look dirt-cheap, and the acting and writing are pretty bad. On top of that, if you watch this with English dubbing, you'll expose yourself to some pretty horrible voice-work (I can't keep a straight face anymore, thinking about the line this missile will go through Godzilla like crap through a goose!). Photography and editing get the job done, but are nothing worth screaming about. The music (aside from using the classic film's theme) is pretty horrible.The film has its moments, but at first, I was a little appalled by it, thinking a little too much like some kind of DTV trash. It's not quite that bad, and Godzilla fans might still get a kick out of it. Still, there are better films in the series.3/5 (Entertainment Pretty Good | Story Average | Film Poor) "},{"Title":"Pretty God Damn Silly","Date":"21 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Sure when I was a kid I loved this movie to death, and I should also mention that this is currently the only Godzilla movie I saw in theaters. Now that I'm older I have got to admit the fact that this is a pretty damn cheesy movie. First lets talk about the effects. First of all, there pretty good and are in fact one of the main redeeming factors of this movie. Okay well except for the CGI parts which do look awful. But other than that there pretty good. Now lets talk about the plot. I do hate saying this but is is flat out dreadful. By far the worst part of the movie. But surprisingly it's actually so bad that it's actually kinda good. Now let mention the acting it's.......OK. I mean, What do you really expect? "},{"Title":"Much better than this was expected of Toho studios after the awful US Godzilla film","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Toho intended to kill Godzilla in Godzilla Vs Destroyer,but then got cold feet and had Little Godzilla become the new Godzilla right at the end. Still,it was intended as the last Godzilla film,as the Americans were about to make a Godzilla film,and hopefully a series. Of course,the US film was absolutely atrocious,an insult not just to Godzilla fans but to people who like movies. So,Toho started a third series with this film.Sadly,while better then the American Godzilla,it's still a very big disappointment.After the Emmerich/Devlin debacle,one might have expected Toho to really pull out the stops,to show the Americans how it's done. However,Godzilla Millennium seems actually influenced by the US film,with it's somewhat characterless,cowardly and undestructive Godzilla. The pacing is all wrong-Godzilla appears at the beginning,than about a third of the way he disppears and the dull human characters take centre stage. After nearly an hour of amazingly lethergic pacing for a Godzilla movie,not helped by a none-too-interesting storyline,the film just about revives for it's climactic monster battle,which is reasonably well staged but doesn't really save things.There is a distinct lack of great Godzilla film elements in this movie,and it's a shame that it was decided to release this one to US cinemas rather than one of the followups,which were distinctly better. Incidentally,the slightly cut US version is as good as the Japanese original,except for the mess of a score which combines Hattori's much-too-restrained original score,new music by J.Peter Robinson,and classic Ikifube cuts. "},{"Title":"how not to do Godzilla","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Toho had planned on giving Godzilla a nice long rest after he was killed off in 1995's Godzilla vs. Destroyer.  However, once the Japanese got a look at the garish and frankly abysmal American Godzilla, they hastened this film into production to restore the big guy's reputation.  This was Toho's opportunity to show the Americans how to REALLY do Godzilla.Unfortunately, they laid an egg.  Godzilla 2000 commits the gravest sin a monster movie is capable of - it's boring.  In many ways, the American version was superior.Sure, this movie starts okay.  The big G shows up right away, which is quite gratifying, but then he disappears for what feels like several hours. It's up to the human characters to sustain our interest, but they're a pretty dull bunch - an enterprising reporter (you find a lot of those in these movies), a maverick scientist (ditto), and even an obnoxious know-it-all kid (when are they gonna stop with the smartass kids?).  This cast of bores spends much of the movie running around after a UFO that parks on various skyscrapers like some form of rakish metal hat.Eventually, the UFO spits out Orga, one of Godzilla's less inspiring opponents.  The only interesting thing about Orga is that he's based on the American Godzilla.  Think about it - he's a poor Godzilla clone, created by an invading race, with a long square snout and Godzilla spines...well, I think it's a spoof, and it's pretty funny too.  Shame that Orga has no personality beyond that, and his fight with Godzilla is much too brief.Add to this noxious mix a wimpy Godzilla, who spends scene after scene getting pelted by the armed forces and the aliens alike before he finally decides to fight back.  Oy.  His re-designed suit is okay; he looks leaner and more detailed than usual.  But his jagged back-spines are too big and funky-looking, he's got buck teeth, and his mouth is just a flippin' huge flap of rubber.I take it back.  His re-designed suit is rubbish!Any positives?  Some good, dark photography, nice miniatures, and above-average effects for a foreign film (the people on this site who mock the special effects are being pains in the neck...aside from the Americans, nobody spends hundreds of millions on movies, and so with a Japanese film you just have to accept that the spectacle level will be sub-Hollywood).In the final analysis, this is probably the most disappointing Godzilla film ever made, and the films leading up to it were no picnic either. Definitely a low point in the big G's career.  It would take a couple more years before a great new Godzilla for the new millennium would finally be revealed, in the far-superior, all-conquering, frankly totally awesome - ladies and gentlemen, let's give a big round of applause to - GMK, the best Godzilla film since the original, the one that should've been released in the USA instead of this overblown snoozer. "},{"Title":"Wow, this is cheap","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is really a B-movie, that is undeniable.  But are all B-movies bad? I guess not, as this one isn't.  Sure it's production values are probably what Spielberg spends on lunch, and its dubbing is unforgivable, but that is easily looked past.  The plot is basic, but the acting is solid, and the people in charge did the best they could given a small budget.  The only problem I have is the repent at the end, where a feeling of sorrow is expressed for Godzilla.  It is spoken as he trashes Tokyo.  Why the hell is it there?  Oh well, we can't expect perfection (or at least a great level of coherence).  As long as that is kept in mind, just enjoy the movie. "},{"Title":"Gojira VS Godzilla","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know how many of you noticed, but *Possible SPOILER* Orga just looks a lot like Godzilla--not Gojira. Toho burning Tristar.Just yesterday, I saw the American version of Gojira 2000, and the language was much more vulgar than in the Japanese version. The irony is that the hand-drawn poster leads to believe that the U.S. release targeted at a much younger audience than in Japan, where the dialogue was--oh, so childish!Anyway, I thought Gojira looked better than Godzilla, but my problem with Gojira is that he is sooo slow. The time it takes him to turn around, you could stick three Kick my Ass notes on his back.  The little girl in the Japanese version is pretty obnoxious, and Katagiri's last scene, and the way Shinoda & friends read and interpret Gojira's mind just aren't self-explanatory.  I saw this movie at the theaters. I had just seen Gamera 3 by Kaneko Shusuke, and promised myself that I would see the next kaiju on the silver screen. I felt so sad for having spent the money. Thankfully, Kaneko Shusuke is directing the next Gojira--daikaiju soukougeki, and it is a dream come true for me.  "},{"Title":"What a great title! What a bad mis-use.","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I heard the title GODZILLA 2000 I was thinking, oh great! A sequel to the great '98 flick. WRONG! This movie is just another Japanese Godzilla movie with mouths moving & english voices put in. Like I said, the title GODZILLA 2000 great! Not a good way to use it...I like the cover though 3.5 outta 5.0  "},{"Title":"Whatever happened to truth in advertising?","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The following review may contain spoilers, as well as cause blindness and congestive heart failure. Reader discretion is advised.The trailer was spectacular. UFOs! High-powered atomic breath! Rob Zombie! As a former Godzilla fan, I immediately made plans to view what would surely be the triumphant return of the Japanese Guy in the Big Rubber Suit.Hoo boy.It started decently enough. The Big G stomped around impressively, and the special effects were, if not top quality, far better than those in most of the Godzilla oeuvre. The director even managed to work in a moderately convincing human angle. And then... it went downhill.The scientists discover a regenerative compound in a Godzilla tissue sample and celebrate its potential beneficial impact on humankind by giving it a stupid name. The menacing aliens, who have technology capable of punching holes in Godzilla's hide (never saw one of those radar-dish-wielding laser tanks do that, did we?), turn out to be a single alien, who accomodatingly transforms into a Godzilla-sized kaiju for the obligatory monster brawl at the end. And while I realize that some people genuinely dig the 'Zilla music, I found it rather plodding and pretentious-- much like the rest of the movie.The trailer promised an updated, fast-paced, and above all, fun return to the Godzilla of yore. Instead, we get Godzilla 2000-- another mediocre entry into the venerable Godzilla saga. Ah, well. At least it didn't star Matthew Broderick.Good points-Conspicuous absence of Matthew Broderick.-Best-looking Godzilla yet. Gotta love the atomic breath, too.-He walked through high-tension power lines. C'mon! He's Godzilla! It's what he does!Saddest moment The reporter asks directions from a Godzilla Prediction Network member who happens to be holding a plank. Whenever he turns around, the plank guy cracks a co-worker in the skull, then accuses him of slovenliness while he's dazed. Why, oh why, did they decide this sort of slapstick was necessary? Did they think it was somehow relevant to the mood or plot of the movie? I need a drink.  "},{"Title":"Slight disappointment","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The film has been well-improved in technical aspects but it still looks cheap and patched in some scenes. As usual, there are often some occasions that people just look on Godzilla's fighting scenes but it's already too boring to see this idea over and over in every sequel of the Godzilla. The Godzilla should be reborn in more fresh and creative ideas. If you watch most previous Godzilla sequels, you will realize that the film uses almost similar ideas. 1. Volcano erupts or islands are blasted to show that the Godzilla backs once again. 2. Troops and weapons are just helpless. 3. Rampaging a city(most likely Tokyo). 4. People get panicky and look on the rampaging and fighting.5. The end relies on your imagination. "},{"Title":"You have to like Godzilla in order to like this movie.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I like Godzilla. Because of this I can enjoy most godzilla movies.This is of course not high art. It is just campy fun that people like me enjoy from time to time.I will rate this movie a 7. Based on the IMD rating scale this makes it a movie worthwhile to see. ONLY if you like Godzilla!  "}{"Title":"A thrilling reincarnation of nostalgia","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie on about 3 hours of sleep and was desperately hoping for a pleasant surprise to keep me awake.  I snickered when I saw the horribly dubbed Japanese and the debut of Godzilla, the spaz in a rubber suit.  I tried to appreciate the nostalgia but eventually my eyes started to glaze over.  This is why I gave the movie a 9 instead of a perfect 10.Then followed the excitement.  Yes, everyone tries to destroy Godzilla.  I don't want to spoil the movie, so I'll just say that with everything they threw at Godzilla, practically for the rest of the movie, constantly, it was extremely fun to watch.  I could've skipped my next night's worth of sleep just seeing Godzilla get pounded.  However, if you can't appreciate that, this movie's not for you. "},{"Title":"It's Godzilla... and it feels like a Godzilla Movie this time.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When the 1998 version of Godzilla came out, I was so excited. A childhood joy, brought back to life for everyone. I of course like many others was let down by it's.... well, not feeling like Godzilla.So when I learned of Godzilla 2000 and how it was Japan made, I was pleased as can be. Last Weekend when I saw this film I was expecting to get a nice treatment of old fashioned Godzilla Fun.  Sure enough, it was done right.It's got everything you would want in a Godzilla movie. The People who want him dead, and the people who want to learn more about him. You got lots of explosions and screaming people. You got funny translation/dubbing and Godzilla burns stuff. What more could you want really?Only thing that really bothered me about the film is I really would like to see Godzilla become a High Budget film. Don't get me wrong the old way of making Godzilla never looked so good. And the DID utilize some nice CG effects, however I can't help thinking out much cooler the movie could look is made like the Silly 1998 US release... Some will argue that the guy in suit and the Chessy FX is part of the fun, But I would love to see a Japan made Godzilla move with the Budget of the US film.  Just think of how cool out (oddly cute looking) pal Godzilla would look all rendered? Think of what he could do.... Food for thought for all you Godzilla fans.Anyway...  I enjoyed this film. and if you like Godzilla at all, your going to love it. Those who are not fans of it... still could have a lot of fun with it's comedy value. "},{"Title":"tolerable ONLY if one is a Godzilla cult follower","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I stuck it out because everyone in the theatre was laughing also, especially at the last line about godzilla in all of us....they even clapped (affectionately)when it was over. I hated it but I do appreciate the fact that cult followers might have enjoyed it......mim  "},{"Title":"A Virtual Step Back!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Since Godzilla vs. Biolante and into the early 90's TOHO made GOJIRA movies that I would rate 8 points or higher.  Clearly their latest production was influenced by the American Matthew Broderick/Hank Azaria Hollywood version.  For example  1) Godzilla's breath is no longer that cool radioactive blue glow stream but a red fire burst 2) The computer generated Godzilla swimming underwater and perhaps the most patronizing 3) a character walking into a huge Godzilla footprint.Imitation is normally a sign of flattery but Hollywood is one place that doesn't need it.The TOHO studio's creation has been and continues to be inventive as evidenced by the appearance of an alien ship shapped NOT like the typical flying saucer but more like a bicycle seat . . . after one of Godzilla's fire bursts it more resembled a broken bed pan!  Nevertheless it had its moments with rooftop landings and disruption of service attacks (It is fabulous how TOHO incorporates elements of current science re Genom project into the plot).  Also there is the return of ESP kids and the woman who can telepathically speak to Godzilla.  These two poorly understood elements however could be further developed.Perhaps TOHO's best asset in the Godzilla series is the person in a monster suit fighting another in a suit.  No amount of computer generation can supplant it.  Unfortunately it seems most of this aspect was left offline from TOHO's Godzilla 2000. "},{"Title":"Not up to the old films.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While only a passable monster flick, it's just not up to the old films that we all know and love. The dubbing is terrible despite the good acting. The real problem is it takes too long to get some real monster action. It's true that Godzilla shows up early, but the all the monster to monster action is at the end. Only fans like me are likely to appreciate this. Hey, on the bright side, it's better than that piece of trash from 1998. "},{"Title":"Not bad, but not great.","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm relatively new to the original Godzilla series. The only other Godzilla film I've ever seen is the 1998 Hollywood version (and I don't care what anyone thinks, I still like that one).Anyway, Godzilla 2000 is the first of the original Godzilla films since 1995's Godzilla Vs. Destoroyah and the first to be realeased in North American cinemas since Godzilla 1985 The Legend is Reborn. So what did I, an almost virgin to the Godzilla series think? Well...First, a little about the film. Godzilla returns, slightly smaller (150 feet instead of 400) to attempt another raid on Tokyo. Meanwhile, there are these scientists who unearth a mysterous stone stratum underwater only to find out that its an alien space craft that's been in suspended animation for 16 million years (Cecil B. DeMille is spinning in his grave). Soon after that, the aliens pursue Godzilla cuz the big guy has some sort of gene that can help them populate Earth. So naturally, its up to Godzilla to once again play the unlikely hero and save the world.If I had any beefs about this film, its that it spends way too much time on the alien space craft, and too little time on Godzilla. After all, the film is called GODZILLA 2000! I guess the director just wanted to create some suspense. Storywise, this movie could have been better, but does anybody really see a Godzilla movie (or ANY monster movie for that matter) for its story and acting? Hell no! They see it to watch Godzilla wipe his feet on Tokyo (or New York if you're counting the 1998 film WHICH I STILL LIKE!!!!).As for the acting, its hard to tell what the original acting was like since the film had to be dubbed for its North American realese, so I can't really fairly comment. I will say that at least the dubbing isn't literal as many overseas films tend to be. Unfortunatly, this doesn't mean Godzilla 2000 doesn't have its share of corny lines. (Wait until the end of the film, and you will hear the mother of all corny lines!)Visually, Godzilla 2000 is half and half. While granted, there are odd pieces of eye candy, the special effects for the most part are in keeping with the tradition of the Godzilla series in that they're incredibly cheesy. No longer the computer animation of the 1998 picture (WHICH I STILL LIKE!!!!!), Godzilla is once again a guy in a rubber suit (though a much better looking rubber suit at that) shaped oddly enough like a pear. Also, one can't stare at the scenes where the helicopters, fighter jets, and flying saucer are flying through the sky without thinking, I can see the blue screen for chrissakes!In closing, Godzilla 2000 is a movie for people that are a fan of the giant lizard and his movies. I myself enjoyed it, but only because I like to see stuff get destroyed.Overall 3 1/2 stars out of 5                                                  "},{"Title":"fun movie, and a fairly good plot","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  this is a fun movie. it's got some corny lines, and a few weird bits, but hey, the fx are good, the monsters are funky, and the human drama is entertaining. so shut off your brain and enjoy the ride.also, though the middle 40 minutes has no godzilla, what many people fail to mention is that it has a big ol' UFO that flies around and blows things up, plus a pretty good bunch of plot advancements.  And it's all worth it to see the final battle, which quite frankly is one of the best ever.go see it now! "},{"Title":"A sad rip off","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can see that they tried to be better than their last one, and US version, but unfortunately it did not work well. Between last godzilla and this one, new Gamera movies and Evangelion came out which were mutch better than recant godzilla movies. It is really crear that this Godzilla inspired by both Gamere, Eva, and also US Godzilla, but sadly this is just rip-off of them. They could have done better. Even Toho hired a lot of crews who have done Gamera movies, they could not made it. It is just sad. Now, Toho planing to make next Godzilla for end of this year. I am praying that they will do better this time. "},{"Title":"Brilliant existential farce","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Once again, the real masters of Gojira, the crew at Toho, leave us with an intellectually stimulating examination of the human condition. Godzilla's battles with Orga are more than mere man-in-a-latex suit action, they are a metaphor for the struggle for meaning in a meaningless universe. Definitely go see it. "},{"Title":"Tragic waste of talents and characters","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Under the influence of fabulous Gamera movies, and as an answer to Hollywood crap, Toho proudly presented this Gojira 2000 Mireniamu.And they don't understand the point of monster story, as always.Visual effects are the best of the series. Some scenes maybe better than Gamara and Hollywood Godzilla, and of course, others are not. But you know, it is not the point.You know, the point is the screenplay. Some details of the screenplay like Gojira detecting network are relatively good, and of course, others like careless approach to dangerous monster and unconvincing escape are not (They tried to match against Emmerich's farce? Idiots!). No, not details. Plot.The plot of this movie is totally pointless. Screenwriters (They did that blasted Gojira VS Supesugojira and Gojira VS Mekagojira !) are lost their way in maze of details and forgot to build solid main story line. Especially, Oruga pointlessly appeared, pointlessly transformed twice or three times and was immediately killed by Gojira. Effects for this lame scene were not bad. What a waste, of talents and characters. "}{"Title":"can be very impressive","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I honestly feel that this is a great Godzilla film in many ways; but the negative comments written on reflection by some viewers are difficult to dismiss. Many of the negative reviews of G. Final Wars reflect a frustration with that film's radical revision of the very look and feel of the series. Here, the problem is that, despite innovations, G. 2000 remains narratively and stylistically bound to the traditional series, but can't quite deliver the goods some fans expected of it. This bodes ill for the whole millenium series that follows, and indicates why this Godzilla series, while developing a cult of its own, lost the interest of many older fans.I'll approach this by remarking an important point that, oddly, many missed, reflected in the American audio commentary to the US DVD version of the film. What astounded me, right at the beginning of the film, was that the Americans involved in the loop and re-edit of the US release had not the slightest clue that a great deal of the humor of the film develops by spoofing the wretched American Godzilla (-in-name-only, or GINO) of 1998; The opening has Godzilla at a light-house, not only as a tribute to the granddaddy of post-WWII dinosaur flicks, Beast from 20,000 Fanthoms, but because Beast is the film the American GINO was really remaking. This is quickly followed by a confrontation between our human protagonists and Godzilla in a roadway tunnel - clearly a comment, and spoof, on the tunnel sequence that ends the GINO film. Little digs at GINO pepper the whole film; and along with them, back-handed comments on the previous Godzilla series of the '80s and '90s.Visually, something odd is going on here, and I don't mean the new Godzilla suit some have a difficulty with; actually, performed well and photographed from the right angles, it can be very impressive.What's happening is in the background, but it shapes the whole look of the film. With the enormous development and reconstruction of Tokyo over the past few decades, the city has literally shot up, with enormous skyscrapers tossed together with every little over-all urban design. Let's face it - these buildings very nearly dwarf Godzilla; although technically larger than ever before in the series, he looks smaller because of the urban growth he has to wade through. This also accounts for some of the higher-angled placements of the camera, which have the audience looking down on Godzilla (without the jet or helicopter POV as in previous films).The fact is, the world around Godzilla is becoming ever more complicated; the film-makers are pretty savvy about it, but many audiences, although more sophisticated about such matters than they were in the 1960s, clearly feel uncomfortable with even minor renovations in the series, since these frequently reduce Godzilla in stature, in comparison with the legendary city-stomper of old.As for me, I really like the characters; I find the special effects impressive and the story engaging. And from what I have in the American re-release, I think the film-makers did a pretty good job over-all.Maybe the reason Toho decided to retire the character is because they had to; maybe the era of Godzilla is over and it's time to find new monsters and new heroes. Too bad; it was a pretty good era for vinyl puppet monsters and invasions from outer space. In that regard it was truly a fun ride, and if it is indeed over, I will miss the best of it. "},{"Title":"I like this one allot, and out of the newer films it's probably my favorite...","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I like this one allot, and out of the newer films it's probably my favorite. All in all it kept the original format (ie. NO 3D creatures), Godzilla's new costume is really nice - reminds me a lot on something u would see in a video game or anime (actually reminds me a bit of Tekken style).The story itself isn't the most intelligent thing, maybe it's on the level of Jurassic Park or something, but it is very entertaining. I thought the characters we alright and likable - the Godzilla Prediction Network reminds me a little of a home brew Ghostbusters or Twister team. I also found that some of the shots were really brilliant, the scale of things is really more evident than in other movies as well (eg Godzilla really seems like a giant). Like in other films you're thinking 'look at the guy in the suit trashing all of those really cool models' whereas now it's like 'Look at Godzilla trashing Tokyo'.I love the old style Godzilla movies because of just that, the style which is brilliant in its own rite. This I like for both the style which I feel they've managed to keep but also for the rather well done sci-fi side of things - it feels more like a first run movie. I also liked Tokyo SOS allot so take that into consideration. Eh, Final Wars was horrible IMO. "},{"Title":"childish fun and destruction","Date":"22 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" After a misguided, high-tech Hollywood makeover the scourge of the Orient is back where he belongs, in a rubber suit at Toho Studios, kicking over another pint sized facsimile of downtown Tokyo.Never mind the actual plot, in which the big lizard is interrupted during his latest rampage to do battle with an anonymous alien from another galaxy (according to one farsighted expert). The grassroots Godzilla Prediction Network wants to protect the title character for purely scientific research, putting them at odds with the evil bureaucracy of the Crisis Control Intelligence Agency, better known by their telltale acronym CCIA.Godzilla himself is offstage for much of the film, perhaps because no one wanted to squander the valuable screen time of a star whose range of talent is limited to stepping on tinker-toy cities. The actual battle scenes are more or less typical of the series, with lots of enthusiastic low budget FX, in this case borrowed (somewhat blatantly, and with more than a little irony) from the same pyrotechnic stockpile used by Hollywood's 'Godzilla' director Roland Emmerich in his space invader blockbuster 'Independence Day' (note too the gratuitous lift of verbatim dialogue from Stanley Kubrick's 'Dr. Strangelove'!).The result is a textbook guilty pleasure, carelessly dubbed by voice talents who must have had trouble keeping a straight face delivering lines like the following, from an astonished soldier &#x85;did you see that flying rock go by? It's unbelievable! Or the final, philosophic aside, explaining why Godzilla has once again saved mankind (and ignoring the truly awesome trail of devastation in his wake) &#x85;we created him. Godzilla is in all of us&#x85; More accurately, Godzilla might be said to be an extension of the eight-year-old child in all of us, always looking for another tower of blocks to knock over. "},{"Title":"Ruined by American Medling","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I netflixed Godzilla 2005 and started to watch the movie with the Commentary on, because there was no Japanese language track. No Japanese track was a disappointment to begin with but then as the commentators just glad handing themselves about there edit's, re-written dialog and complete disregard for the original film I realized this was just a ruined film. They went for Camp of the old 50's sci-fi, which you can't write camp. You can only play it as straight as possible and the silly things pop out. For instance, how the one researcher is racing to the scene and two plant workers are just strolling by, not at all aware of Godzilla. Also they cut important scenes because they felt the audience wouldn't get it. Don't dumb things down. Or try to explain things that don't need explaining. One of the worst things is the suped up sound effects. A tell tale line of commentary was that when they said about the original subtle missile hits to Godzilla were more real and the suped up ones sound more fake. And they kept repeating this is a movie that shouldn't be scary for kids. Like they were tring to tone it down into a comedy. I love the camp of the Godzilla movies that comes from this straight serious movie that is just unbelievable. All they needed was Raymond Burr as an American reporter to totally ruin a good Godzilla movie. "},{"Title":"I just don't get it.","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie the other day. My eyes are still recovering from this painful experience. I truly hated it. I read through all the comments and realized that this will be about the first negative comment submitted about Godzilla 2000. Why is that so? People love this movie. I don't understand...I like cheesy b-class horror movies. Any movie with a Troma stamp on it is great. But, this was beyond bad. There was no plot, no effects, nothing to keep even my son's interest, and no refund at the end.I immediately ran to the local video store and gobbled up a copy of the Hollywood version. Ahhhhh ... relief. And that one isn't even that great either.The only part I liked was the last line where our stunning pit-faced hero looked into his heart and proclaimed that Godzilla is in us all. At that point, the big green rubber guy continued to wreak havoc on the Japanese city, theoretically incinerating thousands of people within whose hearts he lives. Touching indeed. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your money folks...","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am a huge Godzilla fan and have seen all of the movies. This was an utter disappointment and I don't think that I will be alone after the release of the movie.The special effects are all over the map from being respectable in one or two scenes to being just downright laughable in a lot of the others. If Toho had just carefully watched how the creators of the new Gamera films had taken care of business, this would have been/could have been a great movie.Godzilla's history is abandoned. That isn't a bad thing, but there really isn't an explanation of where this Godzilla comes from either (actually it is almost treated as an enigma)The effects make you wish for seeing wires as they will leave you shaking you head in amazement. If you think I'm making this up or am being too harsh, just wait until you see the movie, then go rent some of the movies that were made from 1991-1995 and tell me that they were honestly far more advanced. It is the year 2000 for crying out loud - I expected more. I think that they detracted from my enjoyment of the film.If you're disappointed in this movie, see the new Gamera series which is far more powerful than this film. If you want to see good Godzilla, rent them from your local video store. You'll be glad you did.  "},{"Title":"Not that good the way most Godzilla fans like it. But not me.","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" OK just because Godzilla look like how he does in the first 22 Godzilla. And the actors are all speaking j.a.p.a.n.e.s.e does not mean it's a good movie. It has bad acting and a terrible story line. The caricatures are annoying and stupid. Godzilla fans like it so mush just because Godzilla looks like how he does and the actors are all j.a.p.a.n.e.s.e w.o.p.a.d.e.e.d.o. They don't like the beast one with is the first remake from 1998 because there use C.G.I and the actors are American and they know what there doing. You are supposed have guy in a stupid looking rubber suite because that's so amazing. Be you could a stunt guy break. But no they have winy Godzilla should be a guy in rubber suit. Did you notes that this only used a rubber suit part on time in this movie. They used C.G.I most of the time. I'm always hearing that the original is the beast. In that one they used stop-motion. The people who think this pooh is so mush better then the first remake because the first remake had good special effects like that pooh pooh clover field because it has good special effects. That's o.k because it is not Godzilla it's crape J.J Abrams movie. This is part 23 to the Japan Godzilla series. Don't get me wrong I like most of the j.a.p.a.n.e.s.e Godzilla movies like part 24 Godzilla vs M.e.g.a.g.u.i.r.u.s that was great movies. The 22nd movie Godzilla vs Destroyer is also a great movie . Part 25 Godzilla M.o.t.h.r.a and King G.h.i.d.o.r.a.h giant monsters on an all out attack is one of the beast Godzilla movie. Not like this pooh. This is just Godzilla taking a great big pooh on Japan. But a lest they are all crape j.a.p.a.n.e.s.s actors. Never see this pooh. Oh get on roof and yell the monster name because we don't know it. That's how you make a Godzilla movie. Stupid. It is better then Godzilla's Revenge. But that does not make mush. "},{"Title":"I guarantee it'll go through Godzilla like crap through a goose.","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Viewers of The Rachel Maddow Show know that she considers infrastructure sexy. If so, then Godzilla must be one heck of a stud as he manages to destroy more infrastructure in 20 seconds than we can build in a year! This may be a 21st-century Godzilla, but it hearkens back to the first one in the early 50s. Nothing much has changed about him in 55 years. He is still massive and the absolute center of attention.Here, he competes with a space villain that wants to be the ultimate monster - shades of the Joker! So, who wins the greatest battle in history up to the time of The Batman and The Joker? The transformation of the alien from a 60 million old rock to a sleek spacecraft to a magnificent creature was beautiful, but such beauty is still no match for Godzilla.Needless to say, a whole lot more infrastructure was destroyed in the final beautiful battle.Rachel would not doubt find that very sexy. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"21 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This is just another example of Toho beating a dead horse in the ground. The series should have ended 32 years earlier with Destroy All Monsters. I'm sorry but this Godzilla is pointless and makes me really want to go back to the good old days of Ishiro Honda, Tomyuki Tanaka, Eiji Tsubaraya and, of course, Akira Ifkube, the four fathers. At least they had a message behind their creation. The only reason this film seems to have been made was for Toho to cash in on what was probably their biggest cash cow. Also, the monster in this film is not one that I probably would remember. At least the Big G's foes during the 1960's had some personality behind them, especially Ghidorah. This film was definitely a mistake. "},{"Title":"Better than the 1998 Godzilla...","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Not a great movie, but I gave it a 5 for the fact that this is how Godzilla should be -- a guy in a monster suit fighting another guy in a monster suit.  Forget that 1998 disappointment with Matthew Broderick.  I do think that there was too much with that stupid spaceship before Zilla finally broke it open and the monster fighting ensued.  The climactic fight was too short because the film spent too much time dealing with that ship. Anyway, this would make for a great Mystery Science Theatre 3000 flick!  Go have fun with classic Zilla. "}{"Title":"It has its moments, but its not bad enough to be good.","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Within five minutes I was thinking, Oh no, this isn't going to be as much fun as I thought it would be.  It does have some terrific monster moments and sound effects, but it just doesn't pull you into the story.  The characters were very one dimensional and uninteresting.  Godzilla 2000 actually seemed to be typical of the other summer blockbusters that came out this year... only so-so. "},{"Title":"Can Godzilla Destroy Tokyo yet again?  Cheese DOES Matter!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The catch phrase in the 1998 crappy Godzilla was Size does Matter,   Well this is more in line with the style of the 70's movies .  Yes, CHEESE DOES MATTER! I snuck in a bag of cheesy popcorn to the movie.  Cheese for the eyes -- cheese for the tummy - It greatly enhance viewing pleasure.The plot was this (hint if you've NOT seen this - bow out now!)They find this underwater energy source (looks like a giant Godzilla chip). Soon it becomes a flying piece of work. It ultimately transforms itself into a glorified Flying Bed Pan. Even the rockets looked like giant proctology probes!It was way hilarious. Schlocky special effects, fake miniature buildings and boats, lots of screaming.Yes -- THE CHEESE is BACK!This is not a sequel to the 1998 movie. This is a whole new Godzilla Adventure.The dialogue was unreal!At one point the editor of the newspaper says Great Caesar's Ghost! When was the last time you heard that phrase - the 60's maybe? Commissioner Gordon in the old Batman series? Okay so the dialogue is umm, dated!At another point in the movie they were describing the missiles (the one's that looked like a proctology probe) the guy says These will go through Godzilla like crap through a goose!   No,  but the dialogue will go through your brain that fast though!Wait it gets better (or worse depending on your point of view!) Later, the newspaper editor tells the reporter to quit your bitchin'!At one point the scientist says You @$$-hole! - Such abusive language in a Godzilla movie!   Hontoni!  (REALLY!) The movie tried to be a little to Western in the dialogue, and failed miserably.  It's quite laughable however.They could have easily changed the dialogue and made this a G movie instead of the PG-13 it is now.  It was rated because of language.   No four letter expletives - that's about the worst it got.Check this movie out! Yes once again, you'll believe its a man in a rubber suit! (and this time, it is! No Iguana's in this flick!)I hope my brain doesn't get clogged with all the cheesiness this movie had to offer!I guess there's a little bit of Godzilla, in us all!  (another memorable line!)Wayno "},{"Title":"The Worst Godzilla Movie Ever","Date":"31 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This was painful to watch as a Godzilla fan. There are five main reasons. 1) It was 'mushy'. (Godzilla is in all of us!- the stupid little girl) 2) The one fighting sequence lasted way too long. 3) The plot was not really that good. 4) The special effects looked like animation. 5) The character setup sucked. They either came or went quickly or stayed around to the point of exhaustion. I guess there's six. 6) the fight was commentated...*shudder*. Better alternatives include every other Godzilla movie. nobody even died in this movie. I recommend watching a completely different movie. I think I'm going to retch just thinking about this crappy movie. Please may the studios who did this stop and go out of business. "},{"Title":"What!?","Date":"22 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am not pleased to say this, but so far, this is the first movie ever that I was completely unable to finish. I could not finish this film. I rented it, sat down and watched it, and then, three quarters through, I just turned it off, ejected it, and returned it. It was just insulting that a character this great should be abused in such a crazy film. Perhaps in Japan it was more popular, I dont know. "},{"Title":"Just about what you would expect, UNFORTUNATELY!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went into this movie with pretty high hopes, honestly, I did. My guess was, after the American destruction of Godzilla a couple of years ago, the boys over in Japan would take up the reigns and crank out a Godzilla movie unlike any other seen before. BOY WAS I WRONG.  I remember back in the days of saturday childrens matinees, when they would show all of the old Godzilla movies, I mean I've seen them all! GUESS WHAT? They are all the same! It's like Friday the 13th, you can't do anything with a non-talking star like Jason, Same basic story except you put new bodies in the way to get killed. Godzilla, it's a new monster. I've always hated the humans in the Godzilla movies, this is no exception, they think they know it all, but they don't, they stink, and they are on screen way too much, the human scenes always kill the movies. If you go knowing there is nothing special about this show, and it like all of the others, you'll get what you expect. If you want more, sorry, as long as these movies make a ton of money in Japan, they aren't required to raise the standard on GODZILLA. BUMMER! "},{"Title":"Awful .. no wait, it wasn't THAT good!","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Chintzy effects, lousy dubbing, I can't begin to itemize all the ways this movie was horrid. It looks like it was produced by Grade 3 boys with their parent's video camera.  Your time is better spent watching your neighbor's vacation video. "},{"Title":"A unsatisfying disaster!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Oh, no! Here comes another dubbed Godzilla export! There's so much about this movie that's easy to complain about. If Japan's supposed to be wizards in the video game/electronic industries, why are the special effects so bad? Second of all, the acting is terrible, the plot is pointless, and the ending line is just plain embarrassing...there's a Godzilla in every one of us. I laughed at most of this movie when I should be biting my nails. A monster movie fan may enjoy this, but I didn't. "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie of the Century","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Godzilla 2000 is easily the worst movie of 2000, easily the worst movie of the last decade, and easily the worst movie of the century.  I don't know why it was ever made.  It's a waste of money, a waste of film, and a waste of time.  The special effects are the pits.  Okay, so I know Godzilla flicks are supposed to be cheesy, but come on!  This is really pushing it.  Lame, lame, lame.  The worst film I've ever seen in my entire adolescent life.  Wretched and beyond. "},{"Title":"Dont waste Your Money!!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was sooooo bad that i cant believe i sat throught it all. The only good parts of the movie? The special effects.Dont waste your time or money!! As for a alien creature from outer space? what the hell was the writer thinking?? The dialouge that was terrible!! You can see it wasnt there real voices just poorly done computer work. "},{"Title":"If I see one more Japanese movie someone's getting hurt","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The Japanese need to give up. They need to do everyone a favor and just stop making movies. They obviously can't do it right or they'd have it down by now. Why? Why would you make this kind of movie and who would watch it? The old Godzilla movies were at least funny in their cheapness but I couldn't even laugh at this one and that's pretty bad. I would rather watch the bible channel than this crap that's just terrifying. If you took a handful of nails and scratched them repeatedly up and down a chalkboard you could have more fun than if you watched this foreign trash. In other words, do not support the creators of this 'movie', if you could call it that, by spending money on it. "}]