[{"Title":"offbeat, underplayed drama","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"77 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Roughly one part crime drama to two parts offbeat love story, `Birthday Girl' is a nifty little British film that gives Nicole Kidman a chance to strut her stuff as an actress.  Here she gets to play a Russian `mail order bride' (though, of course, in the modern world she is actually ordered off the internet) who's come to England to start a new life with John, a mild-mannered banker unsuccessful in the ways of love.  John is one of those bland, utterly undistinguished `good guys' who everyone seems to like but no one seems to notice.  Even his boss at the bank gives him one of those noncommittal job evaluations (saying what a swell guy he is and what a great way he has with people) used to fob people off when they are not good enough to merit a raise or a more prestigious position in the corporation. Forced to go the unconventional route in finding himself a wife, John hooks up with the lovely but inscrutable Nadia, a Russian woman who, John is appalled to learn, does not understand a word of English.  Then just as John and Nadia seem to be forming a close relationship (literally bonding over bondage), complications arise when two of Nadia's bizarre `friends' from Russia suddenly arrive on the scene.To reveal more of the plot would be unfair to both the viewer and the makers of this film, since much of the movie's intrigue arises from the frequent turnabouts in the plot itself.  Although there is always the threat of violence hammering at the film's edges, writers Tom and Jez Butterworth (the latter serving as the film's director as well), manage to keep the film fairly havoc free while they focus on the developing relationship between the two main characters.   Kidman, who speaks nary a word of English in the first half of the film (and only with a heavy accent thereafter), does a beautiful job conveying both the toughness and the vulnerability inherent in this woman.  Though innately compassionate, Nadia has had to learn how to survive in a brutal world - even if that means having to exploit naïve, good-natured shmucks like John.   As John, Ben Chaplin conveys just the right mixture of shyness, befuddlement and ultimate self-assuredness to make us root for the character.  Because of his Everyman characteristics, we want to see John triumph in the end.`Birthday Girl' doesn't try to push the envelope by indulging in elaborate action scenes or patently theatrical heroics.  Its events seem to unravel in a spontaneous, naturalistic manner, which helps the film to remain relatively true to life most of the time.  It tells an unusual story, one filled with wry humor, understated suspense and a compassionate recognition of human frailty.   Well written and well acted, `Birthday Girl' is an unheralded film that deserves to be seen. "},{"Title":"truly funny, dramatic and awakening all at once","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"51 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie really woke me up, like it wakes up the main male character of this bravely different movie from his life slumber.This guy John (Ben Chaplin) leads his mediocre safe life of a bank teller in a small provincial English town, until the stunningly gorgeous, wild, girl-to-die-for Nadia (Nicole Kidman), ordered by email from Russia, enters his life to become his beloved wife, by Johns plan. However a glitch turns up - Nadia does not speak a word of Johns language. Although calm and emotionless on the outside, John becomes so interested in beautiful Nadia that instead of using the full refund policy of the matching service, he buys her a dictionary to start the communication process.What happens henceforth in the plot really shakes poor John from his slumber of a decently-paid safe-feeling clerk into a decision-making decently thinking action figure, giving the viewer a subliminal message you would have probably acted likewise.Kidman, Cassel & Kassovitz make a great team acting Russians and they are almost indistinguishable from the real thing, almost only due to the slight accent present in their Russian dialogues, however slight enough to amaze a native Russian by the hard work done to get the words sound right. Nicole Kidman proves her talent once again by playing a character quite different from the previous roles, at least from the cultural background.The pace of the film is fast and captivating, and you certainly are not ready to quit watching when the end titles appear, you rather feel that you're in the middle of the plot, and are left with a desire to see the sequel as soon as it comes out.My advice is to go out and get this film immediately and watch it and enjoy. To sum it up, it has an unusual plot, great acting, and ideas below the surface. Like the idea of the rude awakening from the artificial safe routine life of a wheel in a Society's machine, the life which members of the Fight Club were so keen to quit and the machine of which Pink Floyd sings (Welcome to the machine!). I bet that in the end, John was rather off with Sophia on their way to the unknown than not having met her at all.Thank you, writers, for the great story, and everyone else for this great movie! Please make a sequel! And you can stage it whereever and name the location whatever, because the authenticity of the place is irrelevant to the 99.9999 percent of the potential viewers, I am sure of it.  "},{"Title":"An Enjoyable Movie with Lots of Surprises","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"41 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John (Ben Chaplin) is a lonely bank clerk who lives in a small town not far from London. Though the Internet, he contacts a Russian agency of brides. He selects Sophia (Nicole Kidman &#150; the guy could be lonely and shy, but certainly has a good taste, doesn't he?) and when they met each other, he realizes that she does not speak English. The communication between each other is basically limited by sex (again, imagine, what a terrible situation for the guy, just have some kinky sex with Nicole Kidman!). On her birthday, two Russian friends of her visit them. Then, lots of surprises will happen. I liked this movie first, it is almost impossible to be 'labeled'. Is it a black comedy, an action, a thriller movie? I believe all the choices are correct. Nicole Kidman is gorgeous as usual, and I am very curious about her Russian is she speaking Russian in a correct accent indeed, or just faking? Anyway, I found it an enjoyable movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Isca Perfeita (The Perfect Bait) "},{"Title":"Twists Come Early On In This Drama","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"27 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" For a film that got little publicity, and few people have heard about, this was pretty good. It's another one of these modern-day British crime films that are quirky (Snatch, Sexy Beast, etc.). It's not wild like Snatch but it's interesting and it has some rough characters.It also has a corny and somewhat predictable ending but early in the show - not late - has some neat twists to make it very interesting for the first-time viewer. Basically, it's about a low-key British male who sends away for a Russian mail order bride who winds up, with the aid of two Russian male friends, providing a couple of big surprises.Ben Chapin and Nicole Kidman co-star, and are very good as are Vincent Cassel and Matthieu Kassovitz as Kidman's Russian cohorts. This is a different kind of film and well-acted. Kidman once again proves she's far more than just a beautiful face. "},{"Title":"Underrated romantic comedy","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a good example a film that in spite of the low rating is more than worth watching. The story is engaging and it doesn't take long before the chemistry between Nicole Kidman and Ben Chaplin grabs your attention. The acting is first class and the characters are represented well. Sometimes it feels like the director couldn't decide himself between drama and romantic comedy. Ben Chiller's portrayal of the law abiding and shy Englishman with porn S.M. magazines hidden in the bedroom creates plenty of moments for laughs! As does the look in Nicole Kidman's eyes when she is offering John his first taste of intimacy in a long time... Other times the actors and especially Nicole Kidman give this comedy quite expertly a dramatic slant. "},{"Title":"A good premise, but the overall film is just so-so...","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John (Ben Chaplin) is a hapless bachelor in St. Albans, looking for love in all the wrong places. So he goes online and orders a Russian mail-order bride. She arrives in the form of Nicole Kidman. Although her background is questionable and her English is fragmented, she's great in bed, so he has no complaints.However when her cousins appear at his door a whole new world of deception and violence opens up for John, pulling him deeper and deeper under.The premise for the film is fairly good, but the overall execution is just so-so. Nicole Kidman gives a really good performance (worthy of a better film) but Ben Chaplin is just OK. He slaps her around a bit, which is about as daring as his character manages to be. Anyone could play the role, so he's kind of stuck in a rut.The movie is grungy, dark and feels independent - it's hard to imagine Hollywood royalty Nicole Kidman signing onto it, but she is really the reason this film remains interesting and engaging. Without her, I don't think I would have bothered to sit through all of it. "},{"Title":"A gem which everyone missed","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The critics didn't like this film.  It bombed in the States and as a result received only a limited showing in Britain.  Which was a great shame, because it represents British rather than American humour and should have been shown in Britain first.Nicole Kidman looks stunning and is a totally convincing Russian.  Ben Chaplin is the Dustin Hoffman character from 'The Graduate', and 'Birthday Girl' has at least 4 scenes which remind the viewer of that 1960s classic (despite being a totally different story!).Sure it changes tack a number of times from comedy to black comedy to thriller to adventure - but it's memorable, moving and a weclome breath of fresh air compared to the average mega-budget blockbuster.See it with an open mind! "},{"Title":"Likeable performances in story with nowhere to go","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Birthday Girl has a not too bad premise- good old English chum decides out of lonliness and maybe something else to order a mail order bride from Russia.  It turns out, his order is not quite what he wanted, but she (Nicole Kidman) seems like a nice enough wife, until not what was planned happens in a series of events getting the english chum and his russian bride on the run.  Sometimes amusing, but it is not good enough as a movie since it can never really get into its characters and seems to float for part of the 2nd act and 3rd act.  Kidman is still sexy though. C+ "},{"Title":"A Cute Pleasure","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The trailer for this movie didn't do the movie justice.  And while the movie didn't know what it really wanted to get across, the first half of the movie being a light, romance comedy and the second have a more serious, romantic drama, the overall impact was much better than I thought it would be.  This movie was more of a date movie, but the trailer made it into more of a suspense thriller which it never really turned out to be.  Kidman, being one of my favorites, of course I'm biased, but this movie proved to be a light, sensitive, if somewhat quirky movie that deserved better.  Three out of four stars.  9/5/02. "},{"Title":"Was this a comedy, thriller, romance or what?","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film would have played better as a romantic comedy. Instead it was neither one thing nor another. All the performances were good, but somehow it missed the mark. More like a satire of an Alfred Hitchcock thriller. The plot was too silly for a thriller, the characters were caricatures and the uptight bank clerk would have gone to the police immediately they demanded cash. As a comedy, they could have got away with a preposterous plot and the equally preposterous ending, but as a thriller, it simply fell flat.Nicole Kidman can successfully play the sort of girl who could be a real head turner if she didn't dress like trash, combed her hair, got washed, and stopped lighting one cigarette from another. The scenes of her puffing away on a cigarette casually hanging from the side of her mouth were hilarious. She probably substituted flea market perfume for deodorant. The two Russian accomplices were also good, and Ben Chaplin was suitably uptight as the victim. At first I thought he was too handsome to get a mail order bride, but to have made him a geek would have been too predictable. There are many handsome and successful men who just seem to strike out with the ladies.Overall, I would rate this OK if you have absolutely nothing better to do. "}{"Title":"Black comedy takes some odd right and left turns, never seeming fully satisfied with itself...","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Mild-mannered bachelor bank teller near London advertises for a Russian wife on the internet, and is disappointed when the young lady who shows up at the airport doesn't speak any English (she's a willing sport in bed, however); when two of her Russian buddies show up at his house, the man realizes he's been set up to rob his own bank, yet still feels a connection to this strange, sexy woman. Peculiar, darkly comic series of confusions, double crosses, bedroom fetishes (and ants!) written by the team of Tom and Jez Butterworth (Jez also directed, while Steve Butterworth produced). It was obviously a labor of love for the group, and they could not have found better leads than Nicole Kidman and handsome Ben Chaplin, both excellent in their roles. Still, the script disappoints--it's all over the map--and by the third act we've lost something intrinsic in the characters. Chaplin (who amusingly resembles both Joaquin Phoenix and Steve Carrell) is never humiliated on-screen (he's treated badly but always rebounds and looks after himself); still, the man's anger is released in odd ways (too much slapping) and we never understand his attachment to Kidman's Russian vixen. Is this an emotional connection or is it purely physical? Well-made movie has some fine, prickly moments (mostly in the first hour). It loses itself in its circular twists, swallowing its tail in the bargain, however the film is still a decent attempt at something different. ** from **** "},{"Title":"A good wife. A good husband. An excellent film","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Are you a giraffe?... ask John to Nadia, and she, sure of responding well, responds him yes. In this way begin the communication between a man and a woman who don't know each other, and at the same time, the questions and doubts in Birthday Girl. A film that i heard a lot of times, but i don't dare to see... until two hours of write this.Birthday Girl is a passionate movie that makes me fall in count, at the same time, that Nicole Kidman is one of the best actress (Besides she is pretty and intelligent) that i have ever seen. Birthday Girl is the story of a lonely and routine man who looks for a wife at internet. The woman that he finds comes from Russia. She seems to be that delicate woman, normal, not more. One day, in her birthday comes suddenly, his cousin and his friend. The man, begin to discover certain things. Since here, he don't going to be the lonely and routine man that always have been.Much of us going to think that this movie is just a regular one with a exploited plot. Much of us going to think that the action and thrills are sure and don't novel. But Birthday Girl is just the opposite. This movie is full of good surprises, good performances and a imaginative plot that i had never seen and imagined. This romantic thriller with certain funny touch is an excellent natural film with a lot of proposes for the films of it kind. Birthday Girl have certain beauty and crudeness in its scenes, but at the same time, certain touching nature, and makes it so deeper.Birthday Girl is sometimes sad, sometimes funny, sometimes violent, but at the end, is totally satisfactory. And I'm not sorry in say that this is a masterpiece.*Sorry for the mistakes...well, if there any. "},{"Title":"The last time I ever listen to critics or audiences again!","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  From what critics and audiences indicated, BIRTHDAY GIRL had to be a big fat clinker. Still, because I love Nicole Kidman, I decided to rent it last night. It proved to be quite worthy of watching. Sure, it isn't your basic American comedy, and it doesn't take a genius to realize that it is a very British movie, but that's why I liked it. It was a change from all the other movies around, a breath of fresh air. Sure, there were some plot holes, but overall it worked. First off, Kidman was fabulous again in a very different, not very glamorous, but still quite sexy role. She just keeps proving that she is one of the top talents in Hollywood. Not only is her Russian accent when she speaks English effective, but there are times when she carries on long conversations in Russian and if you didn't know it was Nicole Kidman, you would never question her authenticity. Harrison Ford should have taken note in K-19. Overall a slight little movie that works despite the horrible buzz.  "},{"Title":"A total waste.","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A film that has no idea what it wants to be. Is it a black comedy? No, comedies are supposed to be funny. Is it a sex comedy? No, since it's not sexy either. Is it a black romance? No, romances are supposed to be romantic. Is it a light thriller? No, thrillers are supposed to be at least moderately exciting. It seems like it's aim is more in the comedy realm, constantly going for jokes that never land, but then it switches to thriller so drastically that it loses whatever pace it had going for it and then it randomly jumps around to a romance a few minutes later.It's all over the place with no footing, since Ben Chaplin is a remarkably flat and uncharismatic lead who was painful to watch. I hate characters that are written like this, the nerdy passive loser who suddenly decides that he's an action hero, but Chaplin takes it to a new level with his complete like of anything compelling. Nicole Kidman gives it her all as a Russian mail-order bride (get it, because it's funny) and despite her recognizable star power she is actually pretty convincing in the role. Vincent Cassel and Mathieu Kassovitz come in as two more Russians (because when you want to cast Russians, you go for Australians and Frenchmen) and while Cassel is relatively decent, Kassovitz just looks like a French guy speaking Russian.But even if the cast was all on fire there would have been nothing to resurrect this dud from it's poor writing and direction. A real waste of some good actors, thank god director Jez Butterworth hasn't directed anything else since. "},{"Title":"banal","Date":"5 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can't quite decide which is worse - the script or the directing.We're slowly introduced to John (Chaplin), a mild mannered (the mildest EVER) bank clerk looking for a mail order bride from a russian website. It's a slow, dull start to the movie that I was hoping was just setting the scene for some interesting viewing. However, Butterworth decided to maintain this tempo for the entire movie. Low tempo can be great if you have the material and sufficiently powerful acting (Lost In Translation for example), this is turgid, the actors are cardboard at best. At times we are introduced to plot points (John's ex for example) that disappear without trace quicker than they appeared. I really feel I'm wasting my breath reviewing this terrible movie - it doesn't deserve analysis. Last word - script = first draft, director = unable to get moderately good performance from a decent cast. "},{"Title":"A gift for us","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a clever, funny, sexy movie that starts as a romantic comedy and then becomes an edgy thriller.Nerdy bank clerk, John Buckingham (Ben Chaplin) lives in a semi-rural town not far from London. When he orders a Russian mail order bride over the Internet, she duly self-delivers herself to the airport in the form of Nadia (Nicole Kidman). One of his main requirements in the arrangement was, Someone you can really talk to. I think communication is key. But as John drives her home, he realises that Nadia can't speak English &#x96; or seems not to.Although John at first desperately tries to contact the aptly named 'From Russia with Love' marriage agency to cancel the deal, the language barrier becomes far less important when he discovers that Nadia is sexually adventurous and encourages him to indulge his every fantasy with her.Everything seems to be going perfectly for John until Nadia's Russian cousin, Yuri (Mathieu Kassovitz), and his friend Alexei (Vincent Cassel) turn up and overwhelm his life. Effusively friendly at first, they soon prove disturbingly dangerous, and John realises that all is not as it seems.The plot heads into unpredictable territory and although the ending is pretty crazy it is also satisfying in light of all the revelations that take place along the way.The film has a lightness of touch, but also a dark side. If I could compare it with any other film it might be Jonathan Demme's Something Wild &#x96; the sexually aggressive girl, the nerdy guy, the slowly blossoming relationship and the intrusion of a psychotic and dangerous boyfriend. The basic ingredients work in both movies.Ben Chaplin hits just the right note as the colourless bank clerk who actually has a repressed wild side, he just needs the right person to unlock it and set it loose. His performance is both funny and engaging.Pretty, sexy, and slim almost to the point of fragility, Nicole Kidman's Nadia looks vulnerable, but as we discover as the story unfolds, looks are deceiving. This is a captivating performance; she has little dialogue &#x96; and half of that is in Russian.The amazing Vincent Cassel plays Alexei. No one can play dangerous like this guy. I didn't realise that he made Birthday Girl before Irreversible. His role here was a good warm up, he exudes unpredictability &#x96; look at that martial arts kick he does when he is jogging with John. It is an indication of John's growth of character when he actually takes him on.A lot of reviewers regard this as a flawed work, but I'm not so sure I can see the flaws. I enjoyed it from start to finish &#x96; I couldn't see how it was actually going to end, but it felt about right when it did. "},{"Title":"odd yet strangely entertaining film","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is definitely an odd love story. Though this film may not be much to shout about, Nicole Kidman carries the film on her own the rest of the cast could quite easily be forgotten, though Ben Chaplin does do quite a good job of Hertfordshire Life with shots of St Albans & Hemel Hempstead town centre depicting the true essence of the area. What starts outlooking like a regular episode of the popular British TV seriesHeartbeat soon turns into a gritty gangster getaway action flick.Nothing truly memorable happens in this simple small film and thus ends-up as fairly decent weekend entertainment. A good one to watch, and if you like the hero john are lonely thirty something you may find something to identify with in his character. "},{"Title":"Dithering black comedy that wasn't supposed to be funny and ends up equally anti-climatic.","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Birthdays normally a time for happiness, fun, an opportunity for friends and family to get in contact with you via cards or phone calls wishing their regards but here; in Birthday Girl, there is none of that. John (Chaplin) is a guy whose life is plain and dull in his honest opinion; so bad in fact that he orders a girl over the internet to come and live with him; this premise is about as exciting as John's life is or was and for the record; doesn't make sense he orders a 'mail bride' yet when she offers him the ring, he declines; there is no set up involving the company so we're sort of lead to believe that it doesn't exist but since it's on the Internet where millions can access it, it seems a little far fetched that Sophia or Nadia (Kidman) or whatever should show up on John's door when there are probably hundreds and hundreds of richer, more closer to home people she could go to.Birthday Girl is a sort of hybrid of 2005's Derailed and Almodóvar's quirky film from 1990 Átame! The idea that a guy and a girl get involved when they shouldn't really be is toyed with in Birthday Girl since she's a mail order bride whereas in Átame, Banderas' character had been freed from a psychiatric hospital and in Derailed, the male and the female just hook up on a train &#150; Chaplin in this film even looks a little like Clive Owen. Unfortunately, Birthday Girl falls short of both films which were rather enjoyable in the end because of its lack of confidence. Derailed gets a little nasty once Vincent Cassel (who's also in this) shows up and that propels twists, turns and a good character study of Clive Owen's Charles Schine and what to do but Birthday Girl just seems to lack punch, it lacks violence and it lacks that hard-boiled, noir undertone, revenge feel that I really wish it had.Birthday Girl has problems not only with its content and which way it's going to go but with its characters and their logic as well as the film's overall logic. Things turn a little ugly once Alexei (Cassel) and Yuri (Kassovitz) turn up and yet when John is suspicious, the police don't even seem to enter the equation over whether or not he should consult them likewise; when he is pressured into stealing money it is the fear of them doing something outrageous to Nadia that stops him from alerting the authorities and only because since her arrival, she's been supplying him with his sadomasochistic desires that I can only guess was the reason for getting her because he was on the verge of giving her up what with all the phone calls back to the website. This spawns two things First, why didn't HE instigate the sadomasochism instead of leaving her to find out and secondly, did he really think they would harm their own cousin out of jealousy of his 'perfect life' with 'perfect house' and car? They'd been there a few days and not had any problem &#150; all of a sudden they are sick with envy and are going to kill their own cousin; like that'll do anything and without fooling around, when that scene happened it was so out of the blue that I questioned the authenticity. If they wanted him to steal money, they would've threatened him or perhaps HIS cousins.Like I said; instead of developing into a revenge film, it flags and bothers about with further character development between John and Nadia, who by this time you rather dislike, before giving him lungs of steel in order to chase down a taxi just when he needs to. John, like the film, remains passive; the antagonists disappear for a day or two before popping up again just when they need to (they're stupid enough to hang around) and just when you need a violent, entertaining finale with a strong lead &#150; you get John trying to scare this hardened Russian con artist with a cigarette lighter shaped like a gun, it's pretty laughable. Birthday Girl doesn't have any stand out things about it but just potters along at a pace that is good but nothing great. I didn't feel anything for John except sorrow for him but I was doing that after five minutes. This could've been a great character study about how far one man will go (like Derailed did) to beat the odds but it ended up as a damp, nothing drama about a bunch of people who have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"nicole kidman, what have you done?","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" unremitting boredom occasionally disrupted by sporadic moments of embarrassingly pointless and vulgar action. due to the nearly complete lack of dialogue the plot is initially revealed through a monologue by what must certainly be not only the most boring individual in Britain but in western civilization. all characters in this film fail to awaken any interest on the part of the viewer, due to their complete lack of personality. despite the presence of nicole kidman there is no good acting in this film whatsoever; you can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear. if this is the only film available to watch, best switch to old re-runs on the night channel. "},{"Title":"Uneven and unconvincing but does enough to keep you watching","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John is a shy and lonely bank teller in St Albans who just wants to meet a nice woman. Eventually he turns to a website where he can get Russian brides and he orders one. When he collects Nadia from the airport he finds that she doesn't speak a word of English and he tries to get her returned. Getting no reply from the telephone number he has, Nadia gradually changes John's mind through sex. Despite the total lack of language, the two seem to be getting on well and John is happy with his new life but, on Nadia's birthday, two of her friends arrive totally unannounced and things take a change for the worse.This film is listed as being just about every genre possible to select on this site and this highlights one of the problems with the film &#150; it is uneven and doesn't quite settle into any one thing well enough to succeed at it. The mix of romance and comedy pretty much never works and it does take away from what should have been a more effective dramatic plot. The logic in the story pretty much works; perhaps not in real world terms but on its own. It kept moving well enough to keep me watching even if it didn't do anything particularly well &#150; it engaged me although I think I was quite forgiving of it because I wasn't in that demanding a mood.The cast are better than the material deserves and they are a big part of making it work. Kidman should be applauded for her film roles, certainly they are unusual for such a big star to do as many smaller things as she does. Here she spends most of the film doing an accent but her presence is good regardless and it means we are still interested in her whenever she starts speaking. Chaplin is better because he is grounded in the real world (sort of) and his performance means he more than holds his own opposite the starry leading lady. I generally don't like Cassel but here he was OK and his worked well with Kassovitz to delivered an improved second half where the drama came to the fore. The support cast is strange &#150; not bad but not good either. The presence of Armstrong and Miller is just another example of the uneven tone to the film &#150; the comedians both seem to be trying to inject a small bit of humour by their delivery, but it doesn't work and sticks out a bit like a sore thumb.Overall this has enough going on to keep you watching but it doesn't do anything that well, producing an uneven affair that only gets a bit better in the second half where the focus appears to settle down. It is never illogical to a detrimental point but it is unconvincing at points. File under D for distracting, because it is watchable as long as you don't expect too much from it. "}{"Title":"Kidman Shines in Russian","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a comedy based on national stereotypes, no doubt. If you leave away pretending you know or you care what Communism was about and how real Russians or Brits are, if you accept and are not hurt by the conventions, you can have fun with this film. Nicole Kidman is at her best, sexy, moving and funny. Ben Chaplin succeeds to avoid being completely out-shadowed by Nicole, and the rest of the cast does good work as well. The final is moving, and logical - movie logics, of course. Worth watching, if you accept the rules of the game.  "},{"Title":"Pure classical romantic style","Date":"8 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The story line isn't all that important here. It's a young man getting a beautiful mail order bride, who turns out to be trouble.It's the classical romantic style that really picks this film up. Nicole Kidman has never been hotter, no offense meant to her. But here she is the ultimate in romantic allure.In true old fashioned romantic style, the woman is the mystery, and the man is the one who struggles and looks. Too often the film makers have turned this around, and it just doesn't work. Now, we get back to old fashioned basics.It doesn't work the other way around because young men are always looking. There is no such thing as a confident young man who has hero quality.A third character shows us the confident young man. This is the guy who was lucky enough to have a criminal mentor in his youth, one lucky enough to see past the lies that elders tell other children to keep them in line of being good losers.Our hero is one such regular guy, who didn't have the loving parent, guardian, or mentor. Such a guy is doomed to mediocrity, to never being elected or promoted, without regal family ties.Our heroine is the bad girl who begins with the bad guy. In fact, the hero finds himself at the mercy of three criminals, and he is in a hopeless predicament.The worst of them is the third character I spoke of, who is a human monster, plain and simple. The fourth character is rather likable, and provides a pretty good balance. It's important to have such a balance in the fourth character.What transpires is a gamut of emotions. The story is second. This is a stylistic romance to the max. Whenever Nicole is on, the imagery is superb. When she is off camera, the imagery flattens. She makes the impression. This is a very well directed piece. It isn't the highest in story telling, but ranks up near the top in artistic romance. "},{"Title":"So-so thriller","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ben Chaplin is the best part of this semi-interesting film.You have to feel for his character, a sad-sack bank clerk who just wants a little love in his life. Boy, is he idealistic.Mail-order bride as pimp bait is definitely an original idea. I suspected Nicole Kidman's character was a prostitute but I couldn't have foreseen all the twists and turns to follow. It's a decent plot with a little too neat of an ending. Kidman was tiresome to watch and I couldn't quite believe that John actually cared for her. Maybe it's that he didn't want to abandon his child (though he certainly shouldn't be assuming it's his). It's impossible to believe this pair will live happily ever after when it's he who becomes an émigré groom.(I know the Russian thugs weren't meant to be attractive but I found them so loathsome I had to fast-forward through their later scenes.) "},{"Title":"A bank clerk orders a mail-order bride from Russia online and then appears a mysterious and gorgeous girl .","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A sexy ride with Nicole Kidman who brings erotic heat to her character . It deals with a shy thirty something bank clerk named John (Ben Chaplin who subsequently didn't have a successful career) from St Albans , he has his small-town life exploded by the arrival of his Russian mail-order bride named Nadia (Nicole Kidman who shows her high range), she doesn't speak English , but the two begin to talk the international language anyway . Nadia brings some color into his drab , dull life , as John hardly has time to wallow in his newfound bliss when he's besieged by problems . Before they share a future, they have to survive her past , somebody in for a big surprise . Then the bank clerk is beset by Russian strangers (though no actor in the movie actually speaks Russian, nor does the director) claiming to be Nadia's relatives (Mattieu Kassovitz , Vincent Kassel) . The timid clerk is drawn into a cobweb of deceit , fraud and robbing . This love story/actioner contains intrigue , suspense , drama and fine interpretations . Good performances specially by Nicole Kidman as mysterious and sexy online mail-order bride who reportedly learned Russian language for the movie , as she went to the Russian Embassy in Australia for help in speaking Russian , she didn't work with any other coach on the set except the woman from the embassy. Decent film but with no surprises , the story is predictable , being developed in right way . Adequate and thrilling musical score by Stephen Warbeck . Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Oliver Stapleton . Being well produced by the Butterworth clan and the magnificent filmmaker/producer Sydney Pollack .The motion picture was professionally directed by Jez Butterworth , though without originality . His feature film directorial hip debut was Mojo (1997) who also wrote and starred Ian Hart, Ewen Bremner, Aidan Gillen and Harold Pinter and was officially selected for the 1998 Venice Film Festival , being an outstanding critical and public success . Butterworth's other film writing credits include Marc Munden's Christmas and David Giles' The Night of the Golden Brain, both of which he co-wrote with his brother Tom , besides he wrote the hit smashes titled 'The last legion' and 'Fair game' . Rating  6 , acceptable and passable . Worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"Really Loved It","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When I saw Birthday Girl I liked it so much I set out to see every Nicole Kidman film I could, only to find all of them a disappointment compared to it. I theorize that while the presence of a particular star usually guarantees a certain level of quality because of their artistic control, with Nicole Kidman the influence she exerts is detrimental to film enjoyment--IMHO. Thus for instance, Dogville, even depriving the viewer of anything visual to detract from the existential insight she is hammering home, or other films promoting gay and lesbianism as worthy of anyone else's attention, or other pet causes of Kidman's. Here she is a natural woman and she does a really great job. I don't how or who was able to restrain her, but apparently it worked. The way the film depicts her openness despite her resistance gets to the heart of what makes a woman soft. And consequently, what makes a man's most desperate hopes marginally attainable. Of course, the fact the male lead transforms from a milquetoast clerk to macho man in the space of one film sounds like a male ego expansion fantasy, but his transformation is adequately believable. It isn't coyly contrived as it would be in a film engineered to bolster male ego. Instead it accurately records necessary growth arising from the films unique circumstances.Also quite charming is the way the criminals are portrayed as perfectly human, apart from their criminal mission. Her gang has a coed rough and tumble fellowship which is foreign to American culture. And while they are his adversaries, they are never really his enemy. In fact, they are his best friends. In effect, they teach him how to compete and they dohat in a thoroughly civilized way.I really marveled at Kidman's ability to physically appear Russian. It had me wondering whether her ancestry was Russian, but none of the photos of her I examined showed any hint of it. Maybe it is just makeup but it was amazing. I can only hope that they knock her over the head again soon so she can turn out another great film. Despite my gratuitous digs at Ms. kidman, the message is this is a superior film in every way and probably the role of a lifetime. "},{"Title":"Funnily absurd and wise at the same time","Date":"10 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A small funny film. It is totally incredible, unbelievable, impossible. But it is funny how an introverted masochist can become totally dependent and mesmerized, even hypnotized by a girl he hardly knows but who was able to get down into his phantasms. Of course it is a denunciation of the foolish deals you can get to on the Internet. You must not believe ten percent of what you're told there and never, ever, ever accept to tie up your hands in a way or another to someone or something or some organization you do not know personally. Most of their businesses there are in a way or another going to fool you and raid you. But here the chap deserves being the victim of such gangsters because he is not only naive, he is absurdly silly. But then the film becomes funny because it ends up with the victim of the crooked business having the upper hand and ending up playing the same game with his victimizer and winning. One think is sure too. Security in English airports is not exactly what it should be, but I guess it's not better anywhere else in the world and even now they have tightened up all rules and regulations it is just fun to go through their procedures and foil them systematically. Then they have their vengeance by losing your luggage, a real plague on modern airports, and don't expect to get fair compensation. Or even confiscating a bottle opener or a can opener because it may be dangerous. I can see myself cutting my way through the side of the plane with a can opener. Funny, isn't it? Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris Dauphine, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne & University Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines "},{"Title":"Sounds like a good deal.","Date":"22 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" So if I order a Russian mail order bride, I'll get to have kinky sex with a Slavic Nicole Kidman and I get to quit my boring job, be a hero, and make off with a million bucks? Sounds like a good deal. If you can disregard the blatant wish-fulfillment fantasy aspect and consequent predictability of the whole thing, this is a pretty good romantic drama comedy thriller, I guess. Kidman is easy on the eyes, and although Ben Chaplin is no Chaplin, he's entirely believable as the naive, romantic sadomachosist- next-door type person that he portrays. The Russian bad guys come across more as bohemians than bandits, though. (For a better comedic take on the whole mail-order-bride biz, see the Swedish mockumentary Screwed in Tallinn) "},{"Title":"Modern romantic story.","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Modern, original, romantic story.Very good acting of both Nicole Kidman and Ben Chaplin.Miss Kidman does a nice job in imitating a Russian accent. Ben Chaplin is also good as the shy, dull clerk. For the men (and some women)  miss Kidman looks fantastic and is very sympathetic. I forgot what a gorgeous woman she is. It's not hard to imagine that John falls in love with her. Some unexpected turns in the story are good for the suspense. Although I hoped for a happy ending, the last part of the movie was quite a surprise for me. Conclusion  good movie. Les Pays-Bas  huit points. "},{"Title":"Good acting, somewhat implausible, leaves you wanting more","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Every time I see Nicole I like her more.  I love a movie like this.  A woman you just won't give up on, but she keeps breaking your heart.  First movie I remember seeing like this was Of Human Bondage, the Kim Novak - Laurence Harvey version.  The beefs about the correctness of the Russian spoken in this film are petty, it was good enough to fool me or anybody else who can't speak Russian, I'm sure.  Funny how people miss the point.  The no-goodnik Russian guys were well cast too.  Finally, I have to tip my hat to Ben Chaplin, as somebody else noted, he plays a sap with great dignity, and there was definitely some heat between him and Nicole.  To think, guys get PAID for that, mind-blowing. "},{"Title":"Kassovitz, Cassel far from hell","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I agree with most of the comments that have been entered here. But Iam surprized to see that no one really mentioned the performances of Vincent Cassel and Mattieu Kassovitz. They were my best part of the movie! They were funny and accent-wise, you cannot expect a non-russian to get it right,I thought they pulled it off quite well and that Kassovitz' russian accented english was brilliant, brilliant! I wish more american films included these 2! "}{"Title":"Not about St. Albans","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Having seen the film there is not very much of St. Albans in the film what so ever. As previously stated the high street views are not St.Albans and equally i cetainly haven't found a large wood with a big pond in St.albans at all-unless you count verulanium park but it wasn't filmed there either. In fact the ponds used look more like some private fishing ponds close to Elstree. In fact the only part of St. Albans you might see in the film is when the car exits the multi-story car park and turns down a road (blink and you'll miss it) but that 5 seconds worth of film is actually St. Albans. Other than that you get a number of shots of the M25 orbital road (and surprisingly uncongested so god knows when they filmed that).It all seems a bit silly really eg if you make a film set in London or New York eg then most of the time the film is actually based in the relevant city. Disappointing setting and not particularly good film either still at least it will save me bothering to buy the DVD. "},{"Title":"Just what is this movie?","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say this is a bad or a good movie I am still trying to figure out what it was supposed to be. A comedy? Definitely not a funny movie. A romance movie? Perhaps. A drama? In a way, yes. But a bad one.The actors are excellent (although John's lack of emotions in tough situations is a bit strange), the cinematography is first-class, but the writing is quite poor. The film ends up like a cross between Little Vera and Bonnie and Clyde, with a healthy dose of cliché about Russian mail-order brides. "},{"Title":"Nicole Is Great","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nicole Kidman is a wonderful actress and here she's great. I really liked Ben Chaplin in The Thin Red Line and he is very good here too. This is not Great Cinema but I was most entertained. Given most films these days this is High Praise indeed.  "},{"Title":"A good contender for Most cliches in a single movie award","Date":"8 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Some spoilers!This movie is not that bad but its problem is that is shows us things we have seen in so many other (and mostly better) movies. Every character is stereotypical  to the extreme - the bad gangster, the kind gangster with some jokes, the naive clerk, the beautiful woman who is somewhere in between femme fatalle and an innocent girl needing protection. The plot is also a big cliche and very predictable. The Russians smoke, drink and commit crimes - is there any mainstream movie featuring Russian characters in which they don't do the things listed above? Of course, the main characters first like each other, than briefly hate each other but in the end...gasp...they are on the verge of falling in love. Hello, how many movies are there with the same romantic story? A million? But as I said putting the originality problem, Birthday Girl could be a fairly enjoyable movie if not taken seriously. About the acting - Ben Chaplin was annoying. I don't know whether it was deliberate but he had the same facial expression all the time. Making fun of the cold-heated Englishmen? Or just bad acting? You decide. Nicole Kidman as usual delivers, not that her role was very difficult or something. Her Russian accent was quite convincing but her trying to speak Russian was not that well done. Still better than most Hollywood flicks with people speaking Russian. Her character is the most interesting one and she manages to keep viewers in suspense about Nadia's true personality until close to end. Of course, that is, if you are a bit slowly thinking and not drawing from experience with similar movies to guess what the ending would be (very easy to guess, alas). She is not surprisingly the main reason a lot of people (myself included) have watched this movie and I doubt many Kidman fans will be disappointed by her performance.All in all, not the worst way to lose nearly two hours of your life but nothing more -  5/10.  "},{"Title":"So bad I gave up after half an hour!!","Date":"10 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jez Butterwoth wrote the wonderful Mojo, which I saw as a play at the Royal Court before it transferred to the screen. Birthday Girl is appalling, badly researched and predictable throughout. At first I thought it was a comedy but there were no jokes. This is adolescent masturbation fantasy.Butterworth obviously knows nothing about how internet marriage bureaus are run. Sadly I know two people who have been through it (one worked out well, the other didn't) and both had to travel to their prospective brides home country, meet the person, family, etc, and then jump through the hoops required by immigration to get their bride into the UK. I can find no internet site where you click on your choice, enter your credit card details and hey presto Nicole Kidman arrives at Stansted! Once back at his place she uses sexual favours to compensate for her lack of English, and on finding his not so carefully hidden stack of porn, acts out his light bondage fantasies. Only in teenage boys' wettest dreams do such things occur.He works as a bank clerk, with the girl next door he's been unable to find sat at the next window. She couldn't have been more obvious unless she'd had I love you tattooed on her forehead. He's been there 10 years, passed over for promotion but entrusted with the keys to the vault. Underline with shots of him putting bags of cash into the safe just in case we can't grasp what could happen later.Then her moody friends from the old country turn up, including one who is a little too familiar; see jealousy rise in our hero. Quite honestly at that point I was praying that the two Russian lads would put a bullet in the back of the little creep's head spraying his brains over the walls his large detached house in with rear view over unspoilt fields and woods in Hertfordshire that he could never have been able to afford on his meagre salary.I didn't see the rest but assume that something happened with the dodgy Russians and the bank. I didn't care which of the two girls he ended up with, but somehow couldn't believe that he would end up dead or in prison which is what he deserved.I will never get that 30 minutes of my life back and I feel cheated. Do the washing up, a far better use of your precious time! "},{"Title":"Nicole Kidman! Need any other incentive to see it??","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Birthday Girl is a pleasant dark, romantic thriller where no one actually gets hurt bad. Plain, boring banker (Ben Chaplin) uses the website From Russia With Love for a mail-order bride Nadia (Nicole Kidman) whom he first encounters at the airport. On the way home he finds out that she apparently speaks no English, smokes, so he tries to return her. (If I were him, I wouldn'd care, as long as she looked as good as Kidman!). She even starts her sexual favors right away.SPOILERS - Anyway, the whole thing turns out to be a scam, she really does speak English, she and her two Russian partners who shortly show up make their spending money this way, apparently threatening the girl, and making the man go for lots of money. Being a banker, Chaplin manages to get 90,000 British pounds. He eventually gets the best of them and, while being hunted by the bumbling British police, boards a plane to Russia with Nadia, using the passport and ticket of one of the crooks. He gets what he started looking for, but does it in a very round-about way, and in the process has to give up every thing he had before.Not a great film, but fairly entertaining, and Nicole Kidman is the main reason to see it. Ben Chaplin does a good job as the droll sad-sack banker. The two Russians are played by accomplished French actors. The DVD is sharp, has a good surround track, and a nice music video which includes Kidman singing Something Stupid in duet. "},{"Title":"Kidman's Bare Derriere Not Enough","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This was a good idea ruined by a bad and unbelievable script.First off, Ben Chaplin plays a timid English banker who orders a Russianbride or a girlfriend (the filmmakers are never really clear on this)through the internet. Instead of a fat Slavic woman with a mustache,NICOLE KIDMAN shows up. Riiiiiiiiiight.Now that this beautiful woman (Nadia) has arrived in England, Chaplindiscovers she cannot speak English. So not only does he get thisbeautiful babe, but he doesn't even have to talk to her--and he getsupset!!! Instead of immediately bathing her by candlelight using a luffaand his tongue, he calls the internet company to complain!!!Unable to communicate with Nadia, this idiot then puts her to sleep...ina separate bedroom!!! I would have begun throwing things at the screenexcept then Nicole made her move. She enters his bedroom in the dark,late at night. He sees her standing there, her beauty awash in themoonlight, shining through her loose bedclothes and...--jumps out of bed and insists she go back to her room, a mistake hasbeen made. (The big mistake is asking ANYONE to believe that any redblooded heterosexual male would let her leave that room for at least 48hours!) (And no, I don't believe Tom Cruise qualifies).Fortunately the lovely Nicole doesn't speak English and makes herdesires known with a pensive look and a frisky hand. It was one ofNicole's finest moments in her cinema career. But then the sexuallysuspect Chaplin not only lets her go back to her bedroom that night,but in the morning tries to return her to the internet company thatimported her!In my country, scriptwriters responsible for such foolishness would bebeaten and  imprisoned.The next night, Chaplin decides to show Nicole he wants her to leave byreturning her ring to her. The last thing she wants to do is go back toRussia, so she virtually attacks him and makes hard, passionate love tohim. So now of course, he is convinced, to keep her. Right? Wrong. Hecontinues his attempts to return her. Unbelievable!!! What planet isthis guy from? Nicole finally changes Chaplin's tiny mind after discovering his porncollection and deducing he has a taste for bondage. She indulges hispassion (and treats the audience to several fine shots of her barederriere) and finally wins this idiot over. Things look like smoothsailing for awhile and he comes to care for her now that she lets himtie her up nightly. She even begins to learn a few words of English,like rope burn and ouch!.Then more unbelievable things happen. Nadia's Russian cousin and afriend show up claiming to be actors on tour (of course!), and have cometo celebrate her birthday (Too bad they couldn't have hired real actorsto play these characters). The two turn out to be nasty criminal typeswho take Nicole prisoner and threaten to kill her unless Chaplin agreesto rob his own bank. Instead of using his head and calling the police(they let him move about freely) he agrees and carries out a simple yetcompletely impossible  bank robbery and gets away clean.  Here's theplan (Usually I don't give away plot details like this because I fearruining one's enjoyment of the film, but the screenwriters beat me tothat!) he goes into the bank with two empty guitar cases, fills themwith money and walks out. This plan works even when he is discovered inthe middle of the act.Now normally I would have walked out right then and there, but there wasstill a slim chance Nicole would expose more of her comely flesh. I wasbitterly disappointed.Don't make my mistake. If you do go see this film, leave quietly afterNicole's full moon scene. Otherwise you will end up wasting your timeseeing a  "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"8 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not a big Nicole Kidman fan, given that her movies seem to be on the quirky side, but the trailer for Birthday Girl caught my attention.  It looked like it was a mystery with a few thrills thrown in, so I thought I'd take a chance and see the movie.  Wrong choice.First of all, the movie was not really much of a mystery unless the mystery is trying to figure out how long Ben Chaplin can keep that I have no clue look on his face, or figuring out how long Kidman and Chaplin can exchange blank stares.  Going in to the movie I knew that Kidman was playing a russian mail order bride, but didn't figure I'd have to read english subtitles throughout the movie for all the russian that is spoken.  Nicole Kidman definitely does a good job in the movie, but her acting can't make up for a poor storyI guess my fiancee and I just expected more.  We left the theater saying was that it???.  I don't recommend this movie unless you are a big Nicole Kidman fan. "},{"Title":"Strange","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I had never even heard about Birthday Girl before i borrowed it on DVD from one of my friends. The cover said Thriller and i guess that was what i expected, especially considering the quite dark tone set by the front of the cover. When the movie started though i was a bit surprised...And i guess i'm not the only surprised by this. It seems the film-makers themselves are almost surprised by the change of styles that happen about half-way into the movie. It begins as a light comedy, turns darker and then ends on an almost comical note. All the way through i found the darker parts hard to accept because of the silly beginnings.I don't know the background here myself. This movie doesn't seem like the usual big-budget things you would expect to see Nicole Kidman. The fact that she speaks Russian in most of the movie is also something unexpected. Sometimes i feel that this is maybe the point of the whole movie. An experiment where Nicole Kidman, Vincent Cassel and Mathieu Kassovitz speak Russian as a prop? If that is the case it's not enough by far to carry this movie.I can't say that i was bored with Birthday Girl really. It was entertaining enough most of the time. But the ambiguous moods of the film disturbed me. I find it very hard to take the serious parts seriously when there is comedy right around the corner. Somehow it takes the edge of. It would have been better to choose a style and stick with it. Also the stereotypical Russians (played by french actors) are a tired concept. A movie that is not painfully bad, but easily forgotten.5/10 "},{"Title":"No humour, no suspense, no good actors, just awful","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What a boring film. I didn't expect very much, but it was worse than I thought. Chaplin with the same expression during all the film, Kidman with red eyes all the time, a two stereotyped stupid russians. 1/10 "}{"Title":"Worst movie with bad story ever","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  What were Nicole and Ben thinking when say yes to this film. Oh very awful With bad story. England always made FILM worst, even I know that England is have many good artist.I'm very disapointed with this movie, the story line is bad with no emotion think. This can make people feel the thing. They want entertain in house after work not become so hate  because this movie.VERY VERY AWFUL MOVIE  "},{"Title":"suspense? BAH!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  well... i love Nicole Kidman.. but my god girl what are you doing..while the individual performances of Ben Chaplin and Nicole where amazing as always .. as far as suspense goes.. this movie rated a 1/10im sorry .. whlie the story may have been inventive and new.. the plot and situations where lacking something... whats the word... excitement?whlie not entirely predictable it was somewhat run of the mill!as far as movies I've seen this year.. as my rating suggests i give it 3/10 merely for performances... "},{"Title":"A waste of a good cast","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Birthday Girl doesn't know what it wants to be - is it a comedy,, is it a drama...it just doesn't know. What could have been a very funny or touching film ends up in no-man's land. The premise is original enough to have warranted a script full of interesting scenarios but hardly delivers any and ends up petering out. This is a real shame if you look at the cast - it's very solid all the way through but they don't get the chance to shine. Very disappointing. "},{"Title":"Like day old pizza","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Some will hate it, some will love it, and most will find it unsatisfying and marginally palatable. Birthday Girl tells of an Englishman (Chaplin) who orders a Russian bride via the Internet and gets more than he bargained for. No, Kidman is not sexalicious in spite of what the advertising suggests. Instead, B-Day Girl squeaks by with a meager make-it-up-as-you-go plot, poor chemistry between Kidman and Chaplin, and wouldn't fit any genre if it was hammered in. A silly mix of dry comedy and drama which doesn't end as much as it quits. Mediocre stuff best saved for broadcast. (C) "},{"Title":"This film had so much potential...","Date":"6 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" ... But it didn't quite reach it. The story is interesting and it could be very thrilling. All the characters seem unique, but they just feel distant and even if few of them clearly have several layers, all those layers are left weirdly superficial. While you watch the movie, you don't really care for them. They just are, and they don't feel as real as well written fictional characters usually true. The cast is amazing, especially for Nicole Kidman. Still, all these good elements feel wasted on this film. For some reason a good story isn't so interesting on the screen, or at least the film-makers weren't able to make it interesting. Birthday Girl is left bland.Several scenes were obviously meant to be shocking and thrilling for the viewer, but as they passed they had little to no impact on me. They felt distant and in a bad way.In general this film is quite decent and it may even be worth watching. It's average, or slightly below that. I feel like the story is interesting enough to be remade by someone with unique skills, who can make it stand out from the typical movies of this type. "},{"Title":"Nicole Kidman alluring in weak comedy/thriller","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John (Ben Chaplin) is a quiet small town bank worker. He goes to pick up his Russian mail-order bride Nadia from the airport. He is surprised when the woman (Nicole Kidman) speaks no English and is sexually aggressive. Her cousin Yuri (Mathieu Kassovitz) and his friend Alexei (Vincent Cassel) shows up on her birthday. After a fight, Alexei takes Nadia hostage and forces John to steal from the bank.I don't find this to be a funny comedy. It has a certain thrilling element but it needs more tension. Vincent Cassel is threatening but nothing special. Chaplin is OK and not outstanding. Nicole Kidman is absolutely alluring. The rest is a bit weak. This has to be either wackier for comedy or darker for the tension. "},{"Title":"...Wait just a second...","Date":"16 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" If you're watching a film, and every five minutes a little voice in your head is saying to you How did they get away with that? Then something is wrong. In the case of Birthday Girl, this tiny murmur is more like a siren, blasting through your brain at every inopportune moment, informing you that the far-fetched goings on are such an insult to your intelligence, it completely distracts you from the main plot. No great loss there, then.Amongst other such pertinent questions that will forever remain unanswered, three pop into my now-hurting cranial organ* HOW ON EARTH does a bank employee manage to walk out of his workplace with 90k while everyone's watching him? Seriously, no-one lifts a finger to help. He doesn't have a gun... He's not a muscleman... But they just stare at him, goldfish like as he escapes? Doubtful.* HOW ON EARTH then does he then get to drive through half the country in his vibrant orange car, WITHOUT being arrested? It must stand out a mile , and all the police must be looking for it. Yet, he isn't picked up ONCE. In fact, the law enforcement in Birthday Girl must be chronically blind and stupid, as we reach my BIGGEST complaint...*HOW ON EARTH is this dude not recognised?! Let's see... He sits in a busy police station for ages, walks around a crowded airport and is even able to get onto a flight WITH SOMEONE ELSE'S PASSPORT. His face MUST have been released to the authorities... But apparently not, as he seems to be able to come and go at his own leisure. Uh huh.I HATE movies like this. Are we supposed to be so blinded by the presence of Nicole KIdman taking her kit off for the umpteenth time now, and her rather desperate and flavourless link up with nerdy Ben Chapin, that we're meant to ignore basic logic? Suspend all sense of credibility, in the name of the audience getting the ending they want? I can't play that game... And I won't. This is the sort of movie where, if you performed an I.Q test before and after, you might actually find you lost a good few digits in the process. Try it, and see.Everything else pales into comparison to the general inanity on display, but as for the story... Here's a quick synopsis BLAH BLAH BLAH Naive bank clerk arranges wedding with Russian mail order bride BLAH BLAH BLAH Turns out she's not what she seems BLAH BLAH BLAH Gangster friends turn up BLAH BLAH BLAH Force him to give them mucho cash BLAH BLAH Later she finds out she's pregnant BLAH BLAH BLAH BLAH Even though she ruined his life, they run off together. END.What a stupid movie. 4 out of 10 candles. "},{"Title":"Birthday Girl","Date":"25 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I thought I had seen this film already years ago, I certainly knew the leading actress, but I did in fact watch it for the first time, it was rated average, but I read about what it was about, I was willing to try it. Basically lonely bank clerk John Buckingham (Ben Chaplin) from St Albans, in southern Hertfordshire, England, orders a mail-order bride named Nadia (Nicole Kidman) from Russia on the Internet, she is pretty and friendly, but he unsatisfied when he realises she cannot speak any English. He tries calling the company he ordered her from constantly to send her back, he is uncomfortable and shy, but she is sexually bold, and he slowly forms a bond with her as she gives him sexual pleasure. Later on, trying to learn English words from a Russian to English dictionary he gives her, Nadia reveals it is her birthday, and later that day a man she introduces as her cousin Yuri (Amélie's Mathieu Kassovitz) and his friend Alexei (Black Swan's Vincent Cassel) arrive to celebrate the birthday with them. Alexei soon shows he has a temper, after a violent dispute he takes Nadia and holds her hostage, demanding a ransom from John, he does care for her and to get the money is forced to steal from the bank he has worked for ten years. After the ransom is paid, he realises that this was all a big con, Nadia, Yuro and Alexei are in cahoots and criminals, Alexei is actually Nadia's boyfriend, John learns that they have scammed other men the same way in Switzerland and Germany among others. The criminals take John prisoner, stripping him down to his underwear and tying him up to a motel toilet, he does manage to free himself, and he also finds Alexei has left Nadia behind after discovering that she is pregnant. John gets himself dressed and has a scrap with Nadia, but they eventually calm and sit together, it is then that she reveals in fact she could speak English all along, and her name is not Nadia, he plans to take her to the police to turn her in and clear his name for the bank robbery. However John sympathises with Nadia and decides against this, they go the airport where he leaves her for a short time, it is there that Alexei kidnaps her, he wants her to have the baby, but John rescues her, tying Alexei to a chair and also making sure Yuri is out of the way also. In the end Nadia is snuck through the airport security gates, with John using Alexei's passport to pose as him, getting away also with the thousands he stole in his coat pockets, Nadia suggests he should come with her back to Russia, calling it a long date, John eventually agrees, and she reveals her real name is Sophia. Also starring Kate Lynn Evans as Clare, Stephen Mangan as Bank Manager, Alexander Armstrong as Robert Moseley, Sally Phillips as Karen, Jo McInnes as Waitress, Mark Gatiss as Tim the Porter, Steve Pemberton as Duty Sergeant, Reece Shearsmith as Porter and Ben Miller as Concierge. Kidman gives a downbeat and interesting performance as the Russian mail-order bride, Chaplin does okay as the regular Brit pulled into a messed situation, Cassel is a good choice as the moody villain, and it is interesting to see many popular British comedians younger in the supporting cast. It is supposed to make you laugh this film, I maybe tittered in places, but it is much more about the crime aspect than anything, all the conning stuff almost overwhelms, I agree with critics that it suffers from genre identity crisis, but you can excuse it for having a bit of a love story you can follow, not a very funny film, but not a terrible romantic comedy crime drama. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"... quite a few years have passed, and you know, it's still a bunch of fun..","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Almost a decade and a half gone by... man was/ is she something. Not all great actors make great films. But the truly special talent have a knack of coming up with some pretty exceptional 'small' films, that really are enjoyable viewing. This movie might have worked with a lesser name, but NK own's the part.. and when you figure how commanding a presence she is on screen, not to overpower the material in such circumstance is an achievement all in itself. She has a disarming ease on screen, and it can lead to a tendency to discount her talent. But make no mistake about it, she is one of the leading actors of her day.. and unquestionably, all being good, we shall have many future memorable moments to share with her. "},{"Title":"ultimately doesn't make it","Date":"19 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Birthday Girl isn't a bad movie at all, it's just not great. That's a shame because it had potential.A skilled director like Hitchcock or Preston Sturges could start a film as one thing and morph it into another. Psycho and Sullivan's Travels are two examples.This starts off as a light romantic film, goes to a dark place, and comes back to a light note. But it doesn't really work.Ben Chaplin plays John, a lonely bank employee who works long hours. He tries to meet women online but finally gives up and orders a mail order bride. She shows up as Nadia (Nicole Kidman) who doesn't speak any English and who smokes. This is not what he asked for, so he wants her to go back. Though she can't understand him, every time he makes a noise about wanting her to go back, she jumps him and they have sex. It's great sex, so John re-evaluates.One night two Russian friends of Nadia's drop in on them. From there on, it ceases being a romantic film and turns into something more treacherous.I have to agree with others on this board - I don't think the character of John acted in character when he does what he does. I think he would have gone to the police. It's okay in a comedy to have plot holes, it's even okay if the drama is good enough, but in this case, the incongruities were obvious and took you out of the story. And it's fine if people act out of character if we can see a change in them that causes the change. We don't here.The acting is very good, with Nicole Kidman extremely convincing as a beautiful Russian girl, Vincent Cassel and Mathieu Kassovitz do a good job as Nadia's friends.I would like to have seen this overseen or rewritten by John Cusack or someone of that ilk. As it is, it's just serviceable. "}{"Title":"Okay British film","Date":"11 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" It seemed at times that the filmmakers tried to downplay Nicole Kidman's beauty in this movie, but it shone through anyway. I like her look as a brunette. This film seems to have gotten a lot of criticism about it not fitting neatly into any genre. Why should it need to? The movie should do what it does, and then, if applicable, it can be pigeonholed by critics. I agree with a previous comment that this movie would likely not have worked if set in America. Not enough contrast, like there is here, between the boisterous Russians and the supremely uptight English. It must have been a lot of work for Kidman and the French actors to sound convincing in Russian (at least to a non-Russian speaker.) This film is okay. "},{"Title":"Sometimes Amusing","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Birthday Girl is twisty, cheap, and romantic; it is never any of those at the same time, which causes a tonal inconsistency. Oddly enough the tone problems never bothered me, what did was knowing that I was watching a film made lacking in class, thought, and prestige. The film is mildly involving, sometimes even exciting, but only once the ball is rolling and the plot begins unfolding.The scenes that precede it's shift from romantic drama to thriller don't engage us and come off flat. The gimmick of Nadia not being able to speak English could've been a portal to a decently romantic film; that hope is squashed with boredom and lack of development. Then suspense drives the film for another good chunk. Even though you know what you're watching is campy and lacking in quality, you actually become interested or at least amused by Birthday Girl. It repeats this exact act, shifting from romantic drama and again to thriller. By that time the film is narrowed down to creating a relationship between Nicole Kidman and Ben Chaplin. The relationship doesn't add up to much, even in the final scene, it's a relationship we as an audience don't know why we're supporting because it's barely been realized. We never see them fall in love, we only see them tolerate one another. The acting thankfully doesn't sink as low as the illy-penned screenplay or the lack of direction from Jez Butterworth, it may actually be a redeeming quality of the film. Ben Chaplin identifies his role with with us decently and what Nicole Kidman can do with her eyes is a rare quality in an actress. Birthday Girl has a few nice tricks up its sleeve, but it's nothing to highlight on your resume if you were involved in the making of the film. Rating 4/10Grade C- "},{"Title":"How dangerous internet love connections may be...","Date":"21 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A movie released in 2001, Birthday girl seems more actual nowadays, given the difficulty for grown-up people to connect one another, with the need to use social networks to have a date, find a mate or get whatever they want... probably ten years ago this habit was not so widespread... however, this movie starts as a light comedy and moves towards a fast-paced crime movie, with suspense, and some romance as well. The movie gets to entertain with an engaging plot, and well-rounded characters, well interpreted by a good cast. Predictable ending? Maybe, but we expect it. Beware of web love connections? Maybe, i do not refuse these ways to make new acquaintances, although my limited experience with a guy living in a chat taught me that real life is a little different form virtual life, fortunately... and that knowing a person requires something more than a net connection, and the end of the movie seems to support this simple but not so practiced matter of fact. On the whole, a lively watchable product. "},{"Title":"Not what I expected; but still enjoyable","Date":"2 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I had been meaning for quite some time to watch this film, due to reading in the press about mail-order-brides from behind the old iron curtain and being fascinated and sometimes amused, by some of the scams being pulled. The film was released in 2001, however I had not come across it until much later.The film is about John; a lonely, pretty well off bank clerk in his early thirties. John makes the decision to send off for a Russian mail order bride; who arrives in the form of Nadia. At first, John wants to return her. However, after she indulges in his kinky sex fantasies, he starts to warm to her. At this time and during Nadia's birthday party, two of Nadia's Russian cousins show up on Johns door step and after two nights sleeping on his floor, demand more than he had bargained for.The film was promoted either as a tense thriller, a romantic crime drama or even as a comedy/thriller . I do not know to which category to label Birthday Girl as. The film wasn't very thrilling or very comical and the romance was not exhibited enough. The script became predictable and unsurprising after the first twenty minutes, the tone of the film became uneven and the ending was left narratively incomplete. Birthday Girl tries too hard to be more than your average romantic comedy/thriller and this is what spoils it.Birthday girl is blessed with its gifted mix of a talented cast. The most outstanding (and best part of the film) coming from the excellently presented Nadia/Sophia played by Nicole Kidman. Nicole Kidman makes her Russian character believable through remarkable good Russian/English dialogue and recognisable Russian body language and characteristics. The different elements she gives makes her warm and likable; even though she is a crook and a swindler, you want her to be happy and even fall in love with John as the film strives to an end.The two Russian accomplices ; Yuri and Alexei played by the French actors Vincent Cassel and Mattieu Kassovitz are also well done. Both actors do not over play their characters, they bring an atmosphere to the film clearly and conformingly. Lastly, Ben Chaplin looks relaxed, focused and delivers the comical tone with ease.After watching Birthday Girl, it was not what I expected and the appearance of the film was unforeseen. However, I did enjoy it for what it was and the film did make me smile on more than one occasion. Would I have enjoyed watching Birthday Girl without the superior and very sexy performance by Nicloe Kidman? The answer I think is probable no! "},{"Title":"Game on!","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ben 'Game On' Chaplin as he will forever be remembered by me, has proved himself a capable convert to the big-screen, although I don't think this is one of his best performances. Ms Kidman on the other hand - who rarely inspires me - actually does a pretty decent job in this. Maybe because she does have a much meatier role to get stuck into, with Chaplin reduced to playing a mild-mannered timid bank clerk. I couldn't help noticing how Nicole looks absolutely gorgeous for a woman well into her thirties! As I've seen it twice it's lost it's edge, but I think it will provide some suitable twists for the first-time viewer. It's not earth-shattering stuff but it's well-played, and although there's not a Russian actor in sight the accents seem convincing. It's on a par with other recent successful British movies though I'm not sure what category it falls into - it's not really a comedy, nor a thriller. More an observational drama perhaps. It's nicely shot and there are some stalwarts of British TV providing small but amusing Cameos - Ben Miller, Alexander Armstrong, Sally Phillips.The French 'Russian' duo are fine characters and probably steal the show, with Vincent Cassel every inch the hard-edged, ruthless but charismatic villain. All in all a most enjoyable, gentle-paced and slightly off-beat movie that's worth a look. "},{"Title":"Unusual Story of Love w/ a Touch of Dark Comedy","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" At first I was a little disappointed as I went into this expecting a Suspense/Thriller. In turned out being anything but.Overall, I thought it was fairly entertaining, but it asks for us to shut our brains off for a couple hours and often throw out any logic and reason. I'm not saying that in a horrible way, just often there are small plot holes and even more often we question, why would he do that? or how did that happen? Nothing that should distract one to much if taken lightly.The thing that got me the most is the ability to hit some emotion in the latter half. Thats about as far as i can go...but I was honestly ready to turn off halfway through, but ended up having worthwhile payoff.No.. this is not great. The acting was OK. As an American it suited my needs, but I hear the accents are off some. I wouldn't know. But for me, it hit the spot in terms of its message, while managing to have some comedic and clever ways of conveying it. "},{"Title":"Refreshingly different thriller","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" At first glance, this movie comes across as an ordinary thriller. Yet, as the movie progresses, it defies traditional clichés. Though the action consists of John trying to stay alive, the final impression the movie leaves is far deeper than that. (Warning mild spoiler)In the end, the focus is on him breaking free of his mundane, unimpressive life, and how his life is totally transformed.Although perhaps there is not as much action as some would like, and moves slower than most thrillers, Birthday Girl still manages to leave you hanging at the edge of your seat, and gives you something to think about.Refreshing! "},{"Title":"Good acting offsets the poor script","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The movie starts interestingly but grows banal towards the end. Neither the romance comedy nor the crime thriller elements are brought out convincingly in the script. And the ending is rather implausible. (for instance, Kidman and Chaplin literally WALK to the airport? Without seeming to have eaten anything for at least two days?) I guess the most interesting part of the movie is to see how one Austrian actress and two French actors pull off Russian characters. I am not a good judge on the authenticity of their accent since I don't speak or understand a word of Russian. But their way of speaking seems to be pretty natural and believable, and I think this is quite some merit. Kidman is the star that has given as much dynamic as possible to the insipidly written story, and the other actors have all done what they can to instill life into the flatly drawn characters. Good acting is what makes watching this movie not a waste of time despite the poor script. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A real oddity - slow and implausible","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very strange film. Nicole Kidman plays a Russian mail-order bride, silent or speaking only Russian for most of the movie. The main main Russian characters (one speaking only in Russian) are Frenchmen. And Ben Chaplin as the 'hero' is dull beyond belief.The film starts badly, with Chaplin speaking to camera and so boring you that there is a temptation to turn off immediately! It then limps along, with an increasingly implausible plot. Chaplin's actions make no sense so that the only emotion is irritability that anyone can be so stupid. The twists in the plot get sillier and sillier, with a particularly risible scene involving Kidman and Chaplin sleeping out in the woods within walking distance of an international airport. But Kidman just about makes the film watchable. She is a great actress, coping with the plot's daft demands and staying in role, so that you almost believe in her. But a film to watch only when there's little alternative.  "},{"Title":"A mail order bride brings a change into his life...","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  John (played by Ben Chaplin) orders a Russian mail order bride. But she (Nadia / Sophia, played by Nicole Kidman) isn't really what he expected in the first place. The main reason being she doesn't speak any English.Slowly he gets to know her and starts liking her, but on her birthday suddenly some friends arrive at John's place...This is the start of several events that changes his life dramatically.This movie, is very nice to watch. I really thought i would hate it, but for one reason or another I liked it. OK, maybe this isn't the best performance from all of these actors and it probably isn't the best story eather, but who cares. This is a very nice movie and be honest, that is all that counts!  "}{"Title":"uneven and odd","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This little film frustrates me,yet at the same time compells me. It detracted me and also fascinated me. Nicole Kidman has the look of a Russian female albeit a hot one. The film seemingly wants to be an odd romantic comedy,but also wants to be a thriller and/or crime drama. It never decides and that's the ultimate problem that plagues it. The film is badly uneven and the characters just can't decide who they are. It's actually hard to make a connection to the film or care about the story because it doesn't appear that the creators want you to. At the same time,it's so quirky and odd I have a little fixation with it. I shook my head at it from time to time because I just couldn't figure out where it wanted to go. Well it's not a film that is too bad,but I think it fails at true entertainment and is too distant to grab the casual viewer. I had to constantly ask myself if I liked it or not. I'm still not altogether sure. ***/***** "},{"Title":"A Great Film","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One thing the title might sound corny but all the same, this is a great movie. It is a mix of Russian and English. The cast is great, especially Nicole Kidman and the plot is well suited. I enjoyed watching it. One thing that makes this movie stand out is its peculiar Russian atmosphere which other films might not adapt. this is a film worht watching.9/10 "},{"Title":"Odd.","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Bank teller (Chaplin) orders a seductive Russian mail order bride (Kidman) through the internet, and although she only speaks Russian, he decides he wants her to stay. Two men out of nowhere show up and the whole thing turns into one big con, with one man turning out to be her boyfriend (Cassel) and the other his business partner (Kassovitz). Mean-spirited and sloppily executed film is neither a comedy, drama, or thriller; Why this guy would rob a bank (and his job) of thousands is a little bit stupid since there was obviously more logical (and ethical) means to deal with that situation. Of interest only to see Nicole Kidman play someone with another language, which I thought was done well.  "},{"Title":"Sex, Wodka and stealing some money.","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The main character, John, is a very shy man who has been doing his boring job at a local bank for ten years. Because he's not very good at meeting women, he's ordered a Russian mail-order bride. When she arrives it soon becomes clear that she (Nadia/Sophia - Nicole Kidman)doesn't speak English.Her lack of communication is soon forgotten when John discovers that she is dynamite in the bedroom. She wants to do everything, all the time. Slowly, John falls head over heels for this woman.But then, one day, it's Nadia's birthday, and she has invited 2 Russian friends to celebrate. From that moment on, things start to change for John, and he'll soon feel like he's in hell... "},{"Title":"Nice movie with weird casting","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Really not a bad movie, the plot idea is quite nice. The most prominent question for me still is - why weren´t actual Russians cast for at least the two male parts? I can understand the decision for the main part - the movie needs a name in the credits and Nicole Kidman is a very good marketing product, but there are really very good Russian actors out there, so you wouldn´t have to cast two French guys, who are very good actors (I like them both very much), but struggle to speak Russian. So does she, but as mentioned, you need a name ) "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" John, (Ben Chaplin) is a lonely bank teller who desperately seeks for love through the Internet.  The outcome was an extremely beautiful and sexy Nadia, (Nicole Kidman) who cannot communicate verbally but is an excellent sexual and seductive communicator.  Birthday Girl, shows how loneliness can cause one to do desperate actions for love.  From being a loyal and doubting John, he becomes a brave John who risks his job for Nadia.  Absolutely, John is pleasantly surprised by Nadia's sexual expertise.A plot twist appears with the two cousins.  Poor John is confused, suspicious and on the other hand sexually hungry or probably in-love with Nadia.Do vulnerable men need women to wake-up?  Danzel Washington in Antwone Fisher, used the beautiful Cheryl (Joy Bryant) to assist the lonely and once abused Antwone (Derek Luke) to appreciate life and feel loved.  Jez Butterworth seems to use the same technique but in a suspension sense.Johns, vulnerability is shown on several occasions when the director uses high angle shots to focus on him.  The first high angle was at  the beginning of the movie when he is driving to the airport on the highway to go and pick up Nadia.  The director also uses high angle when he focuses on Johns house on the first night Nadia was brought to his home.  This motif reduces the importance of a subject, which in turn can suggest harmless and insignificance of a person.Love comes in different and strangest ways - even making the most vulnerable individuals victims. "},{"Title":"Strange movie","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a strange one. Ben Chaplin (no relation to the legendary comedian) is a shy Englishman who hooks up with a Russian mail order bride (Nicole Kidman). The movie seems to be a quirky romantic comedy until it suddenly morphs into a crime drama, a chase movie and extremely dark farce. It's a bit of a mess, but is saved by Chaplin's sad sack portrayal of the love sick John, and French actors Vincent Cassel and Mathieu Kassovitz as the Russian bad guys. Nicole Kidman continues to impress, and even though she doesn't speak a word of English for the first hour of Birthday Girl her expressive face says it all.  "},{"Title":"Mother Tongue","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If I rate a movie from 8 to 10 stars, it means I would go out of my way to see it again.  If it is from 5 to 7 stars, I would be willing to see it again if I happen upon it and nothing better was on.And since I have registered with IMDB, I now watch a movie thinking in my mind how I would rate it.  I originally was thinking of rating Birthday Girl with 8 stars but something was nagging in my mind.  The language barrier plays an important factor in Birthday Girl.  How the barrier was handling both in the script and the casting changed my rating to 7 stars.  Regrettably, I resort to ****SPOILERS****to explain my reasoning.John is a lonely banker who orders a Russian mail bride played by Nicole Kidman.  To John's great dismay, Sophia speaks no English.  Of course we all know Ms. Kidman gained fame in Australia.  Her Russian sounds fluent to this non-speaker but I recognize her as a speaker of English.  When circumstances evolve later in the film where she utters some English, John is amazed.  I don't know why, both the casting and the circumstances pointed to her knowing English.The story gets set in motion when two male friends of Sophia's crash into John's home on Sophia's birthday.  One (Vincent Cassel) speaks no English, while the other (Mathieu Kassovitz) speaks it haltingly.  I recognized both actors.  I couldn't quite place them but I knew they weren't Russian.  Again their Russian seemed good and Mnsr. Kassovitz' accent was convincing (so was his American accent in The Fifth Element).  It was when I checked out IMDB that I discovered they were French.I truly like the movie as a drama but having no Russian actors kind of disappoints me.  At least Ben Chaplin as John acts and is truly English.  So his character's decision at the end of the movie was more daunting than happy.  "},{"Title":"Do you like Russian subtitles?","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Well, if you do, then you will like this movie. Nicole Kidman and 2 others play Russians, and there are a lot of subtitles.  Nicole is OK, but she is not believable as being Russian because she is so famous and everyone knows she is from Australia.   The plot is predictable. Once you know this English guy gets a mail order bride, you know she has some secrets, and everything is not as it appears to be.(SPOILERS)  What I really didn't like was the whole bad girl falls for her mark story. I mean, why is it we are supposed to believe this con artist, Nadia, will fall in love with this mark, when she has ripped so many other men off.  And even after she has helped ruin his life, John still won't turn her into the police.  I mean, he was just stupid for not turning her in, so after that, who cares if he gets away or not.  The audience has lost all sympathy for John.FINAL VERDICT  The plot plods along at a slow pace.  And it isn't a comedy nor a thriller.  I don't recommend it, unless you are a Nicole Kidman fan and just have to see all her movies. "},{"Title":"Romantic? Comedy? Not sure.","Date":"19 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Strange to see Nicole Kidman in this film as it doesn't particularly seem like her style.She does well however, and her name I'm sure added a lot of weight to the film, which few may have heard of.Ben Chaplin stars opposite her, and convinces as a Middle-England bank clerk who is fed up with life alone, and so orders Kidman's Russian bride.Good to see him progressing to film from his TV work, even though the role takes a while to get going.Overall, this film is a paradox, as there are some funny parts, but it is mostly serious. And the romantic element is confined also, with sex rather than romance being shown.Not bad though.  "}{"Title":"Great Little Movie","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Great acting ; clever dialogue ; nice plot changes ; not liked by the mass market ; AND NICOLE KIDMAN !!!! If you like your movies with a bit of intelligence and your romantic movies with a healthy dose of spice, and your characters with more facets than usual --- you will like this film. Any Nicole Kidman fan will love it,and any fan of interesting films should like it a lot. The critics are as usual -- WRONG !!! "},{"Title":"One confused little film!","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'm not quite sure what genre The Birthday Girl is supposed to be, comedy, drama, thriller or noir? The plot doesn't quite gel and the acting is bland. Nicole Kidman and Ben Chaplin are wasted in this drivel. It's too boring for words...my advice Stay away. "},{"Title":"Interesting - if only for the League of Gentlemen cameo","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was definitely different and interesting. Not great film work, but watchable at least. Nicole Kidman is actually quite good, as is her sad new husband, Ben Chaplin (god! remember how fab Game On was?!) However, the plot seems slightly too unlikely and though Chaplin isn't cool, he certainly isn't so bad he needs to resort to a mail order bride! Anyway, not what you'd expect from Kidman and definitely worth watching once. If only for the cameo appearances of the fantastic League of Gentlemen fellows! "},{"Title":"A Russian film with no subtitles","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After finishing the movie Birthday Girl, I realized one main thing, I don't speak Russian. In fact, I knew this point 20 minutes into the film, when some of the characters started speaking Russian.Now, I enjoy foreign films, but this isn't a foreign film. This movie features about 15-20 minutes of straight dialogue in Russian, without subtitles. It's interesting to listen to key points in the plot (in Russian), and not know what they are talking about.Nicole Kidman, who plays Nadia is great at speaking Russian throughout the film, until... you might have guessed it, actually speaks english. It's easy to see why this movie came out and went to video so fast. With big titles like The Others and Panic Room coming out before and after this flick, This movie went in one ear and out the other of most people.I would suggest skipping this film. If you are a Nicole Kidman fanatic, go rent it, but make sure you do before actually owning it. Also a note for DVD owners, the DVD is very limited in bonus features. It's nice to see trailers for films on DVDs, but one for the movie you are watching is kind of helpful. "},{"Title":"Okay, Nothing to brag about","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Call it false advertisement. I mean I was thinking a crime/suspense/thriller type of movie. I was taking Russian language at the time this movie was released and was excited. Unfortunately I never got around to see it. Then couldn't wait to see it on video. It just wasn't at all what I expected. You know its that type of movie because Kidman's name is on it, I wanted to see it. It looked dark enough. The makeup sure was around her eyes. Don't do that again Kidman. And don't laugh but I had initially heard it was about Kidman's character from Russia who reunites with her daughter she gave up for adoption. I never saw the previews. My bad. That was a long shot from what the movie really was about. Other reviewers can tell you what its about. Tells you how false advertisement can be though.Overall okay but easily forgettable.  "},{"Title":"Not Much Of A Surprise","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Chaplin plays a lonely business man named john who orders a russian girl over the internet. Once Beautiful Nadia (Nicole Kidman)arrives, John is disappointed because Nadia doesn't speak english. Everything goes fine the first few days, but then John starts to realize that Nadia is nothing like she seems. This is a pretty predictable movie, it's not quite a thriller, it's more like a dark comedy, I would give Birthday Girl 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"How could Nicole Kidman's great acting skills be wasted in such a ridiculous movie like Birthday Girl?","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After making my favorite movie the Portrait of a Lady, which is a movie that shows why I love Nicole Kidman, I never thought she'd do something as ridiculous and bad as Birthday Girl. She is used to making serious and mature movies, but I don't know what happened to her this time. I can't even understand why she chose to do this movie. There is nothing great about it, the plot is mediocre and uninteresting, the acting is good, but only because of Ms Kidman's Russian accent, which was somewhat convincing. Even though I liked the performances in this movie, the movie doesn't make viewers bear the whole story since it begins with a sappy story and ends up with a very corny ending. The happy and ridiculous final shot it had, can bother anybody who likes dramatic or serious movies. That's why it bothered me enormously.Overall, the movie is not interesting, it really doesn't have much going for it and there is nothing that can save this story, but Nicole's performance, although I never thought she'd have the nerve to do something like this. What a disappointment! I hope Nicole Kidman will never do anything as ridiculous as this! 3/10  "},{"Title":"Funny, unconventional film that's worth seeing","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I was really surprised to see so many negative reviews of this film.  I guess some people like their comedies, dramas and romances all separate in nice single-movie, digestible, easy to understand forms.  This is the very rare film that manages to do all three at once and do them well.  It veers from serious to black comedy to edgy sensuality sometimes all in the same scene, and has a off-kilter energy that I found really refreshing.  If you're open-minded, can stay with the story, and enjoy really good tongue-in-cheek acting you'll enjoy this one.  I thought the story was terrific and the acting especially by Nicole Kidman was first-rate.  I also want to say it was nothing like Bandits, which was indeed a clumsy series of awkward scenes and bad dialogue.  Birthday Girl most definitely keeps it all together - and also provides that rare thrill in movies - you're never quite sure what's going to happen next.  It's a shame Miramax mostly neglected this film and when they did promote it they seemed at a loss how to pitch it - you ended up having no idea it was actually supposed to be mostly funny.  Ignore the naysayers - you're in for a great time. "},{"Title":"Mail-order bride nightmare","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  If you've ever thought about doing the whole mail-order bride thing, watch this first. You might decide that getting a cat is a better option. Nicole of course is terrific as the seductive and very available Nadia. Her animal-like sexuality oozes again, as it did in To Die For. The story doesn't flow very smoothly but there's some humour in there with the thrills and that, along with Nicole's bedroom scenes make it all worthwhile.  "},{"Title":"Roller coaster from sex film to love story.","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed watching both characters evolve. The movie unfolded well, it started out as a sex film that turned into a surprising love story. John was so bland and uninteresting at first and then turned into a complex and interesting person willing to throw his life away for a woman he hardly knew.  Nadia always had a dark side that started to melt until it turned very ugly. "}{"Title":"Well done!","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Nicole Kidman blew me away with her mastery of the russian language AND her russian accent while speaking in english. I went to college with MANY RUssians and wow....she's got it down pat.I'll keep this one brief...if you like great stories that stray away from the expected, see this movie. If you don't, see it anyway as you may find yourself suprised. "},{"Title":"Decent suspense thriller. Kidman steals the show!","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film on Pay Preview and did not know what to expect. The previews showed as being something of a commidy. Well having seen it it was more like a thriller. The movie stars Nicole Kidman (who seems to be getting sexier as she gets older, or am I the only one who thinks so) as a Russian Mail order bride. Her purchaser is a lonely British bachelor who is a trusted bank employee. He is so trusted that he has keys to the bank safe, a detail which is important to the story.Kidman plays this role extremely well. We can really believe that she is russian. She mimmicks the speech. As my Russian friend tells her russian is flawless.When she arrives at her fiance's place she cannot speak any english beyond Yes. Well she turns out to be quite giften in the language of love.Then comes her birthday and a truely shocking surprise as her cousin and his friend come to stay for a while. Well then all kinds of hell breaks loose as we find she is not who she says she is.This movie does have plenty of plot twists to keep us guessing. We pity the poor British guy who was suckered into this little game while at the same time wanting to slap him for being so naive.There are also a few laughs to make the movie easy to watch and a few interesting shots of Kidman (including one really interesting shot of her bare backside).I give the film a thumbs up. "},{"Title":"A gem","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ignore Ted G's comments and check this one out.  It was dumpedinto the theaters last February and then stolen from the sametheaters two to three weeks later.  It's unfortunate becauseBirthday Girl is a gem.  It's not a masterpiece but it's one of thebest films I've seen this year.  Ben Chaplin is wonderful and I thinkNicole Kidman gives one of her better performances.  Sly, violentand twisted, it's apparent Miramax either didn't know how tomarket it or didn't want to.  I loved it and hope more peoplediscover it.   "},{"Title":"It's a sexy and emotional ride!!!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The movie Birthday Girl is a stunning mixture of suspense, deception, betrayal and love in all the wrong places. Nicole Kidman spices up her role with a really sexy and secretive style. The movie is very fast paced but this element plays a big role in the artistic content of the movie. This movie is truly great and deserves two thumbs up. The script and acting is really good. Dont miss this movie, another academy award deserving performance by Nicole Kidman.   "},{"Title":"The Movie; not the plot, too me by surprise.","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While this film is not enormously original; it was really fun to watch.  However, it did have it's share of predictable, as well as, totally surprising moments.  BTW, doesn't it seem as though Nicole Kidman doesn't age?  I was certain this movie was filmed as an earlier project of her's, then released only now in the U.S.  I was mistaken, of course, but she still has a youthful appearance; took me back to her part in 'Dead Calm'.  Whatever she does, she should bottle it and sell it to my wife...  Just kidding.  (And I wonder why I'm still single).For it's lack of action; I found myself fully absorbed into this film.  I even found myself wondering if N.K. was really from Russia -- her performance was impeckable.  Ben Chaplin was made for this role, as well, and the duo made for some real chemistry (is it just me or does that Chaplin guy make movies with only really fine women).What worked  Nicole's performance and beauty and convincing Russia accent.  Ben Chaplin's, as well, with the innocent and gullable demeanor.  The other two characters; later in the film, did well.  However, they weren't as frightening as I thougt they should be; I ended up finding them funny to watch -- hell, it was a comedy, after all.  I just though I should be hating them more.  The direction and filming was just right; not sloppy, nor too grandiose.What didn't work  There were a few incidents in the movie that I saw coming right from the beginning of the movie; though, it didn't take away from my enjoyment of this film.  For the most part, I hate predictability, but I could let it slide in this movie since I thought it was just so well done and fun to watch.I gave it 8/10 - for a few of the moments that you see coming from a mile away -- Nicole Kidman more than makes up for that, however.thank you "},{"Title":"No Parties Here","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Pretty much a lame duck of a movie.  After watching the trailer, you expect something alot more lively and infectious than this.  Ben Chaplin has all the charisma of a wet noodle and that doesn't really help with the story. Sure, I understand that he's supposed to have an ordinary, more likely, boring life working at this bank and living in this sterile home, but it seems that he really doesn't have to work to make this character as he just sits there on the screen.  The only real saving grace to this film is Nicole Kidman.  As usual, she is totally in character, completely committed to every action and choice she makes and she's the only empathetic character in the film.  Her acting is a delight to watch and the only reason that I didn't vote lower was because of her presence in this film.  Lucky for the director that he had her, or this film would be a 1. "},{"Title":"Fantastic Voyage","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Kidman looks  in this film a little bit like David Bowie with her black hair. It's clearer if you see her in Moulin Rouge too. (HEROES) Now, she plays a Russian girl, an everybody believe her, because she is an Australian. She is very small, and its seems that she never eat enough. Its a troubling person, everybody can see this too, but in the film the great trouble is really starting, when her friend come to visit her.The story started with John, who want to buy a wife on the Internet. But he wants a russian girl, who is talking English. She do so, that she understand and talk no English. Thats an intelligent case because she talk English but people trust her more if she don't tell them. They have nice dialogs without much words.A nice film with many strange moments, with a nice and great actress. Sometimes comedy, sometimes tragedy. Please Write me what you think - if you want.  "},{"Title":"A godawful pathetic film...BAD!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  One of the worst films ever made. This movie was such a farce... such a waste of time. No wonder it bombed so badly at the box office. A terrible story and disinterested acting. They surely made it for tax purposes. Nicole Kidster and her idiot Russian accent suck. The story was wannabe 'cool'. "},{"Title":"surprised me","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  fun, sexy, happy, sad.  and some really good...wait, what's thatcalled? -oh yeah.  acting.  great script.  great story.  great acting.  pretty much what i'm looking for in a movie. rent it on dvd. that way you can also watch nicole kidman look delicious insomething stupid.  great video with nicole and robbie williams. "},{"Title":"why so critical","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I rented this movie with some apprehension because of the number of negative comments. However, I was pleasantly surprised. The acting was great and the story was entertaining. If you go into the movie expecting to be amused and not totally swept away you will enjoy this movie. Be sure and watch the music video of Nicole and Robbie Williams singing Something Stupid-it's fun. "}{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had no idea what this movie was really about when I brought ithome, but I knew it would have some action, and that's what I wasin the mood for.  And while it delivered the action I wanted, I wassurprised to find that this film had much more to offer.  Ben'scharacter was somewhat stale, but that's just what works best inthis movie.  That's how it's SUPPOSED to be.  And Nicole Kidmanwas hotter in this role than any other movie I've seen her in, and Isay this even though she's about twice my age (I'm 17).  As far asthe accents go, since so many users appear upset about it, I thinkthey did a fine job.  Now if you're from Russia or any otherEurasian country then you'd probably notice, but since I'm fromWISCONSIN I couldn't tell and it really made no difference.  C'mon,MOST actors have problems getting the accents of other country'sdown.  No one who's not a native can ever really get it perfect. She's Australian for christ's sake, and she did fine.  In conclusion,if you want to see a funny, dark love story that beats most of theother movies out right now (The New Guy), then see this one. Don't worry about the accents and you won't be disappointed. 9/10 "},{"Title":"wild personalities","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I hadn't seen Ben Chaplin in a movie since The Truth About Cats & Dogs so I was really happy that they finally decided to release this movie especially since it was made 3 years ago!! Also I wanted to see Nicole Kidman again, I think she's a great actress and finally has the credit she deserves.Ben plays a plain banker who decides to order a Russian mail bride via the net, who he get's is Nadia (Nicole Kidman) and more than he bargains for. Nicole is convincing as a Russian, I guess Aussies such as myself can pick up on the Australian twang. However she did a great job as the wild girl who really has a soft heart, Ben is terrific in this character displaying two totally different elements to the personality of John.I thought they could have emphasised the more romantic elements of the movie but overall it's a good watch "},{"Title":"ridiculous Russian accents","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Unfortunately this is another proof that even the best Western actors will never be able to pretend to be Russian. And it's not only the horrible accent - it's everything. And the worse part is that, judging by other comments, Western audience really perceives them as convincing Russians - no surprise the Cold War lasted so long. "},{"Title":"Good introduction to Ben Chaplin","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Ben Chaplin is amazing in this film  shy and reserved in the beginnign , he suddenly becomes ironic and actually funny. The story in itself is difficult to comment as I would not like to spoil this jewel that got me forgetting the boring Spiderman and his mibII friends. It is just a pity that some scenes feel so looooooooong but maybe is this comment just dictated by that hardcore voice inside my head... -( "},{"Title":"Disappointed by Nicole.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Although Nicole Kidman is an amazing and gorgeous actress, this movie disappointed me. Her acting was alright, and the Russian accent was to die for. But the movie itself had too many flaws. Plus it was kinda boring, ya know. But it did teach me a valuable lesson against talking to girls on the internet. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good film. Drama/ Suspense/ Comedy/ Romance","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I went to see this by accident. I went to the cinema and missed the film I wanted to see and this was the next film showing. I totally enjoyed it. Kidman is a great actress now that she is out of Tom Cruise's shadow. It s a great little British comedy. There are no car chases, no gun fights, no explosions and the TV advert does not do it credit. There is a dark side to the film that is excellently directed and great scenes where you can't help laughing out loud. Chapman is also excellent - proving he's not just a pretty face. Please don't be put off by the Great British Comedy label it's got. Don't be put off by Nicole Kidman playing a Russian (She's excellent!). Just go and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"Are you a giraffe?","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent film its funny dark and full of suspence.Nicole Kidman and Ben Chaplin are both great in thier roles.Also the russian acients are very good from all three russian roles.This was another excellent choice of role for Nicole Kidman first Moulin Rouge! then The Others and now this film she is definatly on a roll.Go and see this film if you haven`t already because its better than a lot of films that are out at the moment (spider man). "},{"Title":"A Good Watch!","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film grasped me from the start. I really wanted to watch on and became more anxious as time passed with my own theory of how the plot would unravel and i was pleasantly surprised.For anyone who has seen it already and is reading this i think you will agree that the idea is not so unbelieveable in todays world and im sure it happens, although probably not many of the victims actually admit it!Its nice to see such a collaberation between Miramax and FilmFour. They made a film with substance, wit, comedy and the ability to be watched more than once. "},{"Title":"Nicole is the only bright spot in this otherwise unfocused, unbelievable, and totally forgettable film","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Never have the Miramax Meddling Machine been at work more than with BIRTHDAY GIRL. I can tell you one thing for certain-The Butterworth Brothers did not have final cut.The music used in the film was awful. I could feel some sort of editor slicing and compressing scenes to their bare minimums. The overall cheesiness of the film came just as much as whatever Miramax producer got their hands on the film. I think we would have seen a very different film if the Jez Butterworth actually got the chance to finish the film that he and his brother had started, perhaps more of a Coen Brothers Fargo/Something Wild type of film. Thanks to the cheesiness, we have what is a total chick flick.However, I am not saying that the film would have been competent without the meddling. I don't really think much original thought went into the making of this film. This is basically a high concept picture, meaning that its easy to put the premise into a one sentence summary A man orders a Mail Order Bridge, only to find out she wasn't the woman she pretended to be. This isn't a very interesting concept, and the Butterworths are not talented or experienced enough to sustain this idea into an entire motion picture. The final version that we have in screen is definitely a failure, an anti-noir that ends up being more and more preposterous and unbelievable at every turn. I felt so uninterested with what in the story came next because I just couldn't believe any of it. I really don't think any of the larger issues which kept the film from being a success would have played out beautifully if the Butterworths had their way in the film's completion.That isn't to say that the film was entirely without bright spots. Nicole Kidman, obviously, is perfectly cast in the lead role of Nadia. With perfect to almost-perfect Russian dialects, she makes the turns at every corner as easy as her part in the film will allow. Playing the game of Keep your eyes on Nicole Kidman will probably be the only reason to rent this film once it comes out on video. Also good is Mathieu Kassovitz, who gives an inferior performance to Kidman, but nonetheless creates a confident, always believable character that creates a bizarre awkwardness and typical Russian scariness. Vincent Cassel, on the other hand, becomes desperately unbelievable, and any conflict he has with Kidman seems forced, rushed, and strangely incompetent. Vincent Cassel should stick to films where he speaks French and roles where he doesn't play the villain. Ben Chaplin does not belong in this film either, and doesn't pull his part of the weight in getting the film off the ground. He never seemed to know what type of film he was in, which perhaps wouldn't be a negative, per se, but when Nicole Kidman is so confident at every change, he seems to be rather apathetic and uncertain of what emotion he's supposed to display.When the film actually slows down to let Nadia and John actually talk to each other, this is where the film actually has some positive momentum. This is what the Butterworths are good at, creating character development based on dialogue between two people. Its a shame that there is so little of it, as Kidman is forced to speak Russian for the majority of the film, and they seem to continually be separated throughout the rest of the film. I also don't like the way the director decided to stage some of the set-up, as in certain scenes, the actors only acted in a certain way to fool the viewer, who has been provided with subtitles and close proximity camera angles to Nadia while she was supposed to be in private. For instance, Nadia should know that John doesn't speak Russian, but when she speaks to the Russian friends for the first time, they all speak dialogue that is made to mislead who ever is listening, and in this case, it was only the person watching the screen. In my book, this type of tom-foolery gets a thumb down.I find Birthday Girl to be a forced yet unfocused botched job that just happens to have one tremendous performance at the center and offers a few lines of good dialogue. I would not suggest anyone to go out of their way to see this film, but perhaps worth the time to turn on if its on basic cable. My advice to the Butterworth brothers is Stay away from noir, stay away from thrillers. Your strong point is character development and dialogue. Make a nice comedy.Overall ** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Mencken was right--you'll never go broke underestimating the public taste","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nicole Kidman is an interesting actress, going back to DEAD CALM, but this travesty of a movie is unworthy of her. Why (except for the money) would she have bothered to be involved? Who decides (i.e. via 'green light') what to foist on the public? Is the Kidman 'name' enough to recover the investment? How cynical are the clowns behind the curtain? Trying to empathize with this film is like trying to understand the minds of psychotics. It can be done, but--unless you are a professional psychologist, cop or lawyer--why would you want to? The lead characters are shallow, brain dead and unlikeable. The cinematography is leaden and uninspired.  The script? Where could one start in an attempt to plumb its trivial shallows? This is a small, indeed tiny movie for small, indeed tiny minds. To make matters worse, many excellent scripts, actors and moviemakers won't get the chance to succeed when the distribution system is clogged with this sort of appalling junk. "}{"Title":"Nicole Kidman is really a gift.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The Birthday Girl is the surprise of the season. This movie had very little advertising, no media campaign, just a small story, based on a  very thin script directed by a small time director, with a modest budget. But like a jack in a box Nicole Kidman pops out and turns this pic. in a very enjoyable journey through laughs and tears.in a very subtle and intelligent interpretation of a Russian Internet bride. Nicole Kidman deserves 3 nominations for best actress Moulin Rouge,The Others and The Birthday Girl. Nicole Kidman always makes eclectic choices and she's right all the time. The proof she did not get a part in Vanilla Sky.  In The Birthday Girl she is supported by a solid cast. The director made a smart pick by choosing France's finest actors in Vincent Cassel and Mathieu Kassovitch. The Birthday Girl is a genuine, fresh, surprising  movie. If you want to spend a good time and admire the beauty and the  talent of Nicole Kidman go and see that movie which deserves 7 out of 10 .Sputtosi "},{"Title":"My two cents worth ...","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nicole Kidman is a terrific presence in any film, and, in the very slight Birthday Girl, she gives an arresting performance as a Russian mail-order bride who gets a mild mannered Brit (Ben Chaplin) into a world of trouble.It strikes me that the director, Jez Butterworth, is aiming for this to be a kind of dark farce, and he occasionally succeeds, but I would have to say that the film is little more than an entertaining time-waster, but Ms Kidman is, as always, a knock-out ! "},{"Title":"A Channel 4 Film","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The summary probably doesn't mean much to our American breathern but it is a very English film, it has a dark humour and many many references that set the scene but can past un-noticed otherwise (Showing what a sad life he leads we see he has a Ladybird book of the Sea).The film is quite funny, not in an hilarious way but it does have its moments (When she presents him with his discovered porn stash), I can't say I found it particularly tense and it did drag a tad about 3 quarters a way through.There's also quite a bit of sex (not graphically so) but enough for a couple to leave the not very packed cinema.Overall a better than average film and one I'll probably get on DVD when it comes out.  "},{"Title":"Missing something","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I had been looking forward to seeing Nicole's new movie since I saw the previews on television. I was expecting something that was going to not only move me but leave me with something to think about. as I sat watching i could help but want more. when the movie was all i could think about was that something was missing in the story line that this could not be it. Even though the acting was good and there were some parts to remember the movies left me wanting more. Instead of 1hour and 45 min movie it felt it was over soon as it started.  "},{"Title":"This is not just another heist film","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I also saw this film at the Toronto Film Festival and thoroughly enjoyed it. Nicole Kidman, as usual, did a superb job. She really CAN'T give a bad performance.  I went to see this movie because of her. But Ben Chaplin really stole the show.  He was utterly convincing as the doltish loser who believes there is nothing odd about trying to find nuptial bliss via a mail-order bride.  I'd seen Chaplin in Thin Red Line and The Truth About Cats and Dogs and he was definitely gorgeous hunk material in each role. Here, he did put on a bit of weight (purposefully?) and this, together with a boyish stammer and a few round-eyed, vacant stares, contributes to his doltish air.  Well done!  I give this movie eight and a half stars out of ten. A refreshing change from all of the heist movies currently on the market and nicely open-ended.  Ben and Nicole have good chemistry, especially towards the end.  She is such a strong, powerful woman, that it takes someone like Ewan McGregor, with loads of charisma and self-confidence, to match her up on the big screen.  Go see this one... loads of laughs and something to think about, too. "},{"Title":"Nicole Kidman breaks her winning streak with this often-boring British flick.","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After getting much critical acclaim for her last 2 films, Moulin Rouge and The Others; Nicole Kidman seems to be on fire. Well, she may be, but this movie is not. Kidman does well as a Russian mail order bride with a secret and manages to pull off the accent, but cannot carry the often-dragging story herself. She stars opposite Ben Chapman (Lost Souls), whose character is pretty straight-laced good guy, but still not that easy to like. He's just not the best leading man that could have been cast for the role. The viewer is supposed to side with him, but doesn't do much but make you feel bad for him. It's one of those films where everything bad that can happen to the protagonist does and it becomes painful to watch. Writer/director Jez Butterworth could have spent a little more time cutting out several unnecessary scenes to help the movie along. Even at just over 90 minutes, it feels too long. The drab British humor may not go over that well Stateside in a commercial sense, but may actually fare well in the UK.The plot is quite ridiculous but interesting. What does happen if someone orders a mail order bride and something goes terribly wrong? Without spoiling plot details, the originality stops there it's another con-and-kidnap movie. The plot is original, but many of the scenes feel re-hashed. This one isn't really worth rushing out to the theaters for. It'll win no awards and will probably make a better rental if you're interested in it at all. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable film","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This film is one that you will probably like if you enjoyed the Wachowski Brothers' Bound and early Luc Besson films such as Subway or Le Femme Nikita.  It shares similar elements of style Birthday Girl is simultaneously funny, sexy, scary, absurd and sometimes very human.The film also has cinematic quotes here and there for those who love movies. Look out for visual/textural quotes from Hitchcock (e.g., Rear Window).Ben Chaplin does a very good job and successfully grounds the film by making his character extremely sympathetic.  And I have to say that Nicole Kidman has turned out to be an unsuspected master of the reaction shot.  Without hamming it up at all, she allows us to watch volumes move across her face in an instant.Nice job, Miramax. "},{"Title":"this film takes it back to when film was film","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  i just went to a preview screening at the london film festival. one sentence - this film rules. i'm reminded of old school screwball comedies starring cary and hepburn or colbert and gable. there's punchy dialogue, surprises and big laughs.  a degree of realism which finally make england look truly filmic (suburban england at that). this is a fabulous flm, by a fabulous new film -maker. if theres a new voice on the block which is worth listening to, its butterworth. this is a brilliant film. "},{"Title":"Good bizarre fun","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this at the Toronto Film Festival the other day, and was expecting to be entertained given Nicole Kidman's recent track record of good choices and impressive performances.  However, this film is difficult to peg, it's comedy and drama, brought together by an unusual set of events.  The premise of a shy Englishman and his mail order bride is interesting as it is one I have never seen before, and examines in a number of ways the implications of such a transaction with humourous and more often upsetting results.  Also, I have to add that although well attempted, the Russian accents of Kidman, Cassel and Kassovitz were not entirely convincing.  In fact, I am curious as to why there were no Russian actors used in this film (although besides the language thing, the casting was good).Overall I think this is a modest and well meaning film, and I enjoyed watching it.  I am curious to see how it does when it is released because it is a little unconventional and quirky for some people.  However, the writing and story are enjoyable, and Ben Chaplin is good as the slightly flawed but endearing and very human romantic lead.  I recommend it to anyone who wants to see a film that is good fun entertainment that differs from more predicable Hollywood romantic comedies, providing a work of more significant substance and personality. "},{"Title":"Nicole kidman shines in an otherwise pointless movie","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Since my return to Iran in June 2011 my access to Hollywood movies has been pretty limited. I can only watch what I can get my hands on and not what I really want to. So I have to watch many pointless movies. This movie is one of those. It is not a comedy. It is not romantic. It is just nothing.John is a British citizen working in a bank in England and living in a small suburb. From what is later revealed in the movie, he does not like his job of ten years. Still, he is observed as dutiful, trustworthy, and a normal employee by his boss and co-workers. Besides the job he is stuck at, he is having troubles at relationships. He does not have a wife or girlfriend (he used to have one in the past) and lives alone. Having tried local market and failed, he decides to find love from a far away place. So he enrolls in a website advertising Russian woman and finally orders a Russian bride. Diana, or as later revealed, Sophia shows up at the airport. She is pretty. what else do you expect? Nicole Kidman plays the rule but the problem is that she can not speak a word of English. While confused at first, John falls for her little by little and Sophie is helping the effort. Little he knows is that Sophie is a criminal with two accomplices, one of them Sophie's lover played by Vincent Cassel by the name Alexei, who are planning to rub his bank using him and his newly found affection for Sophie.I did not like Ben Chaplain performance as John. He is trying to portray a shy, lonely man with a very boring life made up of routines. However, he is not convincing at all. This is the first movie I saw from him and did not like him at all. Nicole Kidman is the opposite though. Her performance is as bright as ever. She plays all these different personalities very nicely. Her first attempts to force John to have sex with her and put a ring on his hand to ensure he will keep her and not send her back to Russia are so awkward and artificial and her face beautifully portrays these feelings. Then she pretends to fall in love with John and says the story about binaculars. Again her face is amazing. And finally, when she plays her true self as a woman with no feeling but pity for John and later when she falls in love again (this time truly) for John is nice. She also speaks nice Russian. Well, I do not know Russian! but it is pretty believable to me. Vincent Cassel as some of his other movies is a professional criminal that ends up a total loser. His rule is sort of short and he can speak only Russian so I do not want to say much about him. The film starts nicely however it ends up terribly. Till the point where John and Sophie separate at the airport and Sophie gives John the binaculars the movie is fine but the rest just does not make sense. I did not like the ending. Several moments in the film worth attention to me. After the rubbery when Sophie's cover is blown, she blames John for falling for a Russian bride if you wanted sex, you should have gone to a prostitute! John answers I already did!. Brilliant answer. The second point Sophie raises is also a nice one. I do not remember the exact words but it is sort of like John, you are a guy who hates his job and life and lives with a bunch of sex magazines on the drawer, how do you expect a girl to come from Russia and suddenly fall in love with you? What did you expect?. John can not answer this one. Also I like it when one of the thieves feels bad for John that is tied up in the bathroom of the motel and feels betrayed by Sophie. Probably he also feels to be very stupid. To make him feel better, the thief shows him photos of their other scams and tells him he was the best among all the people they scammed! Boy, hearing that would have been a relief! Indeed that should have made him feel even worse because he had the best manners with these terrible people. Another issue that amazes me is Sophies binacular. Binacular story starts with the fake affection Sophie is showing John at her birthday. She watched John with the binacular from a distance to make sure he is a nice guy before going to him. So, binacular gives perspective. When you are too close to something or involved with it directly (in other words) you may not be able to figure out the truth about that person or event. If you disentangle yourself and watch from a distant then you are much better able to see the truth. Thats the purpose of the binacular. This happens later also when John uses the binacular to watch Sophie in the airport. He used to think Alexei and Sophie had something going, which was partly true, but the way Alexei took Sophie from the airport and forced her to go with them showed the opposite. This was made possible by the binacular. Before, Alexei arrives, Sophie was crying which was obviously for John. So, binacular helped reveal hidden truths in all these cases. At the end, when John passes the security check point at the airport which is the last step before bording the plane he only carries the binacular with him. The device seems to be an effective tool in revealing the true identities and personalities of people in the movie. Interesting topic.After all that is said, I do not recommend this movie to anyone! "}{"Title":"Nicole saves this one, and makes it good!","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I saw this one at the theatre and it was pretty decent, regardless of what some critics have said about it. This film reminds me of another Brit-film called B-Monkey, and I wondered if they had wanted to cast Asia Argento in this one too, because I think she was born for this role! I was surprised that Nicole Kidman did this role, because I felt it was beneath her. Like she's too good to do this role. I just figured she'd want a bigger-budget deal, so to see her in this low-budget small-time film, I was honestly surprised, yet intrigued. She pulled it off well. (Spoilers!) Her Russian accent was great! It was wild to see her act like she didn't know any English at first, and towards the end, you see that she really could, but was just faking it! You can see the plot coming once she arrives in London. You just KNOW some goons are gonna come out of the wood-work soon and rob the guy - and they do! You feel sorry for the poor lonely bloke and the sad thing is, there's a gal co-worker who actually likes him and asks him what he's doing for the weekend and he blows her off and runs home, to be alone! Instead, he orders a complete STRANGER, a mail-order-bride from Russia! Can you imagine dealing with someone who does NOT speak your language, who is NOT from the same part of the world as you are, who does NOT see things as you do politically or who does not appreciate who you are as a person? Well, he ordered a mail-order bride and she turned out to be a fraud! A damned pretty fraud, but a fraud nonetheless. A decent movie, if not a bit predictable. I give it a 6 out of 10 votes! Mainly because Nicole is so damned HOT in this one. But I can't help but wonder What would this film have been like if Asia Argento had played her part? "},{"Title":"Serviceable Noir but Tone is Confused","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Birthday Girl is like Memento all straightened out, with almost as many holes as Big Sleep and too light-hearted for true film noir.The first part is a serviceable twisty ulterior-motives-waiting-to-be-revealed film, with a few up-to-date touches, from an e-mail order bride to manipulative uses of pornography, though it trails towards the end as the tone changes. Nicole Kidman as the femme fatale is fun to watch as I don't think Meryl Streep has ever used her accent in this genre, or as sexily. Nice use of two hunky French actors who can't really speak English, this time as Russians (when will Russians stop being malevolent in movies?).Ben Chaplin is cute as a geek who gets involved in a new angle of From Russia With Love.I suppose the only reason it was partly filmed in Sydney was so that Nicole could live at home.The closing song is that duet by Nicole and Robbie Williams of Something Stupid that's been a big hit in Britain and actually works in context of the movie. (originally written 2/3/2002) "},{"Title":"An odd movie-I turned it off.","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" OK-first I have to say-WARNINGDANGER WILL ROBINSON!!!! Birthday Girl is DE-CEP-TIVE! yeah thats right de-cep-tive! I really didn't know to much about it when I turned it on-to say the film was on the bizarre side is being mild.Firstly, why was Nicole kidman in this? It seems an odd choice for her. Although I will agree she is breathtaking here both physically(she actually looks Russian-the girl is like a chameleon) and as an actress. I mean she doesn't even talk through part of it-very weird.But I ultimately turned this off and watched something else instead. why you ask? Because the movie is just to much an oddity. It has no warmth to it that i saw and rather then being fascinated and brought in I had rather a bad taste in my mouth-I mean I'll be honest I didn't see this to completion bit I knew I was gonna have a problem within the first few minutes. The movie also dragged. Add the fact that the parents were there and comfortably settled in the room all ready to watch a romantic comedy or a psychological thriller and you have problems. Oh yeah-this isn't sleepless in Seattle, folks who haven't had the pleasure, you might want to avoid having your parents, in laws or children in the viewing room with you when you unveil this one.I don't feel I have a right to trash this movie because I haven't seen most of it so I won't.(although I just HAVE to sayreally odd movie-go figure.) Maybe I will see it again and post a less fragmented review if I can get through the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Low-Key But Surprisingly Entertaining","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must confess that for whatever reason I have never been as sold on Nicole Kidman as many are, and so I didn't have high expectations when I tuned into this movie that - to be honest - I had never heard of before. But I was pleasantly surprised. This is a very good movie with good if somewhat subdued performances from the leads - Kidman and Ben Chaplin.Chaplin plays John Buckingham, a shy English bank employee who, tired of his lonely and dull life, takes a chance on a Russian mail-order (well, actually internet-order) bride (Nadia/Sophia played by Kidman.) But rather than finding romance, John finds himself caught up in a web of deceit and intrigue with no obvious escape. As I said, Kidman and Chaplin offer solid and believable performances, and the movie itself combines some low-key humour with moments of tense drama and sensuality which makes it a very entertaining 90 minutes or so. It's well worth the watching.8/10 "},{"Title":"A drama or a comedy?","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  It seems that the intention of the film was to show the aggressive (maffia-like) character of Russians, or at least of those Russians able to travel outside their big country; that it is too easy to rob a bank in England; and that British police is so inefficient that it cannot find the person who robbed the bank even when these subjects are leaving the country by air. In addition, Nicole Kidman and the supposed Russian colleagues spoke a language not yet identified anywhere, probably spoken by Aliens in the Ural mountains, but far to be the Russian one. So Nicole, if you really want to talk Russian, kindly go to Moscow or St. Petersburg and keep yourself busy learning Russian language grammar and its pronunciation.    "},{"Title":"A total waste of time and effort!","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film's trailer interested me enough to warrant renting the DVD. However, the resulting movie is absolutely dire! Admittedly, this is not the worst film ever made, or the worst film this year, but it came damn close!The main issue is the film not knowing what it wants to be comedy, adult drama, thriller, teen-porn? The story is interesting, as it deals with the pitfalls of mail-order brides, but the film is a mess. What starts out as a mildly interesting comedy (a word I use in the loosest possible terms), then goes totally in reverse, and degenerates into a very dark and distasteful misogynistic thriller. Nicole Kidman should know better, and Ben Chaplin is wasted! As are Matthieu Kassovitz and Vincent Cassel, whom I can only presume did this for the money.This is a bad film in pretty much every single aspect. It's not funny, it's almost so sexist that you could almost forgive Benny Hill for everything he did, and the dramatic elements are just downright nasty. A film to be avoided, unless you absolutely have to see Kidman or Chaplin in every one of their films! "},{"Title":"very bad","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is the worst ive seen.. nicole kidman really dissapointed me.. this movie has nothing. i would not watch it again even if it were the last movie on earth. great actors but bad script. "},{"Title":"Not at all interesting","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nothing in this film interested me.  I thought the actors were asleep while they were performing.  That's not laid-back Stanislofsky method, that's just walking-through and saying lines, I'm afraid.  Kidman's performance is sad.  The story is, however, mildly entertaining if you want to put up with the bad acting. "},{"Title":"If American movies only dared to dream like that more often!","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I really was surprised by this movie as Nicole Kidman stars in it and all I expected was the mediocre-one-and-a-half-hours-Hollywood-screen-fun one usually finds in US-American movies. And although most (American) commentators here try to convince us that this movie was only mediocre and a shame for Kidman, I think different.Maybe it has to do with the differences between European and US-American life This movie has lots of twists and turns that you never would expect from an American movie. You can't name any of them without writing a Spoiler here, so all I can say ist that who loves or hates whom and when changes quite a few times in this film. But, of course, Kidman is always lovable - even as the shady character she plays here.And maybe that's the reason the European commentators (like me) love this movie! Why does evrything always have to be in a straight good bad / black white scheme, when there are so many shades of grey that bring fun and love but also sadness and Weltschmerz into our lives. And that's what this movie is all about A great comedy about people you might never really like and never really hate, but for whom you miraculously seem to care as the plot develops.And given the strange mail order bride situation the movie begins with, it was sheer fun to watch the story unwind and see a movie develop in this dreamlike fashion I like so much. Of course, we encounter stereotypes here (uptight Englishmen, russian criminals) but they only serve to give the characters a basis, a starting point from which to develop.If you enjoyed movies like Crna macka, beli macor (Black cat, white cat), Arizona Dream or La leggenda del pianista sull'oceano (The legend of 1900) you'll love this one.But if you prefer hard action with no plot, stay away!This movie dreams its plot and takes us on an awesome journey - if US-American cinema would only dare do dream like that more often.But as we see joint ventures with Europeans seem to help. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am Russian, and I fit Russian stereotypes, but I got to say that whoever wrote the script for the Russian parts in this movie is brilliant. I have never seen in any foreign movie, such an accurate yet still stereotypical portrail of my countrymen. The dialogue in Russian is superb, I loved the slang. Also Nicole Kidman was very good, her Russian for a foreigner receives A+. Her accent is good, her pronunciation is good, and her grammar is good (obviously it is written by a writer ) ). The other actors speaking Russian are also good. This movie versus The Hunt for Red October in terms of Russian dialogue, blows out of the water the Red October or any other movie where foreigners are speaking Russian. This movie had the best, authentic Russian dialogue!!! "}{"Title":"Kidman is good film is not","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film features Ben Chaplin as a bored bank employee in England who orders a mail order bride from Russia, recieves Nicole Kidman in the mail and gets more than he bargained for when, surprise, she isn't what she appears to be. The story is fairly predictible and Chaplin underacts too much to the point where he becomes somewhat anoying. Kidman is actualy rather good in this role, making her character about the only thing in this film that is interesting. GRADE C "},{"Title":"Wait for video 6/10","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  While it's nice to see a film that is rather dark while cute at the same time, Birthday Girl drops the ball.  The film starts off well enough, with a nice performance by the leads, and an excellent butt shot by Kidman.  The film also manages to be dark, but the final third of the film is just so tired, like the film ran out of gas -- and it just barely makes the 90 minute mark! Not a terrible film, worth seeing on video.Here's an idea for Kidman's next movie The Birthday Suit.  I'd buy that for a dollar! "},{"Title":"It might have been better if Nicole were in her `Birthday Suit'; then we would have known what director Jez Butterworth had in mind.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nicole, Nicole, Nicole-she's everywhere-in tabloids without Tom, in `Moulin Rouge' and `The Others, ' and now in `Birthday Girl.' It might have been better if she were in her `Birthday Suit'; then we would have known what director Jez Butterworth had in mind.  At any rate, here is a bummer birthday-- the humor is hidden and the pathos is annoying.Are we to be amused by the Russian goons who visit `cousin' Nicole and Ben Chaplin, her future husband through mail order?  Are we supposed to pity her as a con artist who may lose her life's love after she loses him his job and his innocence?  Do we really care?  I doubt it. Chaplin is almost without pulse, and Kidman is doing a good-ol' Ukrainian tart with too much vigor and not enough nuance. Her gift of a `Hog-tied Bitches' video to the closet porn-loving Chaplin just doesn't seem amusing despite its potential, nor does her being tied-up a couple of times in the film make it sexier or scarier. Perhaps her lack of lines in English, though accurate enough for the plot, makes her character portrayal rely on body signals, and there appears to be only one signal for this babe-yes and now!On the positive side, Angelo Badalamenti's score reminds us of his moody `Mulholland Drive' and Oliver Stapleton's cinematography saves this film as it did `The Shipping News.'One night, Kidman's Nadia gives Chaplin's John impressive service by hand, and the sex is off and running for the rest of the film.  When the two stare at the camera in the end, we a reminded that this is not the groundbreaking `Graduate.' Nicole will win the Oscar for other films, not this one. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie, but I hate this kind of movie...","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  A pretty woman sets up a guy to take his money.  But then she starts to feel for the guy, and she doesn't want to steal his money anymore.  After conning hundreds of men her entire life, suddenly she feels guilty and has a heart of gold?  This type of crap occurs in far too many movies. The same thing can be said for the victim.  If some woman perpetrates a $90,000 theft from me, I will NOT EVER fall in love with her. Any rational guy would go to the cops immediately and have no mercy for her and her co-horts.  (Although admittedly Nicole might be worth the mercy) "},{"Title":"The worst junk imaginable","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Absolutely awful.Why was Nicole Kidman in this? It seems an odd choice for her. Although I will agree she is breathtaking here both physically(she actually looks Russian-the girl is like a chameleon) and as an actress.All of the other actors are stupid and ugly.The writing is dreadful.And what was up with that stupid car?But I ultimately turned this off and watched something else instead. why you ask? Boring. Unfunny. Weird. Stupid. Unbelievable. Unsexy. Embarrassing. Ridiculous.Need I go on? "},{"Title":"Plausible psychology, sexy Kidman, but still lacking an edge","Date":"22 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Jez Butterworth's 'Birthday Girl' is a film featuring three Russain characters, who bizarrely are played by two Frenchmen and an Australian - the latter an uncommonly sexy Nicole Kidman, being Russian evidently suits her. Another oddity about this film is its depiction of suburban England as a place of almost poetic beauty, something those of us who live here don't usually see. The story, about a Briton who gets caught up in a mail-order bride scam, is quite good at capturing the psychology of those involved, although it's a pity, perhaps, that the bride is so dishonest, in that the mixed motives of her husband are matched by unambiguously criminal motives on hers. But it never really catches fire, either as comedy or straight drama, in spite of the convincing characters, and I think the problem is that Ben Chaplin's straight guy is just so straight, and wooden, not so as to be unbelievable in isolation but certainly so as to never really appear to be actually in the drama - maybe emotional types are simply better for stories. It's still watchable, but low-key without being wholly realistic in need of a little more zim. "},{"Title":"Great Little Film!, That's Very Unique And Creative, With, Some Great Plot Twists And Wonderful Performances!","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a great little film, that's very unique, and creative, with some great plot twists and wonderful performances!. All the characters are great, and the story while bizarre, is fascinating and very interesting, plus Nicole Kidman is simply amazing in this!. It's very hard to describe this movie, because it really is quite bizarre, it's a comedy/romance, one minute then it turns into a thriller the next, however it was still very entertaining all the same, plus Nicole's Russian accent was fantastic, and extremely convincing. Chaplin and Kidman had very good chemistry together, and i loved Vincent Cassel's performance!, plus some of the plot twists really took me by surprise!. The ending was very cute, and it's unpredictable throughout!, plus this movie is quite underrated as well!. You will feel sorry for Chaplin and the way that he is scammed, and i thought all the characters were really likable, plus the finale is especially good.This is Nicole's movie though, and she carries it with her incredibly sexy performance!. This is a great little film, that's very unique, and creative, with some great plot twists and wonderful performances!, i highly recommend this one!. The Direction is very good!. Jez Butterworth does a very good job here, with great camera work, solid angles and keeping the film at a fast pace!. The Acting is wonderful!. Nicole Kidman, is stunningly gorgeous!, and is amazing as always, she is incredibly sexy, very likable, had one of the coolest accents, added a lot of presence, had very good chemistry with Ben Chaplin, and had a very mysterious character!, she was amazing. (Kidman Rules!!!!). Ben Chaplin is great here, he is extremely likable, had a cool character, had very good chemistry with Kidman, the only thing i didn't like was him taking out his anger out on Kidman, even though what she did was wrong, and i loved how he got revenge in the end!. Vincent Cassel is fantastic as the main villain, yes he was OTT, but he was very intense and quite creepy at times, this role was perfect for him. Mathieu Kassovitz is OK here, but didn't have much to do. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Going' Home","Date":"3 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Good, funny, straightforward story, excellent Nicole Kidman (I almost always like the movies she's in). This was a good vehicle for someone adept at comedy and drama since there are elements of both. A romantic comedy wrapped around two crime stories, great closing lines. Chaplin, very good here, was also good in another good, but unpopular romantic comedy (Truth about Cats & Dogs). Maybe they're too implausible. Ebert didn't even post a review for this. The great screwball comedies obviously were totally implausible (Bringing up Baby, etc.). If you've seen one implausible comedy, you've seen them all? Or maybe people are ready to move on from the 1930s. Weird. Birthday Girl is a movie I've enjoyed several times. Nicole Kidman may be the killer app for home video. "},{"Title":"For what it's worth.","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite alleged sweat marks (?), 'unjust stereotypes' and the deranged sexual fantasies of a lonely man - i feel the film, as a whole, was a highly enjoyable hour of entertainment. Won't ramble on into my reasons. However, if you are thoroughly bored and have nothing else to do than to request an explanation - one will gladly be provided. That said, i do have one bone to pick - Ted. Nicole Kidman.Is a fine actress. I'd agree that this wouldn't win her an Oscar, but i certianly wouldn't say the role does her any injustice.Honestly, as a critic, how can you possibly compare her performance in Moulin Rouge to her performance in Birthday Girl? Given her status as an actress in the Hollywood Arena, i think it a wise, and somewhat daring move 'backing out' of Panic Room, and 'filling her scheduale' as the Birthday Girl... I know I'd do the same. "},{"Title":"For what it's worth.","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite alleged sweat marks (?), 'unjust stereotypes' and the deranged sexual fantasies of a lonely man - i feel the film, as a whole, was a highly enjoyable hour of entertainment. Won't ramble on into my reasons. However, if you are thoroughly bored and have nothing else to do than to request an explanation - one will gladly be provided. That said, i do have one bone to pick - Ted. Nicole Kidman.Is a fine actress. I'd agree that this wouldn't win her an Oscar, but i certianly wouldn't say the role does her any injustice.Honestly, as a critic, how can you possibly compare her performance in Moulin Rouge to her performance in Birthday Girl? Given her status as an actress in the Hollywood Arena, i think it a wise, and somewhat daring move 'backing out' of Panic Room, and 'filling her scheduale' as the Birthday Girl... I know I'd do the same. "}{"Title":"For what it's worth.","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Despite alleged sweat marks (?), 'unjust stereotypes' and the deranged sexual fantasies of a lonely man - i feel the film, as a whole, was a highly enjoyable hour of entertainment. Won't ramble on into my reasons. However, if you are thoroughly bored and have nothing else to do than to request an explanation - one will gladly be provided. That said, i do have one bone to pick - Ted. Nicole Kidman.Is a fine actress. I'd agree that this wouldn't win her an Oscar, but i certianly wouldn't say the role does her any injustice.Honestly, as a critic, how can you possibly compare her performance in Moulin Rouge to her performance in Birthday Girl? Given her status as an actress in the Hollywood Arena, i think it a wise, and somewhat daring move 'backing out' of Panic Room, and 'filling her scheduale' as the Birthday Girl... I know I'd do the same. "},{"Title":"Not a bad little movie","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  And it is a little movie. Despite having Nicole Kidman starring, it has the feel of something knocked together for next to nothing. The British equivalent of a TV Movie, so to speak. I was also less than impressed with the Film Four logo at the start. The last effort from them that I had to endure was Human Traffic, which was totally devoid of anything remotely resembling a plot, and had nothing to engage the viewers' interest at all.But Birthday Girl is pleasant enough, and totally devoid of anything like an earth-shattering plot or effects, but it entertained me and kept me watching through to the end. The story is rather predictable, but despite that, you keep watching to see how the film-makers will have it unfold.The four main actors are all more than competent. OK, so the two Russian guys aren't actually played by Russians. But who cares? If Sean Connery can get away with playing any nationality he likes - with not even a hint of trying to hide his Scottish accent - then these two guys do more than a good job.I can't really see that this would have done very well at the cinema, if it was ever released there? But it's not a bad movie for a rainy afternoon. I watched it without the sub-titles, which was far more entertaining, since you had to rely on the actor's performance to get across what was going on. It helped enhance your feeling of empathy with Ben Chaplin's character, who doesn't speak Russian at all.Overall, worth a look in if there is nothing better on TV at the time.  "},{"Title":"Buyer beware....","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this on the dish last night. I liked the movie. I traveled to Russia 3 different times (adopting our 2 kids). I can't put my finger on exactly why I liked this movie other than seeing bad turn good and good turn semi-bad. I liked the look Ben Chaplin has through the whole movie. Like I can't belive this is happening to me whether it's good or bad it the same look (and it works). Great ending. 7/10. Rent it or catch it on the dish like I did.  "},{"Title":"Fairly clever drama","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen so many dramas that feature plot twists that I am fairly confident that unless it is a David Mamet film, I will be able to figure out what is going to transpire before it happens - or at least be suspicious that things are not what they appear to be.  Birthday Girl wasn't an exception per se, we are warned several times that twists are ahead, but I was pleasantly surprised on several occasions.Birthday Girl is the story of a lonely Brit (Chapman) who orders a mail order Russian bride (Kidman) who not only doesn't speak english, but invites some dangerous friends over to celebrate her birthday.  Needless to say, the mixed company yields some interesting results. The acting is impressive in this film - Kidman's performance is extremely compelling.  Had I seen this film before seeing her in The Hours I wouldn't have been so surprised at the performance she turned out because she displays an excellent dramatic and darkly comedic ability. I wouldn't say this was a fantastic film, but I would definitely recommend it if you catch it on cable and want to experience a clever drama with a hint of dark comedy thrown in for good measure.--Shelly "},{"Title":"Cassel and Kassovitz shine in this disappointing romance/thriller.","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Now I really dislike Nicole Kidman generally, but I will admit I enjoyed her work in 'Dead Calm' and 'The Others', so I approached 'Birthday Girl' with an open mind. Ben Chaplin usually  does very little for me, but he and Kidman were pretty good in the first third of the movie, and when the characters played by Vincent Cassel and Matthieu Kassovitz (star and director respectively of 'La Haine' and 'The Crimson Rivers') entered the plot, things started to look really interesting. Unfortunately they didn't stay that way, and the movie got progressively duller and more predictable as it went on, all the way to coulda-guessed-it-a-mile-off ending. I've heard whispers about studio interference after this movie was shot, so maybe that explains why it fails to satisfy, I don't know. Anyway, what you have is a disappointing romance/thriller that is only really worth watching for the contributions by Kassovitz and especially Cassel, a charismatic and talented star-in-the-making. This is not the first time he has almost salvaged a so-so movie, see 'Dobermann' also. "},{"Title":"FAIR MOVIE..Interesting to watch 2 talented actors underplay their crafts!","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I found Birthday Girl quite interesting in the sense that the two main characters, (played by Kidman and Chaplin), both of whom are extremely good at acting, yet relay a sense to the viewer that they possess no such talents! I have seen Kidman in many other films where she just completely dominates with her chameleon-like abilities, yet in this movie, her acting is good yet boring? How does she pull that off? As far as Ben Chaplin, although I am not too familiar with this actor, he seems to possess an air of dignity in an otherwise TOTALLY undignified role! As for the story line...totally bogus...I mean why would some one as doggone cute, (and I mean CUTE!) as Ben Chaplin, even if his character is boring, have to buy a wife for himself? I mean, c'mon folks....even in the real world...if I knew a boring banker-type that looked any where near the way Ben Chaplin looks....how long would he be without any nookie??? Think about it! Put Nicole and Ben in some GOOD story-line movies, I think their talents deserve at least that much!  "},{"Title":"believable","Date":"30 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is very believable.  It would not surprise me to find out this actually happened.  It seemed a lot of films from Britain are done on a lower budget.  The film dragged in spots because of the budget.  I found the ending anti climatic.  It was interesting in spots but  overall it is a forgettable movie.  5/10 "},{"Title":"Could've been much better...","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  When I bought this film, I was hoping for a nice, scary suspense thriller, just like how the box makes it look like. But, I also knew that by the trailers that it was going to be somewhat sarcastic and humorous. What I did not know was that it was not going to be a dark, scary thriller like how I was hoping.Ben Chaplin and Nicole Kidman deliver great performances. And I was also surprised to learn that both Nicole Kidman and Vincent Cassel speak Russian. I knew Cassel spoke French also (THE CRIMSON RIVERS, BROTHERHOOD OF THE WOLF), but not Russian. The plot is good, and the plot twists are even better. I only wished that someone would have died or gotten shot or something. There wasn't enough violence to satisfy my needs. But what we have is a movie that I could only describe and a Romantic Thriller Comedy.PLOT John Buckingham (Ben Chaplin) is a bank-clerk in rural England. He hates his job, has a run-down car, an ant problem in his house, and has entirely no love live. That is until the arrival of his Russian mail-order bride, Nadia (Nicole Kidman). Nadia doesn't speak English, but the two of them soon get along when they discover each other's kinky sexual desires. Then, something else happens. It's Nadia's birthday. Without notice, her two cousins (Vincent Cassel and Matthieu Cassovitz) arrive and turn John's once peaceful life upside-down.Well, there's the plot that Moviefone, the newspapers, and even this website led us to believe this movie was about. No, this film is not the dark and scary suspense thriller you came to see. It is just another film that, I will admit, is quite memorable but just not the film you came to see. BIRTHDAY GIRL 3/5. "},{"Title":"Excellent, Fine example of Kidmans range.","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent movie, albeit slightly predictable. I have to comment on Nicole Kidmans acting in this movie. Some of her other works haven't shown the amazing talent this woman has, but Birthday Girl doesn't suffer from this in the slightest. Even without words Kidmans acting shines through. "},{"Title":"Happy birthday to you!","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nicole Kidman has had it pretty busy, didn't she?But maybe she should have taken vacation or so &#133; Because Birthday girl wasn't that good. The story  It's about a guy (Ben Chaplin) who lives alone in England and looks through the internet for a girl. The only land where women still leave everything behind is Russia. So from Russia with love they send Nicole Kidman. Who I must say, spoke quite good Russian and was very convincing as a Russian woman.And the movie starts off calm and doesn't rush anything. The two start to learn each other, the viewer starts to learn about them and then on her birthday it happens. Two russian friends come to meet Nicole and want to celebrate. But then it goes wrong, as well in the movie as the movie itself. Suddenly from calm it goes to very chaotic and from worse to bad and everybody tries to get back to everybody. To me this wasn't the fault of the actors, but the director. He tried to make a big birthdaycake with all the ingredients that would make it good but when he looked at the result it was just flat. He had mixed too much and got nothing.The movie really supported only on the result of the actors and nothing more. The story was weak and could have been done allot better then this.Nicole Kidman almost got a flawless record this year but just at the finish she fell down, although she did a fine work. And Ben Chaplin was also pretty good at his part. If you want a chaotic movie like this with sort off  a similar story watch Something Wild of Jonathan Demme.  "}{"Title":"loved it!","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  As usual, Hollywood stereotyped EVERYONE in the movie. But, this one is a classic - from the uptight white collar banker to the Russian woman!! Well done. Even facial expressions were great! Language was perfect (even in Russian language) and Nicole did a splendid job!! Hey guys - you get what you pay for) "},{"Title":"Down-to-earth brit-flick","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't really know what to expect when going out to watch the film, apart from the slightly surreal basic plotline that a lonely man orders a Russian bride over the internet. That and it had Nicole Kidman in it. I absolutely loved the film though, and came out thinking 'wow'.Refreshingly down to earth, the film moves along nicely, with a few suprises at each corner. The relationships in the film are believeable, with Nicole and Chaplin working against each other beautifully. The humour is subtle, with some great 'Office'-like scenes at the bank, and the thriller element add tension without being Hollywood.Overall the film is about real people in an unusual situation. It's less about heroics and more about delicate relationships. Brit-filmmaking at its best...(9/10) "},{"Title":"St. Albans  hollywood","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I live in St. Albans and just watched the trailer, and I cant see any of St. Albans in it. The bit of town shown briefly in the trailer is not St. Albans and unless the expanse of water they are swimming in is the lake in the park (I cant see miss Kidman swimming in that, she could stub her toe on a sunken shopping trolley) i cant see anything to do with St. Albans in it. I don't expect a film about my wonderful town (city if you want to be accurate) but seeing as it is mentioned in the plot outline - 'A thirty something bank clerk from St Albans has his small-town life exploded by the arrival of his Russian mail-order bride' - i expect it to be a noticeable part of the film.Perhaps the trailer is not representative enough of the film in this respect, so I shall just have to go and see it at the cinema when it comes out on Friday - but wait, we don't have a cinema in St. Albans. The Odeon closed down years ago amongst talk of a new multiplex in the centre of town, but after about 8 years it is still yet to materialise. We do however get the yearly story in the local rag about the plans going over budget and various contractors pulling out. one day maybe we will get a cinema in St. Albans.Well I'm ranting I would also like to talk about an article in the daily telegraph glossy magazine (Sunday 30th I think) about Ben Chapman. I was astonished to realise that they did not mention his time in the sitcom 'game on' which although not the greatest sitcom ever it does show Ben in a role which is perfect for him. I have just brought series one (the only series with Ben in it) from HMV in St. Albans in the sale for £9.99.Hope you find my rant interesting, feel free to email me if you wish to commentStuOh and I give this movie 10/10 just for mentioning St. Albans  "},{"Title":"Terrible ending ruins the movie","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS AHEAD Birthday girl started really well, like a romantic comedy. But from the moment the three let Chaplin steal the money from the bank the movie becomes worse and worse. And then the ending, everybody should have turned the three Russian thieves in, but not Chaplin. He leaves Britain with someone else's passport (!!!) and 900.000 pound in his coat. The terrible ending ruins the movie. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent black quirky comedy","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I must confess that I was completely shocked by this film. For one, I went to see it on a whim expecting something mediocre, but given this, the most shocking thing was that this was in a populist American cinema at all. This is British comedy at its finest - dark, quirky and funny in ways that American films just never are. I must stop short, however, of recommending this wholeheartedly to anyone; I went to see it with several people, some English, some European and some American and while some of us loved it (mainly from the first two groups), some hated it and found it worthless. If you think you're into this kind of thing then go. If not, don't. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Rent Something Wild instead","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" BIRTHDAY GIRL (2001) ** Nicole Kidman, Ben Chaplin, Vincent Cassel, Matthieu Kassovitz.  Something Wild for the Eurotrash sect could've been the pitch for this uneven blend of comedy and thriller/drama with meek Brit bank clerk Chaplin hooking up with Mystery Girl/Russkie mail-order bride Kidman and finds his bland existence upended.  The first half sustains some suspense into what is anticipated but the last act doesn't follow through on either half it tries to congeal as a dark comic thriller.  Nice try though.  (Dir Jez Butterworth)  "},{"Title":"For Kidman Fanatics","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  And I am a Nicole Kidman fanatic. I would pay to see and hear her read the Moscow phone book, which, for all I know, she may have been doing when she was speaking Russian in this movie. All four of the principals are excellent, but the movie itself is a number of good images and better scenes held together by nothing.While one is always ready to suspend disbelief while watching a movie, this one asks too much of the viewer. It could have been very funny (which it is in parts) or quite frightening (which it is in one scene) but the director didn't seem to know which way to go.  "},{"Title":"Certainly not that foreign for me...","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILERS... Watch Out!Funny as this may sound, this small budget flick did hold up my interest. And I didn't think it's as silly and absurd as many have made it out to be. This flick has some interesting little leads that make the plot work for me.Here we see two guys (let us forget Yuri's other male accomplice, for I actually did - moments after his appearance!) attracted to one girl. One a well-traveled crook living out of suitcases; the other a naïve, homely guy; and they certainly treat and see their woman in very different ways. And it's watching these two guys together that help me applause the final end. There are scenes of `domestic' brutality, no doubt, but it's not with glorifying and horrifying episodes of gore and gush.  Sure, there are several sex scenes, but not with the kind of passion-driven acts that many may have expected to see, after Kidman's role in `Eyes Wide Shut.'  That was definitely fine for me&#133; and believable too.  Sofia's character is not meant to be provocatively sexy, or bitchy.  Just a determined schemer, acting out, in every way she can, to accomplish her mission&#133; and I bet, she must be freaking out, each time she has an intimate session with a stranger! And John, an introvert (and a virgin, very likely!) &#150; the sort of guy who probably thinks a woman's place is  solely at home &#150; doesn't even seem comfortable with his female colleague, or other co-workers.  He lives his fancies through magazines, within his neat, little home. Chaplin and Kidman perform well in creating a screen mood that seems to lead nowhere&#133; at least, until the birthday girl decides it's time forcelebration. And there are those subtle visual hints, e.g. the binocular case, uncovered at the beginning, that lends a hand to the story's end. And Sofia's bruises help to keep the story moving.  I  realized she can be a tough jiffy. And the sight of the bruises opens up, on screen, the ruthless and violent nature of Yuri.  And it also contributes to the starting point of the love-triangle-conflict. Yep, it's these subtleties that make the story fun to follow. Again, Kidman has provided her show of enduring talent&#133; hey, this is a gal who was born in Hawaii, spent most of her youth in Australia, acts, sings; and now, in this movie, rumbles away in Russian!  And Cessel fits well into the shoes of his villainous character.Overall, this movie has little chance of creating an Oscar gossip, but it is still worth the price of a matinee. My rating B-.   "},{"Title":"Watchable, but...","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The main problem with Birthday Girl is that it can't decide whether it's a black comedy or a drama. If I'd been editing it, I'd have lost all the comedy performances from the likes of Stephen Mangan, Sally Phillips and Alexander Armstrong. The incidental elements of comedy in Birthday Girl are well done but the bank scenes are patently false and appear to have been pasted in from another movie. Another problem is La Kidman. You can see the Acting Gears churning in every scene she appears in, until it's revealed that she's not really a mail-order Russian bride. Well, I'd sort of guessed that as soon as she turned up at the airport. La Kidman has now reached a stage in her career where she takes her craft very seriously and the result in Birthday Girl is that her character is transparent. Kidman acts like a Russian woman who is pretending to be a mail-order bride and you can see her doing it. Fortunately La Kidman's uber-Streep performance is counterbalanced by Ben Chaplin, who plays repressed bank clerk John very sympathetically. Vincent Cassel and Mathieu Kassovitz also turn in good performances as Russian con artists and there are a few UK comedy actors who acquit themselves well in minor roles elsewhere in the film.Ignore the forced attempts at comedy and you'll enjoy Birthday Girl. "},{"Title":"No harm in charm","Date":"6 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The real Kid, man. In this one, Nicole's no cool and superficial icon, detached and so frail, she has don't touch me, I'm porcelain written all over her. On the contrary, she's sweet, screwing, humorous, and genuine - a roguish Russian with cloudy blue eyes, an authentic accent, and an Absolute smile.So, anybody, who guessed a(t) plot here, just might have missed a point.If you can't help figure out who dunnit while this willowy lass watches kinky porn and wrinkles her nose, you should consider joining your nearest screen writer's guild, or perhaps better, play a nice game of chess. "}{"Title":"Nyet","Date":"17 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is one annoying stupid movie.Ben Chaplin plays the nicest, sweetest guy in the world, who gets taken for a ride by three trashy Russians, and you're supposed to find the ending strangely delightful and sweet.  Well forget it, I for one do not buy a minute of this movie.  Nicole does a good job, actually all the actors are fine, its the things they say and do that slayed me.  Ben robs the bank he works at so that Nicole's alleged 'cousins' won't kill her?  Screw that, KILL HER!  She's working an angle, too, just by inviting them to his home!  She lied a thousand times way before meeting him!I like Ben, well I would if he did a movie I could stand.  Nicole I like much more post-divorce, and I like that she takes some chances with her career, but I can't say this was the wisest one she's made lately. 3/10.  "},{"Title":" I could eat you up","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nicole Kidman is fascinating as Nadia in this playful suspense farce. The supporting cast is wonderful. The costumes are amazing. One of the good movies in the genre, Birthday Girl will place a birthday cone of fatality on the viewer's head. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Film sputters then ultimately breaks down","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Nicole Kidman is a terrific actress and she should have spotted this lame excuse for a story. I guess the thought of using a Russian accent was appealing but that would be the only appealing thing here. Story meanders in a totally unconvincing way and eventually the film becomes what I call a Clunker. Kidman and Ben Chaplin are to talented to be in this mess. "},{"Title":"ST. ALBANS ??","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This is a difficult film to pin. Not quite dark or funny enough for a black comedy. It's dark and quite interesting for a romantic comedy.Kidman is good, but there's no real chemistry with Chaplin. It's left to Cassel and Kassovitz to provide the class. "},{"Title":"Waste of Nicole Kidman's talents","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  After her spectacular performances in THE OTHERS and MOULIN ROUGE, Nicole Kidman was hardly used to her potential in this half-hearted story full of Russian stereotypes, uninspired dialogue and not terribly memorable performances by mostly two-dimensional characters.  Though Kidman did a credible job speaking Russian, this movie would not have suffered much if Kidman's role (Nadia/Sofia) were played by a native Russian.  Don't even bother to rent this one...  "},{"Title":"Birthday Suit","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Nichole made a very bad choice here. This was apparently a last minute schedule filler after she backed out of `Panic Room.'Here we have a common situation, a weak director -- no coherent vision. Usually, these make for very interesting experiences when you involve a strong actor. That actor fills in all the space the director cannot see, giving an `invisible' performance. In fact, I use it as a test for whether an actor goes on my list to follow no matter the project.Nichole fails this test, and that's a shame after `Moulin Rouge!' in which she gives a multilevel performance (as the character, as the actor, as the character acting). Plus, the theory of Australian dramatic training is an attractive one, since so many of our multidimensionally capable actresses come from there. And when someone reaches this level of celebrity, it is fun to speculate on how she reinvents sex roles.More the actor's dream is to act characters who are acting, as is the case here. But in this thin film, what Nichole contributes is thin as well. There is no glimmer of a full inhabitation of the role. There is no annotative reflection. There is less life inside than what she shows.Contrast this with a similarly confused film, `Bandits,' that features her colleague, Cate Blanchett. This is a loose collection of episodes that the director doesn't control, and has the additional problem of two muggers as her costars. See how Cate completely understands where the director and other actors are and are not. See how she uses that stage to create a parallel role behind everyone's back but in such a way that we the viewer can see it. See how similar the form of this stolen role is to the explicit form that Nichole uses in `Rouge!' See how Nichole does none of that here.I suspect Nichole is better than this, but needs confidence or something. Let's hope she gets what she needs.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Fairly accurate portrayal of Russian women, except for one big thing","Date":"20 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I've had a lot of experience with women in Russia, and this movie portrays what a lot of them are like, unfortunately. They are very cunning, ruthless, and greedy, as well as highly unfair. From the robotic sex, the hustling for gifts, to the lies and betrayal, I've experienced it all in Russia.I know what I'm talking about. And here are my qualifications Here are the photojournals of my three trips to Russia in search of a bride. It includes thousands of pics of many hot Russian girls I met, black comedy, scams I was privy to, and the story of my mugging and appearance on Russian national TV.http//www.happierabroad.com/Photojournals.htmIt's like Reality TV. You will love it. I spent a ton of time putting it together. So check it out. The Russian woman that Nicole Kidman plays is a lot like the Julia and Katya in my photojournals.My 3 bride seeking trips in Russia happen to be very exciting and would sell, so why don't they make a movie out of my bride seeking adventures in Russia? However, there is one factual impossibility in this film, and that is the way which the guy orders his bride from a catalog and having her arrive at an airport. It doesn't work that way at all, so I don't understand why the media likes to perpetuate this. There isn't a single Russian bride introduction website that works this way, and I challenge anyone to find one that does. The fact is, you can only order the Russian lady's CONTACT INFO (email, address, phone number, etc.) from the website. From there, you correspond and then visit her, and if you want to bring her to your country, you start the immigration process at your INS office, and wait months after that. That's how it works in real life. You can't just order her to arrive at your airport. US Immigration would NEVER allow such a thing to happen.WuMaster - I got everything I wanted by going abroad! You can too! http//www.happierabroad.com "},{"Title":"Doesn't Gel","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" BIRTHDAY GIRL is an example of a great idea not making a very good film . This must have been a very easy movie to pitch and the producers were so impressed with it they forgot to develop it to its full potential .  A man sends off for a Russian bride and gets more than he bargains for  Hey that's a great premise but things go very wrong very quickly with the casting of Ben Chaplin as the meek and mild mannered bank teller . Let's be honest here and admit that it's only sad middle aged virgins who trawl through the internet looking for potential partners from the far east and former communist block countries . In other words the part should have gone to a middle aged actor that the audience can believe has never been laid . Actually the second complaint involves the casting too , this time with Nicole Kidman . She's very good as Nadia but because Nadia is played by a superstar actress I was always aware that I was watching a superstar actress if you know what I mean There is another problem with the production and that is the movie feels that it has to try to appeal to as wide a range of a potential audience as possible . We have a love story that will appeal to females mixed in with thriller elements that will appeal to boys . While the mixed genre elements don't really jar with one another I did feel that the romantic elements seemed overdone while the thriller elements pulled their punches too much , so the whole movie failed to work for me . Oh and ignore the voice over at the beginning where it's stated  That England is an island  . Considering England borders Scotland in the North and Wales in the West England does not qualify as an island . Britain does of course and I guess this careless mistake sums up what's wrong with BIRTHDAY GIRL - It's careless "},{"Title":"What Roles CAN'T Nicole Kidman Play?","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"                                Nicole Kidman is a truly amazing actress. First coming to the American screen as a teenager in New Zealand who                               with her best friend brutally murders the other girl's mom (Heavenly Creatures, a true story), she catapulted into                               many different roles. Her accents have run from Midwest Flat (To Die For) to New York suave (Eyes Wide Shut)                               to fantasy and fantastical Paris (Moulin Rouge). Now in Birthday Girl she enunciates rapid fire Russian with such                               apparent command that I found myself whispering da several times while watching the film in Manhattan.                              The story starts as an apparently full-blown comedy a single and lonely bank clerk whose only sexual outlet is porn                               orders a Russian bride from an online catalogue (the selection process, while brief, is very funny). He gets a beauty                               who, apparently, has only one word in her English vocabulary yes. Fortunately for Ben Chaplin, the now bewildered                               clerk, her yes works for sex as well as for conversation.                              Then arrive weekend-but-forget-to-leave Russian visitors who are exasperating initially but in one flash become                               dangerous, even deadly. The comedic gives way to implausible but well-acted drama as the two men drag their host                               into crime.                              There are more humorous scenes in this somewhat unevenly told story but it's hard to lose interest. Chaplin and                               Kidman act well together and their mutual hard slaps across the face are definitely cinema verite.                              The resolution is unrealistic but so what. Nicole Kidman again demonstrates she'll try any kind of role and pull it off.  "}]