[{"Title":"Justin Kerrigan hits gold.","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"54 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Director Justin Kerrigan.Justin Kerrigan - this time you've really done it. Human Traffic is going to upset the majority of film critics who will view the lack of plot, the drug induced dialogue and the futile outlook on Nineties Youth culture as a miserable and desperate view of how weekends are spent by ravers and clubheads across the UK. Moreover, they will spot camera work borrowed from Boogie Nights and even try and associate the whole film with 'Trainspotting' theme (because, lets face it, a Scottish Heroin addict trying to clean up his act and a Welsh clubber looking for a good time with his mates is pretty much the same thing, right?)Well wrong. Human Traffic has landed - along with one and a half quality hours of clubs, drugs, pubs and parties - and its time to leave behind your preconceptions of what a film should be like (where's the plot? I want a plot!) and instead delve into the lives of Jip (John Simm) and his mates, Nina (Nicola Reynolds), Koop (Shaun Parkes), Lulu (Lorraine Pilkington) and Moff (Danny Dyer). There's nothing special about these five friends; they're just hanging out together and showing you the way they lead their lives. They are not Burger King. They certainly don't do it your way. And you don't like it - well, tough.Because essentially this period piece has captured everything that Nineties youth culture is revolving around. There are no clear solutions, in fact very few problems in the first place. At the end of the day, what Jip and his friends are doing is living and who are we to know or comment on anything different? They drink, smoke dope, pop pills and party; they know the risks and they're prepared to take them and moralists will just have to sit back and (try to) enjoy the ride.The sound track is terrific and accompanies the highs and lows of the 48 hour weekend and the events that take place in it. But within this, what first appears to be social unity, we see traces of individual isolation that are easy to bypass in a culture of hedonism. Jips paranoia of sex, Koops jealous possession of Nina and Moff as his drug habit digs him deeper into his own hole and further away from his family, asks the question 'are things really this good?' However they will not be exaggerated to the extent that they are conspicuous, giving the film a controversial stance on drugs and the role in social integration. Kerrigan is pulling no punches. And why should he? This isn't GO! or any other such American rave film with clear cut margins and please-the-crowd conclusions - it is one that forces us to question whilst at the same time enjoy the at times hilarious, touching and other times exciting events of 48 hours with a group of five 'friends'.And for the die-hard British youth among you, this might not be reality - but it's a bloody brave effort at depicting it. "},{"Title":"Get me a real doctor!  This movie rocks!","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film was hilarious.  It provided a somewhat comical view of the British club scene, which, if you really look at it, is a funny thing.  The characters in this flick were so realistic to those of us who watched here at my place that it was like watching a movie about ourselves.There were a few pivotal scenes which really made this movie work the getting ready scenes; the Get me a real doctor scene; the white background scene showing each character in a total state of being wrecked, ending with the infamous line what was i saying? and the comedown-sunup scenes.  I have lived these moments myself and found myself laughing hysterically at my own ridiculous behaviour.I can't give this movie a 10 because it doesn't measure up to Groove, which I thought was out of this world, but it certainly has its moments.  The mise-en-scene and the camera work is superb, the special effects are well worth mentioning, and the acting is fantastic.After waiting a long time to see this film, I am glad to say that I was not disappointed.  I hope to see more from the writer/director in the future. "},{"Title":"Accurate portrayal of club culture, the highs and the lows","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"43 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Making a film about the 'chemical generation', those who live for the weekend, must have been a very hard enterprise. It would have to accurately reflect the lives and experiences of 'clubbers' and also appeal to a wider audience. Human Traffic just about achieves that.It is certainly spot on in with it's observations and in it's accuracy. It's obvious the filmmakers have 'been there and done it'. If you are or were once like the people in this film, than there is so much to relate it. It's all there, often depicted humorously but not condescendingly. The fake euphoria of being on 'E'in the end ,I just want to be happy, yeah ,that's it.....hang on, what the **** was I talking about?. The monged conversation at 4 am which seems deep and meaningful but is basically rubbish  Star Wars being about drugs!and gets more and more incoherent. Exchanging pleasantries with someone you only see in pubs and clubs and really can't stand. 'Coming up' suddenly at the same time as someone else and mumbling to each other what you're 'on' at the speed of light. Reminiscing how it was better in the 'old days' and is now too commercial and widespread. Doing it all for the first time and going off with a bunch of dodgy geezers who are suddenly your best mates. The thrill of finding the after party. The depressing, inexorable sense of returning to the reality.The film's attitude to drugs is commendable, drug taking is simply something the characters do, and that's all. Nobody dies or is seriously ill ,and yet there is a sense that it doesn't really lead anywhere. After all ,we'll not going to be doing this for ever, are we says one character at the end.The film falters a little when depicting the lives of it's protagonists. For many scenes, director Justin Kerrigan uses a kind of 'heightened reality', for instance in a scene when a character comments on how the workers in a fast food place are like robots and for a moment they 'become' actual robots. This approach does not always work, and it's a shame since the characters are all the sort you could expect to run into on a Friday night. We do care a bit about their respective lives and problems, but we don't really get to know the female characters properly, and what is really the main thrust of the plot, the blossoming romance between two of the main protagonists, is dwelled on too much and is somehow unconvincing,if sometimes quite sweet. The acting is generally OK if not great.Human Traffic is not as important a film as, say, Trainspotting, which despite being about heroin addicts seemed to speak to a generation. Nonetheless, it's a truthful depiction of an element of society which films and TV either ignore or condescend to. Incidentally ,there are two versions, the director's edit and the later producer's edit. The latter, which cuts some footage, changes some music and adds some silly CGI, is inferior to the former. "},{"Title":"Watching this film just makes you want to go out clubbing!!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Every time I watch this film, it just really makes me wanna go out and have a good night! My mate uses the weekend has landed speech to psyche himself up before going out! and so do I...sometimes. This film is a great debut for the writer/director - well done mate!The acting is great, all the characters are believable and are larger than life! The 'weird' scenes are a joy to watch, Jip's running Mr floppy flashbacks/explanations/visualizations are all great! The scene in the huuuuuuuge pub when everyone stands up and starts singing the mock national anthem is a laugh too. There's loads of comedy here - Howard Marks' 'spliff politics' speech is hilarious!Oh god, you just need to see this. Mind you, I felt the film did somewhat glorify the use of ecstacy, but hey, that's the truth of the matter eh? At least the film doesn't shy away from this fact. I suppose the film does carry a decent message to it as well - don't take life TOO seriously, you have to let you hair down sometime. And of course the chat in the pub when Moff tries to explain to his mates that he's coming off the drugs is a sure reminder that when the come down's out-way the good times, you know the party's over!This is at times a very clever film in it's use of the camera, lighting, etc. It was a realised piece of cinema, and a great feel-good tale of mates, love, clubs, and drugs.Get outta the 'rat race' people!!!8/10Enjoy!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie if its your bag","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I have a completely biased point of view mainly because I live and enjoy the club culture lifestyle. Being a DJ and frequent club goer I see the honesty within this movie and I love it. If you don't know the club/rave culture then it will be a great foray into that culture for anyone that doesn't know it first hand. The honest portrayal of human emotion and issues in the part of Jip I loved. The characters were well constructed and I thoroughly enjoyed this film. I really don't enjoy the fact that you have to write ten lines on this web site. I will write at least 6 or 7 but i feel that i can portray my point with fewer than ten. Here are some extra lines to make the IMDb gods happy. "},{"Title":"You really need to be able to relate or else it will just frustrate you","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  As the weekend approaches, the working days come to a close and the weekend of partying and forgetting everything else approaches.  We follow a group of friends from their jobs to their Friday night highs.  Jip is having erection problems, Koop mistrusts his girlfriend, Lu has just split from her most recent boyfriend and Nina is preparing to let her brother take E for the first time.  They all hate their jobs, but the weekend gives them an opportunity to get away.When this came out it got both horrible reviews and good reviews, so I didn't know totally what to expect, but I expected to hate it because it marked itself out from the very start as one of those very self-aware 'youf' movies.  However, although that's exactly what it is, I did actually enjoy it nonetheless.  There is not a plot so much as a weekend experience and it does struggle at times without a frame of any sort.  However while it is hitting the spot and being energetic and funny it doesn't matter.  The odd time it tries to give the characters specific issues or lives it tends to hurt itself but for the majority it works.The script is funny with nice imaginative touches blended with real life club/drug culture/pub culture references and settings to make it identifiable and interesting.  I suppose it very much depends on who you are. If you are not part of that scene or have no knowledge of it then it may just seem like a big pointless waste of time.  For me, much of it was recognisable regardless of what I have done or have not done.  While some of it was unknown to me, I still found it funny and was able to relate to much of it.  It is very clear about it's stance on drugs (with a not-so-subtle clip of Bill Hicks just to ram the point home) but at least it shows the immediate bad side if not the longer lasting effects; the comedown/hangover scenes are pretty much fair and balanced, as are the scenes of enjoyment and fun brought by drugs.  However to compare this film to Trainspotting is a joke! The latter was very clearly showing a balanced view of drugs, whereas this film is less balanced, and is more about the pleasure, being aimed at the user market.The cast are young and lively and deal well with the material without ever impressing.  Parkes seems the most comfortable with his role, although Davies convinces in a speeded up dealer performance.  Simm is lumbered with the narration but does OK but there are no really good female characters compared to the men.Overall this is worth seeing if you can relate to it and get laughs from seeing people you recognise in the characters.  However if, after 10 minutes you can't see what the point of the whole thing is and it just seems noisy and stupid then it's likely not aimed at you and you're better off without it.  Either way it isn't great but if you get it, it is energetic and funny enough to watch. "},{"Title":"Realistic, at least in europe...","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movies is obviously the most realistic movie about clubbing ever made, but this is true for us in Europe becuase in America, they have a Chopped up version of Human Traffic, Yes, I just sent this movie to my brother who lives in America, he's seen it already the U.S, and this is want he wrote me, after seeing the british tape I send him There's basically new stuff throughout the whole movie. Every 2-3 minutes there's something new. Very little things.  All the English slang was translated to American like Blagging, Class A's.   There's also big scenes like a whole bunch of  new Felix scenes, including him talking about the old times and him speeding at the bar. The new version also shows the scene that explains that Muff is a dealer and The crazy dad talks at the hospital.   The editing was also different, almost every scene was longer with a couple minutes extra. It was like watching it for the first time again. Nice one bruv,   "},{"Title":"great fun","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I recently watched this flick twice on a trip back from Ireland on Virgin Atlantic (a nine hour flight). It reminded me of a UK version of Cameron Crowe's Singles but a hell of a lot more fun. I loved the scene where the main character makes up a new national anthem (one he identifies with). This movie is worth watching for that scene alone.  Human Traffic doesn't provide much insight into the human condition, but that's not what it's trying to do. It's just about a group of young people trying to figure out their lives at that point in time. It's definitely a great film if you want to watch characters who lead even more pointless lives than you. The place was different, but in my early twenties I saw some of my own traits (namely the pursuit of fun and women) in the male characters.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie, justin, don't stop, keep writing!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I absolutely love this film.  Everything about it.  It almost felt like watching me and my friends on screen.  The way this movie was filmed was a pure masterpiece, very original and creative.  I related to these characters and even had the same thoughts as some.  I'm really glad I ran across this movie.  If only there were more genius' like justin out there!  "},{"Title":"Good but no great  XxXSPOILERSXxX","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Human Traffic was good, but I don't see how people class it as their favourite film.This is a great directing debut and being a Welsh person myself (so you can't criticize me for what I say!) I found it to be a clumsy film, I mean the relationship between the two friends who fall in love was stupid, I mean he had never liked her before and for the films sake fell madly in love with her other the spam off 4 and a half minutes, the writer should'v done it differently.All in all, I think the director could go on to better things, an over rated film, great dialog, clumsily written film though.5 out of 10 (Average) "}{"Title":"Certainly Not Great","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" If I wouldn't have had any expectations of this film, it might have received a 5 or 6. As it stands, I give it a 3. The acting is poor, the factual accuracy of the drugs it discusses is lacking, and I feel no empathy whatsoever for the characters.I watched 'Adam & Paul' immediately before watching this film, and I both laughed and cried on several occasions. This film did not strike even a similar chord. The directors of 'Human Traffic' may have some off-hand experience of ecstasy, but there is no demonstration of actual drug-related semantic knowledge here. In fact, I find it rather offensive and contraproductive to the strife of making current drug laws less politically oriented.Watch 'Requiem for a Dream' if what you're looking for is an amazing, touching film about drugs. "},{"Title":"Appallingly vacuous","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I can understand the appeal of this film, and being a regular clubber I certainly recognised many of the scenes it it, however the complete lack of plot completely ruined it to me.  Essentially this is a collection of sketches on clubbing, and it's only when seeing so many stuck end to end that you realise how ridiculously empty and experience it can be at times.If you can, get a hold of the Weekender video by Flowered Up.  It's a music video from the early 90's that summarises both the exhilaration and emptiness of being a clubber, it lasts 12 minutes and is vastly more entertaining than this film.I'd be extremely suprised if the director/director of Human Traffic has another story to tell. "},{"Title":"With no storyline and bland characters; this film has nothing to say.  Get Trainspotting instead.","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I would like to comment on the full extent of this film, but was unable to sit through this tiresome episode where a group of boring, one dimensional characters partake in their equally boring activities in the Welsh youth scene. It seems the film owes a lot to Trainspotting, unfortunately it comes nowhere near, the lack of an identifiable plot and a lack of interest in the characters makes it no alternative. The film finishes more or less where it started, nothing of any consequence happens and there are no particular features in the story. Don't fall for the exciting press release and packaging, as I did.  It is a film which is too wrapped up in it's own image to have anything to say.  "},{"Title":"ho hum","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It seems that 'character films' are becoming the trademark of British cinema.  Trainspotting and Lock Stock... were both good because of their excellent characters AND excellent story lines.  Human Traffic has chosen only to include the characters and omit the story line.It's all here, the bio-style introductions and McGreggor style voice-over. Once the film gets underway it all turns rather dull with nothing much happening.  Perhaps if I was a drug-abuser then I'd 'get' the humour more but listening to people bang on about Star Wars and other trivial things didn't entertain me at all.All in all this movie was quite dull and didn't go anywhere. "},{"Title":"Utter drivel","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie is about the Cardiff club scene. If this is not enough to put you off the movie then just try to watch it. It's about a group of deeply tedious characters who go clubbing, pop pills and talk drivel. Add to this premise some excruciatingly terrible scenes - there are too many to mention here but special credit must be given to 'the alternative national anthem', a scene so cretinous it would make a cat laugh. Much of the movie gives the impression that it has been pasted together by a group of remedial level film students.This kind of nonsense would put anyone off clubbing altogether! As it happens the clubbing experience is great fun but this movie makes it appear both witless and irrelevant.Still, the soundtrack was pretty good. "},{"Title":"I was Offended By this Film","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I cannot believe how this atrocity managed to capture the hearts and minds of a cross-section of the 'bright young things' of its era, but I'm certain I wish it hadn't. In my opinion it is an inaccurate, poorly acted, weakly scripted, pretentiously directed piece of gumpf. The brief outings to an imagined reality bludgeon any humour to death. The situations are unsubtle exaggerations which make the the already flimsy characters even more unbelievable and detestable. The romance is dull, the end is unsatisfying and ruins the only sensible drugs message in the film and the simple plot ('Withnail and I,' 'Fear and Loathing') is tested to extremes with the uninteresting motion of the film. In short this film as a blatant visual assault with no hint of skill or initiative. I condemn it to the ash heap of history and pray it stays there. "},{"Title":"Just when you thought you've already seen the worst film of your life...","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" ...along comes something that knocks the last vomit-inducingfeature off its pedastal. Human Traffic is yet another film to jumpon the rave/clubby/drug/youth culture bandwagon that is probablyfor today what grunge was yesterday. Don't get me wrong, I'm adedicated clubber myself, (and probably a bit too old to appreciatethis film, being 27) but this film had the most annoying, stupid,boring and pointless characters I have ever seen. A night outclubbing with these losers and I'd definitely be on the verge ofslitting my wrists before even reaching the afterparty. Memo toJustin Kerrigan if you write a film, it helps to have a plot in mind.Completely ego-driven film. Nothing real about it. Will probablyappeal to a few uni students out there. Definite 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I can see why it's so popular in certain circles but the film is more of a documentation of what's what rather than an out and out statement on a seedy lifestyle.","Date":"22 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I'm lead to believe Human Traffic is somewhat of a cult film, but a cult film within certain circles to do with fans of clubbing and raving. It's no surprise because that's really all the film is, a documented and filmed account of what it's like to rave and club; for the rest of us, it's a non-event; a moderately dramatic and slightly inventive drama about British young adults that try to kill off sensations of pain to do with stresses of work, flailing relationships and even the actual lack of them. Human Traffic is a very specific film in the sense it is going to appeal to a direct audience; the illusion that the audience are seeing something better than what it is lies in the surrealistic content that has wormed its way into the film thanks to other recent attempts at the time such as Trainspotting and The Acid House. On the other hand, the filmmakers are not fooling anyone else.The trouble with the film is its study of this particular mentality. The defining scene is about half way through the film in which a couple of the main characters stand on a stairway to a large, old manor house and systematically turn around to the camera to address us. If you're struggling for a visualisation, think the opening few seconds of the music video to that Spice Girls song from years back entitled 'Wannabe'. As they turn to face us, they talk and laugh in our direction about how brilliant the night's going to be and how they love doing what they do. The problem here is that rather than see the night through the eyes of one of the characters, the highs and lows but hopefully not too much of either without the highs glamorised; we are invited to see the scenes unfold through our own perspective that is the camera's POV.This means whatever viewpoint or opinion we have on these people and this lifestyle will stick throughout this sequence, meaning if you're into it you'll be loving it but if it's all alien to you in the first place, you'll probably be despising what's going on. We are not invited to participate through one of the characters, instead we must watch from outside the box as events unfold in a dreary fashion.The film is one of those driven by lifestyle and consequence rather than out and out narrative. There is a lot of narration establishing the life certain people lead as well as several scenes that kill time whilst coming across as quite eccentric afterthoughts, the scene in which everyone stands up in the pub and sings at the camera being one of them. Jip (Simm) is the narrator and is so all over the place, both in speech and movement, that he manages to go from mentioning Neil Armstrong to talking of Milky Bar chocolate bars in one monologue spanning about four seconds. Such is the nature of the film.Simm plays the character well, a sort of eccentric person who's on the brink between being perfectly normal and completely loosing his mind completely. Simm hates his life and 'lives for the weekend' where he can let loose and try to scratch that itch of not having had a partner in ages. Initially, Jip is conflicted on his lifestyle after all this time. He initially seems to be on the brink of an epiphany but he doesn't know it. It looks as if he's about to mature, questioning his lifestyle and coming to terms with the damage he's doing to himself. Unfortunately, the film does cop out towards the end with this idea and has Jip find a partner, thus halting the possible maturity stone dead. All of a sudden he's happy with his lifestyle and nothing seems so bad after all, which was disappointing.Along with Jip are Koop (Parkes); Lulu (Pilkington) and Moff (Dyer). What they get up to is slightly uninteresting at the best of times, their activity only demonised on the rare occasion Danny Dyer narrates what it's like to come down off drugs at a bash full of random people all doing the same thing. The film is all style, with its study of the British male in crisis filling in the rest. Jump cuts; breaking the fourth wall; subtitles and popular culture dialogue are the attempts at coming across as somewhat different to what you might have expected. For watching ravers, it'll add to the disillusioned sense they might already have while watching but for everyone else, it's just quite ordinary and often comes across as a bit of a gimmick.Very near the film's immediate beginning is a short monologue about how a 17 year old boy hopes to have sex for the first time on a night out with the characters. This will instil some viewers with dread as to what might come; others will probably laugh their heads off and miss the subsequent thirty seconds of the film through that laughter. Human Traffic can be added to list containing Trainspotting and The Acid House as surrealist, realist drama comedies made in Britain around about the turn of the decade. It isn't as good as those films because it doesn't feel grounded. The film might just as well have been shot with real ravers on a real night out, but of course where's all the director's post-modern style going to come from then? After all, we've got to have all that in there- haven't we? "},{"Title":"Been there, done that!","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic is purely a `been there, done that' experience &#150; only this time it's quite limp.Major themes explored are paranoia, male impotence and jealousy &#150; but only mildly and poorly.A lot of the movie seems to want to imitate Trainspotting (drug / `clubbing' culture) &#150; but it fails to include the low times / come-downs that Trainspotting deals with (eg issues with death / dependence, etc).  It even tries to come up with a similar monologue to Ewan McGreggor's classic `Choose Life' speech &#150; but `The Milky Bars are on me!  Yeah!' &#150; what the fudge is that all about?!The characters try to analyse their lifestyle but when their lifestyle is so shallow &#150; their analysis becomes boring and repetitious.The soundtrack (for a movie that is trying to be cool) is pathetic.  It includes the likes of Fat Boy Slim and CJ Bolland &#150; come on people &#150; good dance music IS be better than this!The characters become grating and annoying (especially half way through the movie) and the lack of care-for-the-characters soon dawns.There are a couple of funny scenes &#150; but they are few and far between.  The mother catching the son in the bedroom was quite amusing.But PLEASE &#150; I'm sick to death of the Star Wars analogy scenes.  I thought it was much more sharper in a couple of Kevin Smith's movies (ie Clerks and Chasing Amy).  According to the characters &#150; Yoda is a drug fiend hence that's why he is short and bald &#150; huh?!My score &#150; 4 out of 10 &#150; do yourself a favour and see Trainspotting or Go instead!  "},{"Title":"...uninteresting!","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  As far as boring movies go, this is perhaps one of the most boring. An uninteresting  look at a group of uninteresting 20-somethings who lead uninteresting lives...oh, and  then they have a supremely uninteresting weekend.This film tries to be quirky. It tries to mirror real life, and largely succeeds, but real life  isn't so boring. Correct me if I'm wrong but at the very least, isn't a film supposed to be  telling a story in an entertaining way?The characters? They're pretty boring, paper thin. They get into a couple of mildly  amusing situations and I once even laughed out loud. Well, come to think of it it was  actually more of a short chortle.Why am I writing a review then? To warn all people of the boringness that this film is. If  you want to lose 99 minutes of your life...well then go right ahead. "}{"Title":"Don't watch this if you have any sense","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  these are the reasons to burn this film1. talk about over directing a film. the flashy camera effects add nothing to the film and there where way too many dream sequences. the fact the guy who directed this hasnt worked since says alot2. i wouldnt mind some sort of storyline. what was the point in bringing along the 17 year old on his first night out when it didnt add anything to the story? the love story between jip and that bird could have been worked more and what about danny dyer? is there a point to him being in the film?3. why are these guys out on a friday? everyone knows saturdays are the better nights out. saturday seems to be missing from the film entirely. they go out friday, have a good time, then chill with a cup of tea on a saturday night? come on! if theyre true blue clubbers theyd be out friday and saturday4. i wouldnt have minded more than 2 welsh people in this filmall in all a typical cool britannia era film. desperate to be trainspotting but falling by the wayside "},{"Title":"thank god they only covered the weekend","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I bought this on DVD after missing out when it was released and was expecting a witty but terse affair much like the excellent trainspotting, from the mindless drivel of the opening monolgues I knew that it was 10 pounds wasted.Okay lets put the facts straight this film probably shouldn't hit the heights of the junkie limbo atmosphere of trainspotting but rather be a more light hearted affair with flamboyant characters, as even a treacharous plot-line as human traffic blatantly is could be rescued by a gang of young charismatic cast-members, human traffic fails and dies in every aspect with drab performances all round by a bunch of twenty-somethings who seem to be picked off the street for their complete lack of talent in this movie not to mention lack of chemistry between them.Much like Renton is our narrative guide in Trainspotting, the protaganist Jip(John Simm) leads us into this movie telling us he has certain problems in the bedroom, it is a relief once he has finished his mind-numbingly mundane drivel about mr softy to see some of the other characters but the disappointment is that some are as bad or even worse.We meet Koop(shaun parkes) an entertaining character at first-look who works in a music store but as he continues you get the feeling this movie is not going to have much impact when he spouts more or less the same trying to be hip, young and cool quota that Jip has just told you, by no means does the misery of the introduction end there.Nina, the fast-food waitress is one of the worst characters I have ever had to endure with the need to say f**k in pretty much the start, middle and end of every line she says, ok i blame the script for that but it's just not worth watching her character at all in this film it makes Jip and Koop seem like the most charismatic people you've ever met.Nina's best friend Lulu comes next, the powerful blonde has so much potential to become the witty one in this film but just falls down like all the others before her into the bottomless pit of unfunny flashbacks and notoriously sterile conversations with her counterpartsApart from Nina's brother Lee who is another banale poor character, this is where my criticism of the characters end for there is one gem amongst the cast and it comes in the form of cheeky cockney pill-popper Moff played by Danny Dyer who is actually very very funny, witty and most importantly believeable which the rest of the cast completely fall short of being. Moff's rants make this film somewhat bearable as you look forward to his stories of getting drugged up, calling a porn line and spouting his life story and subsequently running up a whopping phone bill!Don't get me wrong I enjoy a good comedy and probably even more-so a good british comedy but i can't defend or compliment this film in any great deal because it does not serve the purpose of a comedy- it is not funny! Scenes where they make an alternative national anthem and quote some of the music that they hate are simplistic and inadequate at getting laughs from an audience. My advice to anyone who wants to watch this film is to rent it rather than buy it because I am desperatly looking for a prospective buyer as this will be used as a surface to put my remote in future.Overall I had good expectations of this film but after watching it realise none of those expectations were fulfilled a poor script, probably a bunch of the most un-magnetic actors(with the exception of Moff) ever assembled and a dire plot make for a bitter one and a half hours where you'll be constantly checking your timer to see if your anywhere near the end of the film.I would give this film a generous 2 out of 10 which are for Danny Dyer's humourous character Moff and a reasonable soundtrack "},{"Title":"Any film with Bill Hicks AND Howard Marks can't fail..surely?","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  At its end, HUMAN TRAFFIC has hit one note quite charmingly for a breezy ninety minutes, not overstaying its welcome, but never in danger of becoming anything more than a curiosity to its audience.In fact, it begs the question why the opening credits interspersed footage of protests against the draconian Criminal Justice Bill with scenes of revelry. The film cops out at every opportunity to make a serious comment on disillusioned youth, tied to mind-numbing jobs, a drug generation needing an escape. Any film which contains an affectionate tribute to the prophet Bill Hicks (the best, most astute and concerned stand-up comedian that ever lived), and an inspired cameo from Howard Marks surely demands a bit more substance.But HUMAN TRAFFIC never allows you to linger on its flaws. It adopts an entirely disjointed narrative, liable to go off on tangents at any stage, for any interval. You get the suspicion the filmmakers think there is something especially inventive about the surreal treatment (which extends little further than illusion sequences and direct-to-audience addresses). But it hardly matters whether the visual tricks hit-or-miss, they offer a surprising, and refreshing way of extending a slim idea out to a relatively full 90 minutes.Justin Herrigan actually develops the characters to the extent you can't help but care about them. Honest in their weaknesses, they are easy to relate to. He should be applauded for extending the appeal of the film beyond an exclusive target audience. It would be inadvisable to compare it with the much stronger TRAINSPOTTING and TWIN TOWN, although all three are refreshingly different. HUMAN TRAFFIC is an affectionate, semi-autobiographical account of modern culture.   "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" utterly useless... having been there, done that with the subject matter i have to say this captures the clubbing atmosphere in absolutely no respect. It may have done so had the characters not just been mouthpieces for incredibly dire, unrealistic drivel. So many cringe-worthy scenes that would put The Office to shame (not a compliment to this film). It also may have helped to have some semblance of a story, a point, a message, a commentary, anything. Seriously, Kevin & Perry Go Large had more to say on the subject than this film (term used very loosely in this case). There should be minus numbers reserved for films like this. -10 (extra turd) "},{"Title":"An Awful British Movie!!","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I remember watching Human Traffic, and i couldn't finish watching it because it was boring absurd literally the worst film i have ever seen. Besides the fact that this isn't my type of movie it just sucked, it's basically about five British friends who go out for the weekend and get stoned drunk get lay ed what kind of movie is this there is no moral no meaning or nothing. What our modern day movies coming to there not as many classics and this is a perfect example of how stupid these films can be i would never recommend this film to anyone for a Saturday night i may recommend this film to someone to show them how crap this film is WARNING Do not waste your money on this movie do not rent it for a night because you will waste not only your money will waste your night. If your into movies with no particular moral or like sex, drugs, alcohol mixed in with a common British accent fine, otherwise forget about it. "},{"Title":"Awful. Talking heads do not constitute a movie.","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is two hours I will never get back, but at least I had a good fast forwarding button. Many people rave (HA HA HA -- hello?) about this movie, looking up at the screen and exclaiming Yeah! Tell it like it is, right on! HA HA! But I say self-indulgence over a particular subset of culture (pret-a-porte, action - TV series) justifying a no-plot, no-character, no-emotion film just plain sucks -- a bad movie is a bad movie, who cares if it's about dance culture. Go and Trainspotting raving much much much harder than this bunk Strychnine of a film. If you want to hear more pointless raving and ranting from talking heads, watch this film, as I'm out.  "},{"Title":"Human trash","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I'm English, and a student. Let me say now that this film makes me feel terrible for it. I have to pinch myself and  remind myself that im not a abolition of a moron who's only joy in life is to go out take drugs sleep with women, or get caught masturbating. It's so bad. What makes it worse its that people are of the belief that it's a tale of any weekend, nothing major happens? go to hell thats a poor idea for a script in the first place, yet if this is an average weekend in a young Englishmans life then I'm a social retard! Its soooo bad. Typical of our film idustry, we've managed to make House Party Two look like the Godfather Part Two, honestly who ok's these idea's? I'm glad film four has stopped funding films because this stands alone as the worst film I have ever seen! Even the nudity is poor. Blown Away with Corey Haim and Feldman was Citizen Cane compared to this complete waste of time. I think I broke some major face muscels by cringing too much in the space of two hours!!!! It looked dated the day before it's release and I hate to think of my children or grandchildren seeing this rubbish and thinking there father or grandfather lived his young life like these senseless morons!! "},{"Title":"Don't believe the papers","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  To quote the Grauniad The last great film of the ninetiesAs if.As a tale of a group of Cardiff teenagers who are obsessed by the drug and club culture, this actually bored me from start to finish, and took something like 15 attempts to finish seeing it.As far as glorification of drug culture goes, this is as predictable as it gets.Just not very good.  Give it a miss. "},{"Title":"Boring, slow, highly derivative","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A slow moving, ultimately boring look at British club life. The story centers around a young man with the suitably snappy name of Jip, and his group of friends.The dialogue is completely irritating, as the males do little more than yell at each other, even resorting to a variation of the WASSUP!! phone greeting so popular these days. If I hadn't been watching with two other people, this would have been the few films I've actually shut off 20 minutes into it.Again, as is the case with many modern films, the story jumps erratically. This one leaps between the jealousy of Jip's friend towards his own girlfriends imagined flirtations, the spirit of the party, a boring and underdeveloped love story between Jip and one of his female friends, and... not much else. The characters are annoying, the story is boring, and the worst part is the director's obvious attempt to make a movie like Trainspotting and Groove, both excellent films. This one, however, falls flat and stays comatose on the floor. Ugh indeed. "},{"Title":"Garbage.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This was one of the most pretentious and overdone films I have ever seen. It consists of the boring misadventures of five British friends who like to party, rave, hang out and above all else, act like Americans. More annoying than the complete lack of plot is the fact that the story progresses through endless narration by the main character whose complains about his job friends and family. SNORE. "}{"Title":"Complete crap","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Yep, I couldn't find anything witty to say about this piece of junk, other than its crap.Leaving aside the drugs issue, this film has nothing remotely resembling a story, there are no meaningful scenes anywhere, nothing resembling interesting dialogue, no characters of any substance, nothing. Just bland, boring people, getting s***-faced.It's also completely unfunny. A couple of scenes raise a smile, but that's it. Otherwise, it's just one tedious scene, followed by an even more tedious narration, repeated endlessly throughout the movie.Yes, people talk s***e and drivel when they are hammered. I've done it myself. And it's really, really, interesting........when you're hammered. But as anyone who's ever been a designated driver knows, being around drunk people when you're sober is extremely tedious, hard work. And that's what this film fails to recognise. The audience will most likely be sober when they see it. Therefore, its just mindless and boring.Also, for a film about supposed average people, what the Hell was the scene with the cocaine-dealing club owner about? Like a normal person would risk their life just to get into a club by bluffing a drug-dealer? Give me a break.S***e, just plain and simple. Not funny, not clever, just cack. Don't even bother watching it if you're drunk, unless you want something to put you to sleep, as it would still be cack.If you want to see a bunch of people getting wasted just go out with your mates, don't bother with this rubbish. "},{"Title":"The milky bars are on me........","Date":"19 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Five best friends deal with their relationships and their personal demons during a nineties weekend. Jip calls himself a sexual paranoid, afraid he's impotent. Lulu, Jip's mate, doesn't find much to fancy in men. Nina hates her job at a fast food joint, and her man, Koop, who dreams of being a great hip-hop d.j., is prone to fits of un-provoked jealousy. The fifth is Moff, whose family is down on his behaviour. Starting Friday afternoon, with preparations for clubbing, we follow the five from Ecstacy- induced fun through a booze-laden come-down early Saturday morning followed by the weekend's aftermath........I love this movie, I was twenty two when the film was released, big into house music, and clubs, and I was the target demographic for this movie, and out of the thousands of films I have seen in my life,Mathis is one of those rare films that I an bias about, and everything in this film is perfect.Because I'm bias with this film, its not in my top 25 of all time, because that's unfair,mi love this film for its nostalgic value, every time I watch it, it takes me back to my halcyon days, before I had yet to worry about the struggles of life, but at the same time thinking about my future.The characters my be a little two dimensional, but you can relate to them, because they have so little to worry about, they have major issues over nothing.But subliminally, the film does hint to you the dangers of drugs and alcohol. Yes, the music is great, yes, being under the influence can make you feel more confident, but look at the problems of the five characters. Impotency, Paranoia, Unemployment, Trusting issues, and of course, laziness.All of the characters problems contra-indications to 'having it large', so while the film appears to be glamourising the use of intoxicating substances, it's still warning the viewers against the dangers.The film is never boring,with some wonderful cameos from the land of clubs and drugs, and it just feels like you are there, because at one time, you have been.Essential viewing if you were a clubber in the nineties..... "},{"Title":"enjoyably true film (to some)","Date":"6 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Seen this film many times now and always makes me want to get my gear on and turn the amp up and get myself out to a club with my mates. It seems to be s common understanding with most reviews I have read here that this film is something that has a periodic and contextual feel to it. and if you are not within this small window of opportunity you don't seem to understand it. The period was the 90's rave scene, but too many people get transfixed by the drug taking the rave music, and the lack of plot and substance to the characters. Get real peeps, it is what it is, it shows five people with everyday problems, tedious jobs like most of western society letting loose and going out and letting loose allowing there mind and body to expel all the boring mundane rubbish that has built up over the week, (you know what I'm talking about, some people drink, smoke, eat, read, have sex, etc, etc) Yes it is what it is and I loved it because I lived it. all those that didn't oh well, you're loss, and you can tell who did and who didn't due to your low ratings, its a shame that you are gonna spend life so opinionated about these type of film and you're gonna die a stiff. Sit back roll a joint, take a pill and see where it takes you, you never know you may enjoy it. as your chosen drug of realty seems to be a little tedious and boring. "},{"Title":"A love letter to the nineties club scene","Date":"12 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" It is Cardiff in the late nineties; five friends head out for a weekend of drugs, alcohol, sex and clubbing. Through the Ecstacy-induced high to the alcohol-assisted comedown to the feelings of the morning after, their lives are on the brink of changing forever When 'Human Traffic' was released, many critics claimed that this was the last great British film of the nineties &#x96; and how right they were. This film is so inherently a nineties movie, it's like opening a time capsule. To be young was to be a clubber; to be living for the weekend, when mixing alcohol with drugs was a given. Writer-director Justin Kerrigan captures that oxymoronic feeling of immortality and insecurity beautifully, through five characters that complement each other so well.Obviously, the success of the characters hinges entirely on the success of the actors, and what 'Human Traffic' also gives you is a snapshot into what would (and could) become the future of British cinema. Top of the pile is John Simm, who went on to achieve well-deserved acclaim for Life On Mars. This is arguably his breakthrough performance, and he's a joy to watch.But, in my honest opinion, the plaudits need to go to Danny Dyer. For those with a decent knowledge of Dyer will know that he is mostly known now for playing really rubbish characters in really rubbish films. But in 'Human Traffic', he is brilliant. The character of Moff isn't the nicest &#x96; he is hooked on drugs, isn't overly intelligent, and is desperate for friends &#x96; but Dyer imbues that unlikeable character with a childlike innocence which you warm to. It's by far the best performance I've ever seen from him, and makes me realise why he managed to keep a career going. The rest of the cast is made up of actors who have since faded into the distance; which, to be honest, isn't surprising as the performance levels don't match up to Simm and Dyer. While everyone has moments of good work, it is never quite as consistent. I feel like there were better young actors at the time who could have done a better job.You could argue that the film is a bit dated, and it's not a bad argument to make. Obviously, the youth of the nineties is a lot different from the youth of today. But for those who were part of the nineties generation, 'Human Traffic' provides the same feeling of nostalgia that 'Trainspotting'. Both are films stuck in time, but not in a way that hurts them. 'Human Traffic' is a love letter to the nineties, and well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"A lot of tedious talking to the camera - about nothing","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Imagine a high-school film project where someone films a bunch of friends going about their lives clubbin', dating, working at their part-time jobs, clubbin', hanging out, doing drugs, talking about going clubbin', talking about feelings and shi', clubbin ...No need for a script/ plot/ story because your friends are so interesting that everything they do and say is just, uh, interesting; nobody will get lost because the characters talk to the camera - and think out loud for the camera; you know what's happening because everyone yells and jumps around.Boring, below amateurish. A complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Moments of quality","Date":"30 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Patchy but had its moments of quality without a doubt. Very good, released and quite brave performance from the lead John Simms who was well cast in this role of a somewhat unlikely kind of romantic hero managing in the end to overcome his sexual worries. The scene he has with Koop towards the latter part of the film is especially good as they stare, drug-addled and fascinated looking down at a table. The film did have its cringe-worthy moments (perhaps the Alternative National Anthem being one) but it's saved by other moments of clever insight into Human interaction such as the scene where Jip has to talk to a guy who he admits isn't actually an unpleasant person but he just doesn't like him and the dialogue, direction and performances perfectly convey the thoughts that have run through everyone's head at some stage in life when we are desperate to extricate ourselves from a strained conversation which we wish we hadn't had to enter into in the first place. Justin Kerrigan pops up again (as is his way) in the role of Ziggy Marlon and gives one of the best cameo performances in the whole film. "},{"Title":"Manipulative and Cheesy","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Though labeled as 'the last great film of the nineties', I'd instead call this 'film' (loosely using that term) a last ditch, manipulative attempt at sneaking some slopped together, self-indulgent tripe before the turn of the century to cash in on a fading trend (in the pop culture sense - I know clubbing has had its' ups and downs, but from a marketable perspective, this was a 'hot' time to strike.) I listen to a wide range of music, and have gone clubbing in both the US and UK over the stretch of the 90's, so this topic isn't entirely Greek to me. And I have no problem with a movie that wishes to explore the highs and lows of said culture - many have complained about the 'lack of plot' of this movie. That is not what bothered me. Instead, I found this to be highly derivative and manipulative. The constant voice overs did not serve the same function they did in, say, Trainspotting (though that film had a plot, as well as something to say.) They instead seemed to be another tactic to wrangle the viewer in and create a false bond. A cheap ploy. Like, when Moff goes on about what a great time he's having being off his pickle, and then, eyes at the viewers' vantage point, stutters ya', ya' know what I mean? Cushty! I know you wouldn't let me down! I knew it! (paraphrase.) This seems to be there to create a sort of 'secret club' bond between the viewer and characters in the film. It happens several times again, but that's one of the more blatant examples I can think of.Another thing that bothered me about this movie was that it used other manipulative tactics, just under different guises, so as to not alienate any of the potential viewers. Like when they're in the pub, 'bonding' over music they hate. Well, they groups they name drop are so mind-numbingly obvious in their 'badness' or 'cheesiness' that there's no way it could offend someone even lightly into the club scene. They list stuff like Backstreet Boys and Hanson. I think Hanson was already pretty much dead and gone by '99. There are about 10 other groups listed, but it's the same monster. If these were kids that were hardcore into club music/DJ culture, they'd instead list DJs they thought were whack. But it seems they refrain from doing this to keep it safe and inclusive b/c God forbid they name drop a DJ they dislike and it alienates a viewer. Don't even get me started on the redo of the National Anthem!! ...It's hard being cool! Pretty gusty of you all to say, as I don't consider any of you cool. Maybe a bit more modesty and instead ...It's hard TRYING to be cool... Another sloppy mistake,in what could have been an amusing scene, was where the jaded older club-goers ranted about how things have changed and it just isn't the same now as it was back in their heyday. What they mix up is during the 'Summer of Love flashback, by listing the date as 1991. Anyone who has a rudimentary understanding of rave culture knows the Summer of Love was '89. But that's I guess just a triviality to Kerrigan (writer/director).There are MANY more faults I have with this film, like, for example, who working retail like about half of the cast gets full weekends off? If you're lucky, you get one of the two days off. If you want Sat/Sun off, you often have to ask special permission, usually to much chagrin from your boss. Also, for such 'seasoned' club regulars, isn't Friday a bit of a 'tourist's' night to go out? What about Tuesday, etc...? One more thing...They make fun of other groups they fit into mock-able 'tribes' (such as the 'students' back from Amsterdam potheads - who I know are annoying, but are they really more annoying than the five leads? - or the hip hop junkies you can more or less talk nonsense to in order to jack up the price of an LP.) I just found that another manipulative tactic. Another 'you're one of us, you're in the cool crowd'.I think Kerrigan got lucky to an extent by bagging a few decent actors who clearly tried hard and gave high energy performances. For me, the funniest character featured was Danny Dyer/Moff. He had the only parts that really made me laugh, such as the Taxi Driver scene, phone sex story, and ill-fated mirror debacle. He was the most believable and the most entertaining. Though I will deduct points for the Star Wars party rant. Can we just stop it with those, even back in '99, they were played out! Kevin Smith has long had the monopoly on these, and they felt fresh when he did them. And seeing a Clerks poster in Jip's room made me somewhat suspicious. Also, the joke at the end about kids in the future having to smoke Moff's ashes b/c he's done all the drugs was ripped off almost VERBATIM from a Dennis Leary joke about Keith Richards off of his 'No Cure for Cancer' comedy album. I'm not overly familiar with Bill Hicks, but many accuse Leary of ripping HIM off, so it's pretty bad when you can trace some of the jokes so easily.I just don't get the accolades this movie has amassed, particularly over the last decade,making it some sort of cult classic. Was I entertained?Mildly. Did I find it realistic? Perhaps if they hadn't tried so freaking hard. But it was a bit of a hot mess. I'm not trying to rag on anyone who relates or likes it, I just feel this film was a cheap attempt to cash in on the end of the century so-called 'electronica'(hate that word)craze. I guess it succeeded.But in my opinion, it leaves MUCH to be desired... "},{"Title":"Best Movie to watch before you go out to party with friends","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I'm giving this a 10 because I seriously love this movie. I've seen far better, more profound plots, better acting etc. - but then again, I forgot about most of them. Yet Human Traffic is one of those movies that stuck with me. The movie is just pure fun and a look at what life is like for a rather sizable amount of young adults struggling with how to deal with a life dictated by a shitty job, which is, let's face it, the harsh reality for most people on the planet. The Answer is simple go out on the weekends, go nuts, party and forget for the moment. Drugs play a prominent role in this one as well of course, but I wonder why people that didn't like the film get all cranky about it. It wasn't the main plot point unlike in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, which is hailed as a cult classic. Last time I came around to watch it I saw it completely sober (not even a sip of beer) together with a friend and I thoroughly enjoyed it and was somewhat envious of the fun the actors were successfully conveying. So no worries, you need not be high or drunk to enjoy this movie, as some suggest in the discussions. And afterwords I wanted to go out and dance and party so badly. It had a really energizing effect on me. Yet sadly, it was a Sunday...All in all, it's one of those movie's that people easily put down, cause it doesn't seem like much. But perhaps you're like me and it sticks with you, in a good way. It's worth a try. Oh and if you get the chance to watch this on a Friday, sitting together with friends before you got out, getting drunk, so you don't need to pay so much in the club(s), PLEASE DO. It'll most DEFINITELY get you in the right mood ;) "},{"Title":"So so","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Well, since I'm a beginner raver and read some good commentaries about this film, I decided to give it a try. Human Traffic is a movie with a simple story friends who like to party, have sex and use drugs. Some people told me it's movie is focused on drug using, but actually there are only a few scenes involving this. Filmmakers try to show what it's like to do what these five friends do, which delivers some funny moments that sometimes the spectator can relate. Other fun situation is the guy who is afraid to have to whitewash the reason he can't get an erection-- which is one of the most uncomfortably moments in a man's life. It is comforting to see in the end he has one of the best sex in his life, because only we men can understand the big problem he was dealing with hahaha. In the end, this isn't a refreshing movie with strong subject or anything, but maybe a n entertaining teen movie. "},{"Title":"A funny, surreal film","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Made with a budget of 340,000, Human Traffic has become a cult classic since its release. An interest and very surreal piece of film making set in the capital of Wales.Human Traffic focuses on a group of five friends, Jip (John Simm), Lulu (Lorraine Pilkington), Koop (Shaun Parkers), Nina (Nicola Reynolds) and Moff (Danny Dyer), a combination of wage slaves, unemployed people and a student. All of them suffer from person troubles, Jip's mum is a prostitute, Koop's dad is in a psychiatric ward, Moff is in content conflict with his dad and Lulu has relationship problems. The gang to blow off some stream by having one wild weekend of clubbing to dance and techno music, drinking and consuming drugs, particularly ecstasy as Jip and Lulu discover their feeling for each other.Human Traffic is a very surreal film, with a big of number of fantasy sequences. These scenes felt very much like a dark version of Scrubs, from Jip having an argument with an imaginary punter in his car, talking to someone thinking about taking drugs for the first time in a classroom and it was all pretty funny. Jip also broke the fourth wall, which reminded me of Saved by the Bell, weird.Director Justin Kerrigan knows where to place to place the camera and he does make a stylist film. But there is not much of a plot, it is simply about a night out. The atmosphere in the club did fill real and people ho enjoy techno music will like the soundtrack. I also enjoyed the nonsense that druggies speak in this film.John Simm is a talented actor and he was easily the best actor in the film. He is really does inhabit his role. The other actors were fine, even Danny Dyer haters can not complain about him here. But there is not too much to write home about either. "}{"Title":"An extremely accurate account of how the average 20 y.o. views the world.","Date":"10 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" You know when someone breathlessly tells you a story that is long winded and takes various diversions along the way, before they realize you don't give a toss and want them to simply stop? (No? Then I guess you've never met me because all my friends have.) Once that happens what does the storyteller always say? I guess you had to be there! That's Human Traffic in a nutshell, if you weren't there in some capacity then it is just about a bunch of young d*ckheads running around talking sh*t and taking drugs, but if you are the low side of 40 then perhaps at one time it is quite likely that YOU were one of the young d*ckheads running around and talking sh*t, drugs and/or alcohol may or may not have been a factor too.My clubbing era was reasonably brief, maybe 19 through 24ish, but during that span I had 15 nights that at least vaguely resembled the night the 5 main characters have in Human Traffic, without much of the snappy dialogue and cutscenes though.The five characters should be irrelevant and largely interchangeable, but in this film the casting is great and they all have sufficient time that we learn about who they are and what makes them tick.They are Jip &#x96; the Everydude. A low-ranking office employee who hates the workaday life and lives for the weekend. Oh, and he has a mum who is a hooker.Koop &#x96; Jip's best mate. A super-cool record shop employee in the way that you can only be in your late teens or early 20s. (Record shop employees in their 40s are simply sad or creepy.) Nina &#x96; Koop's missus. A fast-food chain employee who is chatty and friendly.Lulu &#x96; The dizzy blonde love interest. I tried to think of more ways to describe her but came out dry, the only underdone character in the film.Moff &#x96; That guy who is a little too intense and you worry about one day he'll just snap, but is fun to have around the periphery. (It also helps that he is a small time pusher and they are all small time users.) The film is very British, there are no concessions to slang and accents. Everyone talks varying degrees of rubbish and often they talk aforementioned rubbish direct to camera. Embedded in between almost every major scene are several pseudo-skits that shouldn't work, featuring the main characters and their interactions with various other citizens, posers, authority figures and relatives. I say shouldn't work but they all seem to, in fact the only one that gets me leaning towards the FF button on the remote is one where they re-make the British anthem, everything else adds to the film.So once we've met the whipper-snappers we get to follow them from the drudgery of a Friday spent at work, all the way through the best parts of the weekend as a single, carefree teen, (sob).1/ Pre night warm-up. Psyching each other up, convincing everyone to show up and getting the pre-night alcohol buzz.2/ The round trip to pick everyone up. (This is where the film lies a bit, assuming someone actually volunteers to remain sober and be skipper their night is already ruined. Here the skipper is always Jip, who never seems short of a beer or some pills.) 3/ The pre-gig drinks at the local.4/ The gig. (In this case they must cadge their way in as they are short of tix.) 5/ The initial slowdown&#x85; followed by the second wind! 6/ The post gig early am house party. Gibberish conversations, paranoia and arguments.7/ The next morning never again personal promise.8/ The next evening debrief at the pub. (Which if all goes well used to lead to the Saturday evening starting back at 1/.Amazingly enough the film always seemed to capture the best bits and worst bits of every stage of the day, even in a 90 odd minute film. Perhaps it is because as I was watching the movie I was in fact recalling similar events from the period that I was doing the same stupid sh*t that these guys were, I dunno.In any case Human Traffic is the rarest of rare, a concept movie that takes a lot of risks yet actually works.It was written and directed by a young bloke too, because I don't think a 40 year old would be able to make this film and accurately convey the vibe that comes across.I know I couldn't, (I'm still a little ways away from 40). I've inevitably moved beyond the work is slavery, the Man is out to get you and Bill Hicks is a genius era. Now I think work is unfortunately necessary (but granted it feels like slavery), the Man is not out to get us, (but he ain't there to help us neither), and Bill Hicks was incredibly over-rated and spouts a lot of sh*t that druggies and idiots grab onto to justify their own decisions and inadequacies.Phew, what else is there? A cracking soundtrack (even a decade plus on), real actors without the US standard 10/10 hunks and goddesses with massive fakies, and a very convincing, yet quite nave; message that damn it drugs are f*cking great! Final Rating &#x96; 8 / 10. The DVD cover sums it up nicely The weekend has landed&#x85; all that's left are clubs, drugs, pubs and parties. Meet Human Traffic. "},{"Title":"It could have been so much better.....","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The Best Movie of the 90's The Welsh Trainspotting....Aye, right! I went into this movie with pretty high expectations, and it was all downhill from there.This movie was supposed to be this archetypal movie on the drug culture of the early 90's, and was going to allow us all to see inside this scene, and shatter the media's preconceptions following the moral panic which followed the death of Leah Betts in 1995. Unfortunately it has fallen a long way short. Where Trainspotting was able to treat you like an adult on the subject, and potential problems that surround drugs, this just provided us with some schmaltzy tale of the wonder of drugs, and how it can like, you know, like totally open your mind. Cue some guff about Bill Hicks, and Howard Marks ad nausea. It is painfully bad at times. I mean, the scene at the end between Lulu and her Auntie actually made me laugh out loud.Now maybe I am just a cynic, but the way Jip leads us through this tale is like listening to THAT Acid frazzled guy you once met at a house party, who talks to you about how the man is holding us back, and how Acid has released him from the strains of modern society. You just wanna shake some sense into him, and ask him to leave the premises.The script was a real problem for me, because where Trainspotting had Irvine Welsh's excellent book to cite from, this is written and directed by Justin Kerrigan. The words Jack of all trades, master of none come to mind. You can see where his inspiration comes from, particularly in the style of narration from main character Jip (which sets the main character in a social situation where he speaks directly to the camera, and outlines what is going through his mind as the scenario plays out) The problem with this is that some of the speeches to camera are just painful to watch. Mainly this comes down to a lack of empathy for Jip, but they are so desperate to sound philosophical that they just end up sounding like your average A-Level drama project. The direction is fine, and the intentions are good, but it is so lacking in any integrity that you start to wonder what the hype is about.Saying that though, it is not all bad. There are moments which are genuinely very amusing, and entertaining. Moff is the highlight of the movie for me. For an independent movie it also managed to attract a high numbers of quality British actors/actresses, which maybe outlines why there was such a buzz about the movie.Best movie of the 90's? Not by a long shot, but if you're looking for a solid Sunday night movie, then this might just be your bag. Inevitably though, the movie is flawed by the hype that surrounds it. "},{"Title":"Human Traffic","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" If I was going mix two film to describe this inventive film, I would probably say, Trainspotting meets Ali G Indahouse. It is about a hip-hop, dance, drugs, alcohol and smoke filled lifestyle, all with a group of five friends. These friends Jip (Life on Mars's John Simm), Lulu (Lorraine Pilkington), Koop (The Mummy Returns' Shaun Parkes), Moff (Severance's Danny Dyer) and Nina (Nicola Reynolds) spend a lost weekend clubbing, loving and mixing (with as well) music. It mixes with Trainspotting with a group of friends and involving drugs, and it is like Ali G Indahouse with the hip-hop lifestyle and talking, thinking and acting cool, and possibly Jamaican. Also starring Dean Davies as Lee, Justin Kerrigan as Ziggy Marlon, Jo Brand as Mrs. Reality and Love Actually's Andrew Lincoln as Felix. There is some fantastic use of surrealism about what characters are thinking and want, great camera-work, and of course, fantastic dance and hip-hop music. It was nominated the BAFTA for the Carl Foreman Award for the Most Promising Newcomer for director Justin Kerrigan, and it won the Wales BAFTAs for the Cymru Award Best Camera - Drama, Best Director and Best Drama. Good! "},{"Title":"Not for the old folks!","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film has a brilliant soundtrack and superb acting from some pretty unknown faces. I especially like the welsh docklands bad boy characters in it who strut around like American rappers acting tough. The banter between Jip and Koop is brilliant they come across as being best mates almost as if it were true in real life. I have experienced some of the things in this film and let me tell you first hand these folks ain't acting (especially the seen with Jip and Koop talking and snorting coke). Danny Dyer is priceless as Moff the 'party prescription' dealer and has the funniest lines in the film...I'm happiest when i'm off my pickle feeling the music, you get me.... yeaahhh! I knew you wouldn't let me down, I knew it!!! "},{"Title":"Needed more substance (pun intended).","Date":"30 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Described as the Welsh answer 'Trainspotting', this film could little more than disappointing.Recreational drug use is a rich topic to base a film on, but it cries out for a narrative... some consequence...It either should have been given a plot (this film is little more than a series of loosely connected events), or made as a doco. 'Human Traffic' seems to have a point to prove, but it fails. Its political standpoint is lost amongst the alienatingly hip language.This is not to say it wasn't entertaining, it just needed more substance (pun intended).  "},{"Title":"Enemas with acid are more fun","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie started off good. Not entirely what I expected but dramatically dropped off the 'entertaining' scale just under half way through the movie. It's one of those movies when you get to the end and stop smiling and think to yourself, what the hell was that all about?. Do yourself a favour, go visit your Grandma. "},{"Title":"Beyond excerable","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  'Human Traffic', as with the unfunny ode to repressed homosexuality 'Lock, Stock & Two Smoking Barrels', was critically lauded. So, in the presence of time I watched both- and found nothing but the Polygram-'Trainspotting' approach. That is, when Quentin Tarantino has made it big with 'Pulp Fiction' & 'Reservoir Dogs', mimic it with a safe imitation and similar marketing the soundtrack albums, the post-modern intertextual reference to previous film-makers. Except Tarantino has seen lots of films- so we get refs to 'Band a Part', 'Slam Dance' etc. 'Trainspotting' made ref to 'Pulp Fiction' and Scorsese's 'Goodfellas' (despite the freeze-frame thing coming from 'Jules et Jim'). 'Lock, Stock' was just packed full of Scorsese imitations- any semblance of originality extracted. 'Human Traffic' is more of this empty, demograph marketed emptiness- which makes lazy references to 'Star Wars'...The acting is probably not that bad- it is hard to act with an abysmal script that ponders such depths as maintaining an erection and sitting round in a pub talking about nothing (for no particlular reason). This is generation zero...The soundtrack is mediocre drivel- out of date as the film came out and why do we get reference to the 'jilted generation' rioting against the Government restrictions forced onto them? I s'pose the director saw 'La Haine'- how these people from the early 90's rave scene (I was there)- who has open minds and were into eclectism relate to the steretotypes offered up as characters in the film is perplexing...John Simm's character has the embarrassing sub-plot involving his prostitute-mother (it is quite funny...) and we have stupid fantasy-scenes where he is in the car with one of his mothers suitors. Terrible- look to 'Last Exit to Brooklyn' or 'Requiem for a Dream' for how this should be done; or even 'Belle du Jour'...The gang of empty heteros spend a typical weekender night in Cardiff- but it could be any British city. They're all the same, apart from the accents overpriced lager that tastes like piss, bouncers who believe they have significance, girls & the boys all dressed the same who speak the same lines and have the same ambition of shagging etc. So, they sit around in a pub thinking they are very smart-arse,a bloke from 'This Life' pops up and we have a sub-Annie Hall comment on how we behave etc- to fill up time on-screen. Then, after drinking corporate bottled lager etc. they go clubbing, neck 'e's and we have the inevitable uniform camerawork & editing. Then the come down and the tedious love-story/shagging scene (which is very 'Trainspotting'). Then, oh, it's Sunday morning and back to normality- where I come from Monday morning is back to reality!...So, an excerable example of so-called British cinema- the director with the follow-up 'SW9' (marketed as 'Pulp Fiction' meets 'Trainspotting' on posters!) proves he has an absence of ideas (as does Guy Ritchie- making two mediocre Cockney-wanka flicks back to back!). This is neither a comment on the music scene of the UK- '24 Hour Party People' is more likely to succeed- taking us to the Hacienda, 'Voodoo Ray' etc- where it progressed from the mid/late 80's to the hardcore/jungle meltdown of the mid 90's (when everyone began to listen to so-called real music again- Oasis, Blur etc. Porridge rock). This film just shows ciphers when clubbing is about as revolutionary and interesting as going down the disco in the late 70's/early 80's...Read 'Energy Flash' and watch Flowered Up's 'Weekender' to get a glimpse at the world 'Human Traffic' completely fails to capture.  "},{"Title":"Not cool","Date":"21 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I just saw Human Traffic last night and I gotta say it sucks It tries so hard to be hip and cool it's pathetic.anyway go see Trainspotting or Go instead  "},{"Title":"Clubbers meet your love","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  My friend was telling me about this film saying its similar to GO. Now not being a real clubby myself I must say this wasnt my taste, although some things were very educational. Like all the drugs that are used in the film itself.Great Party scenes in both the nightclub and house party. But sorry it didnt grab me as a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"What is this crap!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I just saw Human Traffic and it was one of the worst movies i have seen that revolved around clubs and the party scene.  Come on this movie deals with insecurities of the British youth. Which to me was the whole down fall of the movie.  This movie can't compare to movies like Groove and Go.  Hey lets just say Americans aren't insecure about going to parties, but i guess the Brits are.  And bye the way Americans know how to party and that Happy house stuff that came from from the UK can stay in the UK. thats all i have to say!!) "}{"Title":"Sickly film","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I am loathed to comment on how incredibly toilet this film is. But I feel that it is my duty to do so. Basically, it's a film about a group of Welsh kids who think that they are hip just because they go out clubbin' every weekend and drop Es and this film is about one weekend they go out clubbin' and drop Es. And that is it.Pathetic drivel.  "},{"Title":"new hedonism for Justin Kerrigan","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Cardiff, Wales. A bunch of 5 mates are deeply bored in this town. There's Jip who works in a clothes shop. Coop, an easy-going DJ. Nina, inseparable from her best friend Lulu and Moff. The week is hell for them and they only wait for one thing the week-end. At this time, they got out to a nightclub and to the sound of tech no music, they experience different drugs, particularly ecstasy. Then, they usually continue the party to a friend's. At the end of this really good time on Sunday, the feelings are the following ones tiredness, melancholy, just the memory of a crazy night...Surfing on the wave of the notorious success of Trainspotting (1996), this debut movie written and directed by Justin Kerrigan brings and develops a new variation about the notion of hedonism. It means how to have fun as much as possible while knowing that you have a shortened lapse of time. Indeed, as I have previously written, for the 5 main characters of the movie, the week is hell and the weekend is the only time they can free themselves and have a wild time without the single pressure (besides, Jip in one sequence talks about the positive aspects of shooting oneself you are numb, you don't feel any pressure, you are like an astronaut in orbit above the earth. Kerrigan's relentless directorial style expresses very well the spirit of debauchery and care freeness of the 5 protagonists. They only live to take advantage as much as possible of an hedonist week-end. Furthermore, to spice up a little more the festive atmosphere in which his movie bathes, Kerrigan isn't afraid to include dreamlike sequences which represent his characters' fantasy or embarrassments. Then, Human Traffic (1999) is also served by a particularly bouncy sound track. The amount? A perfect symbiosis between the sound and the music. At last, this week-end of euphoria enables to shelve momentarily the usual drab image of the popular social classes, British cinema has studied a lot.Notwithstanding, when a movie (conscientiously or not) exploits the fame of another famous one, it rarely matches the brilliance of its predecessor. Human Traffic is in this condition. There's little inventiveness at the level of the narrative structure and the introduction of the characters and one can note down a few useless digressions (Jip who, in the nightclub goes in the manager's office and tells him a cock-and-bull story so as to enable Moff to enter the club but that's no use because the latter succeeds in coming without problems). One can also blame Kerrigan to overlook the dramatic sides that the story could have involved. His movie can also be read as a transition from euphoria to paranoia and the dramatic connotations of this second pole aren't virtually explored. It's a shame! It could have conveyed the following message even in the happiest moments, there can be something terrible preparing which can flop them. The same remark could also be said when Coop has a fit of jealousy because Nina broaches a guy.It may not be the last great film of the nineties as it is billed on the DVD cover but Human Traffic is to be taken as a good and incisive little movie which conveys with the styles and the fashions of the end of the twentieth century, a will to have fun without ulterior motives and trouble. An ideal movie to start any party or before going to a club. "},{"Title":"Insufferably irksome, condescending crap","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Irritating characters beautifully complement inept and patronising directing.  The hip message is shoved down your gagging throat.  There's no redeeming qualities to grace this film.  Perhaps a quick chuckle at Mum catching son masturbating in front of the mirror, but if you want laughs like that, just watch Porkys.  For an added bonus, Porkys will probably be more challenging, and you will be free to make up your own mind about the characters and their values. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"4 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" It takes a lot for a movie to reach the already numb particles of my brain which have not already been tapped out due to the overcharge and redoredoredocopycopycopy world of movies. But this movie has made it onto my 'Magic Movies' list. To become a 'magic movie', it must leave every string of my being quivering in that which I can only define as 'bliss' and 'complete satisfaction'. This movie has tapped into the fibers of how my mind thinks and if not for the deeply personal bond my head and the head of whoever made this shares, it would look like another 'dead rave scene' movie from back when the 90's exploded with its Ecstasy craze. This is not how the movie came off to me at all. It's reached into me and pulled up something that I thought was dead for a very long time and pushed me as far as to give it a critique of my own. I forgot how long it's been since I've seen something that left me feeling this good inside. I strongly suggest seeing this movie. "},{"Title":"Pointless and idiotic.","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I just had to come here and comment on this movie after enduring it for the first time this week.Quite how Human Traffic was ever green-lit is beyond me. I usually don't mind films with no real plot because normally they're littered with amusing dialogue. This seems to be a film you need to be drunk, stoned or at least a regular binge-drinker/drug-user to enjoy. It's so true is all I heard from fans of the film concerning the actions of the characters. Yes, if you're a moron who requires drink and drugs to enjoy yourself and is unable to function on a night out without them. But what exactly is funny about seeing people talk rubbish for the duration of the feature? It's like every lame one-dimensional comic loser druggie character in unimaginative films were bundled together and thrown onto a film set to create as much humourless mayhem as possible.I found myself getting angry that none of the characters suffered any consequences for their hedonistic and sad lifestyles. It's almost like an advertisement for their behaviour - at least 'Trainspotting' had a point to make. These are the exact types of people I've spent my entire adult life trying to avoid "},{"Title":"Instant classic","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" You wouldn't expect a film about a night in the life of a group of druggie 20 year olds to be so simply amazing. 'Human Traffic' is one of those rare films that manages to create the perfect balance of humour, sensitivity and entertainment. At not one point did I find myself not enjoying this movie and its contrast of realism and random moments such as Moff's conversation with reality which still managed to maintain a certain relatability despite its absurdity. 'Human Traffic' is undeniably a film that most would enjoy, touching, humorous and an instant classic that I would very much recommend for most generations, especially those who can relate to the situations presented. "},{"Title":"I absolutely loved this film!!! Keep up the great work!","Date":"21 June 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time a couple of years ago. I have seen it five times since and i enjoy it more every time ) I think it accurately reflects the climate of the techno culture, even so many years dating from the production. The characters are very realistic.. in fact, i can say, that i know similar people in real life. They are ordinary young people, who are just finding their way around in life. Like many young people, they cope with very down-to-earth problems -like how to earn money and find time to have fun. Experience the wild side of being young.. this picture may not please all viewers because people lead such different lifestyles and not everyone can relate. I can ) "},{"Title":"They are Human.","Date":"21 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Human Traffic is set in Cardiff, Wales, UK and tells the story of British drug and club culture during the nineties. The film follows five friends in their twenties and we observe the characters' lifestyle over a weekend period. All of the characters live tedious lives during the week and use the weekend as an opportunity to escape their misery. The group of friends includes Jip (John Simm) who is sexually paranoid. Koop (Shaun Parkes) is suspicious of his girlfriend cheating on him. Lulu (Lorraine Pilkington) is fed up with men following a number of bad relationships. Nina (Nicola Reynolds) is eager to introduce her seventeen year old brother to drugs and Moff (Danny Dyer) is unemployed and dependant on his parents. The characters were well introduced in the opening scenes and as the plot unfolded the story developed their individual traits. All five are very authentic and true to life. Their weekend is not complete without drugs, clubs and parties. I can guarantee you will either know or have met people similar to them, and the five of them have a lot in common which brings them together. The film was written and directed by Justin Kerrigan who is from Cardiff. I can only imagine that the film tells the story of past experience he has gone through. I was very shocked when I discovered this was his first feature length film and even more surprised that he's not done much since. Jip (Simm) is the lead character in this film and he delivers an excellent performance. He has an equal amount of both dialogue and narration. I often feel narration in films is only used because the writer had struggled to put it into dialogue. However, I didn't feel it with this, as the narration from Jipps character felt very real. He constantly had thoughts on his mind and narration worked much better to portray this than the dialogue would have.Human Traffic has a lot of energy in it and has a level of madness which makes the genre a light hearted comedy. I had no idea what direction the film was going in as there were various sub-plots and comedy skits from all five of the characters, which I was very entertained by. The language in the dialogue is very realistic and the actors do a fantastic job as well. My only one complaint is that only one of the main characters actually seemed to be Welsh. The rest of the cast without involving the extras appeared to sound very English. I suppose this is better than them attempting a poor Welsh accent, and maybe they deliberately used English actors to make English people relate to. Alternatively, they probably couldn't find any Welsh actors that suited the role. This isn't something I'd recommend to everyone as it doesn't have a wide target audience. I would suggest young people who experienced the club culture especially in the 90s in Britain would be particularly attracted to this film. However, I was very entertained by it and I could relate to the characters very well. Human Traffic is however a post-modern film and what I enjoyed the most was the authenticity and hilarity. "},{"Title":"Every REAL partyanimal will love it!","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" If you been there and done that you will absolutely love this film. I have and by there I mean underground clubs and house parties where there is far more rare to find people just being drunk than it is to find people high to their ears on extacy, speed or LSD. By that I mean dancing and sweating like crazy for eight hours or so in a row with out even a brake and , that followed by a way to long morning of no-can-sleep and almost wanting to die, followed by a week of just waiting till the next weekend to do it all again.So even though this film now is one of my absolute favourites I can certainly understand why some people, or most people even, would dislike it. "},{"Title":"Ahhh the good old days!","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I remember a time when the only thing that did exist where clubs, drugs pubs and parties. This movie came out a couple of years after i started going clubbing. If i had never discovered the ravier side of things this movie may not have made sense to me. That night when i watched it for the 1st time, with some mates, i was completely blown away. I had never watched a movie that hit so close to the reality of where i was in my life at that time. Almost everything i could relate to in some way. There was never 1 character i could fully relate to but more a combination of all of them in one way or another. My mates where no different and i remember us all saying that they where us or we where them. We had all been out that weekend together doing exactly what the crew do in HT. We where coming down while we watched and when the movie came down i remember actually coming down a bit further. it was actually quite depressing in our room during those low points. Thats what's so good about Human Traffic. it really taps the whole situation.its a unique movie in the way its not plot driven, but then its not completely character driven although the characters are important. it always seemed to be based on the situations. Situations as a group and as individuals. Each character is lost in life, for their own reasons. yet each of them responds to the lostness in the same way. work any job to make money to pay for the weekend and escape it all. for them its their holiday. But the reality is you cant truly escape. Another situation they all have to face.Me and my mates where no different from these guys. We all had our own stuff going on. Human traffic helped explain to us what we didn't understand about our selves. It does it in a way that doesn't talk down to you. It made us feel like we weren't the only ones out there like us and that the lessons learned where ones many others, from all over the world, had gone thru. it wasn't until my lifestyle changed from party popper to career driven that i would fully understand this movie. these days i watch HT, every now and then(as i just have), and reminisce the old days. No other movie can do this. I was peter popper, i was jip travolta, i went to never never land with my chosen family. i'd have $200 in my back burner and i wax the lot! No worries! "}{"Title":"Relations, drugs + good music.","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Entertaining drug filled feel good film with a taste of a quite innocent scenery.First off i felt like this could be sort of a cheesy flick due to the content. Drugs, parties, teens/semi-adults, relations. Hmm, didn't appeared as a really original plot. But that doesn't matter because of the actors. It's a great mix of different personalities and their friendship is portrayed in a very natural way.Not to be forgotten the well produced soundtrack that accompanies the good efforts of the actors and adds an extra star to my review.This flick is a typical Sunday-night-flick. When the anxiety is at it's peak this flick can be your Saviour...Enjoy ) "},{"Title":"An extremely accurate depiction of club culture","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I was told, and I believe it to be true, that in order to fully appreciate this film you must be well acquainted with UK rave culture (i.e a user of club drugs), but even if you aren't you will enjoy it. But this is the only explanation in can think of for any poor reviews this film has received on this site. Minor criticisms are that the acting is a bit poor at certain points, and the opening lines feel slightly amateur. However, as the film develops, you realise these niggles are completely outweighed by what amounts to one of the best British films ever made. Pete tong's soundtrack is mesmerizing, the photography is unequalled, but best of all every aspect of a rave culture is there, from the reality of dealing to the sensations of ecstasy and the end of night 'spliff politics'. Ravers of all tribes will choke with recognition at the succinct portrayal of life in the movement. If you have ever been associated with raves, you need to see this film. It bursts with clever quips, humour and teeth grinding energy set to all sorts of beats and breaks. Incredible. "},{"Title":"A genuine twist on contemporary film-making.","Date":"26 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I'll keep this review short and sweet.Human Traffic is mostly about drugs and their takers, and how these drugs will affect perception from coming-up to going-down, based on a large group of friends. Although this isn't a particularly original premise, it is handled in such a way that gives it a spin and makes it memorable. Along the way in takes in the traditional values of love and friendship and also offers some perspective on how those relate to drug use.The cast of mostly unknown actors do an outstanding job here. Although there are moments in the film where it seems as if the actors are on the verge of stepping out of character and the fairly low budget of the movie about to rear it's head, this never happens. They breathe soul into the script and have fun with some of the more surreal elements of the movie.Although the story is mostly linear, and spends quite a bit of time discussing the history of the lead characters, it is kept very entertaining and often hilarious by the unexpected moments of surrealism and time dilation demonstrated here, which can often be achieved by the use and abuse of mind-bending drugs. The 'new British anthem' was both touching and amusing simultaneously. Some of these little interludes are a mere few seconds long which makes them high on shock value, a technique I quite liked. The camera work often does give you an insight into what the effects of the drugs are like, often claustrophobic or wide-angled at all the right moments.But like all outstanding works and the very drugs the movie describes, description doesn't prepare you for the actual experience. Certainly this movie could have been a better one given a higher budget and more scrupulous editing, but I've seen much worse that cost much more.A great effort and a genuine twist on contemporary film-making. 8/10 "},{"Title":"overly flashy portrayal of Brit club scene but accurate","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" i rate this film 9 out of 10 because it is a highly accurate portrayal of this British club scene of the 90's. it also does a pretty good job of not totally glamorising drugs, a little like trainspotting.the problem i had with this film is what other people have mentioned about the over use of flashy camera techniques in order to help you connect with the feelings the characters are experiencing whilst on drugs. I felt that although this technique did work it still flet a little like you were in an overly bright disco with the disco ball revolving round and round! I also cant believe what other people have said about Danny Dyers character and his quality of acting i thought he was amazing in this film and the character was spot on, everyone has a mate like that and he did a really good character portrayal.anyway good film all in all and so incredibly British you have to love, sorry about my typing but the keyboards in Bolivian internet cafs are not the best! "},{"Title":"Human Traffic","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The documentary style of this movie becomes evident right from the start, and the first 10 minutes may have you wondering if this is going to be yet another 'teen' movie,with no valuable messages or new ideas. But as the movie progresses it really grasps the real problems surrounding this generation of people.It is not a particularly 'clever' movie, like trainspotting is, but its blatant message is presented very strongly through the various characters and their interactions with each other. There were a few characters that were brought in to the plot but in the end were not really explored, like the 17 year old brother, which would have made an interesting character.Human Traffic is one of the funniest movies i have ever seen and its satirical humour and dark realism really makes this a movie worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"depends on how you look at it ...","Date":"20 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The first time I saw Human Traffic I thought it was rubbish for the same reasons as have been written before. I got in to the 'club culture' a year or so later, watched it about 6 months after and ... it's an amazing film. I really do think that you have to experience the culture, the repetitive electronic, the drugs, the general lifestyle; then what's going on makes so much sense it's unreal. Veeeerry funny film, but I think it's mostly because it's like watching yourself on telly; brings back so many memories now it's unbelievable.Basically what I'd say is, if you've never tried pills, never been clubbing properly (house,trance,techno ... not cheesy dance or pop or whatever) then don't bother with this film, it'll disappoint bigtime. If you are, buy it. It'll be the best purchase you ever make. Just make sure it's the UK version... from what I hear the US one is no good.Reach for the lasers, safe as ....  "},{"Title":"A good attempt at conveying the unconveyable..","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  There are lots of negative reviews for this movie. People saying it's unfunny, the plot is stupid, etc.. they're not the target audience, and they're completely missing the point.This movie attempts to give the viewer some insight into the lives of a group of club going friends. It's packed full of hilarious moments and interludes (I will never forget the ever important Spliff Politics), but the meat and potatoes of this film are the relationships between the characters.When sober, they're a seemingly normal group of friends. Under the influence, their true selves come out and the movie is VERY true to life about how people feel and act on clubbing chemicals (one of the director's requirements was that all actors had to have taken the drugs involved).This movie is definitely more enjoyable if you've done the things that are depicted in it, as the visuals trigger memories of how you felt when you're going crazy and you were as high as they look.If you haven't done drugs, you likely aren't going to get this movie, and unless you're really interested, you should probably skip it. However, if you're the sort to pop a couple candies, snort a rail and hit the clubs, this movie is DEFINITELY for you. Watch with club-going friends for maximum effect (some scenes had us rolling on the floor laughing, while others brought on nostalgia).  "},{"Title":"It's an insane world and i'm proud to be a part of it!","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Words cannot describe how good this film is. If your into the scene then i'm sure you will be able to relate to one of the characters and your mates will no doubt have similarities to the others.Normally i put this film on after finishing my mundane working week before i end up sleeping on the sofa not being bothered to do anything. It gives me motivation to be going out and having as much fun as possible.It's not meant to be a deep film or really focus on one particular storyline purely about group of friends meeting up to go get as out of their faces and the the maddest fun possible. I can relate to most the scenes which is why i love this so much.I normally switch it of before the scene where they are coming home in the car and fire it back on when i get in mashed as it's such an amazing bit to watch 'Spliff Politics' scene is also spot on.If your not into the scene then there may be bits that you just cannot fathom out but by no means let this put you off as once you've heard the soundtrack you'll be bouncing even if you've only had a cuppa tea!!If only every weekend could be like Jip's and his m8's then i would love life immensly but the weekend is what you make it.Lynners "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Just watched this film again and it is absolutely brilliant. Would recommend this to anyone who has an interest in dance music, clubbing or just excellent films. Wouldnt advise watching it with your parents though!I dont know why the main review of Human Traffic here says it is 'boring' and 'slow', it is by far the opposite. The guy who reviewed it obviously doesnt know what he's talking about and imdb should replace his review with someone who does. Maybe he didnt enjoy it as much as he isnt from the UK. Even so, his review is way off and his opinion is quite frankly wrong.Its very entertaining, very funny and uplifting in the best of ways. The soundtrack is also brilliant. The only downer - I felt it was a bit too short as I didnt want it to end! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It seems from other reviews on this film that you either love it or hate it. Well I loved it, and I still do after watching it over and over.To me this is the best representation of a wicked Friday night, and the big fat comedown afterwards. I love the sort of comedy that is only hilarious because it reflects real life, the sort of stuff that makes you go Oh my God, that reminds me of so-and-so..If you look beneath the humour, this film does make some important comments about the drugs scene, and the medias attitude to it.safe as houses..... "}{"Title":"Fun, funny, and real.","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is hugely entertaining, you dont have to be a London clubber to enjoy it. People that roll, or people that dont always enjoy it when I recommend it at my video store.It has real characters, you sympathize, and understand where they are coming from. There are extremely funny moments, and even harsher bits that are handled respectfully.Give this movie a chance it wont let you down. "},{"Title":"Great film....","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" ... if you can relate to it.I`m going to try and not repeat all the good and bit points about this film as mentioned in all the other posts. I think this is a film that you are going to either love or hate, and I think that most people who like will be in a position where they can relate to it, and most who don`t cant. And I`m not going to comment on the fluidity or credability of the story, the quality of the acting or anything else like that. What I do want to do is point out somethings that I feel some people may have missed.There are so many references to it copying Trainspotting... hardly. Trainspotting deals with the hardship and desperation that come with being a full time skag head. Human Traffic deals with the hassles of working in a boring dead end job and looking forward to the weekend where you can really get it out of your systems, and then each person has their own little personal problem which is touched upon through out the film although probably not dealt with on the seriousness or depth that reality would require. What about Twin Town.... set in Wales and based around drugs? So does that mean that Human Traffic copied Twin Town which copied Trainspotting?People have slagged off the whole Star Wars bit... er... do you know what sort of crap you rabble on about after an night of pilling your nads off followed by a heavy smoking session with the verge of a comedown starting to give you the good news, it`s funny...You need to have some idea about the Welsh I think to get everything from this film. The cameos, OK everyone knows Carl Cox was in there but the reporter in the club was Nicola Heywood-Thomas, a real reporter for Welsh news. And during the Spliff Politics part we have the man himself Mr Howard Marks, maybe the biggest cannabis dealer Britain has to offer, hailing from Swansea. There are also subtle remarks in the script that you probably wouldn`t notice of if your wern`t Welsh, i.e. on the balcony in the Asylum, the 2 guys meet up with the phrase alright butt how many people thought he said Bud? OK I`m just being picky but I like little touches like that.There are so many phrases from the film that I am sure where thrown into every conversion all over the country after this film. I was in uni when it came out and within days of the film being released quotes were being used left right and centre, Nice One Bruvvaaa!! was always being thrown around the Student Union and halls, I expect that most universities in the country were like this.I have read comments of people saying that the script was crude and had a lot of unessassary swearing. OK these 5 people all come from vairous aspects of the working class back ground. They are not Oxford graduates, they probabally only just get a full set of GCSEs between them. Walk around a pub, a house party, a group of mates getting ready on a friday night, this is how they act and talk, maybe it`s not right for everywhere but it`s spot on for Cardiff.Anyone into the UK club and recreational drug scene in the mid to late 90`s can see them selves here. Anything that happens in this film can and does happen in every town every weekend. The film is there for people like myself who are/were into this scene.There does seem to be a glorification of the drugs in the film with very little of the possible negative aspect of E, coke, wizz etc. but on the other hand, the film isn`t a serious one, it`s not an educational film and it has a 18 certificate, could someone please show me an 18 year old who dosn`t have at least a basic idea of the dangers of drugs, I don`t think that Human Traffic has encouraged anyone to run out the following weekend and take a load of E or snort a couple of lines.Thats it, it`s a bit long and I apologise for any spell/grammar mistakes, but then it is nearly 5AM here....  "},{"Title":"Was someone reading my diary?","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I can't watch this film without having a stupid grin slapped across my face for the rest of the week. For anyone who was a hardcore UK clubber in the late 90s this is a the film we'd have wanted to make ourselves, if only we hadn't been so utterly mashed.I can understand why anyone who wasn't (isn't?) part of the scene might not see Human Traffic as much more than a glorification of pills, thrills and bellyaches. But for those of us who were there... er, that's exactly what we were all doing. It's also incredibly funny. If you don't think so there is something clearly very, very wrong with you and I suggest you get a life immediately.Clubbing's just not the same these days and never will be for those of us of a certain age. For 99 minutes, though, this is like getting in a time machine back to the best days of our lives.Sorted!  %-) "},{"Title":"As said on the case 'the last greatest film of the 90's'","Date":"10 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is just ace! how else do you discribe a film that shows youth culture as true as this. It proves that no matter what background you come from drugs are there to be tried, not only does it tell you the bad bits about drugs, but the feeling of overwhealmin empathy for every one around you. The characters are just incredable, Moff is like god to all the sly drug dealer on a bmx but a huge party animal that tells it like it is, the taxi driver scene was buzzin. And LuLu, she is just the ultimate clubbin diva, n Coop in all fairness who wouldnt want abit of coop? with Jips sexual frustration, and Ninas piss taking ways who wouldnt want clubbin mates like these????????? This film reminded me of, me and my mates as soon as a friday comes 'THE WEEKEND HAS LANDED (all that exsists now is pubs club, drugs and parties'. We are all natural born clubbers, children of the night if you like, we party hard n live only for the weekend. what else can I say this film is just the best ever. And in true human traffic stylee....... what goes up must come down, and down, and down. The milky bars are on me!! "},{"Title":"Give it a proper look","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  As far as I know, this represents a candid vision of the late nineties drug culture in the UK.  I think the introduction of a 17 year old into the culture is somewhat inappropriate but a good measure of what happens in real life.  A bit late for life but a classic none the less, a testament to an era that really is all but gone; a history text.  Keep it in the archive; we'll learn altered states and maybe how to learn from them.  Or maybe to indulge.  Who is right? "},{"Title":"What a fantastic film !!!!","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic is THE film of the 90s. A well filmed, very funny insightful look into the world of the Cardiff Club and Drug cultures. A great cast and great direction make this film a must have for any true movie buff.  It has more meaning really if u have experienced what Jip, Moff, LuLu, Koop and Nina are all experiencing in the film, I found it very true to life and a thoroughly enjoyable look down memory lane. "},{"Title":"A Feel Good Movie","Date":"29 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Chronicles the blissful, but undulating experiences of a group of five close friends, as they pursue the ultimate rave adventure.This movie's message centralizes around the value of good friends and times. Everyone can relate to the experiences this movie highlights, but be sure to watch it with an open mind.Evocative of the movie Go, of the same time period, but not quite as offbeat. "},{"Title":"Sorted out for E's and Whizz.","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Any film that attempts to capture the essence of a movement/time has to connect with the viewer and make them feel that its talking about their own experiences.With Human Traffic the director, Justin Kerrigan, really succeeds in capturing the highs and lows of a lost weekend nineties style. Pills, thrills, pubs, clubs with the inevitable comedown and ensuing paranoia are all captured and preserved for future generations.The film itself can feel a little disjointed in parts as it lurches from one humorous situation to another, more like an out of control sketch show than a movie but the characters are excellently drawn and some of the moments of fantasy had me rolling on the floor, crying with laughter. The cinema manager wasn't amused.The meeting between Jip and Felix at the bar is my personal favourite moment, where the two characters who share a mutual antithipy actually tell each other what they really think.Its not The Last Great Film of the Nineties. but the music is superb and anyone that was there will tell you how close to the truth it really is. When sometime in the future, my granddads ask me,What were you like when you were my age Grandad?I'll just stick this film on and say,That was me. "},{"Title":"WOW - I've been there......","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is the one perfect portrayal of club culture and ecstacy use in the '90s. Every scene in this movie contains an example of the ecstacy phenomenon that anyone who was there at the time will identify with, whether it be blagging your way into a club, the euphoria of ecstacy with good friends, the twitchy paranoia of the post-club come down or the superlative Spliff Politics.If you were a 90s clubber, this movie was made specifically for you. Watch it and feel the nostalgia come flooding over you! "},{"Title":"A rush of feelings not unlike the ecstacy they take","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Excellent music guides your highs and lows as you experience one weekend on a rush of ecstacy accompanied by a group of young ravers in England who explore fun, love, life and themselves one pill at a time.  A must see for anyone that has ever been part of the rave culture. Kerrigans first film shows a potential for film making rivaled only by Christopher Nolans first film. "}{"Title":"Yeah, lets go dancing!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is ace.  From the start it just makes you smile.  The boys are all great and the whole things just sums up a great weekend playing.  By the end of seeing this on miserable Sunday night in Coventry I just wanted to go out and dance the night away.A bunch of nice people having a nice time. "},{"Title":"What a rush","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Finally a movie that gives its all. The only production it can be compared to is Trainspotting in its portrayal of life and the physical/mental strugals that face the youth of today. Well done to the producers and writers who obviously are in touch with their roots. Also a big shout to the actors who bring out the best (and worst) of the charactors.My apologies for bad spellings "},{"Title":"If You've ever taken a pill You must watch this movie.","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  First, I wanna say that I'm from Poland, and what I saw in the movie ( the best I've ever seen, by the way) is what I can see every weekend on polish streets and in polish clubs. This movie is so realistic when you watch it that you wanna stand up and shout  man, how the guy who has done that knew what he's been doing. My favourite scene is when the inner voice is talking about how to take over a joint, when finally the girl comes over and simply ask can I get some?. Man, how loud I was laughing... .Anyway, if You have ever taken a pill You MUST watch this really great movie, You won't regrate it. Trust me. ..what was I saying? ha ha.   "},{"Title":"Strangely good!","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Well, speaking as someone who was involved in the scene for alot of the 90s) it is an uncanny portrayal of clubbing life really (which seems to be remarkably similar all over the world). The characters in the movie really do reflect the people you encounter whilst clubbing, and group dynamics are such that groups really do coalesce around people with the same personality traits as those exhibited by the characters in the movie.Clubbers will love it or hate it for being so uncomfortably true to life ( and extremely funny ), whilst non clubbers probably won't have a clue what the nifty camera work is actually doing to people ( but it isn't all a joke, you REALLY do feel that way sometimes... the feeling of paranoia, being strung out, coming down, the euphoria, the talking absolute crap, the naked aggression or the absolute love ... it's all there )I found the old-clubbers-whinging scene particularly painful to watch, as I (before I relearnt tolerance and respect) used to be one of those loud mouthed whingers complaining about the state of clubbing and how it wasn't pure anymore in the mid-late 90s.Worth a watch as a nod and a wink to the culture, or if you want to know more about what it's like to be in the daily/weekly grind of the drugs-as-hedonism scene, when things are going good, and nobody's dying. As a friend once said to me, if you take E occassionally, it can be a wonderful thing. Obviously, this isn't always the case, and there is always the danger of being caught in a downward spiral, but here's what it's like when the times are good. "},{"Title":"84 minute joyride","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  this film was all smiles for me.  i understand why some people don't like it, though - the movie is made by clubbers, for clubbers.  As such, for a certain audience, every character, scene and line is something they can relate to...everybody else is left to look on from the side with wonder. I love the subjective camera techniques.  the soundtrack kicks ass.  all in all, for those who get the joke, this movie is one big smile that makes you wanna get out there and dance. "},{"Title":"A snapshot of British youth in the late 1990s","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I'm into club culture.  I live in a city which is world famous for its club scene, and in my experience, I haven't seen a film which better reflects my generation.For me, the characters were all likeable and reflected traits I've seen in myself and my own circle of friends.  In some cases, the similarities are uncanny ;)Human Traffic is mostly an upper.  Apart from the kitchen come-down scene, there's very little punishment for our band of clubbers.  I really liked that.  It doesn't try to moralise.  It doesn't demonise the characters for committing the heinous sin of enjoying recreational drugs.  So many movies attempt to provide a message.  Human Traffic lets you make your own mind up. Power to the audience.I've read a few of the user comments on IMDB quite purposefully in fact. The first thing that I thought after watching it was Great movie, but will Americans get it?.  I'm glad to see that some of our American cousins do indeed get it, but I'm not sure that it ever filled multiplexes in the Bible Belt.Concentrating on certain aspects, the cutaways are superb.  The what we really would have said scene is superb, as is the old-skool clubber complaints section.  Koop's girlfriend-induced paranoia is finely realised and the alternative national anthem is inspired.Star Wars references are always welcome, and Moof does a great job of abstracting the series until it makes absolutely no sense whatever. There's a lot of this in the film.  People talk complete crap, open their hearts about their worries and basically reflect the behaviour of anyone on MDMA.Couple of minor issues with it.  The film is set in Cardiff, but most of the protagonists aren't even Welsh.  This is explained fairly well in the movie, and Cardiff is the most cosmopolitan city in Wales, but you can't help feeling they chickened out on the male leads to give the movie universal British appeal.Overall, Human Traffic is scarily accurate snapshot of the late 1990s.  It doesn't preach.  It doesn't teach.  It simply reflects.  More than that, it's the only film I've seen which can make you feel wasted when you're in the throes of stark sobriety.  My girlfriend lists it as the movie she always watches before she goes out, and I can't really give it any higher praise than that. "},{"Title":"MUCH better than Groove.","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The movie Groove missed the mark; Human Traffic hit it dead center. Whereas Groove really wanted you to care about weak character development in a somewhat serious documentary, Human Traffic wants those of you who catch the joke to laugh.If you're on the party/club scene, this is the movie to see.  If you're not familiar with that scene, you're going to miss a lot of the references. "},{"Title":"I paid with Shrapnel! Hilarious!","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Ahhhh yes... a very refreshing film for my generation (30)... It was a suprisingly realitic and authentic look at the post GenX Roll Popping Club crowd.. Although set in London England, I would swear this could be anytown in USA. There are a thousand gems in this film from famous one liners to fantastic images.  I was especially impressed with the hypnotic ravings of a drug induced narrator who smoothly elocutes the groups on going X induced nirvana.... like I said... there are a ton of Gems...  I'd like a Coke and Fries with that Doctor... Fancy a Shag Luv! "},{"Title":"Nice One Bruvvvvvveeeerrrrrr!!!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film although not rated highly by critics is the funniest and most realistic film about a weekender ever made. The actors are amazing and fit there roles perfectly,  with danny dyer as moff stealing the show. The one lines are amazing and the way the film although a typical weekender also has many surreal moments coming from Jips (Mr Floppy) head.It has a cracking soundtrack and the talk about star wars being based on drugs is fantastic. Also look out for the cameo roles from Howard Marks (international Drug dealer) and Carl Cox (superstar DJ). If you like trainspotting then you'll love this as it is ten times better.  "},{"Title":"Five go mad in Cardiff","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film couldn't reflect a more true representation of the dance music and clubbing scene in the UK.  I loved every minute of it, telling the story of a weekend of excess in a city struggling for credibility.  The allegories and cut scenes that the director uses are both clever and funny, and overall the film is very nicely acted and directed. "}{"Title":"Nice One Bruv","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I was told about Human Traffic by one of my friends, who described it in painfull detail, and i was sure that he had ruined it for me and was not worth me seeing it. But when it was shown on tv a couple of months ago, i thought i would watch. I was delighted. The characters went from mad to insane and the plot showed British club culture at its best. Jip, Moff, Koop, Lulu, Nina and even the uptight Felix were brilliant characters. Jip working in a clothes shop ( just to pay the rent ), having a big case of Mr Floppy and falling in love with Lulu, Moff ( Nice One Bruv ) charging expensive calls to Tiwan on the phone bill, dealing drugs and nearly getting hit by reality, Koop a serious vynal pusher, very jealous of other men talking to Nina  his girlfriend ), Lulu who is just simply gorgeous and falls in love with Jip, and Nina a 1st class flirt, but deep down has really fallen for Koop. I would seriously recomend this film to anyone who loves clubbing. Jon Simm and Lorraine Pilkington are brilliant.  "},{"Title":"An excellent trip","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I've watched this movie about 50 times and I still love it.  I also own Groove and I love them both but for different reasons.  Human Traffic seems to go deeper into the People themselves where Groove gives a pretty good idea of the scene in this area. One word of warning, the US Release of Human Traffic is heavily edited. You really need the Region 2 DVD to see the movie.  I don't know if the theatrical release in the US was edited or not. "},{"Title":"TWO DIFFERENT VERSIONS","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I saw human traffic when it was released in Paris last spring with my tight group of party friends. It's not a stellar piece of film-making...but it's funny, fastpaced and has a lot of truth about going out in it. Totally captures the energy of getting ready, going out, the electricity that hits at the height of the night on a packed dance floor. We all related to bits of it.After moving back stateside, I rented the film with some friends and found that Miramax had CUT THE FILM!!! There are whole scenes, parts of scenes and characters missing from the American release. They also changed jokes, presumably because Americans wouldn't understand the Brit humor. This kind of thing drives me absolutely bonkers, and prevented me from enjoying the film half as much.One particular missing scene takes place at the club, between two secondary characters... where they go through the It's not the way it used to be! whinge-fest that's become so common among older clubbers. Why is that scene missing from the American release!!? It's something party-goers around the globe can relate to, I can't tell you how many times I've heard this sort of old-school-purist drivel!! ) It's also one of the film's funnier moments.So be forewarned...the American film is not the same as the version that's available in Europe and the UK; BUT it's still definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A weekend to remember, if only they could!","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Well,well,well. Never have I seen a film with such feeling and imagination put into it. To sum it up this is Wales answer to Trainspotting (but not as gritty).Take a simple idea, add a few comedy moments that we all can relate to, and what have you got, Human Traffic. As it's tagline promotes, THE WEEKEND HAS LANDED, it definetely  has. Follow our plucky cardiff ravers through a weekend full of booze, drugs, sex and music. This film has everything, well except for a plot but who cares! Who needs a plot when you can just sit back and relax while warping our fragile little minds on an ecstasy rollercoaster. This is Justin Kerrigans first outing into the world of directing (he actually wrote it also), let's just hope it's not his last. After a hard night out with the lads (or gals) this would be the first movie I grab off the shelf to indulge in my viewing pleasure. "},{"Title":"Blew me away and earned me a nice T-shirt","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic was one of the best films I saw last year. I was fortunate enough to see it before it's official premiere, at the film part of the Quart Festival (and so, I got a nice Human Traffic T-shirt and a sticker too, plus a free Coke). It's been a while since I saw it (half a year) but I still remember a lot of the scenes, most notably the scene where all the people in the pub sing the God save the queen parody Who is the queen?, as this had the audience applauding wildly. The movie feels like a cross between Go, Trainspotting and Acid House, the soundtrack is tops and the laughter comes in frequent bursts. The film succeeds both as being a vivid portrayal of the British club culture and as a study of the generational border and communicative problems between adults and not-so-adults, in addition to being a madly entertaining movie. I've just bought it on video (finally found it) and I'm looking forward to re-living the experience. The weekend has indeed landed, baby... "},{"Title":"brings back memories","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  One of the better British youth culture films, although no where near as good as Quadrophenia, i found myself remeniscing over my clubbing days which are getting less and less as i get older.I thought HT was quite accurate in the depiction of a typical weekend clubbing for the uk space cadets, especially the after club scenes where they all get stoned, then realise they know so little about the other folk they are chilling out with and start to get paranoid. Some of the music was top notch too, being a drum`n bass man myself.The film also addresses the point that the whole scene they are involved in is somewhat fake, that you have to have other interests as well, otherwise like jimmy in Quadrophenia, you lose all sense of reality. in 30 years time it will be a regarded as an accurate depiction of 90`s uk club culture. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"brilliant, overlooked gem!!!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  human traffic is the best and most realistic movie about friendship since swingers. i use that comparison because it has very much the same feel as swingers in many aspects. it gives you the sense of having a great time with your best friends. it also captures the essence of what a good time is. i'm very disappointed this movie didn't receive the attention it deserved on initial release and far too much attention was given to the very much inferior groove, because it was american and somehow got into the sundance fest. human traffic is destined for cult classic status and rightfully so,(i can't think of any other movie with a 'coke mirror' cam). so please, if you like funny, slightly touching films, or if you rave, rent this immediatly and put the groove back. "},{"Title":"Youth in Britain","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  In my humble opinion, this film is the best film ever made about the youth-culture in the 90es. It's down to earth while being totally honest. I had the feeling that I knew all the characters and wanted to go out with them. When I looked around in the cinema and saw all the smiling faces, I realised, I already do.Heartwarming, funny; one of my all-time-favorites "},{"Title":"Human Traffic makes Groove look like Beverly Hills 90210.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  As a party kid, this movie was dead-on. For anyone who's never gone out, gotten completely out of their heads, headed to the wonderful world of a cracked-out afterparty, and still had a great time, then this _might_ seem a little foreign to you. (For all of the straight edge party kids out there, please disregard the out of heads and cracked out comment).I believe that a soundtrack can really make a movie, and each song in this movie (carefully picked by London's radio maestro Pete Tong, I think) brings the intensity of being in a packed party straight at you. Play this movie in surround sound and you'll probably get the effects of being at the club.This movie brought back a lot of memories from my hardcore partying days, but didn't make me feel like a complete loser. Whereas watching either Groove (or even Go) made going to parties the in-thing or like an episode off of MTV. I'm not saying Groove was awful, but it just didn't have Human Traffic's effect of being at the party.There's a certain realness to this movie that just makes me want to go out with my best mates to a party (or rave, if you will) and have an amazing time. I highly recommend this movie to anyone who's tired of the same old candy-coated teenage movies about partying or big-budget blockbusters polluting the theaters.Finally, a movie (to me) that captures the essence of a lifestyle that's been around for a LONG time now. "},{"Title":"Preaching to the converted","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A group of friends share a weekend of clubbing in Cardiff. It's an article of faith that a conversation while on drugs can feel like an epoch-defining moment at the time, but aimless cobblers in the cold light of morning. So it is with `Human Traffic'.  This celebration of UK clubland makes pleasant moving wallpaper getting ready to go out, or at 4 am when you pay off the taxi driver and collapse in front of the video, but fails to engage a non-partisan audience.The film is a tragic case study in why so many UK films never see projection on a cinema screen.  The producers and the various clubland stars who appear are so convinced of their own cool that they feel safe to dispense with hoary notions like plot, character development or a coherent central idea. It's like watching the first ten minutes of another film, sampled and stretched paper thin over ninety minutes. There are vague attempts to connect club culture with the fight against the Criminal Justice Act and its anti-rave laws, but like the unfocused chatter to be found in a chill out room, `Human Traffic' cannot grab hold of one clear, worthwhile thought and present it to the viewer.Excessive use of `Trainspotting' style speeches to camera and magic realism do little to conceal a clumsy, incoherent screenplay. Engaging moments, like dope guru Howard Marks lecturing us on dope smoking etiquette, float by like the random gimmicks they are. The most cringe-worthy moment comes when Jip (John Simm) leads the cast in a rendition of the national anthem. Re-written with patronising &#145;youth' lyrics, the defining statement of late 90s youth culture is how hard it is to be cool. Young or old, the response of any self-respecting audience to such rampant self-absorption will be `So what?'  "}{"Title":"A positive review","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A scarily accurate account of a night out clubbing in the UK. Wanton hedonism, followed by loss of practical though as the effects wear off. The dialogue is superb, although it does contain colloquialisms which may be difficult for some to understand. I love this film! I often play it on my DVD before going out, and it really puts me in the mood! "},{"Title":"fantastic brilliant superb, well alright","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic Well - possibly one of the most watchable and entertaining films of all time EVER. Superbly edited emphasising the plot's somewhat 'sketchy' theme, with music and backing that are second to none. For all those that do go clubbing - it is something to relate to, and is very true to life. The comedy aspect is also superb - with various take-offs from other shows, such as 'Brass Eye'. Excellently written, acted, and produced. FANTASTIC!! "},{"Title":"Nice one, brother!","Date":"10 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a film I watch on a weekly basis - in fact, the last time I put the DVD in, cranked up the volume and got the sub bass pounding was last night, post get together and night out with friends.  What a movie! Living in Cardiff, going to The Asylum (or really the two clubs they use for the movie) going to Tom Tom's as it was in the Summer of 1991, going to the bars where they get up for it then come down - I really can empathise with this film.  As a native of the city, I know the sights, the streets, the sounds and locations.  It adds that extra element to which I can relate.Others have written that this is a shallow film - to me, if you've been there and done it, you know it is a pretty good depiction of 48 hours off from the world as Jip would say.  Forget if the characters are shallow - you either come out of the movie theater loving a film or hating it.  I haven't got time for in depth critiques - I love this film!Any one fancy a night out in Cardiff?!  The Milky Bars are on me! "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!!!","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The closest ever portrayal of today's club scene. No twisted, Pulp Fiction wannabee plots like Go. This one is very down to earth, exceptionally realistic. If anyone has ever experienced electronic music club scene - this is your life!!! "},{"Title":"one honest film","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I am not a clubhead nor do I go out dancing with my friends but this film speaks the truth of almost any lifestyle of our lifestyle.  the paranoia, the honesty and the miscommunication with adults.  I have not see such an honest movie in a long time especially one I could relate to. If you like fast-moving films with down-right good humor then see this.  Even if you don't go clubbing!!!!   "},{"Title":"The best after club experience.","Date":"10 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is one of the greatest in british independent history. A real credit to Justin Kerrigan who makes a incredible film that everyone in the clubbing world can relate to.Brilliant and rememberable characters make this a classic.Who can forget Howard Marks's spliff politics a real hoot. "},{"Title":"Funky","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic.  All I can say is FINALLY something comes out of England that's not some Tarantino wannabe flick with guns and stuff.  This is a great film, with a lot of comedy, drugs, raves and all the stuff that you really never picture the Brits doing.Justin Kerrigan did a great job with a story that was all about a group of friends who go out raveing every weekend to get away from their pretty horrible weekday life.  The story isn't really focussed on one guy in particular, although there is a main character, Jip, who I think is mostly there to tie things together.  Instead, the different members of the groups of friends all have their individualities as part of this group, and it's a great ensemble acting piece.My favorite character was Koop, a guy who works in a record store and is totally jealous of his girlfriend, Nina.  He is so cool - and really hot! - and has the coolest job of them all, even though he too wishes he was something else, like a DJ.Speaking of music - I am going out to get the soundtrack to this film.  It ROCKS!  The music that they picked had the audience rocking to the beat, it was so pumpin!  In Koop's introductory scene, where they show him selling stuff like jungle, gangsta rap and the like to customers who bring new meaning to the word poser, well, let me just say, even if the customers weren't the real thing, the music was.The only thing I really didn't like was the beginning, where they just have everyone talking to the camera.  Thankfully, it wasn't that long, and the rest of the film wasn't like it at all.This was a great film and I'd recommend it to anyone who likes cool music, comedy and British accents!  "},{"Title":"Must See this film!","Date":"20 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  All I can say is go see this film.  Great acting, great directing and really cool music.  This film really rocks along, and is really funny.  What's with the talking heads at the beginning? Never mind, ignore that and watch this movie.  It's definitely something different and interesting. "},{"Title":"The weekend certainly has landed with this film!","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A superb film with excellent acting from the cast, and an extremely releastic portrayal of club culture in the UK. However, having said that , what i liked most about the film was that there wasn't an over-the-top focus on the drugs element of the club scene - it was more focused on the relationships between the characters. As a result, this gave the film a lot more realism, and it drew you into the story of their lives. A fantastic soundtrack , and loads of visual gags rounded off what is probably one of the best films of the nineties....CU'MON!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Hits the mark...","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It's about time someone made a film about club and drug culture as it plays such a big part in the make-up of youth culture. The skill of Justin Kerrigan lies in his ability to portray a cross section of characters - all united to have fun - without having to attach a moralistic indictment. He approximates the true energy that the scene has to offer. From someone who can relate, Kerrigan presents us with scenes full of immense humour, yet he also imbues his film with a detached cynicism, yet it doesn't linger. He just wants us to have fun in watching the film and he made me feel complicit in the drama. There's no moral message at the end - except an implicit 'up yours' to all detractors of the drug and club culture which drives the youth of today. Fine achievement and wonderful viewing! "}{"Title":"The British club life on film at last. Top class entertainment","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  If you have not seen this film yet and have sampled anything resembling club life DO SO. Personally I have waited a good number of years to see a film on the British club culture and finally we have one. I've been DJ'ing and clubbing now since the mid eighties and this film certainly is about as close to the real thing as you could achieve on film. I can relate myself or someone I know to every one in the film. The drug aspect of the film in particular is portrayed very well in showing both the supposed good and bad sides, the language and conversation between the cast is spot on. So much so that several of the funnier lines have been adopted by my chosen family. Finally the soundtrack is excellent mixing all of the genres found in Britain at the moment House, Garage, Hip-Hop, Drum & Base. All in all very funny and well put together film and very much recommended.  "},{"Title":"Blinding.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  What a great film! I knew it would be before I even saw it. British films generally appeal to me, mainly because they are made with me and alike in mind. This film had similarities to Trainspotting, but instead of Scottish heroin junkies we had Welsh/English escasty clubbers. As I watched the film I became worried that it glamourised the drug culture, but fortunately it brought everything down to earth with a bump in the end. Drugs have there uses and the film does give some fair points towards that but also it showed the negative side to taking drugs. I enjoyed the banter between the characters, I may be completely wrong but I was under the impression that the director somewhat over exaggerated these scenes as it made very funny viewing. No story line was ever really required as the film seemed more of an educational documentry on the do's and don'ts of Clubbing it large style. This aspect was definately my favourite thing about the movie as I could associate my expriencences of clubbing over the years with some (not all) of what was depicted in the film. I'd recommend any self respecting Weekender to watch Human Traffic as you will see some of yourself in it, and if you are not a party animal then watch it anyway as it's a great insight into the Club Culture of Great Britain. Soundtrack was quality too.  "},{"Title":"British Film at its best","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic is a fantastic piece of film work detailing 5 friends and what their lives revolve around at that most special time of the week for all of us. The Weekend. Government 'facts' mix with the truth, and thoughts intermix with reality, in dream/thought sequences. It is a biting look at life in Britain and the way that we live our lives and treat/think of other people, focusing on things that we have all seen and done ourselves. The scene in the pub where Jip and Felix run through both their actual dialogue and and Jip's inner thought interpretation of what would have happened if they had been brutally honest with each other.Don't confuse the drugs content of the film with its true focus. Relationships/friendship and how we act towards people.Human Traffic is a new start for British comedy, both its dark and light moments. Once you've watched it you'll recognise all the people in the film as those you've met in clubs before, some you've liked and some you've detested. But they are all in their in their friday night finest ;) "},{"Title":"oh yeah!!!!","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  what a brilliant film ok maybe its not a film more like a documentry and not really for the older among us but for the young me and my pals thought this was superb a kick ass sound track put together with some good acting.I am sure that this film gives a more real message on what alot of young people do at the weekend it may have given a bit of a bad message that maybe doing drugs is a cool thing but it is an 18 cetificate film and if a 18 year old cant make that desicion for his self than maybe he should move back in with mummy this is a very memerable film which is in my top 10 whoever reads this thank you and seeweed my friends  "},{"Title":"Spot on!","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Just saw a preview screening. Have an ace time, you'll see real people, living the end of the 90's. It's a time -capsule-. So refreshing after SLEEPY HOLLOW which was... ahem... k-rap.Beautiful film. Party party party! )Wonderful performances as only the brittish can do. So -real- you'll laugh every five seconds at the dialogue, no matter where you come from. Ever been out on the town with your mates for a night, this is it. Captures it perfectly.Sad, funny, euphoric, depressing, heartwarming, REAL. We are all human traffic. So let's party! ) "},{"Title":"The Film Of The 90's","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic is in my opinion the film of the 90's. I have never had the pleasure of watching a more easy to watch film in my life. There are two ways you can look at Human Traffic. The first is  a film about the problems faced by todays youth, the way they don't know which way to turn and all of the decisions they have to make. The only relief they have is by having a break at the weekend and having fun, or you can look at the film as a bunch of friends going out at the weekend and have a great time. Which ever way you look at the film you cannot deny that it's a really great film. As I have said above it follows the lives of 5 friends over a weekend as they go out party and generally have a good time. I think what makes the film so good is the fact that most people will be able to see a small part of themselves in each of the characters. This film was classed as another trainspotting when it was first released, it's not in my opinion it much much better. I found that Trainspotting was quite heavy going while Human Traffic will have you laughing out load. If you looking for a really easy to watch film, which will both make you laugh and make you think then I recommend this film everytime. "},{"Title":"Scarily true to the reality of it all.","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Firstly, it's a great film. Secondly, I find it quite scary that a film can mirror the reality I was living in between 1991-98. I have met pretty much every character in this film in real life and to be able to capture them and put them on film without any loss of personality is a feat in itself.Stand-out moments? The flash-back to clubbing in the summer of 1991, the nutters that the younger brother goes off with at the end of the night, the blunted out there conversations, the two rushin' guys at the club bar, the tip'o the hat to Big Bill Hicks and Howard Marks' spliff politics.It's a hoot. Watch it and then go clubbing (course it's not like it used to be though ;) "},{"Title":"love it","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is so real!!!   the language!  its the way people of the nineties speak to each other!  so cleverly done.  This was my life for a year, live for the weekends, this is going to be big.  what else is there to say? koop is gorgeous ;o)  Human Traffic has landed !   "},{"Title":"Exciting Ride of Fun","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This summer I went to London with a study program, and with my film class I watched Human Traffic.  My entire class loved the movie, and afterwards we were ready to go out and party!  The film relates to youth of this generation all over the world, whether in the UK or in Texas! I can attest to that! I highly recommend this movie to everybody that likes a good time, good friends, and a great party! (and can handle the morning after-) "},{"Title":"a step forward for screen depictions of narcotic use...","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  As a film student, researching a master's degree, and concentrating on the filmic depictions of drugs and their users, i found this a great leap forward for the said subject. This appears to be the FIRST major movie where there is actually an honest and argued depiction of narcotic use. No other movie as far as i know ( and god knows i've had to watch a few on this subject) has actually dared to expose the authoritarian stance on drug use and abuse, by pointing out the basic flaws in their arguments (the scene with Jip, the scientist and Nina's little brother). At last. does this finally mean that we'll get some more honest, balanced and intelligent depictions of narcotic use? Actually, i doubt it, but at least Human Traffic had the balls to do this, and has maybe opened the way for other movies to follow. BUT, don't expect to see a Hollywood movie doing the same- there is basically a Hollywood blacklist against 'positive' depictions of drug use. Well, what do you expect from the country that's leading the failed 'crusade' against an 'evil' IT invented? Thankyou Human Traffic, for restoring my faith in the power of film. and, as a last comment, what a bloody great movie! one where so many people sit there, going I recognise that!. "}{"Title":"my life, and probably yours too","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  i sat watching my life pass before my eyes from the close knit group of friends, the nights on the town, the music in the clubs, the drugs, and the parties that start well but then turn a little odd.  this film is one of the best i've ever seen, ringing so true to life that i found myself laughing at characters and situations i could remember in mine. "},{"Title":"NICE ONE BROTHER","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I would like to say this is an absolutly excellent film!! Me and my friends laughed all the way through this film cause it was so funny and true to life. So that's all that needs to be said really! "},{"Title":"Witty, Crazy, Blast of a movie","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Although it suffered from being a bit talky and would go down well as a play, I really enjoyed the movie. Leave your brain halfway at the door and have a few belly laughs....and there were plenty ! John Simm was good but the Oscar should go to the guy who played the Londoner (coppers son) - outshone the rest especially when theorising about the meaning of life from the plot of the StarWars trilogy and the way they were all drugged up overlords....or something ! "},{"Title":"the movie of the year","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It was been a long time since I have walked out the cinema and said YES THAT WAS A GREAT FILM.If you see one film this year you will love this one, it's funny, it's fast, and it just has the best mix of music which you simply will not find in any other movie.I have heard it compared to TRAINSPOTTING but simply you can not do this......It's another film which is GREAT and BRITISH..... "},{"Title":"reflections of beauty","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I loved this film.  It is a must for all current or past party goers bringing on full body rushes, for me anyway, on more than one occasion. The sound track is absolutely spot on and a clubbers delight go see it in a cinema with a good, good sound system to do it justice.  "},{"Title":"Refreshing realism with a sense of humour.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Often we are plagued by films that try to reflect the UK drug culture in a frank and un-biased way, yet time and time again we receive an underlying message forced on us. Human Traffic doesn't give a fig about underlying messages, its up-front and in your face, this is U.K. youth and we don't care what you think. A film about drug culture that actually reflects drug culture, but without the gritty harshness of the Train-spotting genre.A comedy with an excellent soundtrack truly reflective of UK youth music. This film combines a docu-soap plot line with reality check moments visualised as often hilarious metaphors. I recommend this film to anyone who can appreciate the harshness of a 12 hour Friday night in your face blend of tunes and tokes. Though beware regional dialect and accent, and a very U.K. localised reference base as it may leave international cinema watchers a little baffled. But to quote Moff e' who dares, Rodney, e' who dares!!! "},{"Title":"Film of the summer!","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This has to be an easy contender for film of the summer - it deals with the real life problems and attitudes faced and adopted by my generation.  This film has cameos from famous people in British soaps and from the UK club scene.  This has got to be THE film to watch this summer - if only for the conclusions made between Star Wars and the drugs industry! "},{"Title":"Sheer Class","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It is hard to say a bad thing about this film. From start to finish it is realistic, funny and very entertaining. It is full of memorable scenes that left me falling into the aisle with laughter. Any young adult, who has been clubbing, or still enjoys that hedonistic lifestyle will totally empathise with the group in the film. Bored sick of their jobs, they live for the weekends, and this particular one is a big one for all concerned.It is soooo good, I've seen it twice already and the second time had me more riveted than the first. Even near the end of the film I was looking forward to the scenes coming up and still laughing at the previous ones.This film even manages to throw in a little bit of education and to say it promotes drug use is nonsense, it presents a balanced view that allows the non-user to decide whether the good outweighs the bad. Believe me, they show the BAD.If you haven't seen this film yet you have to ask yourself 'Why?'. Go and see it yesterday. "},{"Title":"Good film","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A surprisingly good film that dares not to end with a moralistic tale about how drugs can kill you, very funny at times with a fantastic star wars/drugs metaphorical conversation. Overall, a good film with a director destined for bigger things. "},{"Title":"I think I know these people....","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Great great film, any weekenders and clubbers will recognise the characters immediately.  Funny and exciting... Perfect movie for the weekend... "}{"Title":"When the final scene blacks and the credits come up to the seminal Primal Scream track 'Come Together', we cannot fail to understand Kerrigan's scarily anarchic/humanist message 'The Weekend has landed!'","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film is derivative, hammy and irritating because now that it has been done, no-one will touch the subject again without paying tribute. It is one of the most energetic, well-observed, fast-paced and side-splittingly funny pieces of cult cinema to come out in '99.Okay, the freeze-frames, reversals, subtitles, scatological humour, surreal mis en scene and narcotic situation gagging may have been lifted straight out of Trainspotting but (short of being a chippy, wanky film-maker/critic wannabe) you cannot help laughing, crying and being uplifted by a film which brings characters to life so passionately.Like the underviewed and undervalued short film Weekender, Human Traffic tells the story of a typical 36 hour bender which people all over the UK take themselves through 52 weekends a year.Set in Wales (not a promising start after the inauspicious Twin Town), Human Traffic concentrates on the lives and loves of five dysfunctional but ultimately ordinary friends. John Simm (anti-hero of BBC drama, The Lakes) turns in an excellent performance as Yip - the paranoid, temporarily impotent son of a Welsh prostitute mother and a fraudulent jailbird dad. Lulu (Lorraine Pilkington) is a sharp Irish good-time girl and an old time friend of Yip's who, throughout the course of the film, becomes his objet d'amour. Lulu's best mate is Nina who is seeing the insanely jealous wannabe DJ, Koop (Shaun Parkes). The link man is Moff (Danny Dyer), son of a recently-promoted superintendent of police. Moff is the only one of the quintet without a dead-end insult of a job. He sticks to paying for his weekends by peddling pills and thrills to his 'mad for it' friends and acquaintances.The title sequence draws from films such as La Haine where documentary footage is used as an introduction to the life and times of the characters. In this case, violent images of the CJB riots are edited to a sharp house soundtrack. As the track ends abruptly, so does the fast cutting and Kerrigan begins to zero into his characters.This technique of using music and arresting camerawork to move between fantasy and reality is a key feature of the film and engenders much of its humour. Take, for instance, Yip's chat with a colleague at work. As several pairs of jeans topple off the display shelf which he is stacking, Yip has a freak out and starts mouthing about how s*** his job is. Suddenly the shop manager appears behind him and starts lecturing about the duties of a retail trainee. He starts to sodomise Yip in synch with his ridiculous soliloquy. Returning to the jeans rack, we realise that Yip's fantastical imagination has been visualised, illustrating his point hilariously.As we rock through the plot into the club and party scenes, the film gathers momentum with the characters rising sense of excitement. Rolling eyeballs, lolling heads and listless dancing tell us enough about what the characters have 'dropped' without needless images of disproportionate $100 bills being rolled up or bags full of 'pills' being distributed. There is little hard drugs fetishism here. Watching the viewers sweating to the left and right, I reflected that the film was like a drug experience itself - episodic, anxiety-ridden, euphoric and colourful but with a flip side. As Yip says what goes up must come down, and come down they do! Nevertheless, Kerrigan avoids the trap of sermonising about drugs while managing to deal with some unavoidable facts. Weighing up the pros and cons of pill-popping, Nina's 'ecstasy virgin' brother is confronted with the apparition of an austere chemistry professor dressed in a white lab coat. He lectures the young lad on the risks of chemical abuse while Yip sits in the corner pointing out what a great night lies in store. In a typically humorous conclusion, the professor mentions the shrivelling of the penis leading to temporary impotence to which Yip can only look away.As the weekend winds up, the characters are seen dealing with their comedowns. In two fantastic sequences, Moff gets up from a family lunch and asks the assembled company, who the f*** are you anyway?; while in a vicarage dining room elsewhere Lulu relates her evening in paraphrase. Asked if she enjoyed herself, she replies emphatically, Oh, yes which, according to the subtitles, actually means Two pills and 1/2 gram of coke.Human Traffic is on a mission to pater la bourgeoisie. It will provoke extreme reactions from the critics and many of the older generation will see it as disrespectful, myopic eye-candy. For the 'Ecstasy generation' it will become a cult for the confused, symbolising and yet parodying the decadence of pre-millennium chaos.When the final scene blacks and the credits come up to the seminal Primal Scream track 'Come Together', we cannot fail to understand Kerrigan's scarily anarchic/humanist message 'The Weekend has landed!' "},{"Title":"British film showing up Hollywood again","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Produced on a shoe string budget, this is Britian again showing we can produce excellent quality films without the massive funding often found in Hollywood productions. The simple story of five friends on a weekend of clubbing and partying. You'll laugh most of the way through this film if you don't take it too seriously and enjoy the story. Of course, and excellent soundtrack which I bought within an hour of leaving the cinema. Go see this film! "},{"Title":"A must see for anyone who has wasted a weekend","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film simply had to be made.  Its observation of the cultural/social events it portrays is acutely accurate.  The intensity with which all of the characters can be empathised with is truly moving. If you have been in similar situations you will recognise the conversations, the looks and the feelings.  Surely one of the best films of the decade. "},{"Title":"A weekend clubbing experience in under two hours","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  As I sit here, I find myself laughing at certain moments in this film.  Go and see this film.If you've ever been clubbing, go and see this film.If you've ever wanted to go clubbing, go and see this film.My bet is that the film was borne from an idea whilst out clubbing and this is the product of that one-in-a-million chance that someone remembered it in the morning and had the application to follow it through.In summary then, go and see this film. "},{"Title":"Made me go clubbing again","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film brought back a lot of good memories and really works to give a good buzz. There was no pc message and the film is all about having a good time, which is all there really is to it when people go out clubbing. "},{"Title":"Nice One Brother!!!","Date":"6 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic is a view into an average weekend for a group of friends, it is a fly-on-the-wall view into their lives (and minds) which will show you how this group of friends relate to each other.  There are many moments in that every one can relate to, Like being out of you skull at parties and talking complete rubbish to strangers.  The characters are all people that you can relate to and they are believable in the roles that they play in the movie.  The situations that they are in are all situations that we all have found ourselves in, and that is where this film succeeds.  The topics of sex and drugs are handled superbly as to no get in the way of the characters relationships with each other.  The story to the film is not all that, but that is not a criticism.  This is a film about people.  This is a well written film, with a sound track to die for.  D.J's Pete Tong has put together an superb selection of tracks for this file which all goes to make this one of the best films that I have seen in 1999.  After watching this film I felt like I had been out partying all weekend. Fantastic Movie! Jo Brand as the voice of reality - Need I say more! "},{"Title":"Absolutely amazing!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is one of the very best films i've seen in ages... it's right up there with the likes of trainspotting and pulp fiction. It just epitomises teenage culture today. The soundtrack is absolutely amazing... overseen by Pete Tong. It's a must see! "},{"Title":"Wow - an unexpected greatness!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I went in expecting not much from Human Traffic and came out really pleased! The film is well made and acted and very stylishly shot. It has so much going for it - it's a film I really recommend, especially to those who liked Trainspotting (or for those who like to argue the debate in the drugs and the media sector). Tremendous fun. "},{"Title":"Simply Brilliant!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  A highly original film using a myriad of genres and film techniques to stunning and powerful effect. All people involved gave only their very best and it shows on screen. A committed film with a committed cast and crew. Simply Brilliant. Just go and see it NOW!  "},{"Title":"Mad for it !","Date":"4 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Great movie in a Trainspotting style...  Being billed as the Welsh Trainspotting, but then so was Twin Town, although this is streets ahead.Takes in a weekend in the life of Cardiff Clubbers, good debut movie from Kerrigan and some great performances in the cast.Go see !  then go clubbing "}{"Title":"Go and see it!","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  If you've ever had a mad week-end out with your mates then you'll appreciate this film. Excellent fun and a laugh a minute. "},{"Title":"The last great film of the Nineties - The Welsh trainspotting","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic is without a doubt the most original and compelling film that I have seen for a long time.  It documents 2 days in the lives of a group of young people, bored with their everyday existence and dead end jobs and taking ecstasy at raves on the weekend.  It is hilariously funny and extremely poignant, and at times very sad.  In the same genre as 'Trainspotting' it has a great soundtrack and features hot young rising British stars. The movie was made on a miniscule budget and I look forward to future offerings of Writer/Director Justin Kerrigan when his talent is discovered by the major movie makers. "},{"Title":"One giant look on the youth of society! and its great...","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" the film itself is absolutely brilliant, its that buzz, that rush that makes you just want to go out, blow your wages and loose yourself. It's what the weekend is all about, its our sanitation where we can come together as one and be ourselves without a care in the world. The film is layered in depth and the dialogue in places is just spot on, especially with Jip. The characters themselves are instantly likable, one in particular is obviously dyers character and his views on what Star Wars is really about, genius.If ever you've got an hour to kill before going out, stick on this, you'll immediately feel yourself growing in confidence, definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"Human Traffic (Moff is a legend)","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" hello everyone, all i have to say is that Human Traffic and all of its characters are so real its funny. I live in Australia (melbourne) and I'm finally out of the clubbing and staying out all weekend lifestyle. This movie explains everything that is currently going on in the world. So exactly that i cant stop watching it.... I used to be exactly like Moff, so my friends said and i hadn't even seen the movie.. I left the weekend partying behind about 3 months ago after 4 years of intense partying to change my life around.. I was at a DVD store when i saw Human Traffic and i remember my old friends going on an on about it, so i bought it to see what all the fuss was about.. I was so into it i watched it 4 times in a row because i couldn't believe that someone had made a movie that explains everything to a T. Anyways this movie is by far the best and funniest movie i have ever seen.. Its funny because its so truthful in everything that goes on in the movie.. AND Moff is a legend!!! Thats all i have to say.. ) Enjoy 11/10 blew my socks off at how real it was, its exactly whats going on in the world.. hr rm i jabber a lottake care everyone... "},{"Title":"If you haven't done the things in this movie then you wouldn't understand.","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The only way to truly understand and relate to the characters in this movie is to have experienced the situations your self. To a lot of people this movie is almost mock-biographical, a sort of snapshot of one weekend in our lives. (I have done about 85 percent of the things in this movie and witnessed the other 15 percent, usually all in the same weekend) For me and others I know it is nice to have this movie to look back on because other than a few pictures of people we sort of remember and nights that are patches and blurs, this movie is our generations Studio 54, a piece to add to our scrap books to look back on and smile. Personally I'm glad those days are past but it is great to watch this movie and say I remember when......... Thank you Justin for making this mock-biography of one weekend in my life. "},{"Title":"the weekend has landed!","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film is too good for words. Its so unbelievably great and funny and true to life. You just know from watching this that the person who wrote this has DEFIANTLY felt the way that Jip and his friends do through the film. It was my life at one point and I would rely on coming home to watch Human Traffic ever night before I could even think of going to bed. I think you just get so loved up with the characters and their life style. Of course, this film wouldn't be for old people more around the age of 16 to 22 I guess. There is defiantly nothing wrong with this film and it will have you in stitches all the way through. It doesn't have a particular story line to it. The general idea is a weekend in the life of older teens in London and what they get up to. The places they go, the people they meet, the drugs they take and the experiences they have. You have to get this movie on DVD never mind just watching it, you have to have it!!! "},{"Title":"a chemical romance of colour and sound","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film was something that at first, I was very skeptical about....but as I plugged in and watched I began to grasp the diverse quality of the characters....the humour and the way in which the cinematography was set was brilliant. I loved how the lines between fantasy and reality were blurred and the honesty and vulnerability within each of the characters. I loved the mind spurts. I must say that one of the core reasons I loved this film was that I believe a film should flow like poetry, like a painting in motion...Also I am a film student....so this may be another reason why I was able to appreciate it. I must say that this film is highly under-appreciated and an extremely good find. I bought a copy after I watched it.Seriously though, its brilliant. here is a sample....or a quote that stuck out for me The present is gone; fantasy is a part of reality and we take the breaks off. We're thinking clearly yet not thinking at all and this feels right. Warm rush of chemicals through us&#133;.we're fluctuating&#133;.is this brain damage? We forget all the pain. We want to go somewhere else. We are not threatened by people anymore.All of our insecurities have evaporated, we're in the clouds now, we're wide open. We're spacemen orbiting the earth and the world looks beautiful (laughs) from here, man. We're nympholetics desiring for the unattainable. We risk sanity for moments of temporary enlightenment. So many ideas with so little memory.The last thought killed by the anticipation of the next. We embrace an overwhelming feeling of love. We flow in unison&#133;we're together. I wish this was real. We're on a universal level of togetherness where we are comfortable with everyone. We're in a rhythm, part of the movement&#133;.a movement to escape. We wave goodbye. Ultimately, we just want to be happy. Wait&#133;.what the f**k was I just talking about? ----Human Traffic "},{"Title":"The only film that ravers actually respect.","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Well, I should say, the only film related to club/dj/electronic music and raves...that ravers respect.Seriously now. It's a gloriously fun, fast paced and fairly accurate portrayal of the night of a raver. Albeit, its in a club, its in Wales and its somewhat dated. The film leaves out some of the sketchier elements of club life, but doesn't disassociate from them altogether. It presents a idyllic yet serious portrayal of the ups and downs of the characters lives.At the core of the film, and the best element of Justin Kerrigan's script, is the characters, eccentric, unique yet completely understandable and accessible. This film simple would not work and be infinitely less entertaining were it not for Jip, Koop, Nina, Moff and Lulu. Viewers can deny the political and social implications of the subtext of Human Traffic as a drug film, Trainspotting wannabe, important peg in British youth culture circa 90's, BUT....they can't deny that these are engaging characters.It's frantic, its brutally honest, it's sobering, it's over the top, but its a great comedy. Raves are a complex thing, so are the drugs that are taken at these events, so are the people you will encounter. But from someone who has gone to parties, become jaded and still goes...Human Traffic is the best snapshot that could be taken of the subculture. Just whatever you do, avoid Groove as its the antithesis of all that is good about Human Traffic.  "},{"Title":"Weekend in Cardiff","Date":"19 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I just adore this film! I love all characters and I can watch it againand again...and I use to listen to the soundtrack again and again.Although I have seen it about two years after it was made and Ihave never been such youngster as Jip and company I canunderstand them and I love their stories. And if somebody thinks this film is crap, I disagree and I say it isfull of positive energy and friendship and love...and full of youth!The weekend has landed...enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It's a very likable movie. You learn to like the characters and enjoy their adventures of being older ravers in England. The best part is the drug Philophies they come up with during the movie because most of them are either very true or something that you thought of when under the influence. For example is a segment they do named Spliff Politics. It's a scene where one character lights up a joint and a narrator explains how the people around him are trying to subtly influence him to pass the joint their way. It's great. Also it has an awesome soundtrack. "}{"Title":"High energy pumping!","Date":"8 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Great movie! oh yeah! Full of energy, full of fun, presenting our generation, our alienation a hymn to positive thinking despite this world we live in, a tale of a great party, a tale of a bunch of friends who desperately must do something in a week end and the only thing to do is The Club. But fun and extasy keep boredom away!  Very funny, nicely grotesque in a few points, nicely shot... and great soundtrack! "},{"Title":"forgivably styled over substance","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human traffic is unique work. Boldly existentialist, with little if any major conflicts. the only real task of the (unfortunately nicknamed) group of young hipsters is to survive the night.  This movie is complete daesin of British youth. While the style recalls Danny Boyle and Guy Ritchie and Bahz Luhrmann and just about any other 'MTV'-style hectic editing, it can be forgiven of its willingness to appeal to youth market trends.  There are some great moments that strike alarmingly true in Human Traffic (such as the various asides and daydreams in which we enter the narrator's true thoughts. How many of us would really just like to shake off that person that we see in public but have absolutely nothing to say to.)Interestingly enough, the night of debauchery and substance abuse results in no overdoses, no arrests, and no social complications....which is usually the case in real life. And we're presented with the sage advice of the late great Bill Hicks to guide us down this path (which unlike Hicks' philosophy is not about self-discovery but rather getting really ripped)  Surely not likely to be popular among the Just-say-no and straightedge crowds.  The films has a surreal sense to it, that apart from all the fun and intentional surrealness (such as the play-by-play of a kid trying to snag a toke off the joint going around), actually does quite a good job of simulating a high. Though the ending lacks a certain closure (how do you end a movie like this), the enthusiasm levels arefar to hyperactive to be realistic and the style often impedes into the subject matter, Human Traffic is a good weekday movie for those dreaming of the weekend and a good motivational tape for those who've never tried ecstasy.   "},{"Title":"Come to Wales - Sheep, Tom Jones and Ecstacy","Date":"6 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  At last, Wales is portrayed as a hip and happening up to date hive of energy, instead of sheep, Tom Jones, hills, male voice choirs, rugby and valleys. Twin Town tried to make Wales cool, but this is a far better effort. What I would say though which does concern me slightly is that it shows drug taking in a good light and doesn't show the fact that lives can be destroyed by them as well. It does kind of promote the use of ecstasy, while begrudgingly fleeting over some side effects in a kind of fantasy scene, told by a boring professor type, and being righted by the main character, a clubber.It has kicking music throughout though, and characters that youths can relate too (not just drug takers either) and a good story. It follows a group of 6 youths on a night out on the Cardiff club scene and the events that follow. Never been to the capital myself but hear that is a wicked night out and this re-enforces that. Not as good as Wrexham though I am sure!!  "},{"Title":"A creative, well crafted in-your-face mishmash.","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic is a guided tour through the weekend lives of a tight group of British clubbers who vent their accumulated frustrations with jobs, family, the establishment, and their lives in general with a rush of techno, dancing, drugs, and sex all the while looking at their counter-productive behavior honestly and with humor. An excellent job of dovetailing vignettes, narration, and storyline, some will find Kerrigan's whimsical effort repugnant while others will love it and still others will see a boring rehash of the same old 60's stuff revarnished for the current younger generation. "},{"Title":"Triffic","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Took this out with 'Go'. Check out what 'da kids' are into. Apparently the director was about to go and see the world after film school when his tutor called him suggesting that the moment was NOW to make a film. Most ex-film students will be rubbing their eyes at this unlikely scenario but we have to take his word for it. Tutors encouraging their pupils to make films, whatever next? My tortoise for prime minister? And about CLUBS and DRUGS, not kitchen sink misery. The tide is surely changing in Blighty at last. Actually, the usual tutor reaction of superiority, pomposity and indifference (I am a failed film maker routine) would have been handy here. So what are the kids into nowadays? Well, of what I saw of this film, they basically jump up and down frenetically yelling at each other that the weekend is an amazing thing and that life is bright, colourful and completely positive. Hang on, we're talking Cardiff here. Is it possible to jump up and down while seated in a car? Apparently. By the time our hero was yelling into his mobile phone to his mate on the toilet with a freneticism that makes Roger rabbit look like a depressive, I'd had enough. The desperation behind this film is something else. Apparently the director Kerrigan was semi-happy with the result. He said he got the theme of sexual insecurity across to the audience. Yes, I noticed the Mr.Floppy t-shirt, it was a subtle moment.This film made 3m in the UK which for a no-budget feature is astonishing. So the message is 'just say YES, kids!' Personally, I think the little whipper snappers should be punished for their AFFRONTARY in making films like this. They should have their pants taken down and given a good spanking. This should be video'd and shown to other film makers as a warning, and I will keep the video in my private collection so as to show any young people that may come my way *TREMBLE*. But what do young people look like? Do you know, I think they're all on drugs. Or heat. "},{"Title":"Does this portray the youth of today?","Date":"30 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human Traffic is a really interesting film about a group of friends in Wales and what happens to them on a typical friday night.The relationships , the music, the drugs and conical way some kids try to live up to the stereotypes there friend expect of them. Most of the film is narrated by all the characters which makes it very watchable. If you think your out of touch with the youth of today( i do and im only 31!) i would advise you to cast your eyes over this film. It's well directed and very well acted but i'm still not sure what it is trying to say if its trying to says anything! Maybe ,as the main actor says deep down were all f*cked up. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"What they said!","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Everything that everyone else has already written here is true! This film is hilarious - the kind of jokes that are all the funnier cos they're born of recognition.  I laughed til it hurt.The characters are so real, the music is incredible, the dialogue is brilliantly funny, oh I just can't think of anything bad at all!!I just wanted to go out and stay out all night, I was so hyper after seeing it - can't wait to get the video, and play it on a Sat evening before going out.Oh, and OK, I have to say it - John Simm is pretty gorgeous!So, go see it now! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Human traffic is one of those movies that you enjoy mainly because (and if) you can relate to what goes on in it. The acting varies from unconvincing to plainly good, but what saves this movie from being just another movie about club life is by all means the camera work. Beyond that, the sub-plots, however unoriginal they may be, they are easy and enjoyable to follow and watch. Good soundtrack, too.7  "},{"Title":"Best Film Ever","Date":"30 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film is for any Brit who grew up in the 90's, has been given a remix for the later generation too, with a different soundtrack.... However anyone who found this film boring is either A) Not British B) too old or C) just never had fun during the 90's.Stunning film, funny quotes, and just your typical night out. Dyer was by far and away good foil for Simm who bounced off each other throughout this film. One of the best films you'll ever see.All in all a very worthwhile watch and graces every 20 something's shelf in the UK, have a little look at what the Brits do on a night off. The Milky Bars are on me! Yeah! "},{"Title":"One of the BEST of the genre (Club Comedy/Drama)","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie is FUN. It's about a gang of mates in england- both male and female who all club together, do X together and smoke the occasional Spliff. The pacing of the movie is immersive in the vibe of the best times at a club- lots of pumping music and funky dancing going on. Lots of silly characters and great lines. Good fun! The plot is the various misadventures of the participants of this party posse within the context that the #1 job is to dance your ass off at the club this weekend and melt so hard on X you can't remember how much the week sucked. Everything between that is just a detail or a drama.The direction in this movie is superb, it has great pacing and shots of clubs, fun scenes and it also does a large number of scenes where we suspend reality and show a lot of really funny metaphor in a bunch of what if? scenarios. Some of the best jokes happen during these moments.All in all- if you ever clubbed or are into the scene- this will be a movie you can laugh with and identify with.If you can't follow the British accent and slang and don't know what clubbing or X is- skip this, you will be totally lost on what the hell is going on.THis is a generation movie- either you love it cuz it's cool or you just don't get it because you are a square. "}]