[{"Title":"A refreshingly intelligent film","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This refreshingly intelligent film delivers raw intellectual power by retaining the look and feel of the play from which it was adapted.  The use of a single set and just three actors throws the emphasis entirely upon the in-depth character studies, the incisive dialogue and the actors' outstanding performances.  It draws us into the lives of three seemingly ordinary guys at a convention whose interaction broaches questions that are nothing short of an examination of the meaning of life.  The dialogue unabashedly strips the characters naked to show the ironies and hypocrisies inherent in their strategies for establishing meaning in the machinations of mundane lives.  The laser sharp exchanges slash relentlessly at the souls of each, leaving none of the characters intact by the end of the film.  And with each thrust, they drive another introspective probe deep into the psyche of the viewer.The presentation reminded me a little of `Glengarry Glen Ross' with its theatrical feel and deep reflective tone, although this film was more confronting and less darkly despondent.  Roger Roeff's penetrating script approaches the meaninglessness of life from three unique perspectives.  We have Larry (Kevin Spacey) the seemingly superficial cynic who has far greater depth than he lets on and who uses his sardonic persona as a defense mechanism to hide his own fears.  Phil (Danny DeVito) is the pragmatic but jaded salesman who is great at putting things in perspective for everyone but himself.  Bob is the naïve young Christian zealot whose antidote for the futility of life is a strong dose of Jesus.The juxtaposition of Larry the cynic and Bob the idealist makes for numerous thought provoking exchanges, especially when we learn that Phil (our mediator and voice of reason) is drowning in his own soul-searching quest for meaning.  The story poses more questions than it does answers, and sputters a bit at the end, but overall it accomplishes its purpose of making the viewer ponder profundities easily ignored while in the pursuit of everyday priorities.The acting was brilliant.  Kevin Spacey gave what I thought was the best performance of his career.  This was so much more interesting and meaty a character than he played in `American Beauty' that Spacey easily eclipsed even that outstanding performance.  Larry was such a dynamic and complex character, that Spacey was able to open up the throttle and show us the full measure of his considerable talents.  Likewise, Danny DeVito delivered a personal best in a serious dramatic role.  His portrayal of the mediator who was trying to keep the peace while he was disintegrating inside was subtle and powerful.  Peter Facinelli was also near perfect with an utterly believable and sincere performance as the pure hearted whelp whose heart was suffused with the Lord.I rated this film a 9/10, but it requires a certain type of viewer to enjoy it.  It is a very intellectual film, which precludes it from having much mass appeal.  Action junkies will be bored to tears.  However, for those who have a philosophical bent, this film will be highly satisfying.   "},{"Title":"A bang-on, unbelievably good script executed by some of the finest actors around","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"44 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  	The Big Kahuna proved to be one of the finest offerings that I was privy to at the Toronto International Film Festival this year. The expression saving the best for last applies strongly to this film. We were fortunate to have a Q&A after the film with Roger Rueff, the screenwriter of this eloquently written piece, John Swanbeck, the director enjoying all that a first timer could hope for from his debut, and the gifted actor Kevin Spacey, who starred in and produced the film.	This marvellous examination of three men of different age groups at a convention in Wichita also features the talents of Danny DeVito who apparently came to the production in the proverbial last minute. This film was shot in a very short sixteen days which comes as a surprise, despite it's one central location, as the dialogue is so strong. The best way to describe it is as almost poetic. The script was adapted from the play Hospitality Suite, also written by Rueff, who revealed in the Q&A that the story was based upon his own experiences at a sales convention long ago. But he assured us that his character of the young, impressionable, bible thumping Bob was not based on himself. Rueff also noted that with this being his first screenplay, he had worried about the horror stories he heard where scripts are butchered and transformed into things the writer never intended in many Hollywood productions. But in this case, he trusted the director and cast implicitly and was not disappointed in any way.	Kevin Spacey shines in this sneak peak behind the scenes of a sales convention where the future of a company lies squarely on the shoulders of three men in the pursuit of a big client. The president of another company represents the biggest potential account they will ever have. They exchange stories, accounts and personal philosophies and find how different they are from one another based on what they've been through.	The interaction between the three actors is mesmerizing. They take the audience into what feels like a true life account documented verbatim. To say more would spoil the outcome for those who've not yet had a chance to enjoy this film. It is my strong recommendation that all of those who have not, do so at their first available opportunity.  "},{"Title":"Spacey Good, DeVito Great","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"39 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Some movies are little more than photographed stage plays. 'The Big Kahuna' is like that. Most of the scenes are set in one hotel room and only 4 people have any lines. It could be said that all they do is talk, philosophize, and soul-search in this film. So if what they talk about is interesting and moves you, then the movie works. With subject matter such as religion, friendship, finding a meaning in life, and even the art of salesmanship, the characters definitely have a lot to say. And they're pretty funny, even if the film is too tragic to be called a comedy. Bottom line is, I'll long remember Danny DeVito's touching, understated performance.He and Kevin Spacey (Phil and Larry, respectively) play experienced industrial lubricant salesman who've been sent to a convention in Wichita. Accompanying the two longtime friends and colleagues is a young co-worker, Bob (Peter Facinelli). They're hosting a small party in their hospitality suite for the elusive Dick Fuller. This is a client who could conceivably make or break their careers, but might not even show up to talk biz. Fuller represents the title character, although you could also say the kahuna is God. The final third of the picture delves deeply into spiritual belief and the search for the man above. Facinelli is devout, Spacey is not, DeVito rides in the middle lane and tries to keep the peace.Whether or not they actually make the big deal plays second fiddle to the give-and-take relationship of the 3 very different men. Spacey is as witty and smart as usual, but DeVito is the soul of 'The Big Kahuna'. He's been good before, but he's generally a comic actor. Here, he's the straight man. The writer and director (Roger Rueff and John Swanbeck, who've never made another film) know how to give Spacey his big scenes and they REALLY know how to let DeVito play everything in expressions and tone. The filmmakers aren't breaking new turf, but they let their excellent actors act. Even if this is just another verse in the 'Death Of A Salesman' song, DeVito's got the goods on Willy Loman. "},{"Title":"Remarkable acting, excellent character development.","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  An extremely well done, contained movie.  Unlike so much of the standard over the top excesses of much of current Hollywood movies this movie depends on the depth of the characters, particularly Danny De Vito.  Rarely have I ever seen an actor change on screen from the inside out like De Vito does. Kevin Spacey gives his normal excellent work, and Peter Facinelli is quite good as an easily recognizable true believer.  But, this movie belongs to Danny De Vito who gives the best performance of his career.  Moving exploration of men struggling with meaninglessness. "},{"Title":"Well done, great acting","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Would you sell your soul to sell industrial lubricants?  Based on a stage play called 'Hospitality suite', The Big Kahuna contains only 3 main actors in this movie who all give powerful performances.Spacey as the no nonsense take no prisoners step on em when he's down salesman, DeVito as his colleague who's had enough and thinks he's wasted his life going from nameless towns, and boring hotel rooms, and the young up and coming Peter Facinelli as the 6 month newcomer who is like a babe in the woods, but has a strong spiritual side and stronger convictions than anyone else.Spacey is great as always, and Facinelli is very believable as the devout Baptist.  But it is DeVito who steals this movie in what has to be the best role I have ever seen him portray.  A funny expose and what it means to be truly successful and happy in career and life.  Kahuna scores high!This movie has just great dialogue, and some incredibly memorable lines most of it coming from Spacey who keeps hitting Facinelli over his head with his sharp brute and dirty yet smart mouth.  A definite must see for 2000.Rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"thoughtful drama","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Though essentially little more than a stage bound version of the play, `Hospitality Suite,' the film entitled `The Big Kahuna' earns distinction for its sharply delineated characters and the finely wrought performances of its three main actors.  In fact, the stage origins of the film are evident in the fact that the action rarely extends beyond a single set &#150; a hotel suite in Wichita, Kansas in which three salesman are gathered for a convention &#150; and the fact that only four people are even assigned speaking parts (and even the fourth is a mere walk-on bellboy).  All the other people we see serve as a kind of silent backdrop before which the three principal players enact their complex personal drama.Kevin Spacey, in a truly brilliant performance, plays Larry, a middle-aged, sardonic salesman who sees life strictly from the perspective of a hardcore cynic and who, consequently, runs roughshod over his two business associates with his acerbic wit and hardnosed bluntness.  In total contrast is Bob (Peter Facinelli), a 20-something neophyte to the selling business, a sincere, well-intentioned, but hopelessly naïve born-again Christian, who has trouble separating his career as a salesman from his felt need to fulfill the Biblical edict to go out among men and spread the Good News.  Caught between the two is Phil (Danny DeVito), a 52-year old man who, after years of devoting his life to the cause of selling, has begun to seriously question the validity of his life's work and has, therefore, recently found himself contemplating such weighty matters as suicide, the existence of God and the meaning of love and friendship.  Obviously, such cleanly delineated characters could well have slid over into two-dimensional stereotypes, yet the author, Roger Rueff, in adapting his play to the screen, has built into each of the three principal figures a dimension of multifaceted human complexity.  Larry, for instance, despite all of his facile cynicism, shows a far deeper side to his character when, in a quiet moment in which Phil pours his heart out to him, he offers his buddy the hand of genuine compassion and friendship.  We discover that the often-bitter tone Larry displays to the world is just a façade, a cover-up for the void that lies deep within his own troubled psyche.  Similarly, Rueff avoids the common trap of reducing the devout Christian character to the customary level of a mindless buffoon.  Although we sense that Bob too uses his Christianity as a way of ordering his life - thereby avoiding the messy ugliness that a more freethinking life often requires - yet, Rueff merely implies that Bob has some growing up to do, not that his belief system must itself be jettisoned.  And Phil, caught between these two worldviews, provides, out of his own confused weakness, the voice of reasoned sanity that helps Larry and Bob come to a final understanding and mutual appreciation of each other.  He sees Larry plainly for who he is, yet Phil knows that this is the person who means more to him than anyone else in the world.  Similarly, though he somewhat admires and respects Bob's sincere devotion to his Christian principles, Phil knows that Bob has a long way to go before he becomes a true `man of character.'`The Big Kahuna' does not provide big laughs, though the sardonic wit often strikes a deep chord in the audience.  The film may also seem claustrophobic to those who demand more movement from their movies.  The dialogue, however, is consistently sharp and incisive, even though Phil's final speech borders a bit on the pedantic.  (At this point, Phil's function as the author's mouthpiece becomes a bit heavy-handed to say the least).  Nevertheless, for those in search of a fine character study, driven by strong performances and insightful observations about human nature, `The Big Kahuna' is definitely worth checking out.  "},{"Title":"Powerful performances outweigh stagey film","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big KahunaThis three-character movie, based on the play by Roger Rueff, deals with salesmen who are somewhat impatiently waiting for a very important business client - a.k.a. The Big Kahuna - on whom the fortunes of their company rests. Should they land the contract with this mysterious bigwig, their company will prosper. If they don't land the contract, of course, then they're all sunk.Larry (Kevin Spacey) and Phil (Danny DeVito) are the salesmen, and Bob (Peter Facinelli) is the marketing guy. Bob's a rookie, and Larry and Phil try to prep him for handling himself with potential customers. They've rented the hospitality suite in the hotel to entertain their clients and are planning on having a small party, hoping that the Big Kahuna will show up. No, it's not Waiting for Godot, but it's along those lines.This is basically a character study. There's a lot of dialog - virtually the entire movie takes place in the suite, with only a few very minor scenes outside it - and each word is absolutely dripping with meaning. There aren't any throwaway lines in this movie, folks. Most movies contain generic lines that would fit in any similar movie. Not this one. If you're a fan of well-written movies, this is a prime example of how one should be constructed.But with such an emphasis on the dialog, there's naturally little action. This is always a problem with movies based on plays. They come off restrained, stagey, and claustrophobic. But the lack of action actually gives the viewer the opportunity to watch two decidedly different acting styles. Spacey is bombastic, punctuating each syllable with a sneer or a rant. DeVito, on the other hand, is more reserved and appears wizened as a result. Each actor turns in a stunning performance, with Spacey basically reprising the role he played in Glengarry Glen Ross. The only one who seems out of place is Facinelli, who is ineffective as Bob the marketing guy.The Big Kahuna is compelling, as long as you don't mind talky comedy-dramas. "},{"Title":"Witty!","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" For some, this movie might seem quite boring. What's the point in watching three men talking in one room for almost two hours?! But tell you what?.. this movie is not boring at all! There's almost no storyline to speak of, but the script is more than beautiful. It will turn you into one big attentive ear. In addition, Kevin Spacey with his wonderful performance and entertaining sense of humor and wit made this movie a must-see. The movie doesn't want you to side with any of the three characters; it simply displays three different samples of human nature, and their views on the world (especially the concept of appearance vs reality). "},{"Title":"Promising start leads to existential mush","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" The Big Kahuna starts promising but falls into a didactic tailspin from which it never recovers. The setup - three business men, all in a different life stage, is elegant and sparse, and allows the three characters to develop fully. By the end of the movie, we are fed a desperate moral theory that regret builds character along with (I kid you not) several minutes of voice-over aphorisms. What happened? Instead of sending the movie into where it should have gone, namely ambiguity as to a) what matters to the characters, b) what is at stake, c) what wisdom can possibly be recovered from the mess that the characters get themselves into, we are instead led to a basement of philosophical knickknacks. Failing a reasonable ending, it would at least have been nice to see the characters grow... or perhaps engage in some entertaining pyrotechnics. On the plus side we get to hear grown men say they love each other, so not all is lost...the dream recounting is also well planned & executed. "},{"Title":"Godot meets Glengary meets Andre meets Rope","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.It is truly interesting to see what films successful actors craft for themselves. If it doesn't define the true character, it surely reflects on the core of how they see their art. This is Spacey's creation, and it speaks highly of what he is about.Spacey and DeVito are not multidimensional actors. That is, they don't present simultaneous views (like say Hoffman and Penn). No, they aren't modern in this sense, instead find a single center and use it to manipulate a thread, instead shifting that thread up into introspection, down into `action,' up again into that space where art meets life. For such actors, the writing is central - everything centers on conversation and focus.So here, we have a film about conversation; about whether conversations have their own fate; whether directed conversations can be honest, which is the same as exploring the nature of whether acting can be honest. The dialog is in one world at a time, but shifts among acting as being human, acting as being `marketeers,' acting as being actors.This shift is managed by toggling the focus the Big Kahuna flips among a key sales target (Fuller, Dick), God, a disembodied Godot called Murdock, and all of three actors.DeVito is one of the most intelligent film people in Hollywood, going so far as making a comedy from Nabokov (`Momma'). Spacey has focus, and cares to fabricate something that manipulates and tells us so and why.`If you know what you are doing, you don't have to look like you know what you are doing.'Put this on the shelf with Andre and Vanya. It is worth experiencing.  "}{"Title":"A surprising treat","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I had one sole motivation- It had Kevin Spacey in it. That, in my opinion, makes any of his films worth at least a glance. He's so brilliant. Also, I was in the mood for a good comedy. This film presented me with both the expected comedy and brilliant performance by Spacey. However, I guess I neglected to read up on what this movie was all about first.Let me say that, as a Christian (and a Baptist), the portrayal of Bob is the single most realistic on screen portrayal of a true Christian that I have ever seen. Bravo to them for not giving into cliches! While some attacks were made on Bob's faith, they weren't presented as right or wrong, but different view points. I was frankly shocked (pleasently) by this film. I would deffinately recommend it.Also, I am not a particurally big DeVito fan, but he turns in a truly moving and realistic performance in this film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The big conversation","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" 'The Big Kahuna' is actually just a big conversation, a three-way encounter between a trio of industry representatives hoping to entice an important client. And the combination of a lively script and a heavyweight cast delivers the goods, Danny de Vito is strong and (in the most interesting role) Kevin Spacey is excellent; Peter Facinelli is OK, but his part offers less scope to the actor. But for all the quality, it's a bit hard to see the focal point of the drama is supposed to be about. Spacey plays a pushy, egotistical salesman whose frustration with the self-righteous Facinelli suddenly boils over; the extension from the everyday to the existential is well-handled but never opens the heart of the character to us, de Vito vouches for him but it's not quite enough. The use of Baz Luhrman's feel-good but platitudinous 'Everybody's Free to Wear Sunscreen' over the closing credits feels like a glib opt out of forcing the drama to stand on its own feet. An interesting film nonetheless. "},{"Title":"A fantastic disaster of a movie","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna is a pretentious, preachy, overblown film.  To make matters worst, it is painfully uncinematic.  It bears the scars of its lineage, meaning that it is obviously a play adapted to the screen.  And it does not bear the transfer well.  The director, a first timer, tries to work in interesting cinematic techniques, but he doesn't do it enough, and you end up feeling like you're watching a play.  But the play isn't even good, as it was in other films with the same problem (I'm thinking of Oleanna here). THe simple fact of the matter is that this story didn't need to be told, didn't want to be told, and is not told well.  The acting?  Danny DeVito's alright, I suppose, but he has that earnest nice guy look he has in most of his work these days.  Kevin Spacey sinks way below the heights he reached in American Beauty.  Spacey bitches and moans and proves once more that he can overact with the best of them.  The fact that Spacey also produced this film makes it even sadder  this was Spacey's idea of a good movie.  This movie has nothing to recommend it.  THe story is flat and uninteresting, and builds to an intense conclusion that is full of emotion and energy, but is completely undeserved by what came before it.  This is a total piece of garbage.  One of the worst movies I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Marvellous","Date":"14 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" A marvellous film covering many different subject areas. It is minimalist as most of it takes place in a hotel suite. It's a business convention where three salesmen (Kevin Spacey, Danny DeVito and Peter Facinelli) are selling a product. In short, they are trying to get a big monetary sales deal going with one client. Only their young cohort (Peter Facinelli) manages to encounter this customer, but the conversation gets side-tracked and the deal never goes through. I won't let you in on the details &#x96; but this leads to many an encounter &#x96; some of them quite impassioned.There are several areas covered &#x96; friendship, the nature of work, youthful and older employees, and religion &#x96; all of it in a very real and direct way. For a film with such a broad spectrum of topics bordering on the philosophical, it never becomes pretentious or wordy. The script lifts this film into several intense confrontations. The actors enhance all this - particularly Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito. Their performances are magnetic and really something to behold. "},{"Title":"Felt like a Coen Bro. Film","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This felt like. This looked like. This tasted like. And this was enjoyed like a Coen Brothers film. Would also be a great stage production. Need I say more.Wait I have to say more or they won't post this review???Gee golly I liked this film a lot. Seriously, if your brain works at all, and if you happen to be a Coen Bro. fan, you will absolutely enjoy this movie. An excellent, well written script. Excellent acting - though I have to admit as much as I like Kevin Spacey, he is always Kevin Spacy in his parts. Hopefully this is now long enough to post. Hopefully you will see this film. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"A true underrated gem of a movie.","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Only the other night whilst watching an episode of Taxi did I remember seeing a film with Kevin Spacey and Danny Devito about six years ago, there was just one problem, I couldn't remember what it was called, hours turned into days, sleepless nights became more sleepless and I still couldn't remember, but I did remember thinking it was rather great. Well imagine my surprise upon venturing into my local poundland and finding a movie called Big Kahuna featuring, you guessed it Kevin Spacey and Danny Devito, with the biggest grin on my face, the feeling that I'd achieved a minor accomplishment, a 12 pack of Dorito's and some scented bin liners I approached the checkout, paid and promptly headed home. A pound, one whole English pound for a movie I would gladly pay twenty for any day, because this is truly a great little movie, granted not much really happens and settings nothing new, but when you've got such fantastic performances from a fantastic cast there can be no complaints, Dany Devito has rarely been better, this disaffected soul is genuinely someone you can feel for and completely side with, Kevin Spacey is, well Kevin Spacey and lets face it that has never been a bad thing, every time he talks you listen, Peter Facinelli gives a very subtle but no less engrossing performance, but on the whole the real star is Roger Rueff, the script is just beautiful with great line after great line flowing from the mouths of a great cast, it really makes you want to see it on the stage. This is a great little film that any self respecting film fan should at least give a go. I'm heading down to Poundland to buy up the remaining copies and I'm gonna hand them out to my friends. "},{"Title":"Emotionally, Psychologically, and Spiritually Powerful","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" It is hard to explain this film to anyone you want to get to see it. It is simply three guys sitting around a hotel room in Wichita, Kansas talking about stuff. I admit that I first watched it because I grew up in Wichita. But I watched it again and again because the film is astounding. As others have noted, since there are no props the actors have to carry everything and Spacey and DeVito put in performances here that will blow you away. Beyond this the script -- based on the play The Hospitality Suite -- is simply engrossing as well as psychologically and even spiritually, very deep. Somehow the writer draws you into the dialog from the onset with a subtle promise to resolve the young man's (Peter Facinelli) consideration of the idea of character. And you don't really know this until you have watched the movie a couple of times. Yet he sets the stage for this discussion from a very shallow perspective and it is not until the final minutes of the movie when the writer closes the deal and delivers on that promise in a way that is so far from shallow that you cannot forget it. The scene (and many others) are unforgettable. Finally, do not miss the astonishing, brief and powerfully subtle dream sequences. They will pass so quickly (about 1/3 of the way through) that you can easily miss them (Hint One is on the cover of the video/DVD). I have never seen a director or writer (not sure which) so aptly tell you something secret about the characters in just five seconds. Extremely important material, as is the entire movie. If you like film this is the film to see. Ranks up there with Pulp Fiction in my book and is better than Glen Gary Glen Ross. "},{"Title":"Very different, original, and excellently made.","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"    THE BIG KAHUINA lives up to its name. First off, unlike many comedies where a bunch of people are thrown together just to bounce jokes off each other, the Big Kahuna shows us the 3 characters feelings, inner emotions, and past. THEN AND THEN ONLY can we fully appreciate the jokes that are spoken. We feel like we truly get to know these people. We see excellent character interaction, and all the actors are WONDERFUL in this film. DeVito portrays his character excellently, but my favorite was Kevin Spacey's character. He fit RIGHT into the role of his character. I think THE BIG KAHUNA is also the only film I've ever seen with only 3 cast members (4 if you count the bell boy). Although low-budget, THE BIG KAHUNA delivers a massive blow to all those cheap, crude comedies out there today. I'm very satisfied and pleased I had the honor of seeing one of the best films of 1999. 3.5/5 stars--JOHN ULMER "},{"Title":"Sharp screenplay with on target performances","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  A tight, stage drama punctuated with some of the shrewdest, pointed dialogue to come out of Hollywood in a good while. Covering the gamut of religion, goals, aims in life and the toll they take, THE BIG KAHUNA shakes these up in a can and tosses them like dice. Danny DeVito, Kevin Spacey and Peter Facinelli deliver stunning performances, with nary a glitch. Truly a film for people who appreciate taut, explicit dialogue; and more importantly, the human condition and psyche. A very well crafted film. Major kudos to Roger Rueff for the screenplay, adapted from his stage play, HOSPITALITY SUITE. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Take a Moment","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" If we paused for a moment, who would we see? The big man on campus, or a man questioning life? We are all actors in a play, and we know our roles well. But do we want more? Do we wonder if we are living the life that we are supposed to be living? Faith is the guiding light to keep us strong, but dreams leave us dreaming, lost to the confines of this real world. Do we know who we are, and is this all that we would become? If we could let go, accept, would we then be free, free to be who we were meant to be, but then what would wait for us at the end of the road? Life is a funny thing, one that keeps us on our toes, but the one lesson that it will always teach us is never to take things for granted. Life is always changing, and time is pushing us along. But as time marches on, where we were, the mistakes we've made are the threads intertwining, weaving into characterization, and becoming the fabric of our definition, and we are more than we thought, exceeding limitations, and discovering new heights, greater dreams, and a breath of destiny. "}{"Title":"The Big Nothing (lots of spoilers, but what is there to spoil?)","Date":"21 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Friday night.Me and a friend figured it'd be a good plan to rent a movie, before going out. After a chanceless expedition to find something worthwhile, 'Identity' and 'The Big Kahuna' were the only two movies we nominated. We flipped a coin and it was heads, so we rented 'The Big Kahuna'. Alright, Kevin Spacey, Danny de Vito, what could go wrong? During the first 15 minutes of the movie, it felt it could turn out good, although the constant blabbering of Spacey's character started to annoy. Three guys two marketing veterans, De Vito and Spacey, and a new guy, in a hotel room planning a reception to get some big cheese business guy to use their lubricants. After 30 minutes, nothing has changed. There's only conversation. We start to think this movie was made in one day, and in one take. Every half ass bit of dialogue stayed in somehow. And all of a sudden, after 45 minutes... NOTHING, still nothing! Dear god! I guess  the screenwriter, who also wrote the original play, must have thought that if he'd just let the characters talk on and on and say quasé intelligent and insightful things, he would have a brilliant movie.  Then there's the reception which the whole movie is about. Big cheese dude doesn't show up, Spacey's character goes halfway nuts (but not in a funny or cool way, just annoying), De Vito doesn't care (he doesn't care about anything, which IS interesting) and the new guy doesn't know whether he cares.  New guy spoke to big businessman, didn't know it was him, got a card and went to big businessman's party, it all leads to nothing.Nearing the end there are some decent conversation between De Vito and the new guy and that's about it. Now, a movie were nothing happens can be very interesting, when there is great dialogue, likeable characters, great actors, and some kind of coming of age-ending, but this movie offers none of those features. 98 percent of the movie takes place in the terribly boring hotel room, which makes you want to sleep, the overall pace of the film does so even more. I'm sorry if I've spoiled the whole movie for you, but then again, you could say, I've saved you a couple of bucks, which you can now invest in beer or food. "},{"Title":"Art of the deal.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Kevin Spacey, Danny DeVito and Peter Facinelli star are three industrial lubricant salesmen at a convention in Wichita. They have a party for clients in their hotel suite, and await the arrival of a major company head for the business they need the deal. The Big Kahuna is an excellent study of characters in the movie. Kevin Spacey did Glengarry Glen Ross seven years before, which is similar acting style but in a smaller cast. DeVito, Facinelli and Spacey did an excellent job acting in the movie. It was so smooth their characters, that I felt I want to know these characters. "},{"Title":"This was a David Mamet Wanna-be","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film was a David Mamet wanna-be.  It lacks the twisted and subtle inter-personal relationships that would be necessary to bring life to an endlessly hard driving dialogue.  This emptiness was emphasized by Kevin Spacey who is usually a master of this genre when backed up with the right script and direction.  Consequence this picture demanded my attention for no good reason. I'd give it a 6.    "},{"Title":"The end result of being deluged by disappointments!!","Date":"6 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Three lubricant salesman are staying at a hotel in Wichita to lure the most powerful man in the district (The Big Kahuna)...The three men are Kevin Spacey; a slightly beaten man who is seemingly flippant about failure...Danny DeVito; an exhausted individual who is seeking some kind of spirituality in his life, and Peter Facinelli; a young and maverick salesman who lives by the straight and narrow and turns to Jesus for answers!! The setting is all pretty much laid out to establish the genre and imagery of this film... The frumpy and unassuming western end of the Midwest (Wichita)...An emphatically uneventful aspect of the adjective upscale, by way of an anonymous Raddissson hotel...Cheese and crackers, instead of gulf shrimp!! Last but not least, the indication that a lot of sales excursions for these three men have resulted in less than aupicatory satisfaction!!! Ultimately, what clinches the motif of monumental failure in these three men's lives is that they are painfully reminded of how disappointing the whole sales rigmarole can be!! It is alright to fail, however, failure must have a reason, and now, for Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito, recrimination must serve a constructive purpose!! Being lambasted by mediocrity has become the insidious social hindrance which has aggregately demoralized both of them!! For these two, their Horatio Alger spirits have been utterly vitiated!!! This is a very ideologically riveting concept that the film The Big Kahuna purveys!!The intense emotions in this movie are extremely realistic!! Kevin Spacey's performance is remarkable!!! The ideological premise of life having a cohesive plausibility has been totally obliterated in this film!!! For better or for worse, reality has now become vicariously abusive!!! The resonating attitudes for the main characters in this movie ultimately emerged with all three men have a clearer understanding of one another. I found this movie to be identifiable and poignant!! Upper middle class hang-ups have effortlessly thwarted as well as devoured all three of these men!!! Failure to close a sale transcends the loss of commission, it also serves as an indictment on an individual's charisma!! The outstanding portrayal of recognizable human inadequacies is the key component as to why I strongly recommend that every salesperson in this country sees this film!! "},{"Title":"Watered down Mamet meets Waiting For Godot","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  THE BIG KAHUNA (2000) **1/2 Kevin Spacey, Danny De Vito, Peter Facinelli.  (Dir John Swanback)Kevin Spacey, arguably one of our finest actors performing today and with a recent Oscar win as Best Actor in the Best Picture of the Year, `American Beauty', has talent to burn and in his current display of subtle, nuanced brio he takes a step down in this indie satire that he produced, as a pet project.Spacey stars as Larry Mann, a fast-talking, smug and perhaps too sharp for his own good marketing salesman for a midWestern industrial lubricant manufacturer who is one of three fellow travelers setting up a much anticipated greet/meet with an important client (the eponymous moniker he uses as a mantra to signify the underlining of its significance) in the unlikely hotel suite in Wichita, Kansas.Also on board are his best friend and longtime associate Phil Cooper (De Vito in a wonderfully low-keyed, yet bluntly hewned turn) and green recruit Bob Walker (Facinelli, who I am hard pressed to keep from comparing him to a Tom Cruise manque, and proved wrong I might add by his performance that requires full concentration and total believeablilty for his task at hand), who contradict the self-assured Larry, who has convened the trio on their cramped luxury accomodations, by being there for one sole purpose land the grand account.What makes the story intriguing is the cutting dialogue lobbed with perfection by its players that manage to raise it above a watered down David Mamet parable about men bonding (and unbonding as the case remains) and the cunning skill it takes to be a businessman and shirking one's individuality for the almighty buck.  That's when the film on itself nearly capsizes.Basically the storyline unfolds like `Waiting For Godot', the three salesman have set up a cocktail party for their meeting with this red herring of sorts, and what ultimately comes down the pike is he shows but unknowingly to Larry and Phil, has had a heart to heart with the young Bob.  Realizing they only have one shot when Bob casually describes a warm conversation leading to an invitation to an exclusive gathering late in the evening, Larry and Phil persuade their cohort to ingratiate himself into the good graces of their client-to-be which results in an unlikely turn of events namely the subject of one's self-beliefs (i.e. what one considers important and in this case it is Bob's straight-arrow image and his strong will in being a faithful, God-fearing man who loves his wife and believes there's more to life than this account).Spacey and De Vito, reunited from `L.A. Confidential' make a nice comic team as they try to make sense of their lives, particularly the latter's downward spiral since his pending divorce and sudden sense of getting out of the business, leaving the former flummoxed and later, to a fault, self-discovery that it may have been too late.There are some comparisons to a Billy Wilder sense of responsiblities here and the stagy direction by theatrical trained Swanback (the piece was performed onstage as well) but that only enhances the nicely conveyed characters on screen.  Spacey has a lot of fun here particularly in having his character display some spontaneous feats of frustration to comic effect in one scene he practically has a hissy fit on a sofa and in another his apoplectic facial reactions are only harnessed by his sarcastic responses. Funny and enlightening a rare combination.  The same could be said of Kevin Spacey himself.  "},{"Title":"The Big Pitch","Date":"10 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" A movie with both strengths and weaknesses. The story has three salesmen -- or marketers as they like to call themselves -- holed up in a hotel room waiting and hoping for the Big Kahuna, the jackpot client, to show up at their party.Among the strengths, the sterling cast -- Kevin Spacey as the wisecracking but perceptive pusher; Danny DeVito as the recently divorced, troubled friend; and Peter Facinelli as the morally pure Baptist acolyte. That's about the whole cast, and there's basically one setting -- that arid hotel room -- because this play hasn't really been opened up much.The actors -- I don't know how to put this -- but they LOOK right for their parts. Kevin Spacey as they guy who debases most others, and Facinelli as the plain-faced innocent are especially good. Danny DeVito may be the weakest of the trio, if only because he never really LOOKS depressed. Can you imagine a suicidally melancholic Danny DeVito? Another strength is in the lines written for Spacey's character. His dialog varies from resignation to something that turns logic into an Escher drawing or a Mobius strip, in which everything seems to lead back to where it began. Some are hilarious.Alas, a play or movie has to be ABOUT something. The diverse salesmen as a way of exploring character is so old that it MUST be trustworthy, from the Maysles brothers' Salesman, to Tin Men and Glen Gary Glen Ross. Yet, we don't know what these guys are supposed to be selling, some kind of lubricant, but that's all.And there's a religious element of the kind that's best left masked by events. Not only does Facinelli continually reveal his spiritual purity but Danny DeVito, unprovoked, spins a long and improbable story of a dream he had about rescuing God who was hiding in a closet after some calamity. I said it was improbable only because my own dreams are entirely lacking in the kind of clarity, unity, and organization that DeVito's dream had. Also, while I'm at it, is it okay if I register a minor complaint to whoever is in charge of the lighting that I'm getting pretty fed up with the overuse of burnt orange? And they're too dark too. And can I please have more women and fewer ogres? When the characters discuss God and religion and all that, it sounds like a couple of college sophomores earnestly schmoozing over some weed. It all seems like an attempt to elevate the story to a plane on which it simply doesn't belong.The strengths outpace the weaknesses by a head. "},{"Title":"Every line is a","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" As always, I review a movie on its own premise. Is this the most interesting point in the lives of these people? Probably not. Is it the most interesting point for the viewer? Depending on your proclivities, maybe not. But in terms on chemistry, interaction and development, for me, this is circling perfection.It's hard how to describe this film. An ensemble of three manages to keep your attention for 90 minutes, enduring an existence seemingly entirely focused around industrial lubricants. You would think that was impossible, till you see DeVito dance character-circles around a heavy weight like Kevin Spacy, and see relative new-comer Peter Facinelli go toe-to-toe with both of them, like it was the easiest thing in the world. This is a showcase of acting ability, more than anything else. This is skill versus the emptiness of the premise. Danny DeVito, Kevin Spacey and Peter Facinelli puts in mind- and trouser-blowingly good performances, that will make any actor think twice before they take on this script (it being based on Hospitality Suite, by Roger Rueff).And speaking of which, you will not often see Kevin Spacey be out- acted by anyone, but DeVito puts in a performance that would shake gods to their foundations (fittingly, as you may come to understand). The emotions and timing at display here, are far, far beyond what you might expect from a small movie - but Spaceys production undoubtedly allowed for just that (including his own). As a story-teller, I often view a scene or two from this, at random, just to soak in a bit of the glorious performances, and brilliant matter-of-factness there seems to be to this entire, spectacular celebration of an art form. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Easily the worst movie I ever saw. And I've seen a lot of movies in my 40 years on this planet. I'm not sure why this movie is listed as a comedy. It is not in the least bit funny.The dialog was bland. The characters were easily forgettable and the whole movie moves at a snail's pace. It would actually be more enjoyable to get a root canal without anesthesia than to watch this movie.I was unfortunate enough to see this in the theater. Where people were literally sleeping. It's that engaging. It's that funny. Although it's been many years, the only thing that sticks out about this movie is the scenery. I don't think the characters ever left the hotel room. And it looked like the filmed it down at the local Holiday Inn. "},{"Title":"Excellent introspective on work, belief and morals.","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" First, this is NOT about three salesmen. Rather, it is Spacey as a salesman, Divito as a Marketing Executive and Facinelli as a young engineer sent along to his first convention as a technical support guy. Pay no attention to any review that can't even correctly identify the three main characters.This is not a comedy. It is a drama. It is a less cynical Death of a Salesman; a more reflective Glenngary Glen Ross. Expect complicated conversations that you may want to rewind and parse again. Expect to have your assumptions challenged and your heart touched.Watch this if you want an intelligent examination of work, belief and morals. "},{"Title":"Rebirth of a Salesman","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" In a Wichita, Kansas hotel suite, three salesmen wait to make the big deal with a man called Dick Fuller (The Grand Kahuna). There is an obvious double meaning in the name Dick Fuller and the men sell industrial lubricants. There are other, more subtle, incidents of wordplay in Roger Rueff's script. It's adapted from the writer's play Hospitality Suite (a much better title). John Swanbeck directs it well, bring us closer to the three characters than would be possible on stage, and with enough movement to avoid becoming static. However, there is no reason to get close to these characters and the movie has little business being cinematic...The first unlikeable character is foul-mouthed Kevin Spacey (as Larry Mann). Among other things, Mr. Spacey delights in describing how a man can watch himself wipe better, after discharging his feces, with a three way mirror. Less vulgar is recently divorced smoker Danny DeVito (as Phil Cooper). A tired and sad-eyed average Joe, Mr. DeVito is trying to stop drinking. Nobody gets drunk. The two middle-aged men are joined by fresh-faced young Peter Facinelli (as Bob Walker). A taller, younger and (arguably) handsomer Tom Cruise type, Mr. Facinelli is also a Christian. He claims Jesus is more important than either Dick Fuller or lubricants...It ends with a Desiderata-like rap, which further distances us from the interesting and well-acted trio.***** The Big Kahuna (9/16/99) John Swanbeck ~ Kevin Spacey, Danny DeVito, Peter Facinelli, Paul Dawson "}{"Title":"Not For Everyone","Date":"25 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Suppose a screenwriter is pitching this to a studio execWell, it's about 3 salesmen for an industrial lubricant company, in Wichita for a trade show. 2 of them are middle-aged, rather jaded about their occupation and life in general. The third is a new guy, recently married and graduated from college, who is also a devout Christian. Virtually everything takes place in a hotel hospitality suite they rented to entertain clients, specifically to meet 1 important client (The Big Kahuna) who, if they could secure his business, could turn their struggling company around. The 3 of them discuss what our purpose is in this life and what it all meansExec So do they have this drunken orgy with strippers and get the young guy loaded and caught in a compromising position with a hooker, just when his newlywed wife arrives, having decided to surprise him on his first business trip?No. It's just the three of them, talking in hospitality suiteExec Well, how about going another direction. Islamic terrorists seize the hotel and will blow it and everyone in the place to smithereens by midnight, unless $100 million dollars is wired to an off-shore account. The mild-mannered Christian turns out to be an ex-Navy seal who thwarts the plot and kills all the terroristsUh, no. They just talk, although the Christian guy does shove one of them into a food tray.Kind of hard to see how this got made, but if you get a pair of actors like Spacey and DeVito for the 2/3 of the cast, maybe you can sell it. The smartest thing writer Roger Rueff and director John Swanbeck did was keeping this to 90 minutes, although it probably could have easily just been a 1hour drama. As a person in marketing and sales I found a lot of this very interesting and perceptive. I can also see how many could find this whole thing tiresome and boring. "},{"Title":"It is almost perfect in terms of dialogues, depth of characters, actors, etc.","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Two veteran salesman dissect a sales pitch to a particular client, through their young protégé. Roger Ebert wrote that The film mostly takes place within that one hotel room. Yes, it is based on a play. I like that. I like the fact that it is mostly dialogue between three people on one set. That is the way to tell this story. Why does every filmed play trigger movie critics into a ritual discussion of whether (or how, or if) the play has been opened up? Who cares? What difference would it make if the movie set some scenes in the coffee shop and others in the park across the street? The story is about these three guys and what they say to one another. Keeping it in one room underlines their isolation They are in the inner sanctum of their religion. The Big Kahuna is one of my favourites, one of the reasons being that it is simply not so well known, at the same time it is almost perfect in terms of dialogues, depth of characters, actors, etc. "},{"Title":"Very Powerful performances, a good watch","Date":"28 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Danny DiVito, Peter Facinelli and Kevin Spacey really work well together. The serious and soft tone of DiVito, Facinelli's kind and naive portrayal of Bob and Spacey's dead pan delivery's throughout make the dialog powerful and riveting. The conversations and the monologues are well written and complement the personality and style of the players they are written for. It is an intriguing look into the lives of cooperate pitchmen with interesting discussions about religion, God and what friendship truly is. I just happened on this movie one day on cable and couldn't stop watching. For a movie that takes place, for the most part, in one room with three men in the style of a stage play it is awesome. Any lover of the cinema or theater this is a must see!! "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey grabs juicy part but never really takes off","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Two experienced salesman are taking a young guy from the research department under their wing in their hospitality suite. Larry Mann (Kevin Spacey) is a bombastic guy obsessed with landing the big kahuna, a particularly big customer. Phil Cooper (Danny DeVito) is a world wearied veteran. Bob Walker (Peter Facinelli) is a religious kid who is relegated to be the bartender. Unbeknownst to Bob or the other two, Bob strikes up a conversation with the big kahuna but lets him go without giving him a pitch on their industrial lubricant.This is a big juicy part for Kevin Spacey to go off on. However, he's left too much on his own. Danny DeVito is playing down on his energy and much more reserved. It's very much out of his character. After an interesting 3 role first half, the movie turns into a lifeless exchange between Spacey and DeVito. Instead of going off after an interesting start, this movie flattens out into something slightly less. Adapted from a stage play, this never really gets beyond that. "},{"Title":"Close-knit stage play that keeps your attention in a death grip.","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" From his entrance in the opening to somewhere in the second act, Kevin Spacey's performance in The Big Kahuna was akin to a ripcord being pulled and our job was to watch him go. But as the film wore on, it was Devito who pulled out the really memorable performance. The one that sticks with you. The one who gives the film its center. He's the one that leaves you staring at the screen in awe. The Big Kahuna is a compelling character piece, the lion's share of which takes place within the confines of a hotel suite; three salesman stressing over a potential client. Facinelli's the guy tasked with holding his own against the other two acting titans, and thanks to the framework of his character, he does. This little movie has roller-coaster ups and downs, and I had no idea where the story would end up. But it was riveting storytelling that made sure I stuck it through to the end to find out. I mean, DeVito, my god. The guy was incredible!7/10 "},{"Title":"The big word","Date":"2 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This is a film in the theatric vein of Glengarry Glen Ross and other David Mamet. Three salesmen, two older ones and the greenhorn protégé, are in a hotel room in Witchita to make an important pitch on lubricants. The film is almost entirely confined to the room, played over the course of a day and night.Liking it means you're going to be able to find Spacey's ironic patter to be more than empty flourish, the greenhorn not to be unbelievable and annoying as a character (a religious idealist in sales must be like finding a puritan call-girl), while preferably getting something out of the philosophical discussion pitched to us as deep. None of which was true for me, so I pass.DeVito is the sole reason to watch this if you want glimmers of truth and not mere cleverness. He shows what a great actor he can be, look how he plays to the air around him.His parting speech is beautiful of course. The realization is important in itself honesty, empathy, regret, as openness and growth. Yet even here something feels off. Maybe it's the particular constraints imposed by this theatric format, maybe it's the manipulable artificiality inherent in a speech, but even this powerful moment, especially this, feels only like a sales pitch to an audience. "},{"Title":"Little gem","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" At the time of writing the score currently assigned to this movie is shocking, a 6.5 rating does a disservice to the actors involved who give stellar performances showing the pressure involved working in this environment. Working in the same high pressure sales arena working on multi million dollar deals with some of the world's biggest company's, it demonstrates the highs and lows of achievement whilst also showing how personal lives mean nothing as the corporate monster sucks the life out of all concerned. I have interviewed for numerous roles that demand entry into key stakeholders and decision makers totally ignoring the fact that a trusted working relationship is far superior. 8/10 excellent film "},{"Title":"Three salesmen are on their way to make the big sale on the last night of their sales trip.","Date":"8 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This is a classic film where dialogue and characters are the center of the film. The film plays out more like a play than it does a movie. The majority of the film takes place in one room, a hotels hospitality suite. The two old-timer salesmen, Larry and Phil, played by Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito respectively, have been selling industrial lubricants for quite a while. Larry is blunt, and fouled mouth, but deep down good hearted. Phil is very relaxed, but we feel he hasn't always been this way in the past. Bob, played by Peter Facinelli, is a newcomer, still has a lot to learn to get those industrial lubricants soled. Bob is very religious, in fact, he finds spreading the good news of Jesus is more important than selling lubricants. The three guys are trying to get the big sale, or the Big Kahuna, as Larry would call him. So they get together in their hospitality suite, and invite plenty of guests who are not as important as the Big Kahuna, but the Big Kahuna is invited. Come 930 Larry is upset that he hasn't arrived and decides to search for him. When the night is over the three of the discuss the night and relish in disappointment that the big sale wasn't made. When Bob realizes that the whole night he was talking to the Big Kahuna and had no idea, Larry and Phil send him on a mission to reconnect to make the sale. While Bob is gone, the film really starts to shine with the dialogue between Larry and Phil. Larry and Phil discuss their friendship, God, Life, and so-forth. This scene is where the depth of this movie grows greatly, and we realize, we may never see anywhere out of the hospitality suite. After several hours Bob arrives, telling Larry and Phil that they had a great talk, but only about Jesus. Larry is understandably upset, and leaves. Phil is calm, but proceeds to tell Bob that he has no character, because he doesn't realize that he has made a mistake to regret. The whole movie, we wait for some sort of solution. Did Bob finally make the big sale with the Big Kahuna? Does the Big Kahuna find his way to Christ? For the films sake, either would excited and relieving, both would be a miracle. But we never really know, what the Big Kahuna got out of Bob. Dialogue is the key to this movie, and by far it's greatest strength. The setting is simple, and Spacey, DeVito, and Facinelli are merely the instruments used to accomplish this films goals in dialogue. And they do it the best. The questions could be asked, is Bob right in sharing what he believed is right in Christ? Is Larry right to be mad? But it doesn't matter who is right. They all believe in one thing, marketing. Phil makes this point to Bob, Bob is a salesman for Christ, and Larry industrial lubricants. But Bob chooses to respectfully disagree. Maybe he's right too? Who knows. "},{"Title":"Could had been a great movie with some more substance and meaning to its story.","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" So what was Kevin Spacey thinking? Seems to me he was hoping for a successful re-has of Glengarry Glen Ross. the end result however really isn't as good, due to its very uninteresting writing.Problem with this movie is really its story. It's just not interesting enough. This movie would had been a great one if it actually was about something. The movie doesn't have some life lessons in it and the movie and its story are more aimed toward the characters and actors portraying them The movie also isn't really a character movie though. For that we just never got to know the characters good enough. The movie remains with its characters and emotions pretty much on the surface.It's a movie that got made in a very stagy way. It's also based on a play in fact and it features the type of dialog and slow progressing story you could expect from it. It's also a movie that gets set at mostly one location. Normally I'm never a too big fan of this but there are some successful movies who use this approach as well, as for instance the earlier mentioned Glengarry Glen Ross but also the John Huston classic Key Largo and the Dutch movie example Cloaca.Nevertheless it's a movie that becomes good to watching thanks to its acting. Danny DeVito is really good but truly great is Kevin Spacey, though his character in the movie is still the least well developed one. We never fully get to understand his character and he seems to have many different faces, which also doesn't particularly makes his character a likable one.It's a movie that I enjoyed watching, mostly thanks to its acting but it's not one I really liked very much though. Only really recommendable to the true fans of Kevin Spacey or Danny DeVito.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Good performances but the material wasn't all I had hoped","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" In a small hospitality suite in a typically anonymous hotel, veteran salesmen Larry Mann and Phil Cooper come together with new young colleague Bob Walker to prepare for their evenings' work. With Bob being naïve, Larry cynical and Phil just plain tired, the trio discuss their plans and much more beside.Substance wise I must confess to being left a little disappointed by this film because I didn't think it delivered as much as it could have done. Within the stagy script there is a commentary on the American dream, the nature of the sales business and the relationships between the men but it isn't as sharp nor as intelligent as it thinks it is. At times the narrative appears to wander off on the specifics of the discussion and loses touch with the wider meaning. Director Swanbeck only has Rueff's adaptation of his own play to work with, so the problems have to be laid back the play.What does make it worth seeing though is the delivery of the small cast. Spacey rules the film in regards volume and he is on good form. DeVito is much more restrained and delivers well. The two work off one another really well and fit their characters well. Facinelli is not as good although I'm not sure if that is because his character is not as good &#150; more a device than the other two characters.Overall then an interesting film that is worth seeing for the strong performances from the lead two. The material is good at times but doesn't make it across the entire sweep of the film, which is a shame because the performances deserved more than they got. "}{"Title":"A in-depth look at a question of business ethics among three salesman.","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This film contains dialogue that has psychological depth. Not only do the characters develop throughout the drama, there is an overt discussion of what constitutes character. There is a surprising ethical conflict at the heart of the story. I have viewed this film more than 20 times (I am a philosophy instructor and show to my Organizational Ethics class) and still find novel insights in the dialogue.....In addition, the acting is superb with Danny De Vito doing one of the best jobs of his career.The unique ethical conflict in this film concerns the rights of a hyper-religious individual versus the right of the company paying his salary. As in Greek tragedy, conflict of rights makes for an in depth drama.I would highly recommend this film to viewers who enjoy in depth dialogue that speaks to the life values important to all of us. "},{"Title":"Two outstanding leads","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Danny DeVito is listed as being exactly 5' tall. Now you know that he is probably actually 4'11, maybe 4'10 or a 1/2-inch more. If he were really 5' tall, you also know it would be shown for the public as 5'1, maybe 5'2.What's the point of even mentioning this? Simply, the man wears a suit as well as, say, Pierce Brosnan in the $7,000-per tailored threads he wore as James Bond. In Other People's Money and Ruthless People, he played a well-to-do man, either married or involved with women significantly taller than he - but never, for even a moment, did you notice his height, and he was as believable, realistic and engaging in his characterizations, as would have been Michael Douglas, Kevin Kostner, Kevin Kline or even Pitt or Clooney.There is something about DeVito's presence and ability to make his physical limitations unnoticeable (unless this is the point, such as Twins). Along with Spacey, as fine (and versatile) an actor as there perhaps ever has been seen, the two are a throughly interesting duo.This filmed stage play, (set in Wichita yet), features two salesman, Danny's Phil and Kervin's Larry, tired, disillusioned, not very happy - examining their lives. Ensconced in a typical 2- or 3-star hotel suite, we have an opportunity to view the two of them at their best. The story, with young Peter Facinelli as Bob, their young apprentice, provides the kind of dialog as found in work by Pinter, Williams,etc., and films like the harsher Glengary Glen Ross and the gentler My Dinner with Andre. Bob is a naive, simple, born-again Christian, in counterpoint to the thoroughly cynical and brash Larry, and the more thoughtful, but equally droll, Phil.They are scrabbling at the convention to effectuate a make-or-break type of deal (industrical lubricants are their wares), but this is secondary to the interaction among the three, and the interesting view of the many dimensions to the relationship between long-time colleague played by Danny and Kevin.Interesting to note, that although scenes are mostly within the hotel suite, filming actually was done in Wichita, as portrayed.This is a good 9* representation of this genre, and if your type of entertainment, well worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"Business is business. Business is life.","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This is a dramatic ejaculation of conflicting viewpoints and attitudes towards business. Larry(Kevin Spacey)and Phil(Danny DeVito)are veteran salesmen at a convention trying to show the 'ropes' to rookie salesman Bob(Peter Facinelli). These sales reps are trying to pitch their product, industrial lubricants, to the president of a large company; referring to him as The Big Kahuna. Unkowingly, Bob spends the evening talking dogs and religion to The Big Kahuna, who was wearing someone else's name tag at a cocktail get-together. This causes a struggle of belief in the conduct and purpose of a sales representative. Is self worth measured in completing the big pitch or in the manner of preparation? Kudos to writer Roger Rueff for an intelligent script and screenplay. Spacey's character is witty, confident and full of opinions. DeVito's character draws upon his lack of self worth and his doubts invite sympathy. The character played by Facinelli seems clueless to the ways of life...life being actually making that big sale. And in close quarters, who would you rather be ripped apart by, friends or strangers? Admittingly THE BIG KAHUNA is wordy...and a showcase for Spacey's skills. "},{"Title":"Dialogs with lessons for the life","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  It's an unhappy but realistic vision of the role of salesman since its first business experience  up to last days of work with the illusion of a quiet retirement. The salesman must suffer a high pressure and usually he must assume a very pro-active role,  but its work will be measured only by the results. It's depending on final decision of the customer (the Big Kahuna in the movie). Loneliness, they must travel so much, the cold of hotel rooms and at the end the impersonal  task to perform. The salesman is considered as a simple tool, the robots will can substitute in the future. They must accept that in fact, they are -and will be- nobody. Bob (Facinelly) is an idealist with very strict  moral values. He's recently married and he is  starting with the job.Larry (Spacey) is a vigorous salesman, with a big background in the job and he is trying to  teach Bob about the job and about the real life. He is the most afraid about the commercial  results.And Phil (DeVito) is tired of this kins of work and he only looks for keep a peaceful ambient  in the team. He is disgusting about hard comments of Larry to Bob.The movie is purely constructed with the dialogs.A couple of lessons supposedly can be extracted of the film about how a young man must  affront the usual problems ( professional and personal ones) in the life. The importance to acknowledge the errors committed in order to improve the character and  just listening to other people's points of view, the difference between a real dialog and just  propaganda.A good work of Spacey and DeVito, linking in the end credits with the famous (during 1999)  wear sunscreen speech/song. "},{"Title":"Nice try, but it's really a play...","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The film is a very faithful adaptation of the play Hospitality Suite. Its stage roots are obvious and the film wisely avoids trying to add too much to an essentially one-set script. I was pleasantly surprised by the casting, expecting De Vito to play the frenetic salesman and Spacey to be the quiet brooder rather than the reverse. De Vito's performance completely overshadows Spacey's who is merely competent in his role. The negatives to the film were that some of the sharper dialogue was omitted and a terribly out of place final coda tacked on, ostensibly in an attempt not to offend more sensitive viewers. Still, if you're in mood for a talky but entertaining film, Big Kahuna is worth a rental. Better yet, if you get the chance, see the play. "},{"Title":"I wonder how a person attains character, whether it's something you're born with, that kinda reveals itself over time, or do you have to go through certain things? Facinelli as Bob","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  SPOILERS - It's all about character. I put The Big Kahuna among the better films I've seen this year. It must have been made with a small budget, virtually all filming is done inside a hotel suite in Wichita, there are no special effects, and very little background music. It was adapted from a play and has the look and feel of a stage production. It is dialog-driven, and is all about character development.Old veteran salesmen, and best freinds, Larry (Kevin Spacey) and Phil (Danny DeVito) are hosting a hospitality suite for their company, Lodestar Laboratories, and their mission is to made a big industrial lubricants sale to a Mr Fuller. They are joined by pretty boy Bob (Peter Facinelli), a fresh college graduate and newlywed, and member of the research department. Bob is a quiet, very religious young man, Larry is a blunt, filthy-mouth, over-the-top loudmouth cynic, and Phil is mellow, always seeming to find the middle ground when Larry and Bob get into their philosophical discussions. Larry gets great pleasure on pushing Bob's buttons.During the social, somehow Phil and Larry miss Mr Fuller, assume he just didn't show up. After guests left, and Bob was telling them about his conversation with one guest about his dogs, about life, about Jesus, it comes to light that he had been talking to Mr Fuller. Larry goes bananas, tries to figure out how to approach him.  Bob had his card, and what amounted to an invitation to a following private party. Bob is sent, carefully coached on how to let Mr Fuller know they would like a few minutes of his time the next morning to talk about lubricants.Bob goes, finds Mr Fuller, and after a long visit returns to Larry and Phil. What did they talk about?  Life and God. Why? Because that's what Bob wanted to talk about.  Larry went ballistic. The company paid to send them there for a job, sell lubricants.  Bob and Larry argue, actually tussle, Phil has to intercede. As in all their disagrements, Phil tries to find the middle ground. The film starts with Bob wondering how he will develop character.  Phil explains that you can only develop character after you've realized there are things you regret. He explained that Bob has done things he should regret, just doesn't understand that yet, so has not developed character yet.Film ends the next morning, Larry sees Bob in the lobby, talking with Mr Fuller. Bob and Larry exchange barely perceptable glances, we know that Bob understands that his talking to Mr Fuller about lubricants need not compromise his principles.  Bob is developing character.All three actors are just right in their roles here. Spacey will get most attention, but I believe DeVito was the best actor here.The DVD is in Dobly 5.1, however there is very little use for such a sound track with this type of dialog-driven film. Could just as easily have been in Hi-Fi mono sound.  No meaningful extras. But a very fine film for anyone who enjoys a masterful character study.  I rate it 8 of 10. "},{"Title":"a thought-provoking film for Christians","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I found this movie very thought-provoking as a Christian. Here is this kid who young and uninformed to the ways of the world versus the salesman of ice to eskimos. the question one must ask is, whether a Christian or not, how genuine are you with others? are your relationships for the sake of selling something or is it a genuine interest in the person? and is it ok if you are just selling something. "},{"Title":"A cool drama","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  It is a movie, but really it is just a simple stage play.I just want to say that I think that Peter Fecenalli - Bob looks, sounds and acts like a young Tom cruise!!! really, if you close your eyes, he just sounds like Tom cruise. And he looks like him, too.Over all, I rated it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Make it Shorter, and I'll Buy It","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna is a genuine stinkburger.  Who did they think that this movie would appeal to?  Plants?  The Texas Fertilizer Corporation?  Perhaps, someone's friendly real estate agent?  This movie is supposed to be some kind of Bly Workshop, but instead is kind of dull, and a good way to kill an hour and a half.  The acting was well..you know...yeah.  I bet Peter Facinelli will turn out to be a good actor, and Kevin Spacey, he's good in anything he does!  This movie is a good date movie, because when you fall asleep your date can shake you and say Hey, wake up, the show's not over!  I like how they couldn't afford to show the outside world.  The whole we're not stupid like the rest of them attitude of the characters was swell.  The good thing about the movie was that I saw a comfy chair in the hotel scene, and I thought I want a chair like that.  Can I have a chair like that? Rating 4/10 (I'll be in Houston next week) "},{"Title":"Not to be too shallow, but...","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Not to be too shallow, but...having attended dozens of trade shows, and worked dozens of hospitality suites, I would offer that this movie works on face value too! The idealistic young engineer, the abrasive sales guy who has to bring home the order, and the sales manager who doesn't want to spend too much or rock the boat. I was the first, I am the second, and I may likely become the latter. "}{"Title":"Spacey's performance is stunning...","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This is by far Kevin Spacey's best performance. Yes, it's even competition for his creepy portrayal of John Doe in Sev7en.  He is funny, witty, fast with the come-back, and emotionally projectional.The script is great, DeVito gives a great performance too. If you like dialogue movies, such as Clerks and Swingers than you'll like this one.Bottom Line Must see for Spacey fans... for all others, still worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Preach the Gospel, Use Words if Necessary","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  What a treat it is for me to watch and hear honest dialogue spoken by talented actors.Danny DeVito stands out in this film, it is his show.  At one point I found myself totally riveted in his character, I forgot I was watching a movie.  Which is the whole point...As a Christian who didn't get saved until I was 18, I was so appreciative of the honesty of Danny DeVito's character.  Too many times Christians don't realize that they don't have to beat someone to death with their faith, they just have to learn to listen.  Listen, be kind, be a friend, and when trust is developed, may the doors unmanipulatively (is that a word?) open to share faith when the timing is right.  As the saying goes Preach the gospel, use words if necessary.I give this movie an 8. "},{"Title":"We all have something to sell, but it's significance and importance differs as we go through life.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This is a movie with fine acting performances and with dialogue which must be truly savoured. This work is a philosophical statement and reflects today's world, of the  sell, sell, sell ethos but believe you me, this is not merely  a movie  about salesman.It is a movie about all of us, who somewhere or sometimes or as a way of reeking out  a living as we struggle to sell something in life. Many of us aren't aware of it, we don't  know it but we all have something to sell; be it lubricants, religion,teachings, opinions, our views, our politics, in summary ourselves.The Big Kahuna crosses three characters who represent three generation age gaps namely The first a young man starting out his professional life full of hopes, dreams and principles exactly the way many of us started out. The second  at his prime professionally going for the throat, getting the deal done a take  no prisoners attitude. And finally a run down, reaching the end professional searching his soul to find out if it was all worth it and what did it all mean.Maybe there is hope that if we remain true to ourselves to our principles we can do both things and still achieve the final objective, that is, of ultimately closing the deal and reek out our living with the money earned from the sales and of selling something we truly believe in and defines who we really are.Maybe then and once we reach old age we can look back and truly say Yes it was all worth it. "},{"Title":"A very enthusiastic 10!","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  My wife and I watched the video three nights in a row .. each night discovering a new level from which to interpret the movie, the characters and the themes.  After reading a number of the IMDb comments, however, I noticed that no one mentioned `Larry's' statement about functions.  How many of us honestly have not at times gone about our daily routines and felt merely as a function of someone else's agenda?Who could not see and feel the insecurity behind these three developmental `masks of man'?  The green, wide-eyed zealot `youth'; the sarcastic, jaded, aggressive, totally reactive `middle age' man; and the tired, wizened, introspective `elder'.  Phil is not having a `mid-life crisis' as much as he is having a `mid-life awakening'.  He is beginning to question his true purpose, his real `friends', and his uncertain `future'.No mention was made, as well, of the character identified in the movie by name only; that of the retired industrial lubricant `marketing genius' who had since retired to Florida.  The mere mention of his name by the two road-hardened veterans was the only thing that could, on the one hand turn their otherwise steely eyes genuinely misty and dreamy, while on the other remind them that neither would ever find that kind of `natural' success.Prediction  Oscar nominations for both Spacey and DeVito, who has never been better.  "},{"Title":"Selling Lubricants VS Selling God","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna, was a movie that really impacted my life.  To sum up this short independent film, which is about an hour and fifty minutes, three salesmen; Larry Mann (Kevin Spacey), Phil Cooper (Danny DeVito), and Bob Walker (Peter Facinelli) are at a convention in Wichita, Kansas.  Their main objective is to find The Big Kahuna to endorse their industrial lubricant products, which will be by far their #1 sale.I'll be frank, this movie has absolutely no action or any suspense at all. The movie is well cinematography at it's best, basing it's whole idea in this one room where the three of them are in close quarters.The characters are introduced to us through conversation.  Kevin Spacey's character is a salesmen that seems to have much knowledge about business with his friend of many years Danny DeVito.  Peter Facinelli's character is the new kid on the block.  They're trying to break him in.  Along the way they all find out that Peter Facinelli's character, Bob, is a very religious human being, which causes many problems.  Kevin Spacey's character, Larry, spots this immediately and tries to break his holy ways from interfering with why they're here.  Danny DeVito's character, Phil, is a man of much life experiences and is going through a mid-life crisis.To sum it all up, in the end Bob lets his beliefs and values overcome his reason for being at this convention.  Turns out all he can talk about with all the people he meets at this convention, including Dick Fuller, The Big Kahuna himself, is talking about God and Jesus!  This movie is by far a movie that I will remember for many years in the future.  It's a well directed and composed script with many life lessons to learned.  By far it has to be, in my opinion, the best movie of 99'.  In the end, one man is selling God while the other is selling his business, who will win? "},{"Title":"Great conversation piece derailed in the final act","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna, like most stage adaptions for film, places all of its chips on the quality of its dialogue. This is a welcome respite from the typical cinematic chum (Don't you die on me! I'm too old for this sh*t). Nevertheless, when you do that, you have to pursue the arguments made in the film to their logical conclusion. While it's difficult to discuss the final flaw in too much detail without giving away the ending, it suffices to say that there is a comparison of the Christian method of proselytizing (witnessing in the common parlance) to the salesmanship of the other characters. The problem with this is that the salesman don't seem to really give a damn about their product and how it affects the customer in contrast to the witness. This makes all of the difference.And this is not a fatal problem, if this wouldn't necessarily occur to the character in the film, but the born again new guy stands toe to toe (rhetorically) with Kevin Spacey's war hardened sales veteran throughout the entire movie. When arguments fail to be made at the end, even the actor seems to be frustrated, as if truncated by the director.While imperfect, Kevin Spacey's usual brilliance and Farinelli's standout performance, a polar opposite from his Can't Hardly Wait role, make this a definite step up from celluloid tripe also hitting the shelves the same week like Final Destination. "},{"Title":"The Big Spacey!","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely adored this film. It was short and sweet.I think what makes a great film is character development, and trust me, that's what this flick's all about! Kevin Spacey is without a doubt one of the best actors of his generation, along with Gary Oldman. He lights up the scene by simply saying a few enlightening words. He is flawless.I've got to give some credit to Danny DeVito and Peter Facinelli as well. They also made this movie what it is; GREAT! The whole film is fantastic and everyone should watch it!!!  "},{"Title":"This Could Have Been An Excellent Play","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Big Kahuna is about 3 salesmen who are selling industrial lubricants. Their objective is to find the most lucrative client who, in the business, is referred to as the Grand Kahuna or Big Kahuna  Screenplay is built around three main characters Larry (Danny Devito), Phil (Kevin Spacey) and Bob (Peter Facinelli). Phil and Larry have been in this business for a long time and very experienced businessmen whereas Bob is just a rookie. It is only these three characters that ever appear in the big screen throughout the entire movie and the whole thing takes place in one hotel room. The only thing that keeps the movie going is the conversations these people are having with each other especially the speeches -or should I say lectures- of Phil who is the leading man. Kevin Spacey, as always, is a magnificent figure, a towering presence in the screen. Danny Devito is playing the role of a rather quite and a tired man who is at the brink of a divorce. The only fun you might have out of this movie is the conversations for there is no storyline in the usual meaning of this term. That's why I believe this movie would make a good play; the screenplay seems to have been written directly for the play. The movie starts with their getting prepared for the little convention they are organizing in the hope that one of the biggest clients whom Larry invited will show up. To their dismay, the man they had been waiting for doesn't show up. However, they realise that another big client has attended their little convention and had a conversation with Bob. It turns out that he has invited Bob to another meeting that will take place in another hotel. So, Phil and Larry decide to send Bob to that meeting to give the client their business cards along with the message that they would like to talk business with him. However, things get a little out of hand, especially for Phil, when Bob starts selling industrial lubricants and starts selling Jesus. If you like a movie starring 2 great actors with a lot of conversation about sales business, life and death, Jesus and God, you might enjoy this movie. But keep in mind that there are only 3 characters in the movie and the only location you will ever see is the hotel room due to the limited storyline. Peter Facinelli (Bob) is also performing more than average (am I the only one who thinks that he looks like Tom Cruise in the mid-80s?).               "},{"Title":"I think it is better on stage.","Date":"7 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  It isn't a bad film... especially it gives you a open question at the end.Maybe you think Larry, Phil and Bob are three men, but I see it as one.   It is because the story discussed about life.   When we were young,  we will live on our own beliefs, just like Bob, believing himself to have a sound mind; Larry goes into his middle age crisis.... he feared he lost not only his job, but also his career.  What Phil told Bob is right. There are so many we have done, would make us feel sorry later.  And that's what a life really looked like.  Success and failure....Life and Death... Believe or not.   It's all up to you.It is a very serious one,  like another one setting its story in a realty agency outlet.Peter helped so much to this story.  His part reflects the bright side of human nature.  Remember Larry,  he just want to get what he called big fish, without a clear and clever strategy.  A business is a war.  We can get our customers only if we do them a favor.  right?Perhaps the story mainly takes place in a suite.  It gives me an impression it would have been made better in the form of drama.  My Grade   B-   "},{"Title":"surprisingly nice and a bit different","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was nice. Absolutely no action or special effects. (Mostly) 3 characters in (mostly) one room, giving it the feel of a play. The topics of conversation range from God to friendship to divorce to sex to alcohol to pornography to marketing industrial lubricants (though not in that particular order), with only just enough concern for problem/resolution to drive the movie forward at a leisurely pace. There are a few laughs and a few touching moments, though in general the movie seems to be little pieces of peoples lives thrown about. Kurt Vonnegut's speech to a graduating class is thrown in at the end of the film in a rather haphazard way.The Spanish writer Miguel de Unamuno said in Essays on Religion,I don't just give my readers bread. I give water, yeast and flour. It's up to the reader to make of it what they will.This movie gives the viewer a glimpse into the lives of its 3 characters, with little resolution but interesting presentation.  "}{"Title":"Nothing but a ten in my book","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This is the best piece of acting that I've seen in a long while, with some really snappy dialogue that just doesn't let up.  Yet the silent moments, the looks between characters, especially by DeVito is the best acting I've ever seen from him.  I thought there was so much depth in this screenplay that I would have to see it yet again to absorb all that was here.  I enjoy movies that stay with me, make me think and wonder and take me beyond my own experience.  The Big Kahuna did just that, and it may be of interest that the Big Kahuna in the movie was never called by exactly that name, and we barely saw his profile, which kept us guessing about his true identity.  And that to me was one of the themes, that we rarely see other's true identity. "},{"Title":"3 White Guys Sittin Around Talkin","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Main Thing by nicardo@bigfoot.com Review of The Big KahunaEvery young man would do well to remember that all successful business stands on the foundation of morality.  --Henry Ward Beecher (1813-87)You should soon realize when watching The Big Kahuna that you are seeing theater on film. If not, then you have probably never seen a stage production in your life. It is a one-set, three character play in two acts. The story is not a huge one. If the characters go through any big changes, we don't really see them, but, what we do see is a series of conversations. In them we that we learn what these three guys are doing there, and how they feel about things such as work, marriage, dealing with people, human character, truth, and God. Boring, you say? I have to disagree.It is often possible to sum up the plot of a movie in a single sentence. While it may be truthful, it may not do the story justice. `Marketing reps wait in a hospitality suite during a convention in Wichita seeking to do business with their biggest potential client ever.'  Sounds exciting, huh? What could possibly make you want to see this? Mostly the fact that Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito are in it. What could possibly make them want to do this? Nothing more than the opportunity to perform the aforementioned conversations. They both have major credentials in taking on the roles of a salesman and businessmen (Other Peoples Money, Tin Men, Swimming With Sharks). We get to see them do what they do best, with minimal directing and camera tricks.As the president of a manufacturing company in the Midwest, they want to be `El Kahuna Grande's' supplier of industrial lubricants. It's the account of a lifetime. This is their only objective. Phil and Larry have been on the road for years. Bob (Peter Facinelli) is six months out of school, six months with the company, and six months married. He's only there to represent research and development and to learn. As they teach him what they can, the movie unfolds. Trouble is, Bob thinks talking about Christ is more important, which it is, but after all, this is a business convention. Nobody says don't talk about Jesus, just remember to get some work done.Scenes with well written dialogue and monologues are hard to find in screenplays these days, I guess. This movie is all talking. It's an acting challenge to hold the audience with not much more than words. The kind of challenge found mostly on stage rather than screen. Some actors can do both. DeVito has the more sympathetic role. Older, recently divorced, and tired of the road, he questions continuing in the business, and wonders about the bigger things. He is wonderful as the patient, encouraging, and understanding guy. Spacey has the blunt, sardonic, fast-talking, self-confident, aggressive type of guy down pat. He also has true moments of sincere concern and honesty. It's too bad that everything he does from now on will be compared to American Beauty. Now they expect to see `Lester Burnham' every time out, and when they don't, then `it shouldn't have been made.' If this movie had unknown actors, and opened at Sundance, it would be hailed as `a wonderful small film.' It's not really a comedy, yet there should be room enough for everything, right? It's something different. Not the action, romance, thriller, sci-fi, or gross-out slapstick playing next door. That is a good thing, if not the main thing. "},{"Title":"Fantastic.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I sincerely have pity on those people who saw this movie and thought, Man, this movie sucked, it only had three people and took place in one room. The true test of a good film should be *if* you can set it in one room, omit any special effects, and boil it down to dialogue.In short, this film was captivating, engrossing and of supreme quality. It really reminded me of 12 Angry Men - again, a bunch of men in a room, talking.  (It too was based on a play.)See this film.  "},{"Title":"One of the best movies of the year.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  From someone that comes from a sales backround, this movie really hit home. It was a very different look at the industry and the attitudes of those in it.  Kevin Spacey did an outstanding job as usual.  The movie was a deeper, far more abstract, American Beauty in many ways.  Not for everyone, but a must see for a real movie buff. "},{"Title":"Finally a movie in the year 2000 with real Acting in it.","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Finally there is a movie that has quality acting - one that does not rely upon fancy locations and special effects to draw in the audience.  It is films of this type that will save the movie industry in the long run. "},{"Title":"good movie-bad song","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This was a great film-the acting was great, and the story kept my interest through to the ending credits.  This is a 9/10 because of the poor song choice to end the movie-it really ruined the momentum of the whole movie (for me, anyway).  And the scoring up to that point was so well done.  The movie makes we want to see Glengarry Glenross again. "},{"Title":"all business","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Making a motion picture on any scale is extremely difficult. I've heard many directors say in interviews following the completion of some ambitious film, that their next one will be `two guys talking to each other in a room.' Well, friends, The Big Kahuna is that film. Except in this case, three guys talking to each other in a room. More specifically, the hospitality suite of a Wichita hotel.This is the kind of project that any investor in their right mind would have said no to-until Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito signed on, that is. The acting is superb, as you'd expect. So is the writing, also as you'd expect, as it's based on a play. Stage plays rely on dialogue and acting. Visuals don't matter nearly as much, so it's always a challenge to transform a play into a film. I can honestly say I wouldn't have seen this play, which must be great, so I'm glad they did make it into a film.Hospitality Suite is, I imagine, one set-the hotel room-and only needs the three characters Larry (Spacey), Phil (DeVito), and Bob (Peter Facinelli). The film takes us outside the hotel room briefly, and inside characters' heads a few times as well. All of this could've been deleted from the story, though. It's almost as if it was added simply to justify the film version. The only story we need, all we need see, is the interaction between characters that takes place inside that room. What drives this story is the collision of different personalities in a confined place Larry is a cynical motormouth; seemingly soulless, a businessman to the core. Phil is also a committed businessman, but more wise and low-key. He's at sort of a spiritual crossroads, suffering through a bitter divorce. Bob is a marketing assistant who is more interested in selling Jesus than he is in selling industrial lubricants. The result of these colliding ideologies is a more exciting, edge-of-your-seat experience than a thriller or action movie. You're sitting there really thinking and caring about the characters, about what will happen next.This works because of the strong dialogue, the caliber of which you will only find in a play adaptation. A film, however, has to be more than just people talking. It's a visual art. Ever since they had to go and add sound to films, there's been an ongoing struggle to make people talk in a way that won't send audiences running, screaming from the theater. In film, what you see, for how long, and when, is paramount. Things like dialogue and acting need to be strong enough not to get in the way of the visual story being told. Believable dialogue and acting is hard to pull off. A filmmaker who decides to stage a play as a film has half the work already done for him (I say `him' only because this particular film was directed by a man). If he really has another way to visually tell the story, other than the dialogue and acting, then by all means, he should go for it. A film like Glengarry Glen Ross (also with Spacey) is a good example of this. The visuals are so powerful, you have trouble even seeing how it was done as a play. The Big Kahuna, I'm sorry to say, never really justifies its existence, other than that it came cheap and had two stars that could deliver an audience. It was all about business.How appropriate.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Wichita, lubricants, and Jesus.","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"      Kevin Spacey returns to the big screen in a small and low key film titled THE BIG KAHUNA.  This film is getting strong buzz and word of mouth since this is the first screen appearance of Spacey since his second Oscar win from AMERICAN BEAUTY.  This is quite a challange since BIG KAHUNA is a film that is considered low budget and it's being released among big summer blockbusters.       BIG KAHUNA is taken from the stage play where three business men gather together for a sales convention in Wichita, Kansas. The three men differ in personality, there's Larry Mann (Kevin Spacey) a enthusiast businessman who's in the peak of his career.  He does deals left and right, he's a smooth talker, who doesn't mind enjoying the scenery of women dressed in business suits.  There's also Phil Cooper (Danny DeVito) a aging professional in sales who realized that most of his life has disappeared before his eyes, and why was he put on this planet.  And then there's Bob Walker (Peter Facinelli) the youngest of the men who is a newly married man, who devotes himself more to Jesus than business.  The three men are in Wichita to try to sign a lubricant deal with the Big Kahuna or the president of the largest company that could help their lubricant company.  The three men talk and discuss many different topics  other business men, women in business suits, sales techniques, dogs, and Jesus.        Since this film is base on a stage play, 90% of the movie takes place in one room.  KAHUNA is a decent little film, it's a change from the big explosion, big special effects films of the summer.  The stand out with this film is obviously the performances.  It doesn't take a genius to figure out why Spacey signed onto this film, since his character has most of the good lines.  But Spacey does another good acting job as the energetic Larry.  And great kudos also go to Danny DeVito who plays the over the hill Phil, a man who is depressed because he realized what he has spent most of his life doing.  And Peter Facinelli is also good as the young and naive Bob, who feels that religion is the most important thing in life.      THE BIG KAHUNA is a decent little film, for under 90 minutes, it's worth the viewing.  But since it is based on a play, there's that steady pacing that the film has.  It doesn't go fast, and it doesn't drag.  It stays on autopilot from start to finish.  So if you're tired and looking for a film to keep you awake, then this isn't the film.  But if you're looking for something different than the multi-million dollar budget films that gross 100 million plus, then this is a nice change of pace. I enjoyed THE BIG KAHUNA, as a story and characters, but for the film or directing, it's nothing special.  ***1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"Not great but definitely good.","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  We all know how great Kevin Spacey is but what really impressed me was that I saw Danny Devito act like an adult for the first time.  He always plays these marginal/shady characters but in this film he actually plays a part with a hint of realism and does it well.This was a fine film in the talking head genre.  The treatment of religion was very evenhanded and palatable even to an atheist such as myself.  "},{"Title":"this type of play just doesn't belong on the screen","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst Kevin Spacey movie since The Ref, and I feel I can say with some conviction since I've actually seen every Kevin Spacey since The Ref.  I checked his filmography to be sure.And, I've got to admit, the play on which this film is based is probably a good one; it just doesn't work as a movie.  I've not read or seen the play, but, from the movie, I can tell you two things it with relative certainty1)  It takes place entirely in one room.2)  It has three acts.Why am I so confident?  Well, because The Big Kahuna still looks like a play and not a movie, for it all takes place in a single hospitality suite, you see.  Sure, on rare occasions a character is shown outside of the room, often depicted in a ridiculously unnecessary slow motion shot, but the two remaining characters (there are only three that matter) usually chatter on anyway.  In fact, while we're on the subject of slow motion, let me mention that I really tend to hate it, especially in this movie.  There's actually more than one shot of Peter Facinelli talking to another person in slow motion - more than one!You can't blame the actors here, though.  All three of them give quality performances, but the movie is incapable, by its very nature, of engaging an audience at all.  It's the kind of play that would probably be absorbing if you saw it in a small community theater, but on screen, it's boring.Worst of all, though, is the fact that the last two minutes of the film involve the three characters walking around while that intolerable Baz Luhrmann song (the one about wearing sunscreen) plays in the background.  I mean, that song's annoying, and haven't they been using it in car commercials lately?  5/10, but strictly because the acting is so good "}{"Title":"All Talk","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Take a stage play called Hospitality Suite and transform it to screen with expectations, no doubt, that it might be another Glass Menagerie or Glengary Glen Ross.  Everything exist in the dialogue so it should be kept fresh and spontaneous.  If the film writer has a message, keep it understandable because lacking much action, the viewer's mind can only stand so much talk.  The Big Kahuna, unfortunately, is a freely spouting rhetorical movie which exists on a plane too high to be understood.  It is simply a victim of the very dishonesty it is trying to castigate.  Like Bob, the religious zealot who becomes an enigma,  this movie doesn't really define what it stands for. We can't fault the actors for trying. Kevin Spacey, as Larry, is the freewheeling, in your face, kind of guy who has seen enough of selling to know what is honest and what isn't.  Danny Devito, as Phil, is the beaten-down, apathetic figure who sees young Bob as the one pristine soul he might have a chance to save from life's ravages.  And Peter Facinelli as Bob, the one dimensional man,is the worse of all worlds - a generic salesman without a soul.  The Big Kahuna is about many things - life and death, commitment, friendship, and betrayal, but after all the verbage, it should have left us with a clearer message, not something nebulous and floating in the air.     "},{"Title":"Where did this movie come from?","Date":"3 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This movie just appeared on cable one night and initially, i was enticed by just the cast alone. Then i watched 15 mins of it and the script just blew me away.This is a total talkie. If u like theater, character dramas, or just great dialogue pure and simple, then this film is a must-see.The memorable quotes listed on this site doesn't even quantify how many good one-liners, scenes, or 'pearls of wisdom' this movie has. And its all executed flawlessly without the slightest hint of clichéd pretentiousness.Devito is a natural. I had always thought he got so ultra famous coz of his unique physique. But many tend to overlook the fact that he's also an excellent actor, and this film certainly showcases it.Spacey was pure fun for most parts, although he seemed a lil inconsistent with his expressions here n there.A solid 8 out of 10. This was one of those scripts that even David Mamet and David Rabe would've liked to have been credited for. "},{"Title":"Inspiring","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Actually this was one of the most firing up movies I have ever seen last days. Script is amazing, performances by Kevin Spacy, Danny DeVito and Peter Facinelli are marvelous. For actors-actresses or anyone involved with acting, must see this movie. It really gives too much energy for audience to think and question our lives and reasons of existence.It is like a theater more than a movie. You should not expect much as visually. Just the script changes the tense around.By the way, I got to say that it is a must see for salesmen and marketing reps. too. ) This movie is really low rated; it deserves a 7,5 even if you find it boring.. "},{"Title":"Underrated Masterpiece","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Check this movie out. Not many people talk about this movie, or praise it for that matter, but, in my opinion, this is not only the best film of 2000 but the best stage-to-screen adaptation I've ever seen (it just squeaks past the similar but more intense Glengarry Glen Ross, which also featured Spacey and American Buffalo, an incredibly similar movie).It's basically an hour and a half of character interactions, so don't let the DVD cover photo and title fool you. It's a very straightforward adaptation of Roger Rueff's Hospitality Suite, adapted by Rueff himself, directed in a very straightforward manner. The performances drive this great dialogue. De Vito gives the best performance of his life, Facinelli gives nice understated delivery and, well, Kevin Spacey does what he does best and he IS the man.So if you want to watch a superb story of true character and human emotions among men, watch The Big Kahuna. If you just want to watch Spacey get angry (and, believe me, that is equally entertaining) this is also for you, but there's also the best film of 1999, American Beauty. And Swimming with Sharks. "},{"Title":"completely overlooked existential masterpiece","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I agree with everything the previous person said except for one thing. This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.It's not a typical generic Hollywood movie that spoon feeds you to keep your attention. It's a deep movie containing only three actors and filmed entirely in a hotel room.However, Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito prove what truly great actors they are. The movie is all dialogue, but as the characters evolve they raise issues that prompt discussion for after the movie.If nothing else, THE FIVE MINUTE SILOLQUY BY DEVITO AT THE END IS WORTH THE WHOLE MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Movie for Intelligent Patrons of the Arts","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Extremely thought provoking, witty portrayal of what human nature is all about. Questions and possible answers from different perspectives re life, death, love, and spirituality (not necessarily JUST religion). Makes one wonder what is TRULY important in their own lives. Interesting that it is presented from the perspective of Marketing. Because after all, isn't LIFE just one big sale? Everyone strives to sell themselves in one way or another. I digress, and I don't want to take any thunder from Kevin Spacey's excellent cynicism!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Simple and Thought Provoking","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I view this as a film which will be appreciated as a source of introspection and discussions of one's life or life in general. It discusses many parts of life, and like life, the conclusion is not neat and tied up with a bow. It is left open-ended. The time these 3 individuals spend together at this hotel in Wichita, selling lubricants, is mostly spent talking to each other. In the course of talking, they begin to open up about their lives, their thoughts, their opinions and aspirations and their own personal histories. It is just one of those things where at the time it can be very deep and powerful, but it ends up as just another piece of the pie (or puzzle, if you like) which is life. Existence. The whole point of the movie is, I feel, to comment on the reality of being alive and being a human being in today's world. It ends open-ended as a starting point for the viewers' own introspection to begin. The song at the end by Baz Lurrhman is basically an introduction and over view speech before you, the viewer and student, launch into your own discussions on this movie and it's meanings. I appreciate work like this. My Rating9/10. Good all around. It, to me, is not the type of a movie one should judge as being bad, or great, or anything in between for the sake of entertainment. Rather, we the viewers should judge it as a point of contemplation on what it is to be a person and appreciate it for that. A piece for a Humanities class to watch and discuss. Possibly much more. But it should certainly not be viewed as entertaining in the way of an escape film. This movie is for somebody who thinks about his or her life in the big picture, or has considered doing so. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film!","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Let me state in the beginning here, that if you are looking for a shoot-um-up, all action, no plot, horrid acting, and no script film (as most people sadly are) then this is not the film for you. If you are looking for a deep, meaningful, well acted/written masterpiece, then this is the film for you. It is set in a Hopsitality Suite in Kansas; and no where else. That shows the amazing amount of talent in the writing and acting to keep your attention in one room with three men. Kevin Spacey is Brilliant, as is Danny DeVito. It it funny and amusing, while being very deep and provocative, and at parts even dark. It is a fantastic film, one of the top ten of all time, and I would definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"Theatre par excellence","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"    The Big Kahuna is a very dramatic rendition of a magnificent screenplay that imparts intelligent, wit, drama, emotion, empathy, and genuine pleasure from a world of salesmen.  This theme may seem strange at first, but the mood and affect of each character grows on one as a perfectly fitting glove.  Anyone who enjoys live theatre will thoroughly revel in the perfect performances of Danny DeVito and Kevin Spacey. "},{"Title":"An interesting dialog played out by a couple of masters...","Date":"21 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The work Kevin Spacey does in this film shows a lot of his roots as a stage actor. Danny DeVito, however, shines like a beacon of truth giving a performance that has to be seen to be believed.The film is a simple one -- it is portrayed much like the play OUR TOWN in that the set is of little consequence. We know that these are sales, marketing and research reps and that they are in a hospitality suite of a hotel in Kansas. But to be honest, the events of this evening could take place anywhere... this is about the characters, not the places (or even the events, for that matter).It is a dialog. It is a soul searching that looks at religion (spirituality), honesty, and character and shows that they are all related in many ways, but still very distinct from one another. In fact, the three characters of the film each represent one of these traits -- and in the end, they are all good men.An excellent film. "}{"Title":"Attaining character by facing yourself and your maker. Honesty.","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Attaining character by facing yourself and your maker. Honesty. Good morale, good points, excellent acting. Good for educational educational purposes. Very play like (probably adopted from a play).If you don't mind watching a movie where about 90% of it takes place in the same room and you're into religious, ethical stuff, you'll probably love it and want to watch it twice. I did, anyway. "},{"Title":"Fabulous film","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  What a surprisingly profound movie.  I now have a lot to think about.  I'm afraid I will be running out of space on my TIVO unit, since I keep saving great movies to watch again and again.  I'm sure this one is worthy of at least 2 more viewings.  Pay attention to the dialogue, pay attention in general, it's worth it.   "},{"Title":"AN UNFORGETTABLE CINEMATIC EXPERIENCE","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film does not boast of special effects, exotic locations or tortuous storyline. It reminds one of the Absurd Theatre. To me, it is a very powerful depiction of the human situation. Two seasoned salespeople, who wait for the arrival of Bob with information on the Big Man, reminds one of Vladimir and Estragon in Waiting for Godot. The end is stunning with Bob, the religious young man outmanoeuvring the experienced Larry (Kevin Spacey) and Phil (Danny de Vito). And mind you, these are the only characters in the film.The only sequence in this beautifully short film takes place on a hospitality suite in an hotel. The irony and sarcasm oozing in the dialogue between Spacey and the other two makes this film very much worth watching. Another interesting thing is that one does not feel bored watching the same set, with three people talking about lubricants and religion. The director has done well  to make it pleasant viewing with clever lighting and intelligent camera positions.. I am not sure about its  box office success. I am quite doubtful if it was any success at all because of the subversive way in which the maker has made his statement through  rejecting the beaten track to explore complex human relations in a cutthroat world.I love this film. Please watch it, if you have not.    "},{"Title":"Finest acting I have seen in a movie","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This movie riveted my attention for three consecutive viewings, one each time another family member returned home. Acting was so focused I never missed car chases, drug deaths, sex, sex killings, gang violence, guns, explosions, females dancing almost nude or other attempts to hold male attention most movies utilize to keep male interest. Can you imagine a movie where heterosexual males talk in a manner that holds our attention because it is about the mundane issue of what gives life meaning? If you seek only sex, explosions, and car chases look elsewhere. If you are looking for engaging human interaction see The Big Kahuna. "},{"Title":"interesting and thought provoking","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Based on the play Hospitality Suite this adaptation stars Kevin Spacy and Danny Devito as industrial lubricante salesmen who are awaiting the arrival of a potential client at a hotel suite.  Along the way they discuss life, business, religion and everything else.  The movie really does act like a play, in fact the whole thing pretty much takes place in the hotel room.  The film was distributed by Lions Gate, which has made a name for it's self by releasing unconventional films other studios passed up or wouldn't even touch (Dogma, American Psycho). The Big Kahuna is not a big summer blockbuster, and not a lot of people have seen it, but it is easily one of the best films this year. "},{"Title":"Landmark film in many ways","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna is proof that there is plenty of room for movies that are driven by plot and rich character development rather than Hollywood formula and action.The film is a landmark film in many ways. First off, it compels the viewer to listen to what the characters have to say. It utterly demands the most active viewing possible. Therefore, it is not a causal weekend entertainer. More than this, the viewer wants to hear what the characters have to say because very early on it is evident that there is an excellent screenplay at work here--one that asks many more questions than it answers, and one that couldn't be more demanding in making the viewer think.Secondly, it exemplifies, by far, the best work Danny Devito has ever done. If he is remembered for only one film in his acting career, this should be the one. He plays his character--a marketing executive at a personal and spiritual crossroads--with unflinching realism and conviction.  Kevin Spacey, as his eccentric, yet ultimately sincere friend, is at his best as always. And Peter Facinelli acts as if reborn (no pun intended) as an up and coming salesman--or not.The question I ask is if many people will make the effort to really hear what this movie has to say, or question how many things it asks us to ponder.An underdog of a movie--a sleeper with a capital 'S'--both overlooked and undervalued. "},{"Title":"Not for entertainment...","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Meaning this is not a date movie or something to rent on Saturday night for escapism.This is something you might rent  - or even buy - to watch again and again when you question the meaning of life.  As hard for some people to sit through as a pointed sermon on Sunday morning, this is a true self-relationship message movie.The three protagonists are working together to close a big sale at a convention and see the key to success through their own experiences at various life-stages.  Since one is young and sincere through scriptural adherence, the older men, DeVito and Spacey worry that he will trip up when presented the inevitable hard question by the prospective client.Note this is NOT the way of life advocacy movie it might seem at first.   Each actor presents a soliloquy of meaning of life and it's up to the viewer to sort out how germane each is.  To me, DeVito presents the sum positionCharacter is the sum of your own life and how you present it to others. You cannot relate to others simply by being Honest... or being brutally frank and those two options are NOT the same.  You cannot present yourself as whole in character until you have some life experience that you regret -would do differently, given the chance- and which you keep at the back of your mind in your daily life's activities.Sort of a marketing manual for the soul. "},{"Title":"An absolute gem of a movie","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I always enjoy Kevin Spacey's performances, which is why I watched this video, but the film turned out to be far, far better than I'd expected.  The way the video was packaged made it look as though this was a film about a sales convention, but it wasn't.  It was a film about people, and how deceptive first appearances can be.  Based on the play 'Hospitality Suite' this was wisely still performed as though it was a play, with very little in the way of shots outside the hotel suite where the three main players are staying for the duration of the convention.  If you give Kevin Spacey good dialogue then he can always be relied upon to deliver, and this he does, in spades.  However, Danny de Vito was an absolute revelation as the tired, vulnerable divorced salesman who reveals a depth of understanding of other people's vulnerability and failings that's at odds with his perceived persona.  The friendship between him and Spacey, and the way de Vito's character grows as Spacey's shrinks, is wonderful to watch.  The third character, the God-loving, upright and morally superior young man, serves as a catalyst for the character development in the film, but he too changes - or changes in the eyes of the viewers - as the film moves towards its end.  As is so often the case in real life, there is no real conclusion,  but the intensity of the dialogue and the brilliance of de Vito and Spacey make this one of the most rewarding, and under-valued films I've ever seen.  Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Brevity is the soul of wit","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  But this film is more in the Oscar Wilde line of lingo then in Shakespeare (who wasn't that brief after all).Give Kevin Spacey a role and he gives you back a character. That's an actors job, but few do it so well. From the role of a mid-career ambitious salesman confronted by the beginner and the tired veteran, Spacey produces a wit who provokes without basking in attention.Spacey's character is a facilitator for the other two characters in this film. In his eccentricity the plain ordinariness of a novice and a veteran is revealed for what his colleagues really are a naive Christian fundamentalist, and an exhausted suicidal divorcee.If you have no problem with watching a stage play on film (the real problem with this production) get ready for some good thinking about life. "},{"Title":"Blah","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Spacey is always great, Devito shines, but the script was sub-par. I actually laughed when the word Blunt was thrown out to describe Spacey's character, who had the most verbose and unnecessary dialogue I have ever heard. He rambles on and on, never quite getting to the point. A thousand words where fifty would have sufficed.Aside from enjoying talented actors doing their thing, I wish I had the last two hours of my life back.Final Scores (of 10) Spacey8.5   Devito10   Facinelli6.0   The Script0.5 "}{"Title":"Almost a movie worthwhile to see.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This movie cuts it close. I can only rate it a 6. Because of this the film does not achieve the minumum 7 rating that in my opinion makes a movie worthwhile to see. It came VERY close though.I did like the acting of Kevin Spacey very much. I found his character to be very engaging and interesting. I also liked the characters that Devito and the other kid played. Unfortunitaly the storyline and pacing of the movie, while competent, just couldn't push itself on to me and make me completely interested. In short - three interesting characters who shared some events for an evening that were not that interesting.I will rate this movie a 6.  "},{"Title":"A complete success","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie with a devout christian, I myself am christian, not to the involvement of my friend.  We both loved the movie.  I was delighted to see the comparison made between an impersonal product such as Lubricants and Christ.  I have been sold many things in my life, and many times I was given the hard sell.  The point is, a sell is a sell, and it is not necessarily to benefit the person you are selling to.  I loved this movie and have seen it twice already, Danny devito was so agonizingly real that it hurt.  I would highly recommned it.   "},{"Title":"Some wonderful truths are discussed but great writing shows rather than tells and this one tells and tells.","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Any movie that has me thinking for more than a few minutes is worth the price. This movie, which I enjoyed largely because of the amazing performance given by Danny DeVito, talks about how if you find yourself leading in a conversation, then you're not learning about the other person, you're marketing.Well, the author does just that in the unusual speech Phil gives Bob in the last 15 minutes of the movie. The fact that what he's marketing are desperately needed, largely forgotten truths doesn't mitigate the speech's undermining effect on the play. For examples of plays that show rather than tell, think of The Crucible, Death of a Salesman, Long Day's Journey into Night and also most great musicals, now I think of it.But as poet Robert Frost said ...No one can know how glad I am to find on any sheet the least display of mind. I'd rather see an unsuccessful thinking person's movie than a successful empty-headed one. "},{"Title":"There's no real story here","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Watching Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito banter back and forth through a room may sound like a good single scene in a film but when that one thing is expected to carry an entire film, it loses steam quickly. That's the excuse for this character study of a film in which Spacey and DeVito portray salesmen and Peter Facinelli portrays a newly hired research engineer. The three of them spend the entire night (but thankfully for the viewer, just an hour and a half) in a hotel suite discussing a possible big sales deal with a potential client who's known only as The Big Kahuna. With these people discussing the same subject in the same setting throughout the film, it's obvious that this film is probably trying to be another Twelve Angry Men but it doesn't come within spitting distance of that film's success.    "},{"Title":"Wasted Acting Talent","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna is based on a play, but without being told, you'd probably know; the movie has all of three actors and one set. The characters are three industrial lubricants salesmen at a convention in Wichita, Kansas. The action all takes place in their hospitality suite where they plot sales strategies, and, as an aside, resolve the great questions of human existence. It's not very entertaining. Unlike other plays that have been brought successfully to the screen, there's no real drama. There is no central issue to resolve like in 12 Angry Men. These guys are trying to land a big lubricants contract. It's a tough sell, it's slipping away from them, and they're desperate. This predicament then serves as a metaphor for the sallowness of life, lost love, and yadda-yadda.  By the end of the movie I didn't care if they made the sale or collectively swan-dived off their balcony.  Danny Devito, Kevin Spacey, and newcomer Peter Facinelli do excellent acting work, but in the end their talents are wasted on a play that should never have been brought to the screen.  In my opinion skip this movie.  "},{"Title":"Pretentious, DULL, overblown claptrap","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The acting skill and technique of Danny deVito and Kevin Spacey stand out loud and clear in every frame and word of the puzzling dull character study of people no one cares about. But that did not translate into anything meaningful, nor enjoyable. I fell asleep (in an afternoon matinee!!!) several times-- and felt  like I had been drugged, this movie was so stupefyingly, butt-numbingly DULL.This movie reminded me of a line from Salinger's Catcher in the Rye. Holden Caulfield is talking about some famous Broadway acting family, and he remarks that for all of their fame and skill, the actors come off as phoney-- because they're so acty, and they're always interrupting each other during the dialogue. So perfectly planned to appear real that it's anything but-- it's hideously fake, not to mention pretentious. Oh wait, I just mentioned it.The Big Kahuna stumbles along ponderously making simpleton points that college sophomores think are heavy. But anyone else, anyone that has spent more than ten minutes in the real world merely yawns at. I gave this movie a generous 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"clunk","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna is such a complete misfire that I was tempted to leave the theatre 30 minutes into it. There is absolutely no chemistry between the three leads, something that is extremely important in a film of this kind. Kevin Spacey wears thin after about 5 minutes and the rest of his performance is excrutiatingly mannered. A pompous and empty film. "},{"Title":"Spectacular over-acting","Date":"13 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I had to watch stop watching this movie halfway through due to the astonishingly mannered over-acting by Spacey. Both his co-actors seemed to be in another film, acting normally. Every gesture, look, word from Spacey had a hypnotic fascination, each one ghastlier than the last. I hadn't noticed this in Spacey movies before, but I think The Big Kahuna will probably affect anything I see him in in the future and probably not in a good way! I wonder if the director had anything to do with the film or whether Spacey just took over and was allowed to do whatever he wanted. Instead of trying to listen to the words of what may have been a good play I spent my time watching what the actors were doing, not listening to what they were saying. "},{"Title":"Until you learn that...your'e just a salesman","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Set in a single hotel room, Danny Devito, Christian Bale, and Kevin Spacey, discuss aging, faith, and what it means to be a salesman. All actors at the top of their game, Christian Bale as the young conservative Christian newlywed on his first assign meant, Kevin Spacey as the middle aged jocular fast talker(similar to American Beauty), and Danny Devito as the suicidal old goat, ready to throw in the towel. Religion and Business clash, and boil over in the films final moments, and best of many dialogs.Like all single setting films, this resembles a play, however with oneiric fantasies of the characters as they'd like to see themselves, keep the movie afloat.I can't really think of anything I didn't like about this movie "},{"Title":"Waiting for (Dick)Godot","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Terrific existential angst study done by two of the best actors working today, Kevin Spacy as desperate Larry and Danny DeVito as worn-out Phil.... long time salesmen buddies hoping to make the one big killer sale that had eluded both of their mediocre careers to date and that would make everything seemingly right again. The location for the film was exactingly placed in a bland hotel in bland Wichita, Kansas, a worthy stand-in metaphor for the nothingness of existence where the great things of life are in very short supply for these two good friends who are impatiently waiting for the fabled company president Dick Fuller to arrive to provide that life saving big sale that would give them new purpose and reason to feel good about themselves again. Who would ever guess that a big order for industrial lubricants could do that? Transferring very intelligent and talky plays to the screen often doesn't work well, but when it does it is magical and deeply involving. It worked so very well here, and intelligently so, as Spacey and DeVito were wonderful playing off each other as salesmen friends so familiar that talk between them was almost like talking to oneself, or at least to one's wife. It was obvious that they loved each other as well as most marrieds do, as much of their dialogue was similar to that of a married couple, and the story's diverse philosophical meanderings that ranged from marketing to religion to love to marriage to character and to, of course, the meaning of life and the real value of shrimp versus cheese ball snacks, were all the more effective due not only to the well crafted script, but also due to the world-weary resignation of the lead characters playing off their near opposite, a wet-behind-the ears, young company research newbie named Bob who was oddly sent with them to the convention. Bob was innocently sincere and mostly good hearted, but at the same time was cocky and smug about things he knew almost nothing about but thought he knew so well. His gently delivered, but harsh and well-earned comeuppance at the end from DeVito's Phil was the one great thing that I knew all along was coming, and I was so glad when it came down hard on this naive, supercilious, and self-righteous member of the fundamental religious right. But sadly, as he dumbly disagreed with his comeuppance details that were so obviously dead on, Bob was not at that time wise enough to know that he had so much more to learn over the years before he could claim possession of any appreciable amount of human character. From this, such familiar feelings were surely evoked in all of us who once happened to be similarly young and naive as Bob is here. And, as it turned out the same way as in much of real life, the big sale was not made. Or.... was it? Truly a philosophical thinking person's film and one to be seen again and again for full value.There was a bit of resolve in what served as an epilogue, as it showed that these three ended up pretty much the same as they began, but somewhat tweaked for the better. Hopefully, like we all do. "}{"Title":"Interesting dialogs","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This film is about three businessmen who had to prepare for their big night in a hospitality suite to convince their potential clients to buy their industrial lubricant.This film has amazing performances by the three main actors. The anger by Kevin Spacey, the blind insistence of Peter Facinelli and the despair by Danny DeVito are very well portrayed. The dialog is outstanding. They consists of winding but witty lines, which are very well composed. The dialog may seem to lack direction at times, but in fact they bring out themes of emotion, goals, responsibility, dreams and religion. Despite the fact that most scenes occur in one room, and there are only three main actors, the film is gripping and never bores. It compensates itself by the acting and the intense dialog that never seems to even pause. In addition, not so many films explore this many topics at once like this film does! "},{"Title":"Great cast and fantastic dialogue","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This movie combines fantastic sharp-tongued dialogue with an exceptionally talented cast. The exchanges of insults, arguments and egos draws you straight into the storyline. Kevin Spacey, at his usual gifted self, combines parts of characters from his other movies such as Swimming with Sharks and Glengary Glen Ross to give a power-house performance as the ultimate salesman. Dany Devito however steals the show and put's in one of his best performances as a middle-aged salesman beginning to understand what's really important in life. Peter Facinelli, whom I've never seen in any other movie, is completely believable as a rookie trying to learn the ropes from the best in the trade. Being surrounded by giants such as Spacey and Devito, you can see this young actor is really intimidated, but uses it to his advantage to make his character more vulnerable than the others. The trade-offs between him and Spacey are mesmerising.Set against the backdrop of a hotel, the three main characters try everything to land the biggest client of their sales careers. The desperate salesman theme is explored in all it's forms, as is the experienced Vs rookie theme. Combined with an outstanding script, this makes for one of the most intellectually engaging and brilliantly acted performances in this genre.Without boring the audience, each character is given exceptional depth and allows you to relate to how they feel. Each character experiences a roller-coaster of emotions, upsets and victories.Ultimately, I find parallels between this film and one of Devito's other films Tin Men that also deals with the same themes of unscrupulous sales people within a dog-eat-dog industry.This movie has a brilliant script and is definitely worth watching if you like intellectually stimulating movies. It will leave you thinking about things for a long time to come. "},{"Title":"A rarely illuminating US made movie!!!","Date":"9 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I was pleased... it is pure acting at its best (well... James Mason is dead and William Hurt is out of the scheme now)... You may find that the scenes are a bit cramped into a hotel-suite...a bit choking, isn't it!? and sometimes the rendering is a bit theatrical (pictures, backdrop, shooting as in search for a nice picture... Anyway, in comparison with ordinary commercial movies from US this one is of outstanding character and ambitions! ON TOP, I found the final song-text particularly charming and illuminating.... I would ADORE having the full text... If just someone can help me retrieving it... either by copy&paste or by identifying the song itself (along the end-titles)... THANK YOU "},{"Title":"I thought The Big Kahuna was awesome!","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito were both excellent! The directing was well done and the writing was terrific. Unfortunately, I would be unable to show it to a lot of people because of the profanity but I realize why it was needed. It is interesting to note that this movie is recommended as an evangelism tool for Christians who are trying to reach out to unbelievers. Postmodern Christianity is all about making friends with people and letting them see how you live your life in the hope that they will want whatever it is that makes you different. Of course, if you aren't walking the walk it will surely have the opposite effect. Living your faith that way is what Quakers have been about for over 350 years. It seems that everyone else is just catching up with them. "},{"Title":"One of the best single scene movies of all time","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" While some people may just not get it, the plot of the movie is sincerity, and the ability of mankind to see only one reality at a time. These reality's are based on experience, something Facinelli's character, due to his age and innocence, cannot comprehend. The older characters, Spacey and DeVito, have the experience of age and the complexities of wisdom to pull from. While some may not see the metaphor in the industrial lubricants vs Christ's teachings, (although if Stan Lee had written the bible everyone would be preying to spiderman), I found the analogy to be superb. If you possess the wisdom and experience of age, this tight, well thought out movie is just the thing for you. If for nothing else, the ending rap/song is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"A great study of character.","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This film has much more to it then it seems. I won't ruin it for you here. The cover of showing Kevin Spacey with that silly thing on his head really doesn't do this fine film justice. There are excellent performances by Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito. I have never seen Danny DeVito in a role like this before. The film is a great study in the character of each person in it. "},{"Title":"Great movie but the language is too much for some.","Date":"18 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This movie would be great for Bible study groups with one caveat; the language is too strong for the general audience. The movie is about having a sincere witness based on love for others. It shows that even well meaning Christians can do the right thing for the wrong reasons. The final speech by De Vito makes it worth sitting through the strong language since it makes a very important point about motives in witnessing.  "},{"Title":"Not Plot Driven, But That's OK","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  In this world where movie-watchers expect entertainment in the form of huge action sequences and dazzling special effects, The Big Kahuna stands out. For that reason alone, I would have enjoyed it.  But then, add in the snappy and interesting dialogue and (despite the monotony of location) the variety of camera angles and the expertise of the actors and this movie was a masterpiece.It was a unique and thought-provoking film experience, so I gave it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Three business men with the same means but different motives.","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Being a Christian, I first found this movie to be slightly anti-spiritual. It seemed to be very humanistic, like American Beauty, in which Spacey also stars.  In hindsight, however, I think the Big Kahuna can represent God, the self, and pretty much any other major idea in the movie.  This movie really shows the importance of honesty and regardless of belief just realize one's own character and one's own motivations.  That's just my impression and I thought it ought to be expressed because this movie has a 6.7/10 and I think that is not giving it enough credit for its solid and well performed point. "},{"Title":"wonderful, unexpected movie","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Very interesting observations, xnietzschex. I'm not sure either whether you're just imagining things or if this is actually an intentional deeper layer in the movie. Either way, your point of view makes sense )Regardless of the above, I was very positively surprised of this movie. I didn't know what kind of film it was when I rented it, I just picked it because of DeVito and Spacey. I have never before experienced this kind of atmosphere and interesting development in a seemingly slow, or even boring, movie. Very different. There is not much more to add. I imagine perhaps not everyone will love this one, but I certainly do.  "}{"Title":"I would never give a movie a 10, but this definitely gets a 9.5.","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is full of brilliant acting even if there are only four people doing it. Kevin Spacey is a genius as always. This movie was not only entertaining, but enlightening. It gives a remarkable spectrum of personality and life choices. It is a movie that gives the suggestion to be a beautiful, unique, and GOOD person. I'm glad that there are still movies out there we can learn about ourselves from. "},{"Title":"DeVito's Character is Gay... No really, he is.","Date":"5 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe that i would be the only one to notice the subtle reference to Danny DeVito's character being gay. I've read through quite a few reviews on imdb as well as looked for reviews with search engines. I saw two gay movie review sites and neither even hinted at the notion. Well, perhaps that's what a little aided expansion of the consciousness Will do for you.Another neglected element is DeVito's whole retelling of his childhood dream, and this has direct bearing on the issue above. If one is completely locked onto this film with his full psyche, he will experience the awful, apocalyptic gloom and sheer visual imagery of the dream, almost a vision. It was one of the, dare i say, high points of the movie. DeVito finds God in a closet in a burned out hotel in the middle of a city laid to waste. And God is scared. DeVito takes him by the hand and leads him 'out of the closet'. Together, still hand in hand (two males?... i, traditionally, assume), they look out over the darkened ruins of the city.That city was Wichita, KS (and also someone's burnt out life). That closet, while at first guess seeming to be the one Spacey wheeled out of the room, is really the room itself. Remember Spacey, upon entering the room in the first place, called it a 'closet' to show his disgust with the room's diminutive size. The god in the closet, scared, was none other than DeVito's character himself. And therein lies the answer to the surface question (well, surface in terms of where the obvious undercurrent of this film lies) Who is The Big Kahuna? A) God, and B) Ourselves... if we look for God externally we will only find stars and gases and nebulae. God resides in humanity, in each of us. At the same time, though, it answers another, and actually more pertinent, question What's Eating Gilbert Grape? (Gilbert Grape being Danny DeVito's character, of course). The answer? That he has finally come to terms with his homosexuality. This is the real reason why he has finally left his wife (regrets allow honesty to tattoo itself across your face-or something close to that. that was another pinnacle in DeVito's career.) This is the real reason we see DeVito truly reading Penthouse, not just looking at it (observe the content on the pages he is looking at... text, not skin-toned glossies). This is the real reason he asks Spacey if Spacey loves him. And perhaps why he considers suicide, briefly, as many homosexuals have done (as well as a boatload of heteros as well). I also find it entertaining, if not downright foreshadowing, when Spacey asks the Baptist Bible Boy, just kidding, the religious devotee, if HE is gay.Well, what can i say? Either I am brilliantly imaginative but dead wrong, or keenly observant and, like a cat's eye, able to discern things in the dimmest of light. You decide. "},{"Title":"Good, but boring movie","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I love Kevin Spacey.  He is one of my 5 favorite actors.  The man has a talent for becoming fast talking characters.  This is a man that most actors wish they could be because he can do anything.  Danny Devito has made some stupid decisions in his life (What's the Worst that Can Happen?) but he is still a good actor.  The other guy... I don't know him.The Big Kahuna was a play.  Well, guess what?  The movie is a play too. It's almost like watching a bootleg video tape of a play.  The entire movie takes place in two rooms a hotel suite and its bathroom (and ocassionally in a bar, hallway, and another hotel room, but only rarely).  The movie has some great writing and some terrific acting.  It touches right on the Religious vs. every thing else issue.This movie had a more personal touch to me because a friend of mine is exactly like the character of Bob Walker.  He is so religious that he carries a Bible with him everywhere he goes.  I know that some of you are thinking that's great!, but when you have to live with it, for years and years, it gets old and stupid.  Kevin Spacey's character reminds me of myself.  I can't understand why someone would make themselves that blind to life and, most of all, that boring.  Religious people are the most boring people of all.  I don't mean people who love God a lot, I mean people like my friend who have unhealthy obsessions with it.  Trust me, I see a lot of these people and they get old quick.  Oh well, whatever floats your boat I guess.Well, enough rabling about my worthless life.  The movie has a problem, it's boring.  I love slowpaced movies.  But this is a little too slow.  It's not that the movie never really leaves a hotel room.  12 Angry men ONLY takes place in two rooms, and it is one of the greatest thillers of all time. It's just that all of the talking in the movie drags for too long and I think that it could have been cut down.  They should have stuck more with the scenes when the party happens.  In fact, we never really see this party because the movie cuts around it.  Oh well, it's still a decent movie filled with great writing and excelent acting.  If your a fan of both, then check this out.  If you're expecting a fall on the floor comedy, go look some place else.7/10 "},{"Title":"A feast for dialogue lovers","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I was expecting a comedy of a different nature. This is best described as a black comedy, and amazingly, with only three main characters, this movie REALLY works. The writing and the dialogue is so good, you can't even glance away from the actor's faces. Kevin Spacey is again at his off-kilter best. The interplay with longtime co-worker Danny DeVito is excellent, and  the third character makes his presence known strongly, especially near the end. If you have ever worked in sales, this is a must-see. I can see where this was not a commercial success, but it certainly is a critical success. I have watched thousands of movies and this is one of those rare times, I am eager to state, that I will watch this film again and soon...just in case I missed anything.Oh yes, about the ending. There is a special moment when YOU have to figure out if they got the account or not. The movie doesn't tell you...or does it?? "},{"Title":"The sales pitch is convincing and the product is good to go","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna is a terrific 3-character piece that may be considered a photographed play like many other cinematic adaptations of plays, but I think the screenwriter/original writer of the play explored a few new dimensions, but the power that these three actors exhibit on screen, the strength of the material and the fluent character development make it sail through with flying colors.  Kevin Spacey plays an unscrupulous salesman whose only goal is to receive the account from a very prestigious client.  He won't let anything stand in his way.  And after this potential client accidentally slipped through his fingers (he failed to wear his own nametag) he goes ballistic.  He goes even more ballistic after discovering that the new guy in the agency (Peter Facinelli) chatted with the man, and failed to mention the lubricant, which they are selling.It's really intense to watch the ideals of Spacey and Facinelli clash.  They both feel strongly about their points.  Facinelli was deep in a conversation about religion with this potential client, and he found nothing wrong with failing to mention lubricants while discussing Jesus Christ.  Spacey feels that business should've been the Number One virtue and that God (and all religious discussion) should take a back seat.  Danny DeVito is also impressive as the come-between.  He's a veteran in the business, and though he sometimes despises Spacey, he believes he has some good ideas and admires his honesty.  He also admires Facinelli, but disagrees on the way he preaches religion, and believes that's no different than preaching about the lubricant.As I always said, NOBODY can play an unscrupulous character better than Kevin Spacey!  There is no one who could've been better for the role.  This is one role that was made for him.  He's one of my favorite actors, and I was glad to see him turn in yet another powerful performance.  He delivers his dialogue with such precision, respecting every word of dialogue, and saying it all with perfect timing.  DeVito shows us again (he did it last time with Jack the Bear) that he can play a dramatic role just as well as a comic role.  He is extraordinary in this movie, just like the other two actors.  Peter Facinelli turns in a surprisingly subtle and brilliant performance, and it was a blessing after watching him play the cardboard, one-dimensional dumb jock in Can't Hardly Wait, a role that could've been played by an orangutan.  He didn't get the chance to flaunt his acting chops in that awful comedy, and I'm so glad he redeems himself in this movie, showing us he can play ADULT roles and do it very well.This is a thoughtful, frank, take-no-prisoners drama about the business world and humanity.  It shows us what can happen when we let certain values overshadow our real goals in life.  This character study is universal, it can pertain to any area of life, not just the business world.  And I think the screenwriter Roger Rueff did a great job at executing the morals he wanted to express.  This is a deep, moving, powerful film that I will remember, and I wish I could've seen the play also so I can feel the energy of the actors burst from the stage (one of the advantages of watching a theatrical production).  My score  8 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"The great movie in the wrong medium.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed watching this.  However, I got the feeling that this truly great script was wasted on film when it truly belongs on a stage as a play.  Some of the shots, especially while Larry and Phil were eating (where it borrowed a lot from My Dinner With Andre (1981)), added nothing to the dialogue. However, as I mentioned, it had an amazing script with three excellent, well cast actors.  Given the choice of watching it and not watching it, I recommend that you watch. "},{"Title":"a 3 character play with fine acting","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"     I am puzzled on this film,  I was mesmerized  for nearly 25 minutes,  but felt let  down  by the inconclusive ending.   Kevin Spacey, Danny De Vito   &  Peter  Facinelli,  are 3 salesmen  at a convention in Wichita Ks, talking & discussing their craft & how to make clients interested in the product they are selling.    This may sound dull  but it is not.  as the 3 of them are very convincing.      There is not a satisfactory conclusion (to me at any rate) I was disappointed by this ending    Kevin Spacey  again proves he is one of our better actors,he can play this type of  role better than  any  currect actor.    Danny DeVito, is equally as good (suprisingly  subdued) as a Willy Loman type (10 yrs before)  In fact  I think  in the  next revival of Death of a Salesman-- he would be perfect.   Peter Facinelli  a very  handsome  young man (shades of Tom Cruise)   is also perfectly cast as an almost naive innocent.\  This is only a 3 character film & the stage roots show  may rating is   ***      it would have been higher with a better ending.   as always  Jay Harris  "},{"Title":"this film will help you grow","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Times to times I like to watch  movies with fantastic specialopticals and sound effects. My senses get delightfull. But at theend I often feel a great sense of emptiness. Now I'm old enough toknow that this feeling is because I haven't learn anythingimportant. I've lost my time. And sometimes appear a movie like The Big Kahuna. No tricks, noeffects.  Instead, a sensitive music track that comes in and out withrare wisdom. Great acting, great lines and a final speach with a lotof sentences to think about. No matter your age; if you care about fundamental subjects, as lifeand death, human condition, mind development, don't miss thisfilm. My sincere thanks to all the people that made it possible. "},{"Title":"The best film made in America in 11 years I have lived here","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Boy, I don't even know where to start. Script turned me inside out and made me cry in pain in the end. It also was the first thing in many years that made me understand that knowing and painfully feeling meaninglessness of this life doesn't make ME worthless. May be I'm still a good person. Just like Phil, with whom I identify 100%. Every word he says, his daydream of flying away to freedom all of it could be me. Of course, somewhere inside me there still lives Larry, confined to a far corner of my soul and consciousness honest and blunt Larry, really wanting to become the Big Kahuna. But he's fading away... he'll be gone soon. I've met couple of Bobs in my life, one of them approved of two books only The C++ Programming Language and the Bible... the portrait is very recognizable. Was I a Bob once? It's quite possible, although a little hard to admit. May be these three people show us stages in development of a human, who's desperately trying to fill the void inside him? First you fill it with borrowed truths and aspirations, then with strive to be on the top, and then... then you just let this void be, even though it hurts so badly, that you want to fly down from the 16th floor Hospitality Suite window.  Acting is beyond praise. Like I said, I identify with De Vito's character like crazy, and I'm a person of different gender, very different age and marital status. I'm supposed to be much happier. But that's the thing feelings, emotions and thoughts De Vito so brilliantly conveys cross all the status boundaries. Spacey shows the desperation and shamelessness of a mature cynic. You laugh at him, and you feel a little sorry for him. He'll become a better person after he survives the blow.  Facinelly delivers really good performance, especially in the end. I think his performance is a little underestimated, because his role seems to be easy. But it is in fact very difficult in the end, where he says very few words, but has to express a range of many conflicting emotions defiance mixed with confusion and just a hint of doubt, may be for the first time in his life. That's where his acting talent shines. I gave this film 10.  "},{"Title":"Get Real!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Ever wonder what the heck people are talking about when they say, Get Real?  Half the time I don't think the people who say that know what it means!  People talk about 'being real' all the time nowadays, its the new 'hip' thing to be... but I doubt if half of the people who are saying it are BEING it!  This movie goes in depth into what it means to BE REAL.  It doesn't use these terms, however, so in this sense it's utterly original, however I don't want to spoil some key words, because words are everything in this film.  The ending takes the wind out of you, and you'll have to rewind several times (unless you're more 'real' than I am) just to really soak in the depth and insight being communicated.  If you like films that really cause you to examine who and what you are, that can act as a catalyst of change in this area, this is the film for you!-T "}{"Title":"The point I think was missed by so many","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  He came and we did not see him . That was the story to me. There seems to be a reluctance to really talk about what seems to be the true story here. I was a very interesting story with great acting with out all of the Hollywood Hype. It was a movie that you had to think about "},{"Title":"Simply filmed, complexly written.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  There are many things I live for.  And art like this film is one of them.  Simply filmed, and complexly written, the three actors do an excellent job in keeping up with this movie. That Spacey does well is no surprise.  It is DiVito that we are astonished by.  Among other things, watch for his exceptional ability to be the quiet witness to many of the severe conversations taking place.  The camera seems to know to watch this ability and often follows him while the action stays on the other side of the room.  The third character is only a prop, decently performed, but only a prop.The distributors tried to pass this flick off as being about a wacky night at a hotel, but the director kept far away from crazy.  No camera tricks, no neat-o angles or voiceovers or effects.  In fact, I can only remember the camera actually moving no more than a few times.  And no emotion enhancing music either.  Everything is left up to the actors and the script.  And the viewer.It is obvious from watching the film that it was originally written as a play, almost a one act play with only two time shifts, and no important dialogue outside of one room.  Three realistic sets of behaviors, emotions and problems, that don't get bogged down in cheap clashes and tears, come together with an small but involved plot which you may miss if you are not giving the dialogue all your attention.  (I don't think it's really about landing the big sale.) This is a movie I readily put in my best ever pile.  It is a small imperfect pile and many that are there may not deserve to be, but I have no doubts about this film.  I don't watch movies more than once, but if this one comes on TV sometime, I think I'll have to break my general rule.  You must watch this one, so go and get it now.  "},{"Title":"If you liked Glengarry Glen Ross..........","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This is top-drawer acting and writing, folks. Just wish I could have seen this sucker live in a small off-Bway venue where it belongs. In a better world DeVito would get the Oscar for this performance, easily the best of his career. Spacey..well, with Spacey I've already come to expect this level every time out, so it comes as no surprise to see him hit another one out of the park. Jump all over this one at your local Blockbuster. And invite your friends over. Serve coffee and crudites to get into the mood. This one deserves a big fat audience. "},{"Title":"Very fine film","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I really enjoyed this thought-provoking and intelligent film. The performances by Kevin Spacey and Danny Devito were excellent and the characters very intriguing. Obviously, this isn't a piece of brain-candy, but if you're looking for a thoughtful discussion of a wide variety of topics from an interesting point-of-view (i.e., three salesmen), then this is definitely a worthwhile way to spend a couple hours. "},{"Title":"I am Sort of Sold On This One!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  `The Big Kahuna' is a little movie with big stars. It is about 3 lubricant salesman awaiting a big client in a hospitality suite. Here they get to share their feelings, ideas, and views about topics such as life, religion, and sales. The movie stars Kevin Spacey, Danny Devito, and Peter Facinelli. Spacey and Devito were great and like usual do not sell us out. However, the role that sold me into this movie was that of Peter Facinelli. This young actor was terrific as the modest, religious novice salesman. Even though it was an enjoyable little film, I did think that it could have used a better story line. You will be surprised to find out that the best part of the film is during the end credits. For that sole reason, you must purchase your tickets now to go see `The Big Kahuna.' *** Average  "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"    The Big Kahuna does not go boom. Anybody expecting a movie that goes boom will be disappointed. It takes place in one room with three characters. There is a plot, but I'm not sure that that's really important here. It's the dialogue and witty reparte showcased by Kevin Spacey and Danny Devito that grab you and don't let you go. It's honest and earnest, and, boy, that's rarer than you might think these days. For an hour and a half you get to see a bit of three fellas' souls. I was completely knocked out by Danny Devito. It's his movie. He owns it and to take a movie away from Kevin Spacey (the ultimate screen stealer), is really saying something. It's the best performance Danny Devito has ever pulled off. He delivers one of the best speeches near the end that I've ever heard in a movie. The Big Kahuna is easily one of the best movies I've seen this year. "},{"Title":"you need patience to unwrap this diamond","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  A low key masterpiece. It's all dialogue, no special effects, no real action. But the dialogue is brilliant. A similar film is My dinner with Andre but this movie is deeper. The movie deals with salesmen, and we all are. We all have our pitches and our own agendas. Some people pitch industrial lubricants, others pitch religion. But ultimately we are manipulating clients. This is the basic theme developed in a slow methodical manner. This movie will bore people who look for special effects over script, but anyone with the patience to really listen will be rewarded. I usually don't like these kinds of talk, talk, movies because the talk is ultimately trite, but this film has a unique script. "},{"Title":"This one sneaks up on ya big time","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna starts off funny and winds up grabbin' ya where ya live. Subtle, sublime, profound, brilliantly written and performed. Danny DeVito brings all his Scorpio wisdom to his part, and Spacey is magnificent as usual.  Whew....Could barely scrape myself off the seat when it was done washing over me.  See this, and see it NOW. "},{"Title":"excellent script and character acting, Spacey and DeVito at their best.","Date":"4 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I went to see this movie primarily because I'm a stockholder in Lion's Gate Entertainment, the company that distributed the movie. I had also seen Kevin Spacey recently in American Beauty and was interested to see how he dealt with this very different role.Although the film starts off a bit slow, it quickly draws the viewers and keeps a hold of them. Luckily this movie was only about an hour in a half though. Any longer could have put the watcher to sleep. It contains many interesting discussions that will leave you thinking on your drive home from the theater.I would recommend this movie to anyone who feels that a strong script and good acting are more important than any special effect or sound track song. "},{"Title":" A light variation on My Dinner with Andre","Date":"2 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna could be called a light variation on My Dinner with Andre.  The similarities are striking there is one set, a minimum of characters and physical action, the action takes place in the dialogue, and there is a contest of ideas. Kahuna ends up being an entertaining film while Andre was astounding. In movie comedies, often there is one multi-dimensional character (in this case DeVito) interacting with others who are stereotyped and cartoon-like, in this case Spacey and Peter Fascinelli.  Spacey plays a variation on one of the late Phil Hartman's characters, here a fast-talking, wise-cracking, sardonic manufacturer's rep.  Fascinelli plays a young, naive fundamentalist Christian who uses every opportunity to proselytize others.  The three actors, DeVito, Spacey, and Fascinelli were all well cast and good in their roles.The film has a lot of catchy one-liners about gender differences that women may enjoy.  It's entertaining to see a film about a contest of ideas.  The ideas, however, were stated fuzzily and I was disappointed that the issue of Fascinelli's character using the company money, resources, and time to advance his own  personal beliefs was not better highlighted (perhaps as ...render unto Caesar that which is Caesar, and unto God that  which is God's...).  Ah, well; it induced that question within me and if it did so within much of the audience, perhaps that's as good as a more obvious slap in the face message. "}{"Title":"Small production, big acting","Date":"12 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This was a stunning small production (only three speaking parts), but a very captivating film.  It starts out like a funny Glengary Glen Ross, but quickly turns into a fascinating discourse on faith and vocation.  Spacey, as usual, is excellent.  DeVito is better than I've ever seen him, and young Facinelli holds his own as the young believer on fire for God. "},{"Title":"I absolutely hated this movie","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  	I think the line above this one sums what I thought of 'The Big Kahuna' perfectly. I downright despised it. Never has a movie been so completely pointless or boring, I'm just having a hard time believing it.	It isn't my least favorite film, the fact that I managed to sit through it should be an indication that I've seen worse. And worse there is, as 'The Big Kahuna' did have positive traits, no matter how slight they are.	Though their characters were annoying and hard to spend two hours with, Spacey and Devito both turned in alright performances, much better than a script of this caliber deserves. Facinelli is the weak link here, not at all interesting, and a horrible protagonist. One of the rules of writing a script is to have the main character learn something and change throughout the picture. The characters in 'The Big Kahuna' fail miserably at that, sad when you realize the talent associated with the picture.	You do have to give the producers credit for being able to wrap up shooting so quickly, the entire shoot was only 18 days. Still, Spacey's earlier 'Swimming With Sharks' (one of my favorite films) was shot in two days less, yet somehow seems less artificial. The entirity of 'The Big Kahuna' takes place in one set (a hotel room), with very few pans and no zooming at all, making the movie almost as boring as the tired screenplay.	Though the movie is billed as a comedy, there is not a single laugh to be found in the entire movie.I seriously recommend against seeing this movie, especially if you're not a fan of Spacey or Devito.2.0/10 "},{"Title":"Mixed","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Today I went to see the movie, based solely on the two main characters, Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito, whom I have held in high esteem for their dedication to their craft.  As the story line unfolded, once again I perceived the industry depicting persons who have a deep faith as beingtouched in the head with very little sophistication, if any.  I cannot conceive of ANY group being maligned as this particular group.  Can anyone imagine the white's being called 'honky'?...the people of color called disparaging 'nick names'?  Why then must the entertainment industry depict those persons of faith as being the very slime and gutter snipes of society?  This is as offensive to me as are trashy names which refer to individuals of different races.  This could have been a very fulfilling film had all aspects or questions posed by the entertainers been dealt with in a more sensitive fashion.  As usual both these actors were (are) outstanding in their industry, and in the movie...its unfortunate such a narrow minded writer who obviously has an ax togrindwithpersonsoffaith. "},{"Title":"Excellent, it had meaning and truth...","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I really thought this was a film worth my money to see. excellent dialogue, cast, although I do not believe that this film was in position to be commented on charcater development, as much as story development. For me, this film projected the philosophy of life, friendship, and in some instances, even love. The truth behind all this is, is that the film in itself was very simple. Only 3 charactars to play main roles, (you see them and only them in the ENTIRE film-this means 2hrs!) and these 3 characters each had a spiritual connection/nay say bond towards each other, in that each of them were alone in the world, searching for the meaning of life, God, and love for each other as friends would. Lets strat with danny Devito, he plays a man who has just lost his wife to divorce, has a regular amount of friends in his life, but Kevin Spacey seems to stand out as someone who is honest, truthful, caring, and respectful, to others that know him best. Devito's charactar stood out for a main reason. He realizes the meaning of his existence, the philosophy behind his calling, through his pain and bond he forms, (I take back, what I said in the beginning, it has got charactar devlopment)with Spacey that develops in to something deeper; True Friendship. Lets look at Spacey. Here we find a man pretty much disciplined to his work, is very experienced, and seems to be the least sentimental about himself compared to the other 2 players in the film. He gave up smoking for a reason not mentioned, but looks as though he wants to find peace and equality, through a true friendship, with either Devito or the new kid. Spacey, I belive, fills the extra middle of the film, trying to express the meaning of hard work, putting yourself in the right position to do your work, (in his case Marketing) and drawing the line between (this is VERY complicated to explain and comprehend) talking about genral life, and personal life. i.e., when you are talking individually with another person about bussiness, talk about bussiness! He says not to talk about the wrong subject in the wrong place, that dont fit together, because you end up selling what you are talking about. selling meaning a sales picth. This leads directly into, the new kid, Bob. Bob is an unexperinced amatuer to the world of advertising and business, and he fills this up with his own belefies, that he STANDS UP FOR. Jesus. God. Religon. At one point in the end of the film, he is sent to talk to a president of the biggest company, in the Mid-west, and talks for 4 hours to the guy about Jesus and Religon. When he returns, spacey and Devito get all over him about what he talked about, and how it mattered to boost their business. He procceds to explain that they chatted about Religon and God and things, and this is the point in the film where the meaning of the story is tied in an argument. Spacey gets mad at him, because Bob is too ametuer to understand that when you have work to be done, it has to be done in the right place and the right time, and that you cant talk about a different subject in a different setting. They scramble on the floor, and Devito jumps in. He then clarifies what Spacey was explaining. Bob was also against/abolished the use of looking at other women when you are married, or with someone. He projects the patrt of the film that is based on belief and freedom of belief in something that is righfully yours. of course, that cant interfere with your work, but the fact that he did, demonstrates the right to your beliefs. So, each charactar has some thing to prove. Devito Philosophy of love bonded with the spiritual meaning of friendship and God/life. Spacey Setting of your life, of your work. To put your beliefs aside for the moment, and to focus in on what is being done at the moment, or else you will turn the stated subject into something being sold. Bob Rights to belief, Confidence in what you belive is right. Yes, this film was very well made, despite 3 characters and one setting. (Can you belive this was a playact? 3 people on stage!) It had enormous potential towards philosophy of life, had some funny moments, but IT IS NOT A COMEDY. Keep this in mind. THIS FILM IS REALLY SERIOUS. if you dont think you will understand it, dont see it!!! Kevin Spacey, again, makes for a great time, so does Devito and the other guy. The film has its diaological scenes, which I must stress, were very well acted. good job, guys! "},{"Title":"Perceptive, challenging statement about faith, interpersonal commitment, and values","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Earlier today, I saw The Big Kahuna, which is the finest film I have seen so far in 2000.A number of years ago, I decided that one of the ways to differentiate adults from youths was that adults had regrets, but still managed to take ownership of their lives, warts and all, and move on.  I found these sentiments echoed in a powerful speech Danny DeVito's character Phil gives to Peter Facinelli's character, Bob, towards the end of this filmed play. Here, Phil delivers a wise but not wizened discourse on a level of truth that Bob in his Christian evangelical zeal (he happens to be a Christian, but he could have been from any tradition) cannot yet see, which is that Bob has regrets, but has not arrived at a point where he can acknowledge them.This is a bold and brave film, set in a hospitality suite (the name, in fact, of the original play of Roger Rueff's that he adapted for the screen) with three salesmen  Phil, a middle aged man with too many years on the road, trying to recover from the shreds of a mid-life crisis; Bob, a Christian evangelical, a misplaced tech at the very beginning of his career; and Larry, a wired, overly driven man who seems in part like a refugee from the sales company from Glengary/Glenross played with a potent combination of irony and passion by Kevin Spacey.Roger Ebert makes the cogent observation that Phil and Larry on the one hand, and Bob on the other, are both sales reps from their respective religions  for the first two, it's sales; for Bob, its his religion.  I agree, but I think its possible to take it one level deeper, which is that all are trying to find God, a sense of connectedness, and an overall sense of existential meaning and purpose.  I don't think it's accidental that many biblical references are made by all concerned during the course of the film; in fact, at one point I had a fantasy that if you deleted the profanity, this production could easily have emanated from the talented hands of an educational wing of a major religious denomination.The Big Kahuna is a potential buyer who could land the protagonists on easy street.  Yet, what emerges is a metaphor of ultimacy  what constitutes the Big Kahuna, i.e. that which constitutes the central purpose of their lives, gives meaning, and  propels them toward the natural destination of their dreams and aspirations, (as well as how they orient themselves to these concerns), is really the focus of this film.Themes of love and faith are collaboratively explored here  commitment to job at the expense of Phil's marriage; the possibility that Larry and Phil could genuinely care about one another as both colleagues and friends after a multi-decade association in a way that transcends both business and practical concerns; and that Bob could also transcend his self-righteous and barely concealed smug and self satisfied attachment to his pure faith, marriage, family, and general bearing of perfect rectitude.  Phil later challenges Bob to evolve past his ego ideal and attachment of the perfect Christian and move to a greater capacity to gain perspective, compassion, and with it, a more far reaching humanity to be able to connect from his heart.A favorite quote of mine of many years comes from R.D. Laing, who wrote in the Politics of Experience  We all live in the hope that authentic meeting between people can still occur.  Past the grind of the road, the weariness of a thousand throbbing hand shakes; a million hospitality suites and warn pillow cases for weary heads too dead (as Dylan might have said) for dreaming, are people hungering for connection  with God; with another; with themselves.  And the hope that such connection might occur past ideology or soul-numbing pursuit is what, for me, this film is all about.It's a gorgeous piece of work.Fred  "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Although it would seem to be very difficult for Kevin Spacey to brilliantly follow-up American Beauty, he did.  The Big Kahuna is an excellent character study, and the three leading actors are magnificent.  Kevin Spacey's acting was superb, as usual.  The final scene with him is his best, where the bluntness of his character is finally terminated, and he shows deep feeling.  Danny de Vito is also great, and I think this may very well be his best acting in his extensive career.The Big Kahuna is a movie that gets back to basics.  Unlike so many computer enhanced movies of today, almost the entire movie takes place in a hotel room.  It's supported by the fantastic acting, and it really is a wonderful movie.  I definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"It seems to me that the non-Christian is almost, in a way at that moment, closer to God.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Imagine when a perhaps young Christian is asked (for example) if God is real, and if Jesus is God, and confidently answers yes.. compared to a travel worn, cynical non-Christian being asked the same question, softly answering, I don't know. (as like a scene in this movie)It seems to me that the non-Christian is almost, in a way at that moment, closer to God. I'm thinking of CS Lewis' idea here of walking down a long twisting mountain road (that twists one time around) towards a great shining city in the valley. (the city represents God) The Christian is graced with being near the top of the mountain, and full of joy from having a brilliant view of the city. The non-Christian is further down the road, and on the other side of the mountain, and can see nothing but darkness. Yet he is the one actually closer (physical proximity wise) to God. Meanwhile the Christian is waiting, in pure love considering jumping off to fly right down to the city.. (although God may blow him about for a while in the sky far above the city and in the clouds without letting him land ;) So the non-Christian saying, I really don't know if God is real, I don't know if Jesus is God. is saying this, from a perspective of honesty that is as real as God when speaking. It isn't God speaking, yet is close to His dear heart for them. "},{"Title":"GLENGARRY meets GODOT","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Three salesmen in a hotel room waiting for the Big Kahuna, i.e., the CEO who could write the check of their dreams. Cynical Hollow Wounding One is Kevin Spacey. Decent Battered Put-Upon One is Danny DeVito. Callow Well-Intentioned Young Born-Again One is Peter Facinelli. They eat complimentary carrot sticks in a hotel hospitality suite that is like a landmark in ugly production design. The conversation, about God, death, women, and what is and is not a phony-baloney human being, is so shallow one wonders what it was that provoked Spacey to turn this one-set play into a movie. Spacey continues to be unable to play anything unimbued with the flavor of acerbic homosexual, but DeVito has a long, showy, wisdom-of-the-ages speech near the end that is dazzlingly played. DeVito focusses on the exhaustion, the impatience turned into infinite patience of the guy. His performance is quietly marvellous. The movie is Limburger. "},{"Title":"one of the best of the year","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I must say I was completey captivated by this film, reconfirming my previous belief that Kevin Spacey IS GOD!! One of the most honest films I've seen in a long time, possibly because it's based on a play.  Danny Devito was great, he gave so much to his character.  My only qualm is the final song at the end, for the movie's message, it seemed a little too commercial. But other then that, a perfect 10! "},{"Title":"Seen it before","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This was really nothing special.  Everyone seems to be in love with Kevin Spacey right now so I'm sure the critics (and a few audiences) will devour it.  But it was too much Kevin Spacey--not enough Danny DeVito.  His character was the most interesting.The setting was too confined but I guess that was the whole point.  But the movie was a disappointment as a whole....for better examination of the same themes, see two other movies  Tin Men (starring DeVito) and Glengarry Glen Ross (co-starring Spacey).  Tin Men is a lot more sunny in its approach and says a lot more about human nature and how males (especially male salesmen) interact; Glen Ross is a darker version of a similar story with a great ensemble cast. "}{"Title":"A film for those who are turned on by great dialogue cleverly delivered.","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  It's difficult to pick between Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito as to who makes the greatest impression.  Spacey has the much more dramatic role as the man who dreams of being the Big Kahuna, the world class salesman (marketeer) at his company.  DeVito is a little over the hill, but plays the role with real patience and depth.  He is able to accommplish a lot with just simple facial movement.  But ultimately, it is the crisp dialogue that makes the film such a delight.  New boy, Peter Facinelli, does a nice job in a Tom Cruise like performance.  The story of salesmen trying to make the big sale, is engrossing and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Who needs bad guys and action?","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Not since William Saroyan has a playwright/screenwriter populated his work with nothing but good guys, trying to be better--and thoroughly engaged an audience--while they struggle to cope with the only heavy in sight life. One leaves the theatre thinking about his own priorities and rooting for all three of the (magnificently portrayed) men on the screen. Personally, I would like someday to meet (not here...in some other place) the elusive, barely seen but profoundly felt title character.   "},{"Title":"More customers. More sales. More benefits.....","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  What I'd hoped for was a diverse perspective of how sales people size up their prospects. I wasn't quite ready for the battle of faith Vs non-faith. The final scene really sums up things neatly while still leaving me to my own conclusional devices. I went to see this movie because of Spacey, I think DeVito took the prize.My only real disappointment with this movie was it closing with Baz Luhrmann's Sunscreen "},{"Title":"A lot of the spiritual, but none of the material.","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  The Big Kahuna is the story of three salesmen, one old, one young, one in between, who spend the day anticipating a big sales convention in a less than desirable hotel room.Peter Facinelli, plays Bob, the rookie in the group.  Phil (DeVito) and Larry (Spacey) get into a conversation about Bob's religious beleiefs which seem to be all Bob ever thinks about.  Phil and Larry have lead longer lives and have turned cynical to the spiritual world.  As Bob is put under fire, all involved are forced to reevaluate their own existance and God's influence in it.During this convention, Bob strikes up a conversation with a big wig that the men have been scoping like a shark.  It turns out he and Bob discussed Jesus Christ, which flabbergasts the others.  By the end of the film, you are left wondering who, exactly, is the Big Kahuna.The movie isn't bad, but it never amounts to much.  I kept waiting for someone to be persuaded either into Christianity or out.  Thankfully, though Bob's beliefs are consistently under attack, he never waffles and so the cause of Christianity is saved.  However, Phil spends the whole movie questioning his own spirituality, never reaching any conclusions.Spacey is building a career, playing the same role, the guy who doesn't give a damn.  Not that Spacey isn't good, but he has the whipsmart egomaniac character down pat.  DeVito and Facinelli are both great.Overall, it's not bad.  It was refreshing to see a movie that discusses Christianity, a philosophy that seems so outdated among the Hollywood sect. However, by the end of the movie no one has made any strides in their belief systems and so it amounts to a bunch of nothing.   "},{"Title":"almost perfect","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this movie at the film festival and sat through a question an answer session with the director. I'll  throw in my opinion. I found the movie to be very entertaining, funny, and full of thought provoking words. The cast was great. Danny Devito is hands down great. The only complaint I had over this was the music...the music, the music, the music...awful. If there was a tighter score on this movie, everything would have just been brilliant.  It was a pleasure. "},{"Title":"Philosophical Masterpiece","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  When a film explores a philosophy, or a moral statement, there is a lot of room for disaster. This film completely evades disaster through tremendous acting and a wonderful storyline. What makes the film so powerful is how open it is left for personal interpretation. Even the director, Swanbeck said that no one should make a definitive statement as to what the last scene of the film truly means. It has personal and profound meaning.  "},{"Title":"Kevin Spacey combined two roles","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" Following his Oscar win for American Beauty, Kevin Spacey starred in the semi-cynical Big Kahuna, about three businessmen (Spacey, Danny DeVito, Peter Facinelli) trapped in a Wichita hotel room expecting an important client. The movie has the distinct feeling of a play, with the single room setting and emphasis on dialog. It's certainly got an interesting plot, with its look at the unpleasantness of life for traveling salesmen. However, aside from the strange similarity to his role in American Beauty, Kevin Spacey also sort of repeats his role from Glengarry Glen Ross.But don't get me wrong, I thought that the movie was worth seeing. Not any kind of masterpiece, but OK. "},{"Title":"Good, but not enough to fill out 1h 30min","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Some highlights, but in the long run a boring movie. After 3 min, Spacey´s monologues are´nt that witty. If you want to see Spacey in a great movie with great dialogue about life, see Hurly Burly instead. Peter Facinelli´s (Bob) performance is bellow average. The dialogue between Larry and Bob after the first party is almost the same as the dialogue after the second party. What did you talk about? Jesus ´n´ stuff repeated over and over. A great movie about life (literally filmed in one room) is Cube. "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie.  Spacey, DeVito, and Facinelli are great.","Date":"26 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Based on the play Hospitality Suite by Roger Rueff, who wrote the story.  The Big Kahuna gave me the feeling that the movie really resembled a stage play.The film is about two veteran salesman, Larry (Kevin Spacey), who is determined to make the sale of his career and Phil (Danny DeVito), who takes things not as seriously as Larry does.  Phil and Larry have known each other and worked together for a long time.  Enter Bob (Peter Facinelli), a marketing rep who is married, deeply religious, and soft spoken.  Larry and Phil tell Bob what it's like to be in their shoes and don't completely agree on the view of it.  In the movie's second half, Bob returns to tell Larry and Phil about a man who he had a conversation with at a party.  Instead talking about the product that Phil and Larry are selling, Bob and the man talk about Jesus.  Phil isn't stunned as Larry is.  They refer to the man that Bob spoke with as The Big KahunaThis is the first film that Danny DeVito and Kevin Spacey have done together since the classic crime noir L.A. Confidential.  Spacey and DeVito give very good performances, but Facinelli is great as Bob.  The Big Kahuna is a wonderful film.  "},{"Title":"Glengarry Glen Ross it ain't","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Three industrial lubricant salesguys, a convention hotel room hospitality suite, and a script. Such is the composition of Kahuna, a claustrophobic and shallow dialogue-intensive flick which even the combined talents of DeVito and Spacey can't salvage. Insipid and uninspired, Kahuna falls on its face for want of a good script. "}{"Title":"HORRIBLE","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  When I went to go see Big Kahuna I expected to see a well acted and overall entertaining film.  Kevin Spacey is, in my opinion, one of the best actors to grace the big screen in the last ten years.  I also expected much more from Devito and Facinelli.  While I felt that the acting wasn't awful, I found that the script was one of the worst I had been exposed to.  It consisted of unmeaningful speeches that were irrelevant and out and out boring.  I found myself wanting to leave after ten minutes.  It has been a long time since a movie has been this painful for me to sit through.  Do yourself the favor and skip viewing this disappointing film! "},{"Title":"we fell asleep","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  i'm very surprised how much people liked this movie. we were recommended this movie & i put a curse on our friend for suggesting it to us. my boyfriend & i both kept falling asleep. it was so unbelievably boring! i hear everyone talking about character development & it's not an action movie but man! i'd rather watch static and I LOVE SPACEY & DEVITO! we just could not believe that there was absolutely no point to this movie. a big waste of time... "},{"Title":"It's just a movie, people!","Date":"6 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" I don't get this looking for hidden meanings, etc. in the movies these days. How on earth do you ever enjoy a movie if you're constantly hyperventilating over what this or that means? Existentialism just isn't meant to be practiced when you're out to simply escape and enjoy a movie. This is definitely not rocket science! I happened on this movie on a Sunday afternoon and really liked the performances of Spacey and DeVito (can't recall NOT enjoying any performances by either of these two!). The writer(s) actually gave them something to say and it was worth listening to, particularly the last fifteen minutes. A little foor for thought doesn't hurt anyone if given in small doses and just now and then. This movie provides just that. I was struck by the relevancy of what was said to today's headlines, particularly the comments made by DeVito's character re conversations trying to convince people of Godly points of view being ad men's pitches. Amen! "},{"Title":"The Big Bore","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" This is a talky, pretentious film that actors love and audiences ignore. Kevin Spacey and Danny DeVito play experienced salesmen who go to Kansas City for a sales conference. Peter Facinelli plays the new guy. You know, the one that's supposed to learn the ropes from the old vets only he has his own style and way of doing things? Yes, it is well acted. Unless he goes the chew the scenery route, Spacey almost can't be bad. DeVito's worst tendencies are left behind here and he does a good job playing the wounded, vulnerable Phil. But its still a snooze-fest.It might be noted that this is the first movie for director John Swainbeck, and eight years later, still his ONLY directing credit. That might tell you something about the pace and direction of this dreary film. But he had a great road map in trying to create a dull film the script.This is only for the hard core Spacey or Devito fans. "},{"Title":"Pretty hollow, but worth seeing for the performances","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very unusual film, its pretty much just a filmed play, and they usually are  not successful, and this is no exception.  What it is, is just a retread of Glengarry  Glen Ross, the characters have the  same goal, but its just not done as well in this  film.  Kevin Spacey gives a very good performance, but thats about it.   If you  really like him, you may enjoy this little film.  My IMDB rating 5.8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent - but not for those looking for a fun film","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  Powerful, thoughtful, wise, moving and incredibly well acted this film rates high in my book.  But it is a movie for when one is in a contemplative mood, not for those looking for an explosive diversion from real life.  Hope to see an Oscar nod or two for this one. "},{"Title":"Screenplay Was Garbage, But The Performances Were Fantastic!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":" It is a shame when brilliant performances are wasted on a piece of crap screen play, as is the case with The Great Kahuna. Kevin Spacey and Danny DiVitto are wonderful actors, and nothing here says any different. They both contribute the kinds of quality performances we have come to admire and expect from them.The screenplay, however, deserved none of their labors. It is preachy, and proselytizing tripe, which has no business on any theater screen, much less MY television set. The story centers around a deluded rose-colored-glasses kid who still has his head in the clouds and doesn't realize that religion and business do NOT mix. Instead of doing his job, he openly proselytizes with the clients, and then rebels against the disparaging opinions of his betters, when they discover what he has been up to.I was neither amused, nor entertained, though DiVitto and Spacey turned in beautiful performances.It rates a 3.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Nonsense","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so boring! Kevin Spacey,Danny Devito,and Peter Francelli are the only ppl who star in the movie. It takes place in a kansas hotel room and all thy do is just talk. that's all they do throughout the whole movie. Kevin Spacey went ballistic over a plate of food asparagus(plz excuse my spelling)in American Beauty,then in this movie he holds up a carrot stick and Devito says what R U doing with my hor d'ouvres? I'm warning u! Plz think b4 watching! Watch some good movies like throw momma from the train. 1 1/2 hours of talk,no action. My Rating0/10. "}]