[{"Title":"For the love of God, people! It's a good movie!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"63 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I admit that I came into the theater completely biased against Pokémon, and I still hate nearly everything about it... with the exception of this film (and the opening theme for Johto League Champions.) Admittedly, the movie was probably pumped out of the studio in order to rake in more and more cash (and it worked) but somehow, the writer managed to keep a stong, albeit thinly veiled anti-violence sentiment. There were also some acts of cheesy heroism I found downright heartwarming. Also notable is the incredible magnitude  of the backgrounds. The flying palace was absolutely stunning. I liked it. But, you probably won't. Don't watch it. "},{"Title":"Tell me what we're fighting for","Date":"12 September 2003","Score":"43 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, I liked Pokemon the first moment I saw the series... actually, after a few episodes. Anyways, after I saw the video clip Don't Say You Love Me (M2M), I wanted to see the movie.Now, finally, after a few years and a DVD player later, I bought the movie, and I gotta tell ya, I regret it that I didn't see it in the cinemas... actually, I don't, because, well, I was too old for pokemon. That's the biggest bullpoo I ever heard. Well, sure, pokemon is mainly for young people, but I did enjoy the movie, for an 18 year old guy.Well, back to the movie. The movie is great. I've seen the movie in Dutch first (because I'm used to the Dutch voices, and they sound better to me). The way Mewtwo's voice was used, it was as if Mewtwo was really in your head. But you'll need Dolby Surround for that experience. Also, the way the movie reffered back to the series, perfect. I mean, if you haven't seen the series, then that's okey, but don't look weird if you don't understand certain events and jokes and such.The most unique thing is that this Pokemon movie really shows how much the Pokemon can care for their trainer. ** ENDING HINT ** You can mostly see it near the end of the movie.Pokemon The First Movie is probably the first movie that succeeded on following up their series successfull. It may not be a great movie, but it sure was fun to look at. "},{"Title":"People This Movie is for Little Kids","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"57 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my kids to see Pokemon with their friends and they all loved it. Every child in the theater seemed to enjoy the movie, as did some of the adults. I think this movie is much more appropriate for children than a lot of the schlock that is put out for kids. This movie is for children. And it worked well on that level. "},{"Title":"Well, I liked it!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"32 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  OK I know being 17 it isn't cool to like Pokémon, but I do and I love the movies even though 2-3-4 and probably this new one suck. The first movie involves scientists creating a super strong clone of Mew (Which they name Mewtwo and hence the title of the film) Mewtwo (After first escaping from the head of Team Rocket) moves to an island and he sends out invitations to Pokémon trainers across the world, when all of them arrive (Including our heroes Ash, Misty and Brock and thank god NO TRACY!) Anyway after soundly defeating all the Pokémon Mewtwo clones them into super strong versions and then another big fight takes place between the real Pokémon and the clones. In the end Ash tries to stop the fight by placing himself between Mew and Mewtwo and ends up being turned to stone, in a Disney turn of events the Pokémon realise they have done wrong and their tears bring him back to life (Sappy I know but who cares) Everyone is returned to where they started from with no memory of what happened. This film was a little more intense than the cartoon and had some violent moments so parental guidance is recommended (Like the scene were the clone Pikachu is attacking the real Pikachu) Anyway a good film and sadly under-rated by people who are not willing to give it the chance it deserves.Rating - 9/10 "},{"Title":"Prepare for trouble","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Okay now, be honest.  How many of you who rated this movie a '1' actually saw it?  Probably none.  Pokemon rule; yes, I will admit to being another 20 year old who enjoys pokemon; I went to see it with my 18 year old brother, too.  It might be a little sappy with its message, but it's a lot of fun to watch, anyway.  The best part of the movie is the final showdown between Mew and Mewtwo; not because of the battle, but because of the conversation  Mewtwo- Why do you run?  Are you afraid to learn who is supreme?!  Mew- Mew  If you've rated this movie a one just because you think it's dumb or a bad influence on kids, I've got three words for you.Get over yourself "},{"Title":"It's not THAT bad!","Date":"26 April 2010","Score":"22 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm a bit shocked at the low ratings of this movie. It's no way near a 1 out of 10. I think its because if you were an adult when you saw this, you would give it a 1 out of 10 straight away. Like when I saw it when I was 8 or 9 years old originally at the cinema, all the kids enjoyed it, including myself, whilst the adults were just snoring away! They didn't even give it a chance! As of writing this review, at the age of 19, the movie is still OK in my opinion. The sequel was better, but I think Mewtwo was pretty cool in it, and its not that long either so don't just completely bash it just because it has the name Pokemon on it. Season 1 of Pokemon was awesome, and I wasn't even a huge fan of the anime! Finish it first, and sure there are some plot holes in it, but hey I still think the movie is entertaining. Overall, a 6/10 at best (as a teen/adult), but that means its passable. "},{"Title":"An awesome kid's action flick","Date":"9 April 2008","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Although I am certainly not a fan of some of these animated fighting shows that are utterly ridiculous, in my opinion (i.e. Naruto, Digimons and One Piece), Pokémon has always had a place in my heart, for some odd reason, and I really enjoyed this movie to the fullest extent. I had always hated some of the animated TV shows that came on television, more specifically Cartoon Network, except for a small amount, and Pokémon was one of the exceptions in the small amount. Soon, when they came out with the movie, I was actually impatient to see it! It of course was some time ago when I was still somewhat little, but I would still be dying to see it if they made it nowadays and would be just as pumped up about it. When I did see it, I thought the film was true to the show and did an excellent job at conquering what it set out to do, and that was entertain fans and be fun all around! It wasn't like any other kind of animated movie in it's genre, as many think it is just a run-of-the-mill letdown. I thought it had a really interesting theme and I was amazed at how they were able to pull off such an exciting and fun kids movie without destroying the originality of the TV show and without the use of lame jokes like toilet humor, though I mean, there were still some jokes and lines that could be considered extremely lame, unless you just accept it for what it's worth, which, I did, and without the use of inane curse words that parents would find insulting nowadays, if you understand what I mean. Yes, there is fighting, which cancels out the heart and soul the show and movies try to set out, but still, in the end, it tells kids that fighting isn't the answer and kids eventually grow up knowing that Pokémon aren't real, so they shouldn't have to copy their actions. I say these things only because most critics condemn this film for those reasons. Oh well, Pokémon The First Movie, I must say really isn't even the best of the Pokémon movies, it's actually my second favorite, but it was still very excellent and worth the time to watch with great battle sequences, superb characters and an effective plot and message. This film is great, people need to lighten up and enjoy it for what it was... "},{"Title":"This Movie rocks you gata see it if you love Pokemon!","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is da bomb! If you love pokemon you will obviously love the movie Quote the tagline  Prepare for the gratest match ever! so I recommend you see it. And yes James of Team Rocket does rock. But if you want to know the movies plot too bad you will have to see the movie! BYE P.S. this site and every member rock!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I loved this movie! D It was the first movie I ever saw in the theater. Great movie! the action, the drama.. For a kid i was really impressed! (A) and secretly I still like to watch it O i have not seen the other movies yet of pokemon.. I wonder how they are? I am confused when it comes to the series.. what part they are and what has all happened and has Ash already won a final? ;o i only followed the first season completely, after that it slipped. I don't get it why a lot of people voted 1 for this movie tho S Its not that bad! oh well.. i don't know what else to say,, P GIVE THE MOVIE A CHANCE, you winers! P i have it on video.. haha Xxx "},{"Title":"Short yet long","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is really has you may have heard a feature length episode of the cartoon series and got to get a cinema release.  The thing is with this movie is that it is pretty good. It has now become one of my favorite animated movies along with Mulan and Perfect Blue. Its really about Mewtwo who wants to destroy all Pokemon and humans so he and clone Pokemon can rule the earth. Its dialogue isn't bad and the movie could have used a bit more effort than rushing through the movie and giving no detail but all in the end I'm going to be nice and give it a nice **** 4stars. "}{"Title":"Its Based on Frankenstein, How Could It Be Bad?","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I first saw this when I was probably 10 or 11 years old, and I appreciated it then as being a moving and entertaining film, as well as surprisingly philosophical. I was deeply offended when they did it in English and, through dubbing, changed the entire moral lesson into something far more cheesy, clichéd, and dumbed down. See, even a 12 year old can appreciate quality film! (I just gained another year there......) In any case, it was the first anime I'd seen in Japanese, and I was impressed with the whole thing; the music was awesome, the dialogue was meaningful, the voices were cute, and the names were....strange and hard to remember. But thats OK. Names are not important.I liked the way Mewtwo kept saying Where am I? Who am I?. He said it so often, it was the first phrase I learned in Japanese. I concluded that both would come in handy should I ever find myself lost in Japan.Later, as my Anime horizons expanded, and a anime-obsessive friend of mine taught me some basic phrases, and found I could recognise a lot of what was said. The vocabulary is fairly simple; its a good movie to practise your Japanese on. And finally, the most impressive thing I found. Upon reading Mary Shelly's Frankenstein, I kept noticing similarities. Of course many, many things are different, but the basic themes are there who asked to create me? I hate everything that made me.This is not an attack, nor a declaration of war, but revenge on you who made me Except this one has a happy ending. If You have seen the movie in English....well, what can I say, its better in Japanese. P "},{"Title":"A great film with many messages.","Date":"22 April 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Like many others, I have watched this when it first came out in theaters. I was in elementary school at the time when Pokemon was really popular. To understand this movie (and the others,) people have to watch the series to understand it. But it also have many messages to bring to those who haven't watch the series.While it is thought of as a child's film, one cannot help but notice that it has many messages in the movie. It isn't just about good and bad, it was about everything else. How Ash cares so deeply for his Pokemon (especially Pikachu.) How Pokemon shouldn't be fighting to this extent(enter Brother my Brother by Blessid Union of Souls.) How the impossible can be possible. How people and Pokemon can get along and how one person's wrongdoing doesn't mean all should suffer because of it. Many of these concepts brought up in the movie can be brought up in real life. The love an owner gives to his dog is just one example, while getting along with another person is another.The show may seem straight-forward. But when you think of what kind of messages it sends to its viewers, that is when a good film becomes a great film. "},{"Title":"This is a wonderful, moving film that everyone should see!","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a nearly 17 year old girl, and therefore I am not the targeted audience for this film. However, as soon as my little brother introduced me to the world of Pokemon, I fell in love. And what's not to love? The TV show is smart, funny, sweet, and at times touching (I sobbed during Goodbye Pikachu and Bye bye Butterfree). There are plenty of characters for both girls and boys to identify with (which are something I think a lot of cartoons/video games/comic books lack these days) and it teaches good morals. So needless to say I was thrilled to go see Pokemon the first movie Mewtwo Strikes Back, and today my Mom(who's also a huge Pokemon fan at age 47) and little brother and I went to the theater.I was surprised to find the place was packed with a lot of boys who looked like they were at least in their late teens or early 20s. But of course there were plenty younger kids and parents there as well. My Mom and brother (who's 12 btw) had seen the Japanese sub-titled version of the film and had warned me that it was going to be a rather dark plot, and that it was sad... But I didn't expect what actually happened at all.The first half an hour or so is taken up but a short, and very cute film called Pikachu's Summer Vacation which I became absorbed in as the 3 year old a few rows back! Of course it helped that my favourite Pokemon, Jigglypuff, had a part in it!Moving on, the feature film, Mewtwo Strikes Back started out in a very dramatic, Batman-ish way, and I don't think that the younger kids in the audience were ready for that. The next part of the film, which introduces us to Ash, Misty, Brock, and their Pokemon, happens in a much lighter tone - like the show usually is, but that doesn't last for long. Soon afterwards our heroes, along with some other trainers are invited to a battle with someone described as the world's toughest trainer.Now for those of you who've never seen Pokemon or know little about it, one of the important things to remember is that these are NOT war like battles and the object is not to kill anyone's Pokemon. What Pokemon battles are, is more like a karate match where they fight for sport until one of them is K.O'd (or fainted as they say in the video game). They never fight for the sake of fighting; they fight because it helps the Pokemon become stronger.One of the things that I really loved about the trainers that were invited to this ultimate battle is that they really did love their pokemon and they cared for them, as one should with any living being. A lot of people tend to ignore this aspect of Pokemon and consider it to be a marketing scheme because of the tag line Gotta Catch 'em All but in truth it is not that way at all. On the show and in the game (although not in the movie) Ash's rival trainer Gary is obsessed with the act of catching as many pokemon as possible...And that's a trait to be looked down upon. Although Ash doesn't have as many Pokemon as Gary, he cares for the ones he does have and treats them as his best friends, and that's why he's the hero and Gary is not.The new Pokemon in the film, Mewtwo, does not understand that many of the trainers love their Pokemon, because he was created by scientists for their own benefit and he has a strong hatred for humans because of this.Once the characters had entered the Castle where this battle was to take place, the film became a lot darker and action packed. In turn many of the little kids who were there started screaming - but that's understandable, I mean I was freaked out by some of the things that happened! Also the intensity becomes a lot greater.Never fear though, Ash being the brave person he is comes through and saves the day - with the help of the pokemon, and teaches Mewtwo that it isn't the life that you're given that makes you who you are, but rather it's what you choose to do with it.I am a person who tries very hard never to cry in public places (which include movie theaters) no matter how sad I am. But with the Pokemon movie, I just couldn't hold back and spent the last half-hour of it crying my eyes out! Honestly, it touched me on a level that few movies have been able to.The only complaint I have about it is that the soundtrack was made in extremely poor taste. I've been into Pokemon for about 2 years now, and I must say that with the exception of 3 songs on that album, the rest had NOTHING to do with the meaning of Pokemon or the film! It wasn't the fact that the type of music and the artists that were on the album are not really my style... But it was rather that the songs were *very* sexual and I think it's INSANE to put songs about giving it to you among other things, on an album that's aimed for children! Especially when there's nothing even remotely related to that subject involved in anything Pokemon!  "},{"Title":"Pokemon, rocks.","Date":"26 May 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon has got to be one of the best animation series ever. The Game, The Series, The Cards ... The Movies are all just excellent. To really enjoy a movie like Pokemon, you need to be able to let your imagination run wild and believe. The First Movie, and probably one of the best movies has got everything a Child Movie needs - cute characters, good guys, bad guys and of course something to have a little cry over (Ash's near death experience with Mew and Mewtwo). Pokemon shows viewers that anything is possible, and the love is the key. The love between Ash and Pikachu is just amazing, and even though its a cartoon I envy it. If only Pokemon were real ... "},{"Title":"Decent enough sci-fi anime movie, but I would not take an American child under 6.","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As far as Japanese Anime in America goes, this was an excellent movie. This was a typical sci-fi plot about man's need to control nature. The animation was decent, and 10 times better than Scooby-Doo. The Pokémon just added the cuteness aspect present in all Japanese anime.As a movie for children, I thought the beginning was very violent. They may not have shown actual violent scenes, but then neither did the A-Team. As for the ending, kids who live a sheltered life are in for a surprise. My friend had to do some fancy explaining to his young children about what really happened in the movie. Hey, Pokémon tears are better than Dragon Balls any day.Also, parents should watch Pokémon with their kids on TV before taking them to the movie. The movie will be a lot more enjoyable if you understand the characters. The movie has little character/plot development because it is all done in the series. Typical for anime movies, this one did not affect the series storyline in anyway.Finally, if you just love to watch Pokémon in action, then Pikachu's Vacation is made for you. Reminded me of Charlie Brown shows in that you never saw the faces of any humans, just their talking feet. Pokémon is probably so popular with children because the language that Pokémon speak is universal. Adults have a hard time understanding Pokémon language because they rely too much on what is spoken and not how it is spoken. Pokémon speak with emotion, something every child understands. The few bits of dialoge added to the short feature were probably more for the adults in the audience than the children themselves.Pika pika pi-pika, pi-pikachu! "},{"Title":"A nice nostalgia trip.","Date":"13 July 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I grew up loving Pokemon, and this was one of the first movies I saw in theaters. It wasn't as good as I remembered, but it's still a great kid's movie. I have to mention that the harbor master lady was wholly unnecessary, but other than that the characters were enjoyable. I'm not surprised that Team Rocket found their way into this film, but they're great comic relief.I'm a big fan of Mew. Anytime it popped up on screen I had a *squeeee* attack. MewTwo was also pretty badass-looking, but I'm so confused as to why he had such disproportionately large legs. What did he use them for, since he can just float around. "},{"Title":"some might call me childlike for still having a soft spot for Pokemon. I prefer the term young-at-heart.","Date":"16 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I took the time to track down and watch both Pokemon The First Movie and Pokemon the Movie 2000 for the first time in years, my feelings were swamped with joyous nostalgia tracing back to my younger years. There were times I felt I should have grown up in Japan, because all of my favorite media products came from that great island nation. Godzilla and Pokemon. Those were my two obsessions. Yes, I was one of millions from around the globe who collected the trading cards and checked in on the television show and played the video-games (I still have a soft spot for the N64 game Pokemon Stadium) and watched the movies when they popped up here in the U.S. Pokemon continued to ride strong in my interests until after a while, when they created more than 151 little fighting monsters and things just bogged down to the point where they were excessively juvenile and just dumb. It was the same syndrome that momentarily struck Godzilla in the 70s. The king of the monsters recovered, but Pokemon didn't. It sank away for me, and many and although Pokemon is still around and still (fairly) popular with the younger generation, it no longer has the cult status it once ruled with.But just because I am no longer swamped with obsession does not mean I cannot still feel the joy of this innocent little saga looking back on it as an adult. Yes, before you question me, I still enjoy the Pokemon movie. In fact, I enjoy both of them, especially Pokemon 2000. But this review concerns the first one, released in 1999. For those who do not know, there are a lot of Pokemon, but one in particular, called Mew, is the strongest of them all. One day, some fiddling scientists clone from Mew's DNA a newer, stronger beast called Mewtwo a psychic creature infuriated by how Pokemon seem to have become slaves to humans. And very slowly, he begins to set up a trap to restore Pokemon to what he feels is their rightful place in the world, at the top. Once again we rendezvous with our heroes, as the narrator calls them, from the TV show. There's Ash Ketchum, Misty, Brock, and of course, the little lightning-surged rodent Pikachu. After a prologue revolving around Mewtwo, we dive in with them.There is a lot of advertisement in Pokemon The First Movie. It is very much a merchandise exploitation to further the interest of kids in the cards, games, and series. But kids endorse these sort of things. I know, because I remember I did when I was eight or so and saw the movie for the first time. I mean, what kid wouldn't like to have an army of monsters at his command and be able to duke them out with other monsters? It's like having Godzilla and Mothra and Rodan at your command.What I really liked about Pokemon The First Movie then and now is that, like Godzilla, it's innocent and goodhearted fun. It's not meant to be taken too seriously, and nobody does, and it is inoffensive, harmless, joyful, and really nostalgia-stirring. It's also enjoyable because it makes the best out of what it has. The Japanese animation, even the movie's detractors note, is eye candy. It's rich, colorful, and fun to look at. I also enjoy twists in the story, such as how one of Ash's Pokemon, a dragon-like thing called Charizard, refuses to obey its master. There's personality in the Pokemon, in Mewtwo, and especially in Pikachu, who dare I say it, is actually kind of adorable as far as animated, imaginary animals are concerned. There is a lot of personality in this little rodent, especially in the eyes, which are well-animated, and in its voice. There's also a trio of bumbling villains, two rockstar would-be secret agents and their talking cat Meowth, who have some very funny moments as they try to make a good impression for their boss by kidnapping Pikachu. There's also the emphasis on whether or not Pokemon and humans are really master and slave or friend and friend.If I do have anything negative to say about the movie it is the fact that it really just feels like an extended version of a TV episode rather than a feature film. A movie adaptation needs to push the boundaries and expand rather than just use the same material at greater pacing. That's why I personally prefer Pokemon 2000 because it does what I mentioned.That's all I have to say in a bad manner.I know I will have a lot of insulting comments thrown in my direction, but I see nothing wrong with number one, having liked Pokemon in my youth, and number two, still mildly enjoying Pokemon as an adult, looking back on a time when I was more innocent, more open-minded, and more willing to accept things that were outside of what we were supposed to like and not like. Some may choose to call me childish for liking Pokemon The Movie. I think the proper term would be young-at-heart. "},{"Title":"eh","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" it was a OK movie but the story was weak and i did not like the character development.also the moral made me think that i was just watching a really long episode of Pokemon.that and the fact that it was fighting was wrong which made no sense in a Pokemon movie.the action was pretty good.also it is very kid friendly but some of you might think it is too kid friendly.plus who could not like a movie with pikachu just a little bit. also some of the jokes were pretty good and they didn't completely try and force the moral on to you which was good because it was horrible .if you don't want this moral watch the Japanese version if you can find it. if none of those flaws matter to you at all though then this is your movie. "},{"Title":"This movie is wonderful for the whole family!","Date":"25 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" By the time this movie came out Pokemon was already taboo to any one over the age of twelve. So when my younger brother begged me to take him to see it I was naturally skeptical. Pokemon was a kids show, a simplistic card game, and a video game whose sheer popularity made it uncool. What could this movie offer me? Long story short I ended up taking my brother to see it, and ended up delighted that I did. The story is drawing, you genuinely want to know what happens next. It's messages of friendship, acceptance, and love are something everyone of any age could benefit from, and just to top it off the music is awesome (granted a little boy band for today, but still awesome)! I would recommend this movie for any one with kids. The bright colorful world of Pokemon will keep them entertained, and it's a story that even an adult can enjoy. "},{"Title":"It's a good movie for kids, that's why old people don't like it duh","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Either that or there's a bunch of people who wanted this movie to be so low rated because i just saw the ratings and the reason why this movie got so low rates is that a lot of votes rated it 1 versus another bunch of votes rating it 10. It's a conspiracy or something. First off, the movie was mercilessly chopped to avoid ANY controversy. For example the part when the scientist tell Mewtwo that only God and the humans can create life. i mean , there were a lot of things that would have actually helped the movie to be better appreciated, not just as a cheesy movie for kids. but the Americans, as usual, ruined it , really. Even so, the American version is not that bad, except for the soundtrack of course... (M2M O_o). Also, this is not a good old Evil versus Good guys movie.. if you pay attention to the story (somewhat distorted by the Americans again)you will see that Mewtwo is just a confused guy who didn't want to be evil after all, he realizes that his life is more important than superfluous things like being a clone, or black , or whatever lol... anyway ... i just wanna say that the 3.2 rating of this movie is COMPLETELY unfair. "}{"Title":"Child logic is alien to adults.","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Back in 1999 I saw this in the theater, and being at the young innocent age that I was at the time, I liked it. So much, in fact that I bought it. (Keep in mind, I was young and innocent, also I had played the games and watched the shows, which I liked too.) Now ten long, life changing years have gone by, and now that I look back at Pokemon, I realize just how absurd, inconsistent and strange it was. I won't say it was bad, just odd and hyperactive. Like the kids of it's generation.Which brings me to the point of the viewers. Kids. Not adults. The reason Pokémon is seen as so strange by adults is because they are not its target viewers. For those of you who can't follow the story, even if you have tried, you must understand that this show was not made to make sense to adults. Childhood is required to make sense of this show. I don't think Charles Darwin could follow this show, and it deals with evolution. The only adults that understand it were the ones who had watched it when they were kids. So my point is, you should look at this show with a child's innocent perspective and you may get something out of it other than noise. (albiet, it may not be a philosophical lesson, but it will be something.) "},{"Title":"the Japanese version is better, but the translation is decent","Date":"24 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Okay, first, if you will find this movie not making any sense, please note that it is an English adaptation, not a direct translation. This version is edited and has a changed story, which many viewers found stupid (the reason for low ratings). The Japanese version was called too scary and not suitable for children, so, 4Kids Entertainment overwrote practically everything, and deleted no less than 10 minutes of the opening sequence. Don't want to spoil anything, but you actually must watch the original opening to understand the story. An even better option is to view the whole Japanese version with subtitles.There is ONE good thing about the English adaptation. The original orchestral music that was made by Ralph Schtukett is marvelous. I'm not sure, but the theatrical or the DVD version has some low quality pop songs added to mar an otherwise perfect score.Even with the story changes and the inclusion of stupid songs (in theatrical or DVD version, not sure), this movie deserves a 7 out of 10. The animation is wonderful, on par with the best things in anime genre. And the original score is great. "},{"Title":"It proves why Pokemon should not be rated G","Date":"8 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is it, the one we've all been waiting for. Everyone shook with anticipation to see the first Pokemon movie, and here is what I thought Really good. I really liked it. And definitely worthy of a PG rating. I grew up with Pokemon, so it was natural for me to love the movie (though I can point out when one is bad). One thing that may mislead you is the fact that it was giving a G rating. Unlike the show (most of the time), this movie deals with the topic of death in many ways. Confirmed that scientists in the one of the early scenes were killed, this proves that Pokemon is not for little kids. It's got morals, action, and everything you could want. Seeing as Pokemon has a number of haters, I recommend watching the movie yourself and make that descision. I, being as big of a Pokemon fan as I am, would show this movie to anyone ready for a good anime. "},{"Title":"Made Me cry like a little emo kid","Date":"7 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" when I first heard of a Pokemon movie, I didn't really care. I mean - hey, I was the Jock of my high school. going to all the cool parties, getting attention from all the girls. I was invited to a kegger one night and Pokemon The First Movie was being shown on TV. This movie was absolutely Amazing. I held hands with a guy named John as we held back our tears. We both thought the movie was absolutely wonderful. I couldn't take it anymore, Mewtwo does something so incredibly evil that all the Pokemon start crying. after I saw this movie I dyed my hair black, grew it out infront of my face and kept trying to steal a pair of my sisters jeans. I went out and bought the new My Chemical Romance And Silverstein albums. now I'm the outcast in my school, making out with other guys and throwdowning at screamo concerts. all because of Pokemon The First Movie. I recommend it 10/10 "},{"Title":"The First Pokemon Movie - Mewtwo Strikes Back","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The first Pokemon movie is as expected, the first of a long line of animated films based on the anime cartoon. For those who do not know what Pokemon is, it is a popular franchise originating from Japan, starting as a video game series, but expanding into a cartoon and a several spin-off movies. The first movie is an exceptional film tribute to the series, although some of the later films do top this. The movie's plot is very basic if one can get past all the amazing effects and characters. The original number of Pokemon is 151, but this movie introduces #150 and #151 - Mewtwo and Mew. Mewtwo is a clone Pokemon created from the DNA of Mew, and is generally the strongest Pokemon in the world. After being used as a lab rat and a weapon by humans, Mewtwo becomes vengeful on the world, believing humans and Pokemon living together can never work out. And so he plots to destroy the world through a lightning storm and replace all lifeforms with Pokemon clones. However, the cartoon's heroes, Ash Ketchum and his electric mouse buddy Pikachu are there to save the day, along with the strongest Pokemon from the first generation. The film ends with a brief tragedy and then Mewtwo simply erases the memories of all the characters in the film so they forget everything.I did enjoy the film, but a couple of things did surprise me. The cartoon and the movies are licensed by 4Kids, a dubbing company known for apparently destroying anime with their heavy editing to the shows. However, the movie seemed to be left alone apart from the English voice actors. The film had a large amount of physical violence, including about a minute and a half montage of poor Pikachu being repeatedly slapped by his crying clone. From the 4Kids shows I have seen, violence has been kept to a minimum, but I suppose this movie was left alone due to it being part of the plot. Some Pokemon names were wrong, although the editors said this was done deliberately. Overall, this film was generally good but a bit too violent for Pokemon's standards. "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being the father of a Pokemon fan, I wasn't expecting too much out of the movie. I figured I'd take my son to see it and it would be wasted time for me. I was wrong. While the Pikachu Vacation thing at the beginning was obnoxious with the stupid chanting pokemon segways, the movie itself was good. I really liked the fact that the movie had the message that fighting doesn't solve things. Ash gave his life to prove that to the engineered pokemon and regained his life when all pokemon realized that. The message and lesson my son took away from the movie was great and I hope that the next one isn't just about fighting. "},{"Title":"Amazing film for all ages.","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was a big Pokémon fan when the games were out as a kid and when the movie came out, I fell in love with the series even more. I couldn't believe how great it was. The poke battles were great. especially the clone battle. For the new and old fans of Pokémon, this movie will bring you back to your childhood and remind you when Pokémon were awesome. Animation movies are evolving. Some are good while the rest don't get as good as the rest. But Pokémon will always be the same. Fun and entertaining. It's a good movie for the child and parents. Parents who are or not Pokémon fans, I recommend it. and remember... Gotta catch them all, Pokémon. "},{"Title":"Great movie after all","Date":"15 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all, i find this movie underrated. This movie is made for kids and pokemon fans who grew up with them and the next generations that will. So anybody who wants to watch this movie out of blue without knowing anything about pokemon should give up on that idea. Secondly, the story this movie revolves around is well transfered and easy for everyone to understand its point. Even though i think they might have developed it better and further they did good for given amount of time considering kids wouldn't pay more attention if was longer. Also, they have shown us the other raw side of battles and the pain they weight with no one being the victor in them. Furthermore, what i found the best part of the whole movie was the music. There is this one song called Tears of life. That song just moved my soul and made me cry from sadness and joy. One of the songs that finds a way to move a person and give u goosebumps every time u hear it. Lastly, i have to complain about they way director played with the characters and they're lines. There is number of lines which are just unnecessary and don't make much sens, like they were put in there just to make characters look dumb. All in all, great movie, lots of fun and emotions but they could have worked phew weeks more on it. Thank you for reading and sory for bad English. First time writing a review and couldn't find appropriate words in some part of it. "},{"Title":"Baffling reviews","Date":"10 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I was dumbstruck when I saw the low rating this movie has on IMDb, but after reading some of the negative reviews everything made much more sense most of them seemed to be written from people who have never seen the movie! Negative reviews often got major plot points wrong when summarizing the movie or were plain lying about aspects of the film. So let's set the record straight It's a great movie for kids. In fact, I would call it one of the animated movies most suited for children. And here is why It neither tries to shield its audience from the world(some escapism every now and then is a basic human need, but we can't overdo it) nor does it teach questionable moral values, as many Disney movies do. Instead, Pokemon The Movie invites into a fantastical world full of magic and fun - and uses it to build a story around ethical dilemmas that isn't afraid of touching topics such as death, slavery, divorce, loss and biological ethics, of course all on very superficial levels, but can you expect more from a movie for children? And this is where it gets problematic The movie was considered too dark for western audiences and heavily cut for the US and EU-markets to the point of changing the plot, taking out references to death and a side-plot(a scientist trying to clone his dead daughter) as well as much of the antagonist's origin story. If you have not seen the original Japanese cut you simply have no authority to judge this movie as the US and ORIGINAL Japanese versions are simply not the same material, with the Japanese version being almost 10 minutes longer. The soundtrack was also changed from atmospheric orchestral scores to cheesy pop tunes, further robbing the film of it's emotional value.Pokemon The Movie is a great film. For the biggest part well-animated(it holds up on Bluray better than most 90s animated Japanese features with the exception of some scratches and low contrast frames), with a somewhat sophisticated plot for a children's movie and some great gags - including gags on a meta-level that will go right over most children's heads - as well as truly emotional moments. Don't listen to the haters and - whatever you do- do NOT watch the US cut. The Japanese cut is available with both English subtitles and completely English sound - however, the English dub still uses the cheesy pop music in one of the most dramatic scenes of the movie. "},{"Title":"Pokemon The First Movie - Mewtwo Strikes Back (1998)","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" You have to love Pokemon to love this, and boy do I love Pokemon. Ash and co. are invited to a pokemon tournament on an island that will see the best against the best. Only something weird involving cloning and the legendary pokemon Mew is going on. After 70-odd episodes this was the battle everyone was waiting for. It begins well, really well, with Mewtwo blowing the crap out of his own creators. He is soon questioning life and existence in some rather heavy handed dialogue. Pokemon is made pretty darn fast, and the animation doesn't improve greatly from the TV show. Luckily, Mewtwo and Mew are great characters and Team Rocket's bumbling is kept to a minimum. At least it tries to explore some themes and characters as well as being an advertisement for all the merchandise. "}{"Title":"Man, I miss the first few seasons of this show.","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Just like any fan, I was excited to see this movie when I was a little kid and I must say it's still pretty darn good. There's no end to how much I love the original Pokémon (don't get me wrong, I like the new ones). I also love some of the original characters like Misty and Gary. Anyway, on to the plot.Under the supervision of the evil organization Team Rocket, a clone of the legendary psychic Pokémon Mew is created Mewtwo. Feeling like a slave to cruel humans, the clone turns against his creators and lures the likes of Ash, Pikachu, Misty, Brock, and other trainers to a tournament where he takes DNA samples of their Pokémon to create superior clones. Even with the help of Mew, can Ash and company prevail over the attack of the clones? Looking back at this movie makes me miss the good old days in the world of Pokémon. It's awesome seeing some of my favorite Pokémon like Charizard and Bulbasaur battling in the big screen. We also get to see a few new Pokémon like Donphan (an elephant-type of creature). Mewtwo is a great villain, usually having a serious face and an intimidating tone with a power to match, which is a great contrast to the equally-powerful Mew's peaceful and playful personality.With a cool story, awesome action scenes, fun characters and Pokémon, and an emotionally powerful scene at the end (which you have to see for yourself), this movie is definitely worth the watch. Pokeball, go! "},{"Title":"History Making Film- A TRUE 90's Masterpiece","Date":"13 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I remember everything about the time this history making film came out I was in elementary school. I loved going to McDonalds (just for the happy meal.) Well, I remember that one happy meal in particular was promoting this film. I'm sure everyone was 'happy' about that. I was. It was all about Pokemon back then. So, like 100 percent of my peers, I was thrilled about this movie.I do not believe I saw it in a cinema (although I regret this). I did see it as soon as I could though, the moment I saw the movie at Walmart (I was going shopping with my brother and grandma) I just merely pointed to it hinting, and she already knew we had to have it. The moment we got home, my brother and I popped that sucker in and watched every minute of it including Pikachu's Vacation. I'm also pretty sure we got a Pokemon card for free as well.Let me tell you, it was epic. I'm 19 at the time of typing this, but still have a great love for this film. The music is epic, the storytelling is epic, the cover of the freaking movie is epic. What I don't understand is why this movie has such a low rating. My bet is the low rating stems from adults who never understood Pokemon. They just weren't 90's kids like us so they just don't understand the significance of Pokemon.The opening theme for this also gave me chills. I didn't know at first if the Pokemon theme song was going to be in the movie, but it was, and remixed. It was well done. I think the music alone is part of what gives the film its magic. Christina Aguilera, M2M, etc, are all such wonderful artists and I'm so glad we had the pleasure of having them in the ending credits. Back then I never cared about the credits for anything, but for this it was different. I watched all the credits. They were interesting. The music makes you want to burst out in tears. Especially now.A lot of people think that this is nothing but fighting and blah blah blah but I assure you this movie DOES have a message. And besides, whats a movie without some action? It would have been boring without the action. You know it, and I know it.All in all, I'm giving this a 10. How can I not? It was such a HUGE piece of my childhood. And I'll always respect the franchise- even the newer generations. I hope it never dies. Because I hope kids can enjoy it as much as I did. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as people make it out to be","Date":"7 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm 21, and I just re-watched this movie for the thousandth time the other night. It's fun! No, it doesn't have a deep poignant plot. No, it doesn't have Shakespearean dialog. No, it was never going to win an Oscar. But it's fun! It still makes me laugh (Mew makes me giggle every time), and I was very near tears during the extended fight scene, especially the Pikachus. True, Mewtwo's speech at the end is corny and contrived, but it's not bad enough to ruin the movie. The Japanese version has so much more depth to it. I firmly believe that 99% of the negative reviewers looked at the box, decided it was going to be stupid, and only saw what they expected to see instead of letting themselves be a little immature and have fun. "},{"Title":"It's a kids movie. The adults need to settle down","Date":"21 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Its a movie for kids. Thats all there is to it. I've read some of the reviews and most of them have something to say about the movie not being to adults. Because it's not an adult movie, it's a kids movie! Some of the things in the movie is completely fake like the time the the people survived a hurricane of tsunami or whatever, and thats why some of the kids love the movie because its not real. The lesson of kinda weird. Like at the end every cried and said that fighting was wrong. But they kinda traveled back like an hour earlier and just forgot about how fighting is bad. So anyways parents and adults, stop giving this movie 1 stars just because it's not for parents. "},{"Title":"It was a great film","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I can still remember how i felt back in 1999 when i was in the car with my friends about to see the POKEMON MOVIE. I was in grade 3 and the TV show Pokemon was the biggest and coolest thing we had ever seen. I was just as popular because my father had somehow managed to get me 15 advanced press screening tickets and 15 massive movie posters. It was better then we all thought and the M2M song Don't say you love me blew me away.The people who watch this movie without following the whole TV series are so stupid. There is no way that anybody would be able to enjoy this film without.People may now say its bad but in the day it was the bomb!! "},{"Title":"Still a good movie even after all those years.","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, just a couple days ago, I had to babysit my little brother, and he told me he wanted to watch the Pokemon movie. I agreed. I mean, how could I resist? So we watched the movie and I must say, sitting down and watching that movie brings back so many memories of my 9-year-old days. It reminded me of how Pokemon used to rule the world. There was a t.v. show, trading cards, merchandise, and of course, the Gameboy games. And when I heard there was going to be a movie for it, I was so excited I about urinated in my Pokemon undergarments. I saw that movie in theaters for my tenth birthday party, and it was definitely one of my most memorable movie-going experiences I've ever had. It was me and all my friends watching our favorite t.v. show come to life on the big screen. And the movie not only met expectations of all those little kids, but it went far beyond. First of all, I'd just like to add something... are those mini movies really necessary? I mean come on... we just want to get to Mew and Mewtwo already. So when the real movie starts, there's a really dramatic beginning that shows Mewtwo and how he really feels. And you really fall for it and start to feel bad for him. But the roll Mewtwo played was probably the most diabolical villain I've ever seen in a movie. It's like, you hate him for all the cruel things he's doing to the Pokemon, but you still understand where he's coming from. But anyway, the real highlight of the movie is the scene in which Mew and Mewtwo are fighting in their bubbles. It's the ultimate match between good and evil. And there were very few times I've ever cried in a movie. And this was one of them. And it was a cartoon movie for kids. The scene where Ash is turned to stone broke the heart of every little kid in the world. But then of course all the tears bring him back to life which is the most cliché thing I've ever seen. But regardless, this is an excellent movie, even though it was made seven years ago. "},{"Title":"Pretty decent children's film","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Contrary to the vote-bombed 3.2 rating, this movie is not nearly so bad. Its certainly not the cream of the crop of movies, but I gave it an 8/10. Its target audience is children, probably 7-13, and it is fine as such. It is watchable as an adult, though not particularly good. That being said, it isn't bad either, and children enjoy it. Its message of peace is pretty decent (if thinly veiled), and I'd recommend it to those with children and fans of the Pokemon series (I'm not one, but shh). Mewtwo is a pretty decent character, and the movie on the whole is perfectly watchable with no knowledge of Pokemon, as it was the first (and only) Pokemon piece I'd ever seen. "},{"Title":"FOR GODS SAKE PEOPLE!! ITS JUST A CARTOON!! A very good one.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Listen all of you people. This movie caught a lot of kids attention. They loved it. Isn't that what matters? Not some people who vote this zero for no reason!!! I LOVED THIS MOVIE! THIS MOVIE ROCKED! My Family went to see this when it came out. I still remember that everyone liked it. I thought it was cheery. IF YOU WANT TO MESS UP A GREAT MOVIE LIKE THESE THEN YOU Shouldn't EVEN VOTE. Focus people! WAS IT CLEAR? Yes. DETAILED HECK YES!!, FOCUSED YES!!! It has all of the major steps taken to love this movie!!! Come on...if you don't like it, rent it for your kids. They'll love it! If they don't then....they don't! By the way, if you don't like this, then you hate all of the movies. "},{"Title":"The summation of my childhood...","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm sorry to say it, but I love this film. As many times as I have seen it, it still never ceases to entertain me. It was perhaps the most influential film in my young life (save for Hocus Pocus.) Sure it makes about as much as eating thumbtack chowder, sure the dialog is thin, and the songs poppy and ill-timed. But turn your brain off, and a wondrous thing occurs. Exuberance. Simple as can be, really. I think the cynicism shown in most of the reviews here is an example of the opposite. Consciousness. You don't watch a movie like this expecting Kurosawa. That's senile at best. But if it's a rainy day, and you feel sentimental, well, then pop this bad boy in. "},{"Title":"The first of 8+ poke'mon movies, started back in 99","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I saw this movie in November of 1999 when the show was flourishing quite well then. it was the most popular thing at the time. Even today the show is a significant part of my life. There were some quality humor in this film, such as the Minnesota Vikings bit. And even to this day i get a little misty eyed when the ending of the movie comes as the poke'mon's tears revive Ash in a dramatic scene of excellence. The movie also contains great songs, definitely my favorite movie soundtrack of all time. The animation was very fine, it was different than the television show. Anyone could enjoy this film. Overall this was the best poke'mon movie made, well after the second one anyways... "}{"Title":"Once a classic, always a classic.","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When I first saw this at the movies, I was 11 and I wasn't into Pokémon, I was one of the very few that called it 'gay' and such. And the movie changed my opinion on the franchise.This movie contains the great things that children call a great movie. Action, adventure, drama and comedy and can be guaranteed by many that it will continue to be favourites of many young 'uns.The movie begins with a discovery team at an ancient temple, housing the remnants on the rarest Pokemon in the world, Mew. Funnily enough, it resembles an embryo and is later explained somewhere down the track that it was the first species of Pokemon, but enough about that.The team genetically engineer the remains of Mew into a cloning facility that regenerates the remains and with the manipulation of this Pokemon, a new species is created - Mewtwo.Mewtwo is the biggest and baddest villain in this movie, he can control everything with his mind and plans for global dominance with his own army of clones. Sounds cheesy? Well for Pokemon, it isn't. It turns out to be a great adventure with the gang, Ash, Misty, Brock, Pikachu and Togepi beginning this new expedition against a battle of a Johto region Pokemon, Donphan the elephant.At the climax of the film, a resolution is solved by Ash and an unlikely saviour... "},{"Title":"Could've been worse.","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I must be totally honest with this one. Certain elements of it were stupid (like the whole cloning thing is so over-used), but other parts of it were good (especially the parts with Mew.)+ MAJOR SPOILER ALERT + Well, to sum the plot up, it's about the Mother of all PokeMon, and how her DNA is cloned into a deranged male version called MewTwo. This cloned PokeMon searches desperately within himself to find his place in the world. But, only being shown hatred, he becomes bent on destroying humans and hates them bitterly.The main trio (Ash, Brock and Misty) are invited by the clone to his castle. Unbeknownst to them, the clone has already had plans to make more clones from their PokeMon.One of the best scenes is when James (from Team Rocket) rescues Meowth from the cloning machine. Another good one, is when Ash destroys the machine with his teeth, trying to save his Pikachu.After Ash breaks the machine, he tries to convince MewTwo that his plans are wrong. Mew ends up coming to help too.But, when she's fighting with MewTwo, they both end up shooting Ash and turn him into stone. But the PokeMons' loving tears revive Ash, and MewTwo realizes his mistakes. He follows Mew, and lets the children go back to where they were.You really don't have to be a little kid to enjoy this movie (I just watched it a little bit ago.) It just takes an attention span, and pure imagination. Your kids will enjoy it, and if you give it a chance, you will too. It's a good movie.7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Best Frankenstein Rip off Ever.","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I mean it just the Prologue is far more entertaining then most cheap rehashes of that classic tale.Anyway it is the best of the Pokemon movies also which is Rare I usually consider Sequels better, I'm strange like that but on this occasion I have stick with numeral uno.I was Disappointed that Giovanni wasn't in more of it I assumed from the build up on the show that he'd be in a lot of it, and I also wish they'd have included Gary.But none the Less it was good Cheesy at moments of course but Good Mewoth Translating Mew was great. and perhaps best of all Team Rocket didn't get to do their lame Motto. "},{"Title":"A great introduction to the Pokemon franchise!","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I think that if you want to learn more or are just starting on it, you should start with Pokemon The First Movie. If you don't like anime, then you won't like this.. It starts with Mewtwo saying Who am I? and What am I?... and then he awakens in a tube and the doctors explain to him he is an experiment. Mewtwo is not happy. He doesn't want to be ruled by humans or be a plaything of them so he destroys the laboratory and moves onto bigger and better things. Even though he was designed for Giovanni (head of Team Rocket), he does not go with him but later meets up with him because he is enticed by his promises of ruling and 'better' things. Mewtwo soon becomes unhappy and goes to rule on an island, plainly enough, called New Island. He starts sending invitations to various trainers throughout the mainland and they gather at the dock, only to be told by an annoyed Officer Jenny that the boat is not operating in such high seas (caused by Mewtwo's feelings). The Pokemon centre is also closed down so no-one's Pokemon can be admitted if they get hurt trying to cross the sea to the Island. Among other trainers, Ash was invited and crosses the sea with Misty and Brock. They are invited onto a boat manoeuvred by Team Rocket (as Vikings). They are washed up on New Island and talk to Mewtwo's assistant, the under-a-trance Nurse Joy (who is missing from the Pokemon centre). Brock recognises her but she says she has always served her master (umm, no, she hasn't..) They walk up to the well, shall we call it, Lobby and meet a few other trainers who braved the storm and made it. They soon meet Mewtwo, who is challenged by them all in turn but are easily discarded as Mewtwo continually reminds them He is the most Powerful Pokemon (and Pokemon Master). Pikachu finally tries to side with him, but he is disgusted by how Pokemon are slaves of humans and serve them. He then goes about attacking them, copying their Pokemon (Ash reluctantly saves Pikachu, who after a long run finally is captured by the balls). After copying the Pokemon, the trainers' Pokemon are being released out of their tubes and are standing by Mewtwo. Ash rounds up the real Pokemon and then the Pokemon divide and fight between their kinds to find out who is stronger (Pikachu gets slapped continuously) and some, like Meowth, decide not to fight with their nearly identical counterparts. Mew (who has been around all the time, hiding behind Team Rocket as they scurried up the pipe into Mewtwo's lair) is fighting with Mewtwo as the trainers stand horrified and their Pokemon fight to the death. Nearing the end, Ash dives in between Mew and Mewtwo's attacks and is turned to stone but resurrected by all the Pokemons' tears and electrified by a distraught Pikachu. After the 40 or so minutes taken up by these events, Mewtwo FINALLY realises that they should all stop and he should stop trying to be superior to everyone and everything and he leaves with Mew and the Pokemon copies, but the trainers and the Pokemon's memory is wiped of these events and are to be found back at the Pokemon centre wondering why they even went there in the first place. If you like Pokemon, or, like I didn't hesitate to say before, want to learn more or again, want an introduction, here is a good place to start. Good movie but in some bits a little bit too immature and for-kids. (Most of it is for kids, anyway). I'll have to say that the dubbed version is better and not its Japanese counterpart because what is the point of watching it when you can't understand it? (Or watching it subtitled)? Most of us speak English and want to watch something in it so go for this one. Buy/Rent it now if you haven't already seen it because if you don't really (and you may disagree), you're missing out on the fun. I also forgot to add the bit about the mini-movie, Pikachu's Vacation, but there's not much to say. I thought it was pretty crummy and only for the littlies because most of it is just various Pokemon saying their names (e.g Pika-pi! or Togi, tog or Marill- may!).. So if you're not interested in that, fast forward through it! I rate Pokemon The First Movie 7/10 and.. I rate the mini-movie Pikachu's Vacation 3/10. "},{"Title":"A refreshing surprise","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I always thought that the central principle of Pokemon was a goodone. Not least because with the card games and the video gamesit gave kids something they could interact with. Upon watching thisbig screen take, I can honestly say I thoroughly enjoyed it. TheMew character was sweet and the funniest moments come whenit is following the hapless aspiring villains,Team Rocket. The main plot of the evil Mewtwo (who was created by geneticscientists) was interesting because it asked if constant battlinghad any value. Mewtwo's plan was to use a storm to destroy mostof the world and then populate it with Pokemon creations of hisown. I found the principle character Ash and his friends engaging and Iliked that in the end compassion and the value of all life won out. I appreciate some people despise the whole Pokemon marketingmachine. But judged on it's own merits, this is a funny, excitingand good natured animation.  "},{"Title":"A One-Time Wonder Only","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being a fan of Pokemon, an old Pokemaniac too, I couldn't help but like the movie the first time. Beautiful animation as I was used to the so-so of the series, a threatening yet cool villain, and tie-ins to the show, what the 3 newer movies and video-sequel to this one lack so much. They seem unnecessary and make even the fans believe they're only out there for money. But, I have to talk about this one. I colourful, chaotic, wonderful mess the first time for us fans, it then becomes a predictable, boring, stupid movie like it was for everyone the first time. There's no other way to put it. If you've seen it once, don't see it again, otherwise it will ruin everything. The same can be said for the second movie, Pokemon2000. But now the movies are really things put together at the last minute with less sense than you realize this has which seems to just be taking advantage of rising ticket prices. With those prices these days, I suggest you leave these movies out of your way until you can rent a copy. The glorious idea of Pokemon on the big screen has faded away with major disappointments, and the series is going to the same tune. With the movies being bashed by all, a GameCube game shelved, the series falling behind to Yu-Gi-Oh!, and the card-game losing interest, all of Pokemania seems to rest on the Game Boy Advance games coming next year. Nintendo has got a real big hole of opportunity to accidently hack one of it's greatest franchises. "},{"Title":"A good movie for a fun TV show","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie, is, in my opinion, great.  I even thought it was better than Pokemon the Movie 2000.  Lugia and those Legendary Birds can't compare to the Mews.  It packs a lot of heart, like the cartoon, and delivers a nice message to the kids (ie. Violence is not the answer). I don't care what some people think, I liked Pikachu's vacation as a movie opener. It's about Ash, Misty and Brock letting their Pokemon into a theme park for Pokemon.  They get into some trouble with four other Pokemon (two of which were new, at the time) but they work things out.  This is the 'hyper-cute' Pokemon short to beat.Mewtwo Strikes Back is a terrific movie.  Mewtwo's birth scene is breathtaking, and he plots to destroy the human race and their Pokemon, then replace them with clones.  And, after seeing the abilities trainers like Ash Ketchum has, he invites him and a bunch of other trainers for a challenge. The music, though, is just wrong for this film.  Who hired these teenyboppers to write the songs?  The good songs, to me, are the Pokemon theme remix, Catch Me if you can, and Brother My Brother. I was a tad disappointed with the movie to end Animaniacs, but the WB has shown they're not slipping, like Disney is.  And I'm VERY sure there were no subliminal sexual images in this movie, like in The Little Mermaid or The Lion King.The good a lot of heart, seems like a throw-back to '80's movies where kids' cartoons taught good moral values, the extra details on the DVD, Ash's bravery towards the end (I dare you not to get a little wet in the eyes near the end, just look at Pikachu as he cries).The bad Jesse, James and Meowth aren't given much to do, maybe a little dark for very young kids, and I hate people that mindlessly dismiss this movie simply because it's Pokemon-related.  They need to give the games a try, if they hate the cartoon.The cute Lots of Pokemon.  Plus, the writers, on the movie's DVD, say that everyone was happy when a scene involved Mew (he's a really cute one, one of my favorite Pokemon, especially the scene where he's on the windmill and then he laughs-just watch it, this one scene is too cute)Rest assured, I'm there for the third movie... "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Good animation, good movie. Just like the series with more plot and better animation.Fun to watch. 7/10 "},{"Title":"not as bad as i thought","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this movie was much better than i thought. i do like pokemon, after all i like a good light hearted  somewhat corney cartoon show to pass the time. while the vacation in the beginning was the cute of the show. the movie was much better than alot of critics gave it credit for. it was decent graphics and the stoy line was enough to keep me interested. it did have parts where you really pulled for ash and pikachu. when you say pokemon, you either cringe at the thought of this children's hype machine or  you like pokemon. i guess you can put me down as the later. worth renting with no bad language or questionable themes. from my wife's standpoint. the movie is worth renting just for the pikachu's vacationdont take life too seroiusly and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Fun, Enjoyable movie","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really liked this movie. Although I'm not a fan of Japanese animation or any other foreign animation for that matter, I still love Pokemon! I only recently started watching Pokemon on TV and the movie when it came out on cable. I actually did like the short Pikachu's Vacation at the beginning. It was cute with a good lesson.I would have liked the American version of Pokémon the First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back to have been like the original Japanese version though. It had more details about Mewtwo's origin and life and such. The beginning of the movie should have been identified as having taken place in the past. Gary Oak would have been a nice addition to the cast since he could have added insight about Mewtwo. Gary battled Mewtwo (who was in his full body armor) in Team Rocket's gym on the TV show. A later TV episode showed the destruction of Giovanni's headquarters as well.The climax is great and saw good emotions from the characters. There surely were a lot of tears shed in the movie theaters. The ending, however, was stupid and pointless. A storm could have destroyed the island and there would have been nowhere to go!All and all, an enjoyable flick! The movie teaches a great lesson and has likeable and entertaining characters. The character development was seriously lacking though. "}{"Title":"A great movie for all the family","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the one who hooked us all into the Pokémon craze. Great story, emotional and a great soundtrack, especially the musical score. All the Pokémon you know and love are there. Interesting the never seen footage only available on video since it links the movie to the Seventh Badge episode of the second season. "},{"Title":"not like other anime movies","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First I didn't know what pokemon was but all my friends watched it.I had this really good friend called Robert, he was a pokemaniac so I decided to watch.I thought to myself that it must be good serie since so man people were hooked on this.I am a real big japanese cartoon fan and this serie was better than I expected.So far it is the best japanese cartoon I've ever seen.When I saw the movie it may have been the best movie I have ever seen and I'm not just saying that cause I am a pokemonfan but as a person.i think all of you should go buy this movie and watch this serie.And if you like evil you got team rocket the most unsuccessful team in the whole world.  "},{"Title":"I DON'T CARE WHAT ANYONE SAYS - I LOVE POKEMON!!!!","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  By writing this review I run the risk of any subsequent movie reviews I write on more grown up films, shall we say, not being taken seriously, but this is a review I feel compelled to write.  Firstly as you can probably work out I am a big Pokemon fan, but I know relatively little about this whole phenomenon compared to some of the real Pokemon nuts out there. Secondly I will admit I have seen this film twice, now that may not seem a lot to some of you, but I am 19 years of age. The things I like about Pokemon are the wonderful range of characters, some obviously based on real life creatures, and some wonderfully made up, I love all the fantastic adventures they always seem to have, and the way some of them evolve into other forms is great to. The film itself is really no more than an extra long episode where we see Pikachu and friends go to Mewtwo's island to battle for good, against Mewtwo and his band of super powered cloned pokemon. The movie has some strong messages running through it against  such things as cloning, messing with nature and fighting your fellow man (or woman) just because they are different to you. The finale to this film with Pikachu and Ash was one of the most emotional things I ever saw on a cinema screen and I will admit it did make me cry, making this movie 1 of only 2 movies that have made me cry real tears (the other being E.T.). I recommend this movie to anyone OF ANY AGE, they should go and watch this without any cynical preconceptions because of what it is. Great film 9/10.    "},{"Title":"Lovely","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  More sinister than the cartoon, Pokemon is the usual Poke-mix of heavy handed mildly Japanese morality and esoteric lessons. The Americans who believe Pokemon is evil are, to be frank, paranoid fools. Pokemon has continuity, it attempts to portray relationships between youngsters and even if it doesnt succeed, it at least attempts to be more relevant than the tiresome 'wackiness' of most Western animation. If you like Anime, you should see this filma nd take a break from tentacles and mecha. However, Pikachu's vacation short may prematurely rot your brain. Bizarre-me-do! "},{"Title":"Fan-flipping-Tastic","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I cant see what people did not like about this movie, it was great.  I just got it imported on DVD from the states.  I have to admit, you really do have to watch the TV series to really appreciate the movie, but then I would think that only people that do watch the TV series would watch the film.Pokemon has been around long enough, anyone who hadn't thought there own opinion on Pokemon by now must be living in a basement.  Alright so the animation wasn't top notch but it had its moments.  It was a very dark movie, and the destruction of the lab at the start may be quite disturbing to the younger children.  Overall it gave out some important messages, the main one being that fighting is wrong.If there was three bad things I could say about this movie they would be... 1.  Not long enough 2.  Jesse & James drastically under used. and.. 3.  they didn't even get to say their motto.I am anxious to see the Japanese version of the movie  "},{"Title":"THe gREATEST ANIMATED MOVIE EVER!!!!!","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have never been much of a Pokemon freak. My little brother hed the game and I played it sometimes. Then for a family day my Brother nagged my mom to go to the pokemon movie and I loved it!!!! The short is okay but the main movie is awesome. You have to be a kid to like it! "},{"Title":"Pikachu taught me about pacifism...","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I learned more about pacifism from the scene where Pikachu is being slapped around by his evil clone than from Martin Luthor King and Ghandi combined. That scene alone makes this film a classic and well worth seeing.  You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll learn, you'll love. "},{"Title":"What a great movie","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  I'm a big Pokémon fan and I really liked this movie.  Everywhere I go I hear nothing but bad things about this movie from people who hate Pokémon.  Well obviously.  This movie had a great story, great animation and a great soundtrack.  I enjoy nothing better than sitting in a theatre watching my favourite Pokémon so huge that it almost gives me a sensory overload.  I especially liked the short Pikachu's Summer Vacation.  It was great that they got all the cutesy and excessive crack induced happiness out of the way leaving room in the main feature, Mewtwo Strikes Back, for a darker more serious movie. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This was an excellent movie especially for the 5-20 age group. I don't care what anyone says, pokémon is great fun and not just for babies.Despite ignorant views from people who just went to the movie and have never actual seen the series before, and despite the fact that it is a cartoon fun can be gotten from the movie and would definately recommend it. "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all, I get a lot of guff for being a 22-year old fan of the show.  So, I was a little reluctant to admit wanting to see the movie.  But I did, and it rocks!  Naturally, if you're a fan of the show, you'll get more out of it.  When watching it, I couldn't help but draw parallels to that great fad-based animated film of my youth, Transformers The Movie.  Most parents and critics will think it's junk, but to those 8-year olds (and fans like myself), it's one of the greatest pieces of cinema ever made.  It's actually better than you think.One complaint, though.  At the end, it gets awful, awful preachy.  We are beaten over the head with not one, not two, but 3 messages!  Other than that, it's good.   "}{"Title":"Cool Pokémon!","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Yes,I have seen this movie,and I like it!But SOME parts of the movie were kinda boring.I am not a teenager,nor an adult,but a kid.I am a big fan of Pokémon and Star Wars,but I collect Pokémon cards.I also watch the tv show.I would have to say that I give this movie 3 and a half stars.This is my first user comment "},{"Title":"Fantastic, Emotional, Existential...","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Alright, I've only seen one episode of this notorious Japanese animation series, but I saw the movie anyway.  I was amazed.  Sure, it can be cheesy at parts, and sure, it can be trippy at parts (some very hallucinogenic scenes in the animated short that precedes the feature).  There are, however, many elements here that surprised, humoured, and moved me.  First, the villain here is a new Pokémon (I want discuss his genesis) heavily influenced by 19th/20th century French existentialist literature, crying out such melodrama as What is my purpose in this world?!?!  Why do I exist?!?!?!  Pikachu (sp?) annoys some, but I was very charmed and found some of her/his (what is this its gender?) moments particularly moving. Also, Jesse of the Rocket Team is one of the most beautiful actresses of our time, and I was instantly in love.  Finally, the long, dramatic climactic fight between good and evil Pokémon towards the end has a strong, positive message about war, and what is it good for?  I highly recommend this film and anxiously await the sequels. "},{"Title":"Best Thing Since Transformers  !!","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon is THE cartoon of the next generation.  When I was growing up it was Transformers and even G. I. Joe.  Then came the 1990's.  Needless to say there weren't that many good cartoons coming out.  Enter Pokemon.  Once again we have a continuous story-line full of surprises, humour, and even good drama.  Pokemon also bring s back the ever pitiful (but this time also beautiful and even a little sexy) bad guys.  All of this continues into the first Pokemon movie.  Personally I say catch some episodes of the cartoon first to get the history (and the very talented voices of Rachael Lillis and Eric Stuart).  The movie is great and I had a lot of fun watching it.  I recommend it to all as a great family movie.   "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When this movie was released in November, my younger brother wanted me to see it, but I said no, and I went to a friends house. But as the weeks grew on, I became a fan of the show. So, yesterday, I took me , my mom, and my brother to see it. Before the actual movie, we saw Pikachu's Vacation. I thought the animation was good, and the plot okay. But it was a little WIERD. Then came Mewtwo Strikes Back. I found the film very intresting, and dark. The animation was great, and the plot intreging. I think why alot of teenagers and adults didn't like this film because the walked into the theater thinking, Great, another stupid kids movie, I think I'll fall asleep, and they didn't give the film a chance. A definite 9/10. "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This wonderful movie got all sorts of rotten reviews. These reviews were written by people who hear the word Pokémon and think Yellow rabbit that shoots energy out of it's eyes. The short Pikachu's Vacation has many good qualities, including thee best theme song I have ever heard (in fact, the best SONG I've ever heard). Mewtwo Strikes back is even better. There is much more to it than simply fighting is wrong. It is very deep, containing drama, meaning, a little comic relief, and much more. The movie gets genuinely scary at times (ex the scene where Mewtwo destroys the laboratory), which you don't often see in a kid's movie. The part where the clone Pikachu keeps hitting the real one, and the real Pikachu just stands there and keeps taking it, is quite possibly the most moving and meaningful scene I've ever seen in a movie. And get this the scene where the tears of Pokémon bring Ash back to life actually had me crying, and I, as a general rule, don't cry. If you know ANYTHING about Pokémon, go see this movie. "},{"Title":"Looks at the big questions","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's not often that a movie primarily for little children presents the question why am I here or what is the meaning to my existence.  I can't think of any movie that overtly asks this question except for Mewtwo Strikes Back.  For such an issue to be presented in a context of scientists manipulating cloned genes to create the most powerful psychic creature ever, it must reflect a loss of childhood innocence.Having said that I think the movie is pretty good.  The animation is of a high standard with a clever mix of a dark and foreboding feel akin to Batman and the light and colourful world of Pokemon.  The story is interesting even if simplistic.  With some reservation I would say that the message is positive... adults in the movie are generally presented as sinister and I'm not convinced that the acceptable form of Pokemon fighting doesn't come from a deeply aggressive spirit.Anyway, it allowed me to share something with my 6 year old son and that is always a good thing. "},{"Title":"You need to know anime","Date":"26 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie will be a complete dissapointment to those who aren't used to anime and anime. If you know and like anime, you'll know what to expect minimum character development (since that happens in the regular series), great action sequences and a short run (usually 60-70 minutes).You can't judge Pokémon as a regular american animation, it comes from a whole different culture. Some scenes look like they were redone in the US, and there seems to be some edited sequences. I'm really glad that we usually get the original japanese versions of anime, here in Mexico. I'm just sorry Pokémon is not one of those cases.I must recognize Pokémon is not the traditional anime since it's not based on a manga (comic book), and it's main audience is small kids. It's not as complicated or smart as other series. But you can't deny Pikachu is one of the cutest characters you've ever seen.Don't expect this movie to be the greatest anime experience you'll ever have and you'll have a great time. And try to watch the original japanese version, it must be a thousand times better. "},{"Title":"The best animated moive I've ever seen!","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is honestly the best animated moive ever. The Plot is weak at the end, but the animation makes up for it. If you don't like kiddy moives then don't see this, but if you do you'll be in animation heaven. So I give this moives animation a 10/10. but in all I give it 9/10. "},{"Title":"Good and bad","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film has a good side and a bad side.The best part is the first short film.  There is no plot whatsoever, the pokemon get to play and have fun, and this is the innocence that makes magic.  All parents will hate this first section because it all cuteness and poke-talk.  The movie itself is pretty good, the main drawback being the morals that WB inserted just to make parents happy.  I wouldn't have been surprised to see Ash and Pikachu wearing matching WWJD? bracelets.  This film is great if your kids are already into pokemon, if not, they wont appreciate the story. "},{"Title":"This movie may not intrest parents, but it has qualities!","Date":"27 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm a 59 year old granddad and took my very literate 6-year old grandson. Pokemon is puzzling and uninteresting to adults, but it has its redeeming virtues. The most impressing to me is the taxonomy; i.e., 151 characters with a multitude of attributes and characteristics...which the kids enjoy learning. The movie has a very constrained level of violence (Pokemon are NEVER killed or severely hurt). The ending message is that violence is not the answer (action and lots of moving color are not the same as violence). Parents...it's cool! You won't be as involved as you are in Toy Story 2 (Another 6-year old fav), but try to learn at least a few Pokemon characters, go to the movie and you and your kids will share some good, and important, times.   "}{"Title":"Good, if you dig anime.  Second part is better than the first.","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"       Normally, the Pokemon tv show has a mix of lighthearted humor and serious adventure.  Rather than mix those two elements in the movie, they made two movies, one using each of these elements, and put them back to back as one movie.      The first, Pikachu's Vacation, is the cute one.  At about 20 minutes, it's about 20 minutes too long.  Its only saving graces are its trippy atmosphere, and the effective use of a pop song during the opening credits.  But if you are able to sit through this mind-numbing inanity, you will get to see the real reason to see the Pokemon movie...      Mewtwo Strikes Back, the longer, more serious part.  Gone from this is the comic cuteness of the tv series.  Even Team Rocket, who are normally a big source of comic relief don't lighten things up much (I'm not complaining, I liked it.)        Even though the plot is minimal, and contrived at times (What was up with Jessie and James impersonating vikings?!), and the message is a little heavy-handed, it is more cerebral than most children's movies.      I especially enjoyed the dark mood, dramatic moments, and GREAT score.       "},{"Title":"Fails to Capture Charm of TV Show","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a self-professed 22-year-old fan of the television series I was looking forward to some cheap rapidly-fired action and expressionistic humor, unfortunately I was left with some silly drawn-out anti-violence themes. Maybe I shouldn't have expected much from a children's cartoon.It started out quite promising with a premise suitable for any Aliens/Species type sci-fi. Mew-Two, an angry genetically engineered, kangaroo-like creature with telekinetic powers, instantly kills his scientist creators by blasting them and their laboratory to bits. Asking ponderous questions like, Who am I? Why am I here? he's clearly a blank slate left for much potential. He could have embarked on a thought-provoking quest moving from confusion to self-discovery, but instead, through super psychic powers, he builds a menacing island castle, makes some cute Poke-clones, and invites the world's greatest Pokemon trainers to his lair for the definitive Pokemon challenge. Once he defeats them he'll be a step closer in his plan to, well, take over the world, just like Cobra Commander, Evil Queen Rita, Dr. Evil, and all those other arch baddies -yawn.Such a trite villain should have been replaced by the television series foes, Jessie and James of the comically inept Team Rocket. They do make a welcomed though small appearance, which provides no effect on the conflict whatsoever.The first half-hour does move very well and would have proved suitable for a standard Pokemon television episode. I soon found myself slightly interested in the latest adventure of confident trainer Ash, his cute yellow mouse friend Pikachu, and his other two pals, as they determinedly set out to brave the storm filled seas in order to reach the island castle.However, when they arrive they engage in a laborious forty-five minute confrontation, much of which consisted of Mew-Two repeatedly boasting about his psychic powers and professing his hatred for mankind. This results in what can be considered the most pathetic and tiresome fight in Pokemon history as the heroic creatures and their competing clones lethargically push and shove each other around to a whiny Blessid Union of Souls song. The mess is all finally topped off with some forced Care Bear quotes like, We all live under the same sky, therefore we're all the same and can get along and a corny resurrection scene harking upon the infamous Peter Pan I do believe in fairies bit. Most appalling of all is the deliberate Fighting is wrong message, betraying the Pokemon's fundamental purpose for existing. What else do you expect them to do, work in a marshmallow factory?The movie is preceded Pikachu's Vacation, which certainly doesn't live up to its short tag, as it seems that the main objective was to pack as many of the 151 creatures as possible in a tedious 22-minutes.The real shame is that this the only Pokemon story that many parents will ever witness, as they're painfully trapped in the theaters, questioning their own wide-eyed child's intelligence level, mentally filing the concept along side the more lamebrained Barney and Teletubby fads. The Pokemon world deserves much better.Children should enjoy it, but then again they seem to approve of anything with the adorable Pikachu mascot emblazoned upon it. The older, more discerning fans should wait for the video store. The film should fare better on the small screen where you can sit in your easy chair, drink some beer, maybe even skim though a magazine or something with all the aesthetic pleasing animated eye-candy in your peripheral vision, and hope that maybe the second Pokemon movie will be worthy of your focused attention. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable family film","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I finally saw the Pokemon movie, and it was better than I expected.  This film was never intended to be a great cinematic classic - it's a fantasy that was made primarily for kids.  As an adult who has never even seen the TV show, I found that I enjoyed the whole concept of Pokemon.  I was able to follow the story line, but that was probably because I read up on Pokemon before seeing the film.  It was a little preachy at times, but in a good way.  I guess my only complaint was the animation - with all the advanced animation technology that's available today, I would have preferred better graphics.  I can't help but imagine how the movie would have been enhanced by more realistic animation.  However, I can understand that it was probably made this way deliberately, so that the young kids could instantly recognize all their favorite Pokemon.  All things considered, though, I thought it was an enjoyable family film.  The young people are right - Pokemon is cool! "},{"Title":"Best Movie Ever!","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokémon is the best movie ever and anyone who says otherwise is just bitter 'cause everyone loves Pokémon and everyone hates them.  The animation was great, the story was brilliant, the music was amazing and it was just an all around fun filled entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Great for fans of the show","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Pokemon movie is a high quality bit of animation which should be very appealing to fans of the show, but which probably won't win over very many new viewers.  As a grown up Poke-fan, I wasn't expecting much more than a long T.V. episode; what I actually got was a pleasant surprise.The opening short, Pikachu's Vacation is a nice light-hearted piece with a lot of the good slap-stick and visual humor that highlight the show. Pikachu and all of the other Pokemon spend a day at a park for Pokemon. Efforts to keep Togepi happy lead to some conflict with other park-goers. The episodes of this story are interspersed with slightly psychedelic montages of various Pokemon; a sort of souped-up version of who's that Pokemon.  High points of the story include Bulbasaur singing a Bulba-bye and Pikachu trying to rescue an oblivious Togepi from falling into a deep canyon from a shaky log bridge.The main feature is quite a change of pace.  It opens with the birth of Mewtwo, the genetically engineered Pokemon.  Although initially philosophical, mistreatment and betrayal by its creators make Mewtwo bitter, and embarks on a plan to conquer the world.  Ash, Pikachu, and the others get pulled into the story through Mewtwo's search for powerful Pokemon. Team Rocket, hapless as ever, tags along in their eternal quest for easy money.  Although there is an ample dose of the humor that makes the show such a treat, the movie is a lot heavier than a typical show.  There is a definite sense of menace and melancholy.  The path to a happy ending is fairly skillfully navigated, although with a few stumbles.  The movie's moral is delivered in a fairly heavy-handed manner, particularly compared to typical episode of the TV show.  Misty and Brock are not really given enough to do, and Team Rocket seems to be used mainly for plot advancement.  All that aside, the movie is quite well done, and frequently quite moving. Good use is made of the relationship between Ash and Pikachu in particular.Visually, the movie is quite pleasing.  While the animators could have gotten away with typical TV scenes with extra background, they opt instead to make full use of the large screen format.  The movie does a good job of depicting immensity and grandeur.I've been told that this movie knocked Titanic out of the top box-office spot in Japan.  While I don't see anything that incredible happening here, it is a worthy addition to the Pokemon saga and worth the time to any true Poke-fan.    "},{"Title":"Whew! Lighten UP! This is a KIDS movie, and fun for them at that!","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    The animation in the short before the main feature made my head spin at times! I know a few of my freak buddies that would say Wow, Man! Groovy and reach for a snack. Real  weird audio/video I felt like I was having a flashback from a bad trip!I was amazed how so many kids knew the Pokemon's names, and when a new one appeared you could hear shouts of it's name all over the theater.    The plot made no sense.. animation looked flat and jerky.. the... WHAT AM I DOING? This movie is not made for me! Enough about MY impressions I Liked it! My daughter  My daughter is 10 and she saw the movie twice! Was spellbound the first time, laughed hard the second. She gave it 3 1/2 out of four stars and was completely satisfied both times! Now she   wants to take all her friends to see it (ouch!). I better get a part time job to buy tickets.. do they wholesale them?  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly deep and moving","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It probably won't make any sense if you haven't seen the cartoon, but this movie was really good.  There's humor and love and symbolism and messages that make it not only good for kids but older people as well.  Themes such as war, racism, martyrdom, and the ethics of genetic engineering and cloning are woven through this story.  It has kind of a reset-button ending, but that's probably for the best.  On the whole, very nicely done.  (And for those of you who complain about bad animation, watch some other recent cartoon movies.  Besides, you can't change the appearance of the characters too much from the TV show; it'd be weird.) "},{"Title":"The movie is as hodge-podged as the critters it is about.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well, first off let me tell you that I'm a 23-year-old college student with no kids.  That aside, I'll get into my take on the movie.It starts off with a short cartoon, Pikachu's First Vacation, where the audience is treated (?) to a day in the life of a Pokemon at a little amusement park without supervision any of its trainers around (there are only voice overs when the trainers say it's time to go).  The only dialogue comes from the Pokemon themselves (Pika!  Pikapika!) and a Pokedex computer voice that talks through the film like a Wild Kingdom nature show announcer.  It's mildly interesting, but ultimately a little bizarre. Pokemon veterans would probably like it, but others would just scratch their head, and even cry foul--small, almost subliminal, interruptions happen right in the middle of the action consisting of a bunch of Pokemon sliding across the screen making disturbing chants with their names (obviously a marketing ploy of some sort).And then, finally, comes the movie.  The plotline deals with a genetically engineered super-powerful Pokemon, Mewtwo, who decides to play God and clear the planet of all humans and Pokemon not under his protection with his awesome powers.  He invites a few of the best Pokemon trainers around (including our hero, Ash Ketchum) to the island under cover of a challenge when really he plans on using their Pokemon's genetic material to make his own super Pokemon clones.  Yep, clones.The movie's introduction is surprisingly impressive in my opinion.  Mewtwo has a dramatic introduction that has him pondering his existence and purpose in life.  The beginning made the movie look more promising than I had hoped. I thought it was an odd beginning for a kid's movie, but I wasn't complaining.  Unfortunately, that's where the movie's goodness ends and its heavy-handed cheesy moralistic side begins.The movie actually tries to preach against genetic experiments and cloning! I just couldn't believe it.  And then the movie surreptitiously switches it over to a racial harmony kind of message.  I was sitting there thinking, What the hell does the movie think it's doing?  Several teaspoons of sugar are added and eventually you just want to block it out until something better comes along.All in all, I don't think it was worth the price of admission.  The animation was great, the story was more interesting than I had expected to start, but by the middle and end of the movie, you're just ready to get out of there.  If you're a college student still clinging to his/her childhood, wait to rent this one.  But if you do go, just be ready to take the bad with the good.  The good being Mewtwo (and the bumbling Team Rocket) and the bad being the movie's forced doses of silly out-of-place morals.Well, okay, it gets bonus points for Mew.  Mew's too cute!My score?  A 2 out of 10 for parents, a 6 out of 10 for people my age, and a 7 out of 10 for the kids. "},{"Title":"Hey, I Loved It!  'Nuff Said!","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My husband and I are 28 year old Pokemon enthusiasts who had an absolute blast watching this film and Pikachu's Vacation.  So many people dismiss Pokemon as being for kids, but perhaps you only need to have a young mind to see the messages behind the cute characters and goofball plot.  Mewtwo is an intense character, as intense a character as I have ever seen in animation--if Mewtwo doesn't send shivers up your spine, you've lost your senses.  My only criticism is the lack of Pokemon in the feature film--certainly there were nowhere near 150 creatures represented. Pikachu's Vacation contained more critters.  Okay, maybe Pokemon is an acquired taste.  If so, I'm going back for a second helping! "},{"Title":"Hurt by enforced limitations","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The Pokemon phenomenon continues in this feature and for all I can see adheres to the TV format, simply expanded for the better sound and some of the FX opportunities of the big screen. The plot is unobjectionable, the pokemon are in general undeniably cute, and the intensity level is relatively low. Therefore, it is just fine for that matinee showing when you have too many kids on your hands and too little for them to do. It kept the kids I brought quite entranced, which was entirely the point.Nothing new in terms of Pokemon lore here, which was also well-received in the full auditorium. But, as an adult who has some appreciation of the possibilities of the medium, I have to sadly admit being a bit disappointed in it. Don't get me wrong, it was a pleasant way to spend something under two hours, but the film's animation was only a tiny improvement on the TV show and demonstrably worse than the Nintendo 64 games spun off from it. I contend that this is inescapable for the marketers involved. You see, the TV show is the true franchise, supporting the cards, so everything put out within the Pokemon universe must support the level of quality they can maintain on TV...which is quite low. I would say that the film is /intentionally/ lower quality, precisely so that the images the kids have of the characters, who have a patented form and mode of moving on TV, are not disrupted and turned off from watching the cartoons.Since I didn't expect anything else, I wasn't actually disappointed in that sense, just that they didn't seem to take advantage of the opportunities they had to improve on the quality, such as in nature scenes, backgrounds, and such.In sum, if you're under the age of about 12, give this a 10, it works. If you're like me, it's more along the lines of a 5. Here's wishing the distributors would put 'Princess Mononuke' into wider release. "}{"Title":"Not the best film of the year, but cute.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is different from the Disney formula of Animation. Yes, it seems like 90 TV episode, but it is more complex than traditional animation. I'd recommend this to kids and people at any age who want to see a fun film.(I am 18 years old myself) Although I don't recommend very young kids to see this. There are scenes that are gothic in nature and discussions on DNA. But otherwise a real fun feature.The short, while seen as unneeded is as fun as an episode of the show.The sound track, with bubbly tunes set the mood. Music purists however will loathe it. "},{"Title":"Mixed","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to get a copy of the subbed version of Pocket Monsters The Movie.  i thought the story was extremely good, and it made me want to see the US version.A mistake I quickly regretted.Much of the movie was dumbed down to appeal to the kids.  You know how they always say Something always gets lost in the translation?  Well, there was a lot of something missing in the theatrical version.In short if you're a kid, don't hesitate.  If you're a die-hard anime fan, don't bother. "},{"Title":"GREAT movie, BAD ending","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The begining of this movie is actually very good, and has (gasp) a plot dealing with deep questions which almost no kids show will.  The animation is top of the line, up to par with adult anime. The movie itself is great, with cool production design (Especially Mewtwo's Psi-Suit, which he uses to harness his powers) and a good plot.  But the worst part is the last 10 minutes, where everything goes full-of-heart-and-warm.  The characters don't suggest Geez, we shouldn't fight. It goes no where. Instead, they SAY it, in just those words. UG. And then Mewtwo, instead of taking his chance to kill Mew, just sees his wrongs and turns good. Yuck. All in all, this movie would be about a 9, but the end and the little short knock it down to a 7. "},{"Title":"Is it worth it?","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see this movie with about 7 of my friends.  I really enjoyed it, even though I'm older than the movie was aimed for.  I had a good time and laughed at some jokes only older people will appreciate.  The part I really thought was funny was the end where everyone thinks the movie is over, so they stand up, then there is a shell on a beach (up close) and everyone sits down, then they see the credits come up and get up again.  It was funny! But afterwards, we all were glad we went and it really is worth all that hype, wait, and expense. "},{"Title":"Great Movie for Kids but the strangest this an adult will see.","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  All three of my kids could not stop talking about it. (Ages 7,3,2) The movie actually has a short before it called Pikachu's Vacation then they have the main feature which is called Mewtwo's revenge. The movie is essentially a long version of the afternoon cartoon. The kids will love it if they are Pokemon fans. It has a non-violent theme, and it is very simple for children to follow the action. You must pay close attention to what the ladies are talking about in the harbour scene or the ending about the tears won't make sense. The plot is that mankind tries to make the strongest pokemon(Mewtwo) ever and unfortunaly they succeed. Mewtwo starts to take over the world. Mewtwo then challenges pokemon trainers to fight it while it creates a storm to destory all humans on the planet. It's up to Ash and his friends to stop him and show that love is stronger than hate.  "},{"Title":"Cartoons for kids? naaaah","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Hehe -I'm 30, and an animator. I happen to find Pokemon an inspired show, full of interesting storytelling and fresh ideas. Anyone who wants to knock the mass-merchandising of Pokemon by Nintendo and Bandai can go ahead, but I have to say that the anime series and movies are very well done, and fun to watch.I saw this movie subtitled, and I have to say that I rather like it. It's no great masterpiece like Princess Mononoke, but a good piece of entertainment. If your children are dragging you into this, try to go into it with an open mind, if you haven't seen any of the show before. It might take some getting used to, but if you let yourself be entertained by this, you will.It's certanly better than a lot of Disney fare that I have seen recently.. "},{"Title":"Really enjoyable","Date":"7 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw a sneak preview of this movie and I must say I was impressed I like the animation some of the jokes were just alittle on the lame side butt none the less its a great movie for kids.I'm not a big fan of the show but I can say this movie is worth every cent. "},{"Title":"It was good work of anime","Date":"29 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokémon the first movie was one of the best anime movies that I saw. It had action, adventure and a good storyline. I think it's a must see. You have to see it its worth it. Of course I'm referring to the original movie not the one Kid's WB is shown which is probably edited. The orginal is worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Mewtwo Is Evil, & I'm Emo.","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I cried like a little emo baby after watching this movie. Mewtwo is so mean. He creates clones of Pokémon, turns them evil to try and kill everyone. Pikachu is so cute, he is my favourite. Mew is the hero of this story. This movie is also really funny at some points. the evil Team Rocket return to help Mewtwo with destruction. but the most emotional scene is when Mewtwo Turns ash into Stone and All the Pokémon start to cry to bring him back to life. After I watched this movie I dyed my hair black and listened to my Hawthorne Heights and My Chemical Romance Cd's while trying on a pair of my sisters pants. I Love Pokemon the first movie, if you want a good cry watch it. "},{"Title":"After 7 years, I still love it","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" OK, so I first saw this in 1999, in a center parcs cinema, and i cried for two reasons. I felt sorry for poor ol' Mewtwo, and honestly thought Ash had died. 7 years later, and I watched it against today. I still loved it. Sad as it may be, it is true. I still wanted to cry for Mewtwo, I wanted to give him a big hug. The poor dear doesn't have a true father or mother, and resents being created, rather than born. I would probably feel the same. Though maybe I wouldn't want to kill everyone ) I also felt sorry for all of the pokemon who were fighting, and getting worn out. And when clone pikachu was fighting real pikachu, but real pikachu wasn't fighting back, I also got a tear in my eye. Maybe Im a big old crybaby, but now I want to go and watch the others. (I haven't seen any of the others () "}{"Title":"Mewtwo is Evil, and I'm emo.","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I cried like a little emo baby after watching this movie. Mewtwo is so mean. He creates clones of Pokémon, turns them evil to try and kill everyone. Pikachu is so cute, he is my favourite. Mew is the hero of this story. This movie is also really funny at some points. the evil Team Rocket return to help Mewtwo with destruction. but the most emotional scene is when Mewtwo Turns ash into Stone and All the Pokémon start to cry to bring him back to life. After I watched this movie I dyed my hair black and listened to my Hawthorne Heights and My Chemical Romance Cd's while trying on a pair of my sisters pants. I Love Pokemon the first movie, if you want a good cry watch it. "},{"Title":"This movie is so deep....","Date":"22 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *SPOILERS* Nobody knows the true beauty and depth of this film. The Japanese version was stuffed with all kinds of morals, but the dubbers took that all away. A ten-minute short came before the actual movie, about baby mewtwo, and his friend Ai. Ai is a girl who died in a car accident, but her father is using her DNA to clone her and bring her back. Ai teaches Mewtwo all about the world and they become best friends. There are other clones too. But sadly, the clones only last for four years because they are not strong enough. The three clones die, and Ai tells Mewtwo that she thinks she needs to go. He starts to cry, and Ai tells him to not be sad, because he's going to live and life is wonderful.That's pretty much it. I think the actual movie is good too. So for everyone who likes pokemon I give this movie a 4.5 out of 5.  "},{"Title":"A Poor Man's INFERNO (Dante's)","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a lovely little movie, and while many people may hate it because it's very kiddy, and it's about Pokemon (even I dislike the series).  It is a very good way to introduce concepts found in DANTE'S INFERNO to children.Much like the Canto's in Dis (Hell), Ash and his gang must travel through various levels (if you will) to finally reach the ultimate battleground against Mew Two.Then at the end where they forget the memory, but the experience will live on with them is also an INFERNO concept.Please the added comments about, It's how you live your life is also good for children of this day and age to hear. "},{"Title":"If you love Pokemon, you must see it!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a film for fans of the Pokemon TV series only. If you don't like Pokemon, then don't watch. I'm a huge fan. (I'm 23) The animation is amazing, it has good characters and is entertaining throughout. The best characters are Jessie & James (plus Meowth)They wear cool clothes and are always on hand with a wry comment. The Pokemon are cute and fascinating to watch. Mewtwo is an effective villain. The soundtrack is great, especially Brother, My Brother. I have seen this film several times and have been moved every time. Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Could've been for adults...but nooooo.....","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen great anime(Akira, Vampire Hunter D, Angel Cop, Dragon Ball Z, Fist of the North Star, Crying Freeman) and I've seen pure 100% crap(Digimon, Kimera, Devil Man vol 1, Cutey Honey). Pokemon hasnt been a favorite, but it hasnt been utter crap to me either(mostly because i am a fan of the games)...its had its cute moments, its truly cartoony funny moments, and moments when its bored me to hell. So when the movie came out, yes, i was there the first day, at a 5 dollar matinee. i sat through that self-indulgent BS Pikachu's vacation, to get to the meat...Mewtwo Strikes Back...now, from the get go, Mewtwo was(and is) my favorite pokemon...game-wise, because he was powerful as hell...and because of his pseudo-storyline....the movie elaborated on it, and on that, they did a decent job(i believe im the only one to draw comparisons here to Magneto's origins in X-Menthe comic and movie)...but then comes the crap...an injection of pure sappiness, there to make the kiddies walk away feeling more righteous than they should....it felt dirty...honestly....and i walked off feeling that Mewtwo still rocked, but the rest of the film wasnt worth it....BUT, i believe i found the main reason why it sucked when it shouldnt have Americans. See, a few weeks ago, i stumbled upon the original japanese transcript, translated into pure English to the best of the webmaster's ability...and wow, did my opinion of the film change. First off, the movie begins NOT with the worthless Pikachu's Vacation, but with a 10 minute sequence showing first the discovery of Mew's eyelash, and the intent to clone it, but also the first years of Mewtwo's life, which is, without a doubt, one of the saddest stories i've ever seen in an anime, or any cartoon for that matter, and thats coming from someone who didnt break a sweat when Mufasa died in the Lion King. The sequence discussed ideologies on life, death, the human soul, human nature...and it was an excellent sequence that should've been kept in...and even further in the movie, as Mewtwo discusses his motives for wanting to rule over humans and pokemon, theres much more to buy into with Ash's relationship with his pokemon, and even big-mouth Meowth's conversation with his cloned alter-ego was very much more philosophical (and on a shallow note, Ash is allowed a couple of harsh curses to say) The script was wonderful...UNTIL, that is...the WB, Warner Bros, and all the other american idiots took a ginsu knife to the script translation, and it became conservative, childish utter BS. To anyone reading this, look at this movie, and say a prayer for those who translated and edited it, for they know not what they do..this could've been a great piece of animation, and instead comes off as infantile "},{"Title":"Not that bad people!!!","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to this movie with my little nephew who is a pokemon addict. I'm a big fan of good japanese animation and I was curious to see the movie. I already knew the animation wouldn't be all that good but I saw the series a couple of times on tv and really got into the humour. The humour is definitely something anime-lovers will recognize and also the references to philosophy, psychology and even the bible are very Japanese animation.The movie started with Pikachu's Vacation and I as I was sitting there in the middle of little children who just called out the names of all the pokemon they recognized (talking about Dolby Surround...) I felt my braincells slowly dying one by one. The thing was that this small intro only had pokemon in it and since pokemon don't talk and only say their names in this eventually very irritating voice I was afraid I made a big mistake by going with my little nephew to see this movie.BUT!!! when the real movie started, Mewtwo Strikes Back, I recognized all the good things I like about anime. Things like cloning and regaining life with love are just things you don't see (often) in American productions. Some things in the American version just were ridiculous, like the stupid Brother song when the pokemon are fighting. I wouldn't be surprised if the Americans also were responsible for the abundantly clear message at the end which is just an insult to every child 6 years and up. I mean, how stupid do they (americans and/or japanese) think children are???In short, the movie was definitely enjoyable and being late is advisable since you than miss 'Pikachu's Vacation'. Although if your going with a kid I think he wouldn't wanna miss it.If any Japanese animators or other big shots in the japanese movie-business read this I'm still waiting for the 'Samurai Pizza Cats' movie. PLEaSe?????  "},{"Title":"*****A perfect 5 star rating,one of the most underrated movies of 1999","Date":"24 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  GoodGee where do I begin?Well its got all sorts of good things about it.I can easily see why this would probably be considered a cult classic.For all you 80's nostalgia fans like myself you can consider this movie as Half Transformers the movie and Half the Care bears movieFor all those of you unsure of seeing this movie it is better than the show (Although its a pity they didn't follow with the mangas).And while they're other VG-based anime around of all the USA theatrically released VG-based movies this is the best one.The beautifulThe animation and music was very nice.The badI have seen one problem on why this movie was hated by so many people.It had no background.So that means don't make the mistake that so many critics and movie goers made by thinking this movie is a explaination of the poke-world.So if you don't know pokemon look at some poke-comics or watch some of the pokemon episodes on TV or something like that.Although one thing is that Misty and brock had too little to do.The uglyBad reviews from just about all the critics,badly shunned by a good amount of moviegoers.Hey doesn't this remind you anything there Transfans?*cough* Transformers the movie *cough*At least this movie's B.O record is a lot better than Transformers the movie was.Side notesMany people are going by Watch Toy Story 2 instead don't get me wrong TS2 is a fine movie but a certain reason why people do that is that both movies are kids movies yet TS2's tries to appeal to all ages (which is a good thing) but pokemon's appeal is mainly for the little kiddies.(Although there where a few clever in-jokes such as the minesota vikings one)So I am placing this on my fave anime list1TRANSFORMERS THE MOVIE 2KIKI'S DELIVARY SERVICE 3POKEMON THE FIRST MOVIE(I have certainly seen more movies than this)So adults don't expect that this movie is gonna give appeal to you adults it is really just a kids movie.  "},{"Title":"It's fine...  Just not great.","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon the First Movie is an exciting romp through the world of Pokemon.  Even if it appeased me, it didn't completely please me.  This movie is divided into two parts.  The 22-minute short Pikachu's Vacation, and the REAL Feature Mewtwo Strikes Back.Pikachu's Vacation is okay, but rather inane.  First of all, the lack of Pokemon.  They had a boatload of Pokemon in the beginning to go have fun.  But it just whittled down to personal favorites of mine Pikachu, Bulbasaur, and Squirtle.  They should've shown more of the Pokemon, which was rather bad.  But at least we get to see new Pokemon Snubble and Marril.  On the hatred stupid side are these psychadelic scenes that appear every two minutes.  That's so lame!  But at least it satisfied me with Ash's 3 personal Pokemon. **Mewtwo Strikes Back however is awesome!  They show a decent storyline, good dubbing from the original cast, and the clash between Mew and Mewtwo.  It starts off particularly well though.  Mewtwo is off to purge humanity and Pokemon with his clones.  Mewtwo's form is rather lame though.  He speaks in a telekinetic voice that emanates from not his mouth but his thoughts.  It's rather cool but surpassed by others.  They should show at least DEATH in movies like this.  But it's okay.  The only thing that stops this movie is the inane morals.  Examples like pointless violence, you can't win in fighting, and you don't fight to the death.  Well that's stupid, if Pokemon were real and had a Pokemon to face against a superpower, I'd suggest to kill it anyway.  Along with morals come inane 3-D effects.  WHY do we need 3-D effects.  Anime is a work of art that doesn't even NEED 3-D effects.  The world  3-D part is the title screen.  Also the music (while pretty cool), doesn't even FIT the movie!  They should've opted for the original soundtrack (though I like the new rendition of the TV show's theme in the opening).  Nintendo screwed up though.  We see A NEW Elephant like Pokemon (named Donfuyan in Japan) in the opening of Mewtwo Strike Back.  WHY didn't they include HIM in the new Pokemon list.  Ah, well...  ***All in all, it appeases me, just not completely pleases me.  It's just another marketing ploy though.  In my eyes, I will always see Pokemon as a brilliant, creative game and TV show (the only two which I only care about in the franchise).  But in Nintendo's eyes, it's just plain mass-marketing.  Well at least it's better than the Rugrats movie.Pikachu's Vacation ** Mewtwo Strikes Back *** Combined Average **1/2It's a nice movie, just got estranged in some poor quality.  I hope I get to see this subtitled.  But the next thing that's subtitled I'll ever see is Dragonball Z on DVD in 2000.  Let's hope that Nintendo opts to sell Subtitled episodes here.  I bet they will be as good as the dub. "},{"Title":"Trademark phenomenon of the times meets basic trademark movie.","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon had to hit the theaters some time soon. Its first effort is solid yet extremely basic cartoon movie between the good guys and the misunderstood bad guys. Scientists seek out rare pokemon and attempt to replicate it. Although succeeding in doing so, this pokemon does not like it and wipes out the area. Sometime later (we're left to assume), Ash and friends get invited to a tournament although an awful storm is keeping them from getting there. And of course, Team Rocket wants to find out why they are not invited.If it sounds stupid, guess what you won a kewpie doll for missing the obvious. It's strictly for kids and if you have any doubts about what pokemon is really about, the five minute short, Pikachu's vacation would help you out. As a movie, the music is terrible, and seems to be out of place for a cartoon. The movie is extremely obvious as well from beginning to end, so if you want a movie go someplace else. Otherwise, pika pika! (Take kids and let them enjoy) "},{"Title":"The First Pokemon Movie is Very Good, but not Great","Date":"3 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" NOTE I AM EVALUATING POKEMON MOVIES AS POKEMON MOVIES, NOT AS REAL MOVIES.I loved Pokémon growing up. I stopped watching it around 2009-ish and moved on to other things. However I have recently been revisiting Pokémon and have decided to do a Pokémon movie marathon.The first in the series is definitely a good one. I'll admit there is some nostalgia-related bias here, but I enjoyed it as a whole.It does have some flaws. It is basically your typical bad guy vows to take over the world story and the animation has not aged well. There are also some questionable scenes. For example, Ash idiotically trying punch Mewtwo. Also, the music played during the scene where the Pokémon were fighting each other did not fit in with the scene.However, there is much to enjoy. The characters were as likable as ever. Mewtwo is an awesome Pokemon. Some of his powers, while outlandish, were wicked cool.The Pokémon battles and the battle between Mew and Mewtwo will give Pokémon fans some excitement. I also appreciated the messages that we must all live in peace and that it matters more how you live your life than why you were created.It was a joy revisiting my childhood. I'm looking forward to revisiting more and seeing the ones I missed. As for the quality of the movie, I wouldn't call it great, but it was definitely very good and worth watching for Pokémon fans.7.5/10 "}{"Title":"I'd rather watch Family Guy, Scooby Doo! Legend of the Phantosaur and Animals than this piece of crap ever again.","Date":"1 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It's hard for me to believe that I used to love Pokémon when I was younger. I owned a few of the VHS tapes and some of the toys. Nowadays, the only Pokémon related thing I enjoy is the video game, Pokkén Tournament for the Nintendo Wii U. I don't like the anime series anymore; However, I find Pokémon The First Movie to be nothing but a piece of stupid, nonsensical, filler crap. That is literally how horrible this film is.My parents took me to see this movie back in the 90's when I was a child and I ate it up like candy. Unfortunately, my opinion on it has changed. It has got to be one of the worst animated films I've ever seen. It is rotten to the very core and gives a terrible message to its target audience.Not only is the message confusing, but also hypocritical. These characters take these creatures out to battle, yet when they see them fight clone versions of themselves, they have the gall to turn a 180 degree angle and say fighting is wrong. Congratulations, movie. You've made the characters of Pokémon into lousy, pathetic hypocrites.As if the plot of the film wasn't bad enough, there's also these ridiculous filler scenes with Team Rocket, and they aren't the main antagonists in here, Mewtwo is. The writers could have just left them out of the picture completely. They have no excuse to be in the movie whatsoever.If I had a choice between watching this movie and looking at paint dry on the wall, I'd pick the paint. Pokémon The First Movie is garbage. No, garbage is too good a word for it. It's an absolute disgrace to animated films, and I feel ashamed of myself for loving it as a child. "},{"Title":"Much Better Than The Negativity Suggests.","Date":"5 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When scientists create a Pokémon named Mewtwo using DNA from Mew, things backfire as the results are far more destructive than what they had anticipated.I was a fan of Pokémon and the original series around the time that this movie came out. And being a fan, I went to see this movie in the theater, along with my parents and sister. And to be honest, it's a very big pity that so many people slander a good movie. While I don't think it will ever be considered one of the best animated feature films of all time, it isn't all of the grief that so many people give it. Although I can see why people would dislike it (because it's not for everybody), but the way many people go on about it, one would think that this movie had committed some kind of unspeakable atrocity. Okay, maybe that sounds a little harsh, but I don't understand why a majority of the people who dislike this act towards it with a lot of hostility. Well anyway, being a Pokémon fan, I enjoyed this film very much, it's funny, exciting, and in some parts, even frightening and emotional, and on top of all of that, it's just a lot of fun, which is something that a movie like this one should be, a lot of fun.The voice acting in the movie is pretty good, just like the show. While it's not some of the best voice acting in show business, but it wasn't absolutely unbearable. Probably the best one in my opinion was the man who voiced Mewtwo, because of how ominous and in some parts, even intimidating. And also, the back-story involving Mewtwo got really dark in many instances, which reminded me a lot of something out of Frankenstein. Well, that would make sense, because the story of Mewtwo was partially based on Frankenstein. So basically, if one think this movie is strictly for children, then they might be mistaken, as it has many dark elements that some children might find scary or tense. And also, Mew is very cute, I remember in the theater, whenever Mew would make its cry, I heard many people in the audience suddenly give out an ahhh.On another side note, this doesn't really have anything to do with anything, but it's worth mentioning that my mother liked this movie, and she really dislikes Pokémon. The film critics and other people can say whatever they want, but it is something when somebody who very dislikes Pokémon actually says that this movie is good. Well in short, Pokémon The First Movie - Mewtwo Strikes Back is not a masterpiece of anime or cinema, but it is still much better than all of the negative things said about it make it out to be. Basically, if you want to watch this movie, you should do what is best, keep an open mind about it. And if you like Pokémon, every know and then, it's good to be young again and give this movie another view. So if you're a fan of Pokémon, then you'll probably like this movie, if you aren't a fan of Pokémon, well, see it, then decide.10/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent movie for kids","Date":"26 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Even though I am older I can still enjoy watching this movie. When I was a kid this movie made me cry. The part where Ash turned into stone was really sad. And then Pikachu would touch Ash to see if he is still alright, but he didn't respond. Then Pikachu and after him all the other Pokemon who were there would start to cry. The first time I saw this as a kid I started to cry as well. Even now when I rewatch it I still cry. It's just a really sad moment and I was so happy when Ash woke up again thanks to the tears of all the Pokemon. So I will always remember this sad moment. And whenever I look back at my childhood this moment will show up.This movie did not only have sad moments but also very cool moments. For instance the battle between the Pokemon of the trainers and the cloned Pokemon of Mewtwo.This movie is made for kids but I can still enjoy it when I'm older. This movie just means so much to me.That's why I give this movie a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Good for movie","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" two characters are a clone of the other... one electric mouse sidekick who is selling tools like R2D2/ewoks in the star wars franchise. Japanese have learned a lot since world war II and are using military style propaganda training to sell toys and some of the work is esoteric occult like Hitler learned in the war, and some is black magik they are selling children using their sexual powers Plot structure is DNA spiral... one strain is incorporate spliced into two and the result is that while one prays on the soul the other is using the body as a host mechanism to the give the soul false hunger for illusion, pokemon games and game boy advance/super Nintendo.good for movie, not best for hicldren but in my ed class this was one of the xamples of a movie that does its best job selling to childrenanother character is metwo aka the dark one, the false twin who is the black antichrist of the main character mew ash ketchum. he falls for illuminati doctrine/false flag and ufos, some of the imagery is directly linked to Satan worship and I am reminding my grilfriends bible right now and I've taken several notes how Lord Metwo is throne to Thiraka the Ethiopian King and Brock/Misty represent the Head of JupiterOuija/candles/satanic lamps are all directly referenced in this movie, as well as balls "},{"Title":"The first film I ever seen in the cinemas as a kid but does it hold up still,the answer is no","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I remember as a little girl I was a huge fan of Pokemon. Everyday I would watch all the Pokemon cartoons and enjoy them whenever they were on TV.I even collected all the Pokemon cards too and would swap them with my former best friend who was also a fan of Pokemon too. Then in 1998 it got turned into a movie and I was super excited about it my mom brought me to see it and it was the first film I ever seen in the cinemas. This film Pokemon The First Movie Mewtwo strikes back is about a cloned version of Mew who escapes from a laboratory who created Mewtwo by using Mew's DNA, and creates more cloned Pokemon's using a special machine that creates them. So its up to Ash and his friends who travel to a mysterious island by mysterious vikings(really James and Jesse from Team Rocket in disguise) and they come across a secret hiding place where they meet a brainwashed nurse(who is working for Mewtwo who she calls My Master).But can Ash and his gang save the day and stop Mewtwo making more cloned Pokemon's. One scene I remember in this film was the part where Ash turns to stone and Picahiu cries and all the other Pokemon's cried too and he is magically brought back to life again(yeah Tangled anyone where Rapunzel's tear brought back Eugene back to life again?).Overall I found this film forgettable as I haven't seen this film since 2000 as I used to have it on VHS but sadly my cousin destroyed the VHS tape by accident and I was devastated when it got broke. And I remember Christina Aguilrea sung a song called We're A Miracle in the ending credits. As a kid I loved this movie,now I just find it well terrible. I guess I just moved on from being a hardcore Pokemon fan and moved to other films that I am a huge fan of. But this film does hold a special place in my heart as it was the first film I seen. The acting is meh,the story is kinda complicated as its like watching a Sci-Fi flick about cloning. I guess if you are new to Pokemon then you might like it but like I said im gone past my Pokemon days now.3/10 "},{"Title":"Fist film","Date":"6 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was great with entertaining and make people happy while they watch this movie. But with 75 minute plus 21 minutes for Pikachu Vacation version doesn't make appeal with visual effect,special effect, decent quality of dubbing or acting maybe and some screenplay looks shabby. Of course if this happen, some adults cannot be entertained with this situation. Children will entertained with it so... i couldn't think if this not bad movie not good movie. I'll give this movie with scoreVisual effect 45/100 Special effect 65/100 Creativity 80/100 Entertaining 60/100 Acting 55/100 Story 75/100Overall 61-67 with B- Bellow goodEnd of reviewing Sorry if my English tenses were wrong "},{"Title":"Its unfortunate that only fans will have the open mind needed to appreciate this film","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon doesn't get enough credit for being an animated experience of my generation. I am a 23 year old man who is not ashamed to say how much I loved Pokemon growing up. Farewelling Butterfree was my first encounter with saying hard goodbyes, and many of Ash's successes and failures taught me about life. Its kid-friendly, but in beneficial way.It is therefore a shame that this film cannot appeal to critics without prior experience with Pokemon. Sour adults will listen to one Pika-Pika and tune out for the next 90 minutes. And that is sad because Pokemon is actually a very moving and insightful film. Ash and co aren't deep characters, but they don't need to be. The only characters who matter are Mewtwo and Mew, and those are done well. Mewtwo seeks purpose, and strikes back at those who try to restrain him. Mew, whilst a kind an innocent being, completely lacks empathy, as seen in the Pokemon tears scene. Insightful audiences will be able to deduce how Mewtwo's traits therefore originated with Mew. Maybe they aren't as unalike as once thought.There's plenty of Pokemon-level action and humour, as completely expected from what is pretty much an extended episode of the anime. The real thing that sets the First Movie apart from the typical anime episodes is the beautifully done emotional climax of the film. The film's soundtrack, including one of my all time favourite songs Brother, My Brother, do wonders for this moment. The moment lasts just long enough to devastate the audience before resolving it, something that Frozen completely missed a few years ago.I thought an opportunity was missed to show all 151 Pokemon in the movie (even in the background, it would've been a cool tidbit). Pokemon isn't an animated classic like Toy Story or The Lion King, but its certainly better than the criticism it unjustifiably gets. It exceeds its potential, and for me that is enough. "},{"Title":"Watch the Japanese version instead","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" *Coming from a hardcore Pokemon fan.**Beware, ranting ahead.*Well here it is, my first Pokemon movie review, guess it's only appropriate that I start with the first movie. The only difference is, I'll be reviewing the original Japanese version of the film, known as Mewtwo's Counterattack and I will be comparing it to it's English counterpart, as everyone knows as Mewtwo Strikes Back. Do I even need to explain the premise? Everyone that grew up with Pokemon in the 90's has watched this movie, then again there's a bunch of new fans out there that have no idea this film exists, so might as well. The mythical Mew, the rarest of all Pokemon, has gained an unexpected brother. Through bioengineering, and the DNA of a Mew fossil, Mewtwo is born, and he is not happy. Who is he? Why did the humans create him? Confused and outraged, Mewtwo summons Ash Ketchum and his friends to the unknown New Island, in order to show the world that he is stronger, so he is the real Mew. It's a battle for all Pokemon fans to remember. So what did I think? As a kid, I adored the first movie in all it's English 4Kids prime, but now that I've watched the original version of the film, I want to strangle 4Kids by their throats.Mewtwo's Counterattack is not only infinitely better then it's dumbed down counterpart, but it still stands as one of the best Pokemon movies of all time. Lets talk about the main character of the film, besides Ash, Mewtwo. As we know, Mewtwo was portrayed as a sadistic antagonist who wanted destroy the world in the English dub, but in the original version, Mewtwo is chaotic neutral. He never wanted to take over the world, in fact he states that no one has the right to rule the world, not even himself. His main goal was to prove that, since he is stronger, he is the real Mew. That is much more interesting then the typical rule- the-world villain 4Kids pulled out of their butts. Not to mention 4Kids cut out the prologue of the film The Birth of Mewtwo, which was incredibly stupid of them! Not only did this short make Mewtwo a more sympathetic character, but it was also essential to the plot! It explains where the cloned Charizard, Venusaur, and Blastoise came from, as well as the very reason why Mewtwo was created. It has nothing to do with Giovanni and Team Rocket, that's all I'm saying. Oh, and do you remember the Fighting is bad. message the English version of the movie had? This is one of the reasons why critics disliked the film, Pokemon fight all the time, you're being hypocritical. The original message was much stronger Even if they're clones, they're still beings of life. They all have a place in the world.. But of course, 4Kids thought kids were too dumb to understand that, so they replaced it. Okay I think I ranted on 4Kids enough, lets move on. The animation is awesome, all hand-drawn, (Not that I have anything against computer animations.) and it has a certain grit to it. I don't know, it feels nostalgic to look at again, I love it when movies do that. I should also mention the English dub has it's own separate soundtrack from the original. From what I hear 4Kids changed the music so it's More American and Easier for kids to listen to. I call this bull crap, however the music in both versions of the movie are amazing, but there are moments where they feel out of place. For example, when Mewtwo is capturing all of the Trainer's Pokemon in his own Poke Balls, the music in the Japanese version is rather jolly and makes you go Huh? Whereas, the music that played in the English version during that scene was more foreboding and heart-racing.Plus I can't say anything bad about Tears of Life that track still makes me want to cry every time. Speaking of crying, the infamous ending of the movie, where Ash dies (He really turns to stone.) is as heart-wrenching as it was in the past, in both versions of the film. I'm not ashamed to say that I bawled my eyes out watching it again, and Ash is my least favorite Pokemon character! Then again, this was when he's still learning to be a Trainer, and wasn't an ageless idiot like he is nowadays, so that's forgiven. My only gripe with the movie (Besides the English dub) is that Mewtwo's motives can be a little hard to understand in the beginning, but that's about it.Overall, Mewtwo's Counterattack is both refreshing and nostalgic for those that watched the English dub when they were kids, and I strongly recommend every Pokemon fan to watch it. Original 8/104Kids English version 5/10 "},{"Title":"This is a classic good movie","Date":"27 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This move was the thing that every kid wanted to see. Anybody I knew wanted to see this movie when I was around 3-4 year old. This movie kind of learn you that friendship is never ending etc. Now I'm 18 and I have watched every single movie so far, even the black and white. (same movie, just 2 different 'legends') This deserves a 10/10, some of the others deserve maybe slightly less like minimum 7 u So that's why my rating is 10/10 its super good <3 So I hope that some future reviewers will look at this and maybe think for a second, Kids friendly / Adult friendly = Good movie (I still have the feeling from when I was a little kid, when Ash got turned into stone... So sad, and for a good cause though) "},{"Title":"A breakthrough for the Pokémon Universe","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Mewtwo Strikes Back (1998) is Pokémon's first animated feature. Ever since the first time I saw it in Cantonese or Japanese dub as a child, I have been watching and anticipating the movies every year and I believe I would still do so for many years to come!I still remember some of the scenes from this animated feature by memory but I have long forgotten the story of Mewtwo Strikes Back (1998). Watching this animated feature again but a decade later and in English dub, surprisingly, it is still entertaining to watch due to its everlasting charm; the charm that has captured the hearts of millions of fans around the world.In terms of cinematography, it is okay I guess but there are several minor yet highly avoidable errors in color correction and script that I have noticed, at least in the older English dubbed version which I have recently rewatched. Those errors shouldn't have been there, it affects the overall experience of the animated feature as well as potentially reducing its maximum appeal. The unique characters (or creatures) and the bond between the endearing characters are what stands out most in this animated feature, which is impressive. Unfortunately, it may be confusing for those who have zero clue about Pokémon as the script is quite dull in some parts.Just a shorter version of my review, Mewtwo Strikes Back (1998) is about selfishness, loneliness, innocence, friendship and its adorable Pokémon even if watched without the short prologue, Pikachu short or any clue at all. I loved the first half of the animated feature but I won't hide that I do get annoyed at some points towards the end. But all the adorable Pokémon expressions melted me so meh, I forgive the annoyance inflicted on me.Should you give this animated feature a chance? Yes. It's the beginning of Pokémon anime movies and it is its appeal that makes it successful. Sure, it does have its own imperfections but it certainly is a breakthrough for the Pokémon Universe. Give it a chance if you have the time. It won't disappoint especially if you loved everything about Pokémon and want to know more about Pokémon. Watch the original Japanese version, okay? "}{"Title":"Masterpiece of the series","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It was the first movie, expectations were high back then, but the movie lived to them. The soundtrack is perfect, both the pop songs from the album (which brings the happy spirit of the series) but also the orchestra themes behind every scene (that brings us to a darker and serious plot - Just listen to This is my world now by Ralph Shuckett and John Loeffler).The story brings all the pokémon universe existent to that year, and also showed us some new additions to the pokédex (that didn't exist in the series at the time). Apart from that, the plot itself revives the great holy grail of science in the beginning of the 21th century, genetics, and the role of good and evil in all of us. It's an excellent animated movie, that brings a lot of emotions, for both fans of the pokémon universe, and also, for those who are watching for the first time and are new to pokémon. I'd recommend it to all ages "},{"Title":"It's OK but Japan's dub is better","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I've been an avid Pokemon fan as a kid and although I go back and watch some of the new episodes of the show, the old ones are still a part of me. When this movie came out fifteen years ago, yikes I'm getting old here as I've seen the movie when I was eight, I was excited and I was part of the whole Pokemon popularity of the late 90's to early 2000's. Now looking back at this movie, it's not the best of the lot and better yet what movie is perfect, most good and bad movies have a flaw in them somewhere. I've seen the Japanese version of the movie on the internet, with subtitles, and the film was more dark and the character Mewtwo was more of a victim compare to the obvious villain that the English dub had shown. The moral in the English dub seems to be hypocritical towards the show's premise in the 4Kids dub. In English the moral is 'fighting is wrong' and in the Japanese one 'despite being clones they're the same'. 4Kids should've kept the latter in as their moral as the show, Pokemon, shows them fighting, I'm not one of those people who thinks Pokemon is bad for kids, as I said earlier I was an avid Pokemon fan but I still go back and watch the new material. However I do like the 4Kids actors, as I've grew up with them as a kid and although they're not great they do have talent. Plus the animation at the time was good for a cinematic feature, particularly the end credits with its Ghibli style animation. I will go back and watch this movie for nostalgic reasons, despite that the Japanese dub did it better. Although out of all the movies Pokemon had released over the years, the second one will always be my favourite. (Pokemon the Movie 2000) "},{"Title":"The Movie is Amazing and Beautiful! A masterpiece that shows that commercial cinema can have heart!","Date":"31 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Far surpasses conventional critically acclaimed movies! And definitely not an exclusive film for kids! It is very sad and emotional! And I really touches the heart much more than movies made ​​for that ... The Pokemon franchise with this film is enshrined as an icon of the 90's! One of the few movies that made ​​me mourn seriously ... Including message, simple and childish .. but looking deeper, more biggest and elemental than any I've seen ... a basic message to live and understand each other ... sometimes simple messages are those that we forget and are pillars to live ... simple messages what conceal a much larger and deeper background .. only some really understood as it should ... and not lightly as something obvious ... seeing the end of the film, the final dialogs between Mewtwo and Mew ... one realizes everything and begins to see the life and things differently ...with these films you realize, that you do not have to judge a book by its cover ... and you do not need be an vanguards masterpiece, to be a great work of the seventh art, go in the prejudice and perception of everyone each day ... hopefully one day the prejudice on the animated movie and its cover popular ... disappear ... "},{"Title":"Pokemon is still alive","Date":"20 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon merchandise, games and movies are still on the roll.At the end of 1990s a game changed it all, and it was Pokemon Blue.Red followed,and then a load of other games including a lot of hacked ones too.It resulted in this first movie from 1998.The movie had first reached Denmark here in spring 2000.This starts with a short movie with Pokemon on a hilarious summer vacation.Pokemon trainer Ash and his friends meets with the almighty Pokemon Mewtwo on a remote Island.The trainers Pokemon are no match for Mewtwo, and it ends with a clone war that Ash are ending.There are well known songs, epic battles and lots of fun.It's not any big Cannes movie just some light fun for the Whole Family, or adults that just want some nostalgia.If you are Lucky enough you can find this movie at a second hand store.8/10 "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"29 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Okay, this isn't really me rating the movie. It's my 7-year-old self. I first saw this movie when it aired on Cartoon Network a long time ago. I watched it again recently just for the nostalgia and I realized that it is actually quite a bad movie. It's POKEMON THE FIRST MOVIE. Obviously it's not going to be as good as AKIRA, GHOST IN THE SHELL, or any Studio Ghibli movie. I'm not saying that popularity has anything to do with the quality of a movie but take a look at this list on Wikipediahttp//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest- grossing_animated_films#Highest-grossing_anime_filmsWhen it came out, it became the highest-grossing Japanese animated movie of all-time. It's still the fourth highest-grossing anime movie of all- time.Yes, it's bad and I normally wouldn't let any movie get away with horrible storytelling just because It's only a kid's movie. I recently watched FROZEN in theaters and I hated it. I'm going to have to make an exception for POKEMON THE FIRST MOVIE. Yes, it has many problems. Fans of the video game might not like it either because of all the inaccuracies. (A Scyther is called an Alakazam (by Team Rocket, though), a Pidgeot is called a Pidgeotto by its Pokemon trainer, Pikachu actually KOs a Golem with a Thunderbolt (a move that shouldn't have any effect on a ground-type Pokemon like Golem), etc.) But the movie is alright because it does have a heartwarming ending. I won't lie, I cried when Ash got turned to stone and Pikachu tries to revive him and fails. The soundtrack is actually alright, in my opinion. I would give the movie 10/10 but my main problem is that the animation isn't much of an improvement over the animation in the show. I know Japanese animation generally isn't as technically advanced as American animation (outside of the anime movies I mentioned above) but when they make a movie based on a show, they should increase the animation quality.If you watch this for the first time as an adult, you'll probably hate it. No, actually, you WILL hate it. But if you watch this for the first time as a kid, you're probably going to love it. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Although I'm not in the demographic at which this colourful cash-in is aimed - I have pubic hair and an attention span longer than 30 seconds - I was surprised by how much I enjoyed it. I've seen it more than once, if I'm honest. The animation's not bad at all, and the Frankenstein-esque plot, in which cloned Pokemon Mewtwo busts out of his laboratory prison and muses about his place in the universe before exacting revenge upon it, has some unexpectedly poignant moments. When the fighting starts and monster names are thrown around willy-nilly it gets somewhat tiresome and (if you're over the age of 10) may make you feel old, but for the most part this is enjoyable stuff, even if it doesn't linger long in the brain. The charm doesn't extend to the sequels 'Pokemon The Movie 2000' is flat-out lame, while 'Pokemon 3' has some nutty visuals that go some way to making up for a thin plot and rackety soundtrack. Then I came to my senses and stopped watching them. "},{"Title":"Gekijô-ban poketto monsutâ - Myûtsû no gyakushû (1998)","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Mewtwo doesn't exactly return. He's just rediscovered. In this follow-up to the 1st movie, Giovanni (being the only one that remembers Mewtwo) is the the hunt for his prized creation. It covers the same themes as the first movie, with Mewtwo and his clone friends trying to find their place in the world. The action isn't as good as the last two films, and the film misses a trick by not really having huge battles betweens humans and Pokemon. We get a new villain in the shape of 009, and Jessie and and James are good once again (something they seem to do for every film). It's good to see Mewtwo back, and it corrects the horrible mistake of making everyone forget the events of the last film. "},{"Title":"Mewtwo deserves better.","Date":"13 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is a mixed bag of a film, being clumsily edited and cut for American audiences, with morals and pop songs being slapped on and 10 entire minutes cut from the introduction about Mewtwo. Mewtwo is the strong point of the movie, having more depth and emotion than all of the human characters put together. The viewers are likely to find themselves sympathizing with him rather than the heroes, who are bland and rather annoying. The mood tends to switch from lighthearted and goofy, and then change to dark and intense whenever Mewtwo is present. Mewtwo kills humans (offscreen, of course) and hurts other Pokemon. The character of Mew offers good contrast. Indeed, Mewtwo could hold up well in another movie aimed at adults. The ending is poorly handled due to the editing, frustrating the viewer. The animation is good and the atmosphere strong. It's a shame that the dubbing had to be handled by 4Kids.The short Pikachu's Vacation is not worth watching for anyone over 6, and parents may want to be cautious about letting their enraptured toddler move on to the actual movie. "},{"Title":"Much better than anything in recent memory but nevertheless a waste of energy and time.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Once, back in the care free 1990's, there was a little video game that swept the hearts and minds of children everywhere. The game was Pokemon, and as the Pokemon world grew, television shows and movies followed the pocket Monsters everywhere. The animation looks poor and the pokemon look like cardboard cutouts. The story repeats its self every episode. And yet, for some reason, the children are hooked, and rightfully so. Pokemon teaches children valuable lessons about the world. It teaches children how to get along with others, and lessons of peace and love. Go Pokemon Go!.. . . . . . .  "},{"Title":"Not bad, actually","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Most people hate it because it's Pokemon. Well, actually, in Japan, Pokemon's really good. It's horrible in America thanks to dubbing and cutting scenes. The japenese version went more into the story of Mewtwo's past, and why he is like he is now. And to those who think Anime's all the same... note that a lot of animes are a LOT different in Japan before they come to America, and if it was kept the same the movie would be PG-13. The entire first season of Yu-Gi-Oh was skipped in America because Yugi kills people. Pokemon is a lot more violent in Japan, and the characters aren't as childish and annoying. In the beginning of the original Pokemon movie, it was about one of the failed Mewtwos. One of the scientists was also creating a clone of his dead daughter. Her and mewtwo form a mental link and become friends, but something goes wrong, causing the girl to die, and mewtwo learns of pain. Still think it's all little kid stuff?  "}{"Title":"Pokemon the first movie should be ranked higher","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon the first movie is a children show. It's full of great animation and silly phrases. At the beginning they show a wonderful display of animation with the fight with pikachu. To say that this movie should be down played for the lack of adult content is ludicrous. The movie was well done and accomplished what it set out to. To Entertain kids. If you look back the story contained light and dark qualities. Enough for the enjoyment of kids and the ability for adults to sit through. Looking at other comments its obvious that the have never heard of a kids movie and have never watched the show. For those out there who know and love anime they know that pokemon is not some movie or show like ninja scroll or akira its a show full of fun. Know when you take a look at yu gi oh remember that its a kid show and its not supposed to be dark. And maybe you should watch the show before commenting on the movie. actually if you haven't seen the show you pretty much have no reason seeing the movie in the first place.  "},{"Title":"a shocking surprise to me that this movie actually did well","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  the movie itself had a terrible presentation, laughable voice acting, and is a movie based on one of the worst fads to ever sweep the world (in my opinion)! I can understand how kids would enjoy this movie (by kids, of course, i mean anyone under the age of 3) only because they are too young to even think something is bad, like this movie for example.i did laugh when my brother (7 years old at the time) said he actually liked it!ACTING 1.5 PLOT 1 DIRECTION 1.5 OVERALL 1.333...etcif you are still a fan of pokemon, and has not seen this movie, maybe you'll find enjoyment out of this, but...oh, forget iti do have one question when did mewtwo strike first? "},{"Title":"This movie is for ALL fans of anime","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  To be honest, I'm fed up with the people who bash this movie and everything thing related. They say the same thing over and over again It's for kids!, It's stupid!, It sucks! without ever really going into what is so awful or they lie about it. If it sucks so much, why has it lasted for so long? Why is there a new game, 2 new movies, has spawned 8 manga series, and has a new season and OVA coming out? This movie is good, it has awesome fight scenes, a kick butt story, and good characters. The series is only so-so but this movie more than makes up for it. I brought it the other day as I missed it when it came out in theaters. Now that the fad is over(thank God), the normal anime fan can go out and enjoy it. Even my brother, who hates Pokemon, enjoys this film.My point, if you are a fan of Pokemon, buy this movie. If you are a fan of action anime with a bitter-sweet story, buy it. If you hate Pokemon or hate anime, don't buy it. "},{"Title":"THE BEST IN JAPANESE CHILDREN ANIMATION!","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There are a couple of spoilers, but not the ending.First off, I'm 19 years old and a big Pokemon fan. When I heard of this film coming out I couldn't wait for it's video release. It's everything I expected great animation sequences, awesome storyline and action sequences and it gives a new look towards the Pokemon franchise. I recommend seeing this film as soon as you read this or any review.First my review for the short Pikachu's Vacation this was a good way to get into the movie, it also introduced some new Pokemon Snubbull a Pokemon that looks a lot like a dog and Marrill a mouse, water Pokemon that has a great sense of radar. The story involves our favorite Pokemon being left alone at a resort made for Pokemon. But when Pikachu and other trained Pokemon run into wild Pokemon they have a great battle. Suddenly the Pokemon find themselves working together to save a fellow Pokemon whose trapped himself.After watching another short called The Origin Of Mew in which scientist find a fossil containing the DNA of the ancient Pokemon known as Mew. We find out that Mewtwo is a genetically cloned Pokemon funded by the evil leader of Team Rocket Giovanni. After Mewtwo escapes from Giovanni he sets out to destroy the human population and making Pokemon the rulers of the world.Then we are shown Pokemon The First Movie Ash and other fellow Pokemon trainers are lured to a secluded island by an anonymus trainer, we later find out that it's Mewtwo. When they arrive Mewtwo captures their Pokemon with special pokeballs and clones them in an attempt to show the humans that his clones are stronger than the originals. A great battle ensues, but one act of selfishness changes everything. That's where I'll stop I don't want to give the ending away, please go see this even if the only excuse is you had to watch for your kids. "},{"Title":"BRILLIANT!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  ALAN BAILEY I loved this movie, it was a shame it was a bit short to my liking but I thaught that the battles and ect... were also brilliant and I think mew was the best of them all ^_^ I give it 5 out of 5 ***** ADAM KYLES There are in fact two reviwers here me and Alan. I too thought this was a wounderful movie. The battle defined all special effects I have ever seen, and it is wounderfully touching when Ash is brought back to life during the movie. 5 stars out of 5 (my first 5 stars in quite a while.)  "},{"Title":"super-violent","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" 1) First, PTFM is surprisingly violent.  The scene of Pikachu #2 brutalizing Pikachu #1 is more intense than your typical 'R' rated action flick.  This movie deserves a 'PG' rating.2) The happy ending is a cop-out and doesn't follow the events leading up to it, which is too bad.  Then again it's a kid's movie, so it must have a happy ending.3) Mewtwo is cool.  An introspective pokemon! "},{"Title":"The Pokemon craze hits the big screen!","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon The First Movie was a success for one reason... the Pokemon craze (the t.v show, the games, etc) and when I first saw the movie, it was OK. It had all the favorite characters (including the bad guys, Team Rocket). But the bad points about the film is that it ends with a moral message which has been heard all over before. I also was suprised to find out that 10 minutes of the film (which explains Mewtwo's origin in better deatil) was cut and was only seen in the Japanese version, why would 4Kids do this?. One more bad thing about the movie was that we never got to here that stupid intro Jessie and James do the Pokemon cartoon!. But overall it's a decent film "},{"Title":"Just Do It!","Date":"7 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  As a supreme fan of Anime, I couldn't avoid this any longer. I study Pokemon as a profession and sometimes practice it's activities. But as for the movie,........I have only one thing to say to all American parents who's kids are pestering and pestering and pestering about seeing this movie. (Sigh) JUST DO IT! Parents, just grit your teeth and rent it for them. (You're going to lose the battle anyway) I study Pokemon as a profession to save parents the harass and struggle of it's meanings. And it's quite obvious that I too have been bitten by the bug. I have over 108 Pokemon collected. Anyway, about the movie. This film made HISTORY why? Because for the first time 75% OF ALL AMERICAN MOVIE CRITICS GAVE UP!!! THEY DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO THINK OF IT! So they let the kids decide! The film earned millions of dollars of course, so that should tell you how successfull it was. Plus a sequel coming out in summer of 2000. How would I rate it? Pokemon in general is a 9 out of 10, and it's definentally something new! But the movie barely gets a 7. Maybe a 6 1/2. Why? I DIDN'T LIKE THE ENDING! (Frankly I think that the writers ran out of ideas, so they scramble up a lousy ending) But everything else was good! So, what advice do I give to parents? WATCH IT WITH YOUR KIDS! Don't let them feel that they are left out in this situation, or not apart of the family! They don't call them FAMILY FILMS for nothing!P.S. Anybody (or any Pokemon fan) have an Ekans? Or a Meowth? I am also dying for a Raichu?  "},{"Title":"A truly wonderful film","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am a huge fan of the tv series, and I was highly anticipating this movie, and I was not dissapointed. Pikachu's Vaction was fun, and very lightly paced, unlike Mewtwo Strikes back. I have read reviews saying that MSB was a good movie, with a good plot, PV had no plot. It did have a plot, the Pokemon are on a vacation, and meet some bully Pokemon.(Raichu, Snubbles, Marril, and Cubone) I found to be very enjoyable, and I liked those Pokemon interludes( my favorite being the one with Magikarp) and it was nice to see Mewoth, Arbok, and Weezing on break too! Once Pikachu's Vacation, MSB started; and what a change of pace. If you were confused on how Mewtwo came to be, get the VHS or DVD copy, where before the movie, it explains his origins. I found the movie to be interesting, and Phillip Bartlett did an excellent job as Mewtwo. The first 10 minutes and the last 15 minutes were the best parts of the movie. everything in this film was enjoyable. The animation was good, and everyone did a great job in supplying their voices to the characters. One thing I didn't like was that Team Rocket was greatly underused, and they didn't say their motto! But they were funny anyway, and I loved their Viking impressions, and the inside joke.(they all live in Minnesota) I really liked the music. It was tense during the battle, and light when Mew first arrived. I especially like the piece of music when Mew was staring at the windmill. The movie's most tense moment is when Ash dies.  I was a little sad, but when the Pokemon cried, and he woke, and I was relieved. There is one intresting I like to point out. This movie takes place in events in the middle of the one on the tv show. There are episodes which point to the movie. Like one episode, you can see Mewtwo flying away from the Team Rocket's headquarters, and then Team Rocket talks to Giovanni. Interesting, huh?Pikachu's Vacation 3/4.Mewtwo Strikes Back 3 1/2/4. "},{"Title":"More inane than should be legal.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After watching the American version of Pokemon The First Movie, I had to watch it again with the director's commentary turned on, because my only thought was What were they thinking?  I still don't know.  While I am addicted to the Gameboy game, and a big fan of animation of all types (even anime-porn), I just couldn't find anything I liked enough about this movie to compensate for it's weaknesses. I wasn't expecting much of a story, but I got hooked in about 10 minutes and thought maybe I was going to get a treat after all.  Fished in!  The movie descends rather steadily and culminates in a chock-full-of-morals ending that had me groaning and rolling my eyes so much I actually saw my own brain.  The dialogue at this point consists of things like a fight to the death is ...a fight no one wins.  Of course someone wins; the one that doesn't die.  Even in context the touchy-feely soundbytes don't make any sense. As for the thing I really wanted to see... the greatest pokemon battle ever.  With all the pokemon powers disabled, we have the visual intensity of a foam pillowfight (feathers would have looked cool).  And Mew vs Mewtwo? Looks like a red and blue pinball bouncing all over the screen. And finally the soundtrack.  Apparently the songs were compiled by a computer that took all the discarded lines from the cheesy ending and compiled them into sugar-coated pop.  No one knew that all the tears in heaven could bring me back to you  What? With so many good recent animated films like Princess Mononoke, Iron Giant, and Kiki's Delivery Service, there's really no good reason to watch this one when you have to watch a cartoon. Hopefully, I'll get to see the original Japanese version, just to compare, but in the meantime, as Mewtwo says, ...these events are best forgotten. I wish. "}{"Title":"The Greatest Movie of all Time!!!*","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Wow. I'm almost 14, and I loved it! I loved the action, Pokemon, characters, MewTwo, Mew, Ash, drama (explain more later) and suspense. My favorite were Ash, Togepi, Mew, MewTwo, Ninetales, Wiggltytuff, Pidgeot, and Vileplume. I wish Ash had remembered the experince, though. Ash's voice should have been done by a boy. It had a message too. Mew said it herself/himself. That fighting dosen't pay and love rules above all. I cryed both times I saw the movie in the theater. I think of my tears, and all the Pokemons' tears too, as going to Ash and saving him. I even know one boy who cried. "},{"Title":"Not that great...","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay, let's keep this brief. The First Movie should have been pretty good. Why not? It's got the world's most powerful Pokemon in it, Mewtwo. The trailer promised the greatest show down of them all. We got a little bit, but not much. Overall, all I can say is, better luck next time. It is the first one, after all.The short was surreal. "},{"Title":"Japanimation for the whole family!","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie blew my mind!!! While Pokemon is a concept generally regarded as something purely for kids, this film (not counting PIKACHU'S VACATION) rates right up with such top-notch Anime as AKIRA, GHOST IN THE SHELL, and WICKED CITY. This film contains enough plot, excitement, suspense, action, tragedy, and redemption to appeal to anyone with the guts to brave the stygma of watching a kiddie flick and finding out for one's self how stunning this film truly is!! The only problem with the DVD is that it is not available widescreen!!! "},{"Title":"Better than the show","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  *Possible spoiler*To begin with, I must state that I do not care for 'Pokemon the TV series (I prefer Digimon).  I saw this movie because I had a free General Cinema exchange ticket.  I had trouble getting into Pikachu's Vacation, the preceding short cartoon.  (The real entertainment there was hearing the kids' reactions.)  Once the feature started, I found that I was drawn to it.  The production values were much better than the TV show and the cartoon.  What really made this movie work for me, however, was the character of Mewtwo.  Philip Bartlett was excellent as Mewtwo's voice, and I liked the neat aural effect of having his voice come out of all the rear surround speakers in the theater when he communicated.  In most animated features, the villain remains a villain until the very end, when they die.  People who complain about the violence in this film should at least take note that Mewtwo undergoes a change at the end.  He sees the error of his ways and gets a chance to redeem himself. Overall, I did not much care for Pikachu's Vacation, but I liked Pokemon  The First Movie. "},{"Title":"I laughed! I cried!","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has got it all - humour, sadness, special weirdness and great cheesy moments -it runs the entire gamut of emotions! -FAB!!! If you think its shallow you may be missing the point a tad...  "},{"Title":"i slept the whole way through, almost","Date":"16 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I confess, I fell asleep during this one, and that in itself is a major achievement, have you ever tried to sleep in cinema seats? I did catch enough of the movie to comment because I kept waking up every ten minutes due to the uncomfortable seats. What I did see didn't really do it for me but then I guess I'm not really the target audience and amni sort of stopped for me with astro boy.While I was awake I found watching the three year old whom I took to see it far more exciting than the actual movie. He loved it, and along with all the other kids in the theatre was quite annoyed by my apparently loud snores.The story seemed pretty universal, however and I did think the message was good but it did seem to take a while to kick in. I did think it was great to include MewTwo's take over of the lab in the beginning, when i saw that I thought wow how exciting, and Ash dying, which i actually did miss. It was a shame the movie started to slow.But the kids loved it and my snoring was repayed by having a three year old pee on my face. Was that in the movie? I did miss a lot.  "},{"Title":"More morals than an animated version of the bible","Date":"16 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I get many a battering for being a 19 year old Pokemon fan. But really who can resist that cute lil yellow fluffy face? ) I personally was very excited, I took my James doll *reow* and my talking Pikachu and set on my way for the movie experience of a lifetime, only to leave an hour and a half later very disappointed. The Pokemon battles were lame, what little of them there were, Team Rocket didn't even get to say their lines  Ash didnt catch any Pokemon and there was no PokeRap! For a kids movie, it was way way way too serious, especially MewTwos meaningful monologues and the not so subtle Fighting is Bad moral.All in all, as a diehard Pokefan, im sad. Sitting through that movie was like hearing a lecture from your mother when your 10 years old about not stepping on spiders in the garden.  (  "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"9 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I went to see the movie, I expected it to be more like the series.  Boy was I wrong.  This has top-notch animation.  Although the voice cast was decent and were from the TV show, I expected some famous actor to play the voice of Mewtwo.  (This has been done with other movies.)  Anyways, it was a good movie and I know it's easy to insult it because of the ramming of morals down kids throats and the violence.  To any fan of Pokemon and\or Anime, watch this movie but brace yourself for the Pikachu's Vacation short.  That was WEIRD. "},{"Title":"Keep an open mind","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've noticed that people who are blasting the Pokemon movie are not very familiar with the TV show or the game.  That's precisely the thing.  This movie is more for aficionados of the game, the animated series, or both. Those not in the know will probably not enjoy it.I, for one, enjoyed the movie, probably because I'm a fan of both the game and the animated series, even at age 30.  That's about all I can say about the movie, and I can't effectively rate it.  I can't say that I recommend it to just anyone, but if you keep an open mind, you might actually enjoy it.Two additional points1) A little heads up to the people who still insist calling the blue mouse Pokemon introduced in the Pikachu's Vacation short Pikablu (especially some of the trading card magazines) The movie calls him Maril (which is also his Japanese name).  He even speaks in Ma-ril, Ma-ril.  I don't know who came up with the misnomer Pikablu, but THAT IS NOT HIS NAME.  It's especially bad when the OFFICIAL movie trading cards still call him Pikablu.2) I suppose that I live in a weird town... I was in tears when Pikachu was trying to revive Ash and failing (I've cried during other Pokemon episodes, too).  The kids at the theatre apparently found something humorous about it, because with each subsequent futile thundershock before Pikachu started to cry, the kids laughed harder.  Did I miss something?  "},{"Title":"I Liked It","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ok. At first I was against seeing this film. Having never seen the show, I thought the idea was silly at best. But, last night, a friend went to see it. She's a BIG fan of the show (btw, she's 18 and I'm 24). The first short Pikachu's Vacation was cute. So, I thought I was in for two hours of happy Care Bears like fun. Boy, was I wrong. Mewtwo Strikes Back had a much darker tone. I hadn't seen a kids cartoon begin this darkly since The Transformers The Movie. In less than two hours, I cared for these characters. Team Rocket was cool, but weren't used enough. What surprised me the most, though, was that I cried near the film's end. What surprises me the most was that the film was able to keep a G rating. The violence is at a minimum. The is a scene involving Ash that may cause despair for younger viewers. Overall, I say go see this film. "}{"Title":"The good and the bad...","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After two weeks of being sold out in the local theater, I finally got my chance to see this film.I am quite comforted in the knowledge that I am not the only 20 year old Pokémon enthusiast, though I don't go completely overboard with it, I only rented the game (red version) for a week during the summer, and have only seen the cards but never played them.In both these features I must say that you really do have to have some understanding of the basic premise and characters of Pokémon in the first place.I found the short feature, Pikachu The Movie; Pikachu's Vacation, delightful, as I am quite fond of the cute baby-like characteristics of everyone's favorite electric mouse, Pikachu.  However, at the risk of sounding like I am accusing someone, what is up with the little interludes?  They almost made me paranoid that some kind of mind control was taking place (even Pikachu's huge face bouncing up & down on the screen caused me to shake my head... this was not one of the interludes), shades of the seizures that occurred in Japan.  I was relieved when each one came to an end and I didn't black out.On to the feature presentation, Pokémon The Movie; Mewtwo Strikes Back. I did find that it was rather dark and, being young at heart and being able to sense somewhat how younger children would react to this, I was not surprised, though slightly annoyed nonetheless, that a young child in the row was asking her parents many questions.I think the intention here was to appeal to as many age groups as possible.  I was mildly surprised that I didn't sob during the last half hour as much as I did when I saw the episode of the series called Pikachu's Goodbye.  Don't get me wrong, there were tears and I could have used a tissue, and my lip quivered slightly a few times during the raw emotional scenes involving the Pokémon, and especially Pikachu's, tears (and I wasn't alone... my companion could hear many young children sobbing, I was too riveted to the screen to hear anything going on around me.)  Quite interesting to me was the foreshadowing... anti Pikachu gets so tired that he cries and falls into our familiar Pikachu's arms.  That's when the real waterworks started for me, even as I type this.  I hate seeing cute creatures fighting so fiercely with each other.Yes, it may have been somewhat corny... but, again, I believe this film was targeted to a large, family audience.  It is supposed to have a very clear message.  The sheer emotion it evoked (my heart was pounding so hard... you really care about the people and the loving Pokémon if you watch the show like I do) will not soon be matched for me.Pokémon is a powerful teaching tool.  If you can remember the emotion that some of the animated movies created when we were young, (when I was young, there was She-Ra The Secret of the Sword, among many Disney features) then perhaps the children of today will heed this message and be kinder to others.  You have to teach them now, when they are impressionable.On a lighter note, it's too bad that my favorite Pokémon, Jigglypuff, didn't get as much exposure as I would have liked, but I did enjoy picking out the one in the interlude in Pikachu's Vacation whose eyes were closed. They should have done all the interludes where the idea is, 'find the one that's not like the others.'  Kids love that kind of thing. "},{"Title":"Astonishing","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My friend finally talked me into seeing this movie.  I figured it would be like the show, a poor representation of anime.  This movie was much better than the show.  It had a thought out plot and even has many elements of movie that should be in the drama category.  I loved it, aside from the screaming 6 year old present at the movie.  If you are an anime fan, you will appreciate it more and must watch this movie.  If you are not, you should still give it a shot. "},{"Title":"A fun children's show translates poorly to the big screen.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My wife and I took our two youngsters to see the film and were terribly disappointed. Production standards were, I thought, very poor. The same narrator was used for the film and the plot was idiotic, even for children. My kids, however, were somehow able to overlook all that was wrong with the movie and proclaimed it's virtues all the way home. Where did I go wrong? Pokemon is fine as a television show, heck I'll even admit to having watch a few episodes myself and enjoying them! The movie was a marketing stroke of genius but serves to further desensitize our children to so much dribble. Shame on me and other parents for allowing it to get this far!  "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It had a good point and the animation was well done. However I like the television show much better. I liked Pikachu's vacation except for the part where the individual pokemon would dance against the background and then it would cut back to the action. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The short precursor to Mewtwo Strikes Back, Pikachu The Movie (known to some as Pikachu's Summer Vacation) gave the little ones what they wanted. Though it had little plot, it showed the kids many of the Pokémon and introduced them to some new faces.  It even came complete with a good moral.While, Pikachu The Movie was quite evidently geared towards the younger audiences,  it was sometimes hard to tell in portions of the main feature, Pokémon The First Movie or Mewtwo Strikes Back.  The metallic, sinister-looking lettering closely following the bright, energetic Pokémon logo probably confused some children, while it left mature fans smirking.Mewtwo's Strikes Back is the story of Mewtwo, a super-Pokémon created by scientists working to clone/improve Pokémon.  The psychic Mewtwo is left angry and confused by the circumstances of his birth.  He searches for his purpose, and ultimately decides he must destroy the human race.I will not give away the rest, but, as you can see, this is not the preface of your average children's cartoon show turned movie.  However, though I was impressed by the first nine-tenths of the film, the ending, which seemed toned down, left me somewhat disappointed.Being a fan, I can understand why it was written the way it was, and admire makers' choice.  They chose the ending that portrayed a good moral, and that would leave the young fans smiling. All-in-all I enjoyed the movie and especially dug the digital elements, I give Pokémon an é for excéllent. "},{"Title":"My children hated it!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My children were so excited about seeing the Pokemon movie - days were crossed off the calender anticipating its arrival.  As they came out of the movie, I could see their disappointment.  They came out confused and betrayed - they felt the movie had nothing to do with the whole Pokemon concept - they felt it was unnecessarily violent and sad.  It took several hours of conversation for them to work through their confused feelings about the movie.They would have seen it anyways, if someone had told them it was bad - to find out for themselves.  But they are highly disappointed in the Pokemon Powers-that-Be for giving in to violence and hype. "},{"Title":"Speed Racer without the plot!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Does anyone recall the episode in Japan of children going into convulsions from watching cartoons? If this was the cartoon, it's a wonder the suicide rate isn't higher among children than it is!I can honestly say after seeing this movie in a near silent auditorium filled with boy scouts that I've witnessed the fall of humanity!This film makes Showgirls seem like Citizen Kane! The vacation short at the begining of the film had me fumbling through my pockets for a stray pain reliever. This proceeded to numb all my senses, wishing someone would yell fire. When the short ended, I hoped beyond all hope that it marked the end of the movie... it didn't.The film lasted about 90 minutes, but the incessant beeping and squeeking made it feel like an eternity. Most dialogue consisted of squeeks and moans, and that was the intelligent dialogue.Consider seeing this movie if you have the time and  "},{"Title":"Pokemon Rules!!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw a screening of this movie on a saturday with a bunch of my friends and it was great!! Lots of adults won't like it because it's a cartoon, those people ought to be sat on by a snorlax. it was so sad how ash dies, kind of. I knew every single move that they would do in Pikachu's Vacation since i saw movie clips of the Japanese Version. And yes, Team Rocket is there dressed up as Vikings. As Ash would say I Think there's some living in Minnesota that cracked me up!! And meowth as a one of those statue things in front of a viking boat!! And this movie is not CORNY, maybe Ash is but the Pokemon are cool. Overall this movie just plain rules.... I have all the pokemon cards!!  "},{"Title":"Save yourself","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Your kids may want to see this, but you certainly don't. It's an hour of senseless violence, bad art, and a bad movie overall, even for a kid movie. And don't get me started with Picachu's Vacation. The whole thing is a commercial, but I bet the kids will like it no matter what. Whaddayouthink? "},{"Title":"Japanese Subbed Version","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I was fortunate enough to watch the Japanese subbed version of Pokémon the First Movie (known as Pocket Monster the Movie).  I have seen several US (hence dubbed) TV episodes and they were, to say the most, amusing.  I mean, I like Pokemon and all, but the dubs have no flare & no real humor in them.I have yet to see the US release of this movie, but seeing how it is saturated by a gimmicky soundtrack, a less than stellar voice cast, and some lousy US kiddy humor, I wouldn't be surprised if the US release also pales compared to the version I saw.The Japanese version has all the flare and emotions preserved, heh, I can even admit that it was so touching at certain points later on in the movie that I cried.  Yepz, I cried and I pined, then I was relieved.  ^_^x  It was that good.  ---- 10 (for Jap version) "}{"Title":"Original","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I know, I know.  I've been ridiculed many times for being a twenty year old and wanting to see this infantile movie.  I've heard parents speak among themselves in horror of this terrible demonic Pokeemon thingy.  However, I am terribly curious.  By chance I had to get up at six in the morning and caught the show.  I was hooked.  This Japanese show has everything American cartoons don't.  An actual sense of weird and wacky humor.  Turn on the Saturday cartoons and you'll get the usual uninspired thing.  Pokemon is truly funny and weird and doesn't take itself seriously at all.  The only cartoons I'd consider watching at all are this and Warner Brothers' Batman series.  Pokemon brings me back to the days of good cartoons like Ducktales. It is goofy and stupid but not in a bad way like Power Rangers.  If you want your kids to see some hilarious lowbrow humor take them to this movie. Anything would be better than professional wrestling.  When this movie arrives in theaters you can count me in along with all the screaming little grade schoolers.PS  James of Team Rocket is the man "},{"Title":"Pokemon the first movie kinda sucks Pokemon Balls. The Japanese version of this film is way better than the American one.","Date":"16 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I remember going out to the theaters, and seeing this with my brother, who was a huge Pokémon fan. Both of us were deeply disappointed. It wasn't until, years later, that I saw the Japanese version of this movie and found that it's superior to the cut-down American version. Directed by Kunihiko Yuyama, the movie was released in 1998 in Japan, and in 1999 for US, after the huge success of both the animation TV Series, and the Nintendo games that came out. It is the first theatrical release in the Pokémon franchise, follow up with a lot of awful sequels. The movie follows the characters of the animation show, as the events of the movie, supposedly takes place during the block of episodes of the first season, leading up to the Pokemon League sub-plot in the American version. I have to say, it begins during the episode 62 'Battle of the Badge, ending with episode 66 'Evolution Solution. In the original Japanese TV Series, it was believe to happen after the events of Episode 54's The Case of the K-9 Caper with makes the later episodes seem out of place in the timeline. Already, I'm getting a headache. Anyways, there so many different versions of this film, that it's insane to figure out, which one to watch. Try to find these three segments to get the best out of this movie. First one is Pikachu's Vacation, a 21-minute feature focusing on the series mascot Pikachu. Second is Origin of Mewtwo, a 10-minute featurette that functions as a prologue to the main feature. Third is Mewtwo Strikes Back, the main 75 minute film feature. Sadly, some of these might in the 2001's sequel to the film, Mewtwo Returns, but I saw later DVD copies put this copies of the Pokemon The first movie. Depending which one you find, the movie still tells two different stories of a clone Pokemon call Mewtwo (voiced by Masachika Ichimura in Japanese/Philip Bartlett in the English version) that create from the DNA of the most powerful Pokemon of the time, Mew by the main villain of the TV series, Giovanni (Voiced by Ted Lewis). In one version, Mewtwo is suffering from God-like complex, due to Mewtwo powers and felt superiority to the original Pokemon and men. Mewtwo wants to destroy the world with a hurricane, Mewtwo created to get revenge on humanity after witnessing other clones getting killed off. Mewtwo also set up a trapped a fake tournament to gather up DNA samples to recreate a new race of Clones Pokemon. In another version, Mewtwo, is portrayed as a confused being, like Frankenstein monster who still motive by revenge, but only use the hurricane as a test of strength, so that Mewtwo can gather up the best pokemons to create the best race. There are countless mistakes in the dubbings translation such in the case was, the awful story about Pokemon tears reviving death people. It's mention earlier by explorers and a nurse in the beginning of the movie. In the Japanese movie, there is no mention of this Deus ex Machina. Without spoiling it, the whole scene of Pokemon reviving a beloved character with crying was an awful cop out death scene. Another one is Mew's message to Mewtwo. The whole heart speech is BS in Japanese version, as Mew really hates clones. The biggest letdown is the original and clone Pokémon battle. The background music is different in both versions the Japanese version plays a variation of Colossal Battle, followed by soft instrumental music, while the English version plays Brother My Brother, which contains a fighting is wrong message. The whole fighting is wrong, message in the English version doesn't make much sense. I know Pokemons are use in this universe like combat sport like boxing, and not death tournaments like dog or cock fighting, but this is still awful contradictory message. If the movie kept the whole cloning is controversial topic of morals and ethics, and all life is equal, this movie might work. The whole idea of wiping people's memories in the end was also unforgiven. No moral lesson was learn to these characters. What a waste of time! Later copy versions of the film, CGI add to it, changing the movie even more, from the original. It's so annoying. The film also does not really explain the premise of Pokémon to the non-initiated. If you haven't saw an episode of it; you're out of luck. You'll be confused as hell. In the English dub, they mention some of the Pokemon by the wrong name. If you're not a huge fan, you probably wouldn't notice this. Even some the powers don't make sense. How does Pikachu Thunderbolt power defeat ground Pokemons? Come on, movie! Get your facts, right. It's odd that it's rated G, despite its strong violence, and disturbing images. After all, people do get murder here. The music in the English version, doesn't connect with the violence theme. Somewhere, Someday by *NSYNC, We're a Miracle by Christina Aguilera, are just forgettable and too pop for a dark movie. The orchestral score was entirely changed in the English version. Overall This movie was a pointless movie with no payoff. It's a must watch if you're a fan. Just note to find the newer Japanese version than the older American one. "},{"Title":"So chaotic and cold for being so loved and renowned","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Growing up in the late nineties, early 2000's, the popularity of trading cards had surpassed the typical baseball cards and went on to those belonging to a strategy/duel game such as Pokémon and Yu-Gi-Oh!. The international phenomenon only intrigued me because I was astounded as to how many different cards there were from both separate games. I remember the grocery store aisles having large, forty-plus card collector packs inside glass display cases, and kids all over challenging their friends and classmates to duels of all different kinds. I remember buying dozens of Yu-Gi-Oh! cards just so I could sit in my room, stare at them, and pretend like I knew what I was talking myself through.Pokémon became the mega-hit of all these trading card games, however. It was a global entity that found a way to stretch itself across the world all the way from Japan thanks to its ubiquitous and neverending line of characters, its in-your-face design and marketing scheme, and its successful Television show on Cartoon Network buoyed by its stuffed animals, action figures, and Game Boy games all the more. What was the object of this game? I still have never head a clear, direct answer aside from the franchise's slogan, Gotta catch em all, further cementing the idea that we, as kids, were being sold something we had no idea what purpose it had and we were just repeating corporate-created phrases and spending our hard-earned allowance on toys, games, cards, and other needless things whose significance we couldn't coherently explain. The franchise's slogan is such a tease as well, telling us how we need to catch all of these obscure animated characters but not as quickly as sleep-deprived artists can paint more of them and Chinese toymakers can produce them.Cynicism aside, indulging in Pokémon The First Movie was the most time I've ever spent one-on-one with these characters, and with three other films in the immediate film franchise, it likely won't be my last. This review will likely be brief, since there is simply not much to say with these characters, their motivations, or their struggles. The franchise's leap to the big screen is a mediocre endeavor, lasting only seventy minutes and existing simply as a marketing campaign for the Pokémon card game, which was already global enough before the release of this film.Regardless, Pokémon fans everyone desperately tried to justify its existence as a theatrical film, even though the picture takes the same risks and does the same exact thing it would likely do as an hour-long special on Cartoon Network. The story opens with a group of scientists that have found a way to genetically clone a renowned Pokémon by the name of Mew. His offspring is now called Mewtwo, who then chooses to clone other Pokémen for his own power. This results in an even more overcrowded sector of Pokémon, leaving Ash Ketcham and his pals Misty and Brock to travel to Mewtwo's island where battles between the real Pokémen along with their clone-counterparts can take place.For as big as Pokémon is as a franchise, it sure makes little to no sense. The morals and themes of the entire franchise teach us the fundamental ideas of love, togetherness, acceptance, and kindness, and yet all these characters seem to do is fight, yell, and use flashing lights as their weaponry. This is one of those films where so much happens but so little of it is interesting to anyone outside of the franchise's core age demographic, which is as young as eight and as old as thirty-eight, I presume. You'd think the longer you'd play and support such a program that implores you catch all of their characters, and the more you'd witness how many different games and characters the franchise releases, you'd wake up one day and realize your dream is like trying to win a one-hundred mile race on a treadmill that increases how much longer you have to run by two miles after you've just completed one mile.The animation is often bright, some of the characters are kind of cute, and on rare occasions, the film manages to have some interesting elements thanks to its diverse creatures. Yet, Pokémon The First Movie finds itself to be nothing more than an array of publicity and indescribable animated action sequences thrown together in a film. It's chaotic and often depressingly cold.Directed by Kunihiko Yuyama. "},{"Title":"It holds up VERY well","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This begins my spree of watching ALL the Pokemon movies. Backstory time! Why am I rewatching some and watching for the first time ever the others? Two reasons really. For starters Pokemon X and Y was recently released, which if you know anything about video games, is a very big deal. Second my friend began rewatching the original Pokemon series which inspired me to rewatch the movies, because there are simply too many episodes now for me to handle in College. Onto the movie! I'm not going to explain the plot because this is a review not a synopsis. How will I format my review? Well let's do it in the fashion that Clint Eastwood would approve, the good, the bad, and the ugly.The Good This movie gives a very good backstory to the antagonist. As far as I can tell it gives you everything you need to understand who, what, where, why, and how. You understand the antagonist probably more than the protagonist, why is good. Every good movie needs an antagonist that outshines the protagonist, and boy does Mewtwo deliver on that.It also delivers a pretty sad scene where everyone thinks Ash is dead, this ultimately lets Mewtwo understand the error of his ways, leading to a nice resolution. This level of sadness won't be surpassed until the 8th movie and no other scene comes close to this one's level.The Bad Pokemon aren't supposed to fight, not like this. This quote said by Nurse Joy adds some confusion to the overall theme. Pokemon, if you like it or not, is a franchise based on at least semi-sapient creatures fighting each other to the point where one is knocked out. You can even find references of Pokemon dying in these battles. Keep in mind these battles are viewed as both a sport and an honorable profession. The best I can tell is that Pokemon are naturally aggressive despite the majority of them seeming pretty nice and will fight each other in the wild with or without humans involved. This theory is backed up by later movies, usually from Legendary pokemon. So I guess one day some people were like, hey lets make this a sport.The Ugly Luckily nothing in this movie is ugly, future films won't be so lucky...looking at you Movie 9....Overall this movie is a must watch for anyone that has ever played Pokemon, watch the anime, or even seen a card. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Not for everyone - but of course for some!","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Following the original Pokemon (Pocket monsters) series, this film has the same group, familiar to some, Ash, Misty, Brock and their pokemon. This animated film is good for pokemon fans and people who are interested in anime.Personal rating for all of the qualities of the film and whyMessages 9/10, probably the best part of the film, but maybe not for everyone. There are messages here that not only transform the characters but transform the viewers. Most of the messages are what most people do not know.Pokemon 8/10, the pokemon used in this film are well-picked, the main one of course is Mewtwo, which is an amazing but evil pokemon (in this anyway).Characters 7 and a half out of 10, all of the original characters from the pokemon series are very similar as they were before, which is good. The new characters can be loved or loathed in good ways, which makes them good characters.Humour 7/10, here is quite a lot of humour in this film which is good, otherwise it would be pretty boring. Most of the gags come from team rocket and luckily aren't too slapsticky. Plot 7/10, it is an unusual but followable plot, with excitement and danger added when necessary. Some of the plot has quite a lot of fighting, which spoils both the plot and the film slightly. Songs 6/10, here there are good songs to enhance the film. Most of them are in the credits but there are two or three in the film, including a song which is well-sung and has a good message called Tell Me What We're Fighting For. Most of the songs are pretty much pop.Excitement 6/10, this film has what may be excitement for some or what may be boredom for others. If you are not gripped at all by this then you'll hardly be gripped by anything else, that is for sure.Animation 4 and a half out of 10, unfortunately the animation is a downside compared to the rest of the good qualities in this film. Even the animation in the original series is more interesting than the animation in this.Enjoy Pokemon The First Movie!7 and a half out of ten. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"12 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I first saw this movie in 1999 in the UK (i was 14 and i actually took the day off school to go see it). I am now 22 in 2007 and i still think this is one of the best films i have ever seen.I have always been a fan of Pokémon even till today, the storyline is incredible and the anime is bordering manga.I can safely say this is an incredible movie and it annoys me off that so many people have downgraded it just because it's Pokémon.Pokemon is one of the best anime series ever made to say it was primarily created for children.I am a huge fan of manga (my favourites being Akira and Ghost in the Shell), and even though Pokémon is intended for children i think it is a very good series and the animation borders manga quality.All in all, this, and every other Pokémon film are a great accomplishment to the Japanese industry and i would advise any anime fans to watch as much Pokémon as possible, if not for the storyline then just for the animation and battle sequences as they most definitely represent manga qualities.The only problem with the Pokémon movies (compared to the DBZ movies and the digimon movies) is that you kind of need to know what's going on in the series to understand all the concepts and elements of what is depicted in the movies. "},{"Title":"Overall, good movie with good morals.","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Right now, it is December 14, 2006. As of now, I am 19 years old, and writing about this movie. Me being a veteran Pokemon fan, I would say that this movie goes perfectly along with the TV series, and it has a lot of Pokemon familiar to most fans, by now that is.When I first saw this movie, I was totally blown away by it. The characters voices, especially Mewtwo's, seem to touch your mind a little bit. The action was intense throughout the film, didn't let up until the end. The ending, in my opinion, was just right in order to pickup to the sequel, Mewtwo Returns. But, if you just want to see the first, and not the sequel,the ending is almost apropos to human nature. I mean, come on, if you experienced all that horror, would you want to remember it? Human nature would have to say no. "},{"Title":"Reminds me of the good old days, could have been better but still very good.","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Looking back to years gone by, well 6 years now when i used to love Pokemon at the age of 10, like 99% of 10 year olds at the time. I had the cards, the games you name it i had it but the one thing from it i never got was the movies, i saw the first one in the cinema once but that was about it. So too see it again 6 years on after reviewing classic films, not so classic films etc i think it put me in good stead to judge it, starting with pikachu's vacation. The only thing I can really say about this little pre-movie is that it is nothing more than something with a moral as had this been the standard for the movie all the way through i would of sent the DVD back, also i feel a few of the characters are mixed up such as ash having a pidgeotto after i thought he left it many months before, aside from that its not really watchable unless you are about 4, thankfully though the movie is a very different story.With Mewtwo the clone of Mew being created it added an obvious hint that the film wasn't going to be childish like pikachus vacation. The plot is not fantastic but it rarely is, besides from that it still has that Pokemon feel about it. Mewtwo really was the star of the show in this one with a commanding voice which flowed well with the movie. At times the movie can be quite predictable but considering it was mostly aimed at children it hasn't done badly at all. The character of mew is as my sister put it ''cute'' with the windmill scene and is often amusing.Pokemon had possibly one of the biggest ever franchises to create a film from, i don't feel they most the most of it however the film was very good and absolutely fantastic in very short bursts. Some say the franchise died after this supposedly disappointing film however i believe for its target audience it was extremely well done. In terms of being the best of how ever many they have made, i would say not quite as the 3rd one surpasses it in every way but to finalise I believe if you used to love Pokemon in younger years and want to experience what it felt like, if only for a while,watching this isn't a bad way to start. "},{"Title":"The Light! Migawd, the light!","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This isn't film-making - this is coloring. In big bright pastel colors. Devoid of plot, character, humor or even style. It is unrelentingly loud, blinding and interminably boring.When I took my kids to see it, a woman in the row behind took a cell phone call. While normally I disdain such behavior, I found the one-sided cell phone conversation more interesting than the film. This despite the fact that the woman on the phone was speaking in Polish and I don't understand a word of Polish. "},{"Title":"good enough","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  i thought this movie was good and i also know that some people think that this movie is horroble, well, i think that this movie is great, and i also know some people about 16 i think, and they liked it a lot, well if you have nothing to do and wants to watch a good cartoon movie you have nothing to loose by watching it. "}{"Title":"A Brilliant picture!","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I admit that I am a Pokemon fan (But I just watch the TV show, I don't care about the game). This film is an excellent one and even if the critics don't like, I have to argue that the film has something for adults as well. The pre-credit sequence showing Mewtwo's birth is very chilling, as is the final battle between Mew and Mewtwo. The music complements the action very well.  The voices are all done well. The best performance is definately Philip Bartlett as Mewtwo. He makes the character both menacing and sympathetic, as he was meant to be. I missed Pokemon the Movie 2000 in the cinema, but I certainly hope it was as good as this one. "},{"Title":"Very well make cartoon","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This cartoon is absolutely fabulous. The effects and pictures and simply are eye-catching.The tune and music spice up the movie which make Pokemon as one of the most enjoyable cartoon i have seen.The Pikachu's voice also sounds cute and i thought it make by computer by as i found out, a human fill the voice. "},{"Title":"Pokemon, age 2 to 13 and extreme anime fans.","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is a kids movie, but the whole family can go at the very least. (if you can endure a little pain, as this film is no where nears the class of Shakespeare)  I enjoyed this film. It is Pokemon, from Nintendo, seen on TV every day, and boring to some while exciting to others, other then that there is nothing special about it, and even Pokemon is not extremely that special, so don't expect great things.If you want to know what it is about watch a few of the shows.  It is not anime at it's finest but it can be classified as poor anime, so if you got to have more anime this is the movie, and If you liked movies like Care Bears (Assuming you still like it) this movie is PERFECT.  Same EXACT story as Care Bears from beginning to end.  I won't spoil it but the words are exactly stole from Care Bears (not that that is so bad, it gives for a good laugh for adults as you remember Care Bears , and easy to follow plots for the kids).  (and the Care Bears evolved the same approximate way)As I said liked the movie, but this is not for all the people, but if you are tired of pornographic content, Blood, and Swearing this movie is perfect as the only bad content is the Violence of the Pokemon monsters fighting, which is quite cute, but don't get mad if your kids are pitting your dog and cat against each other, (By The Way if they fight send me a video I would love to see that)That is a quick and easy synopsis of a simplistic movie. But for a quick Review... You will like this movie if you are under the age of 13, or you pine for cuteness, or you loved CARE BEARS or you just love animation. You will hate this movie if you want extreme violence, nudity, or stronger language then the word KILL, you will also hate this movie if you hate cartoons (You evil people) hate cuteness, or are a die hard PETA person (they show a lot of cartoon animals hurt and also all the animals are controlled by the Trainers.  )Thank you. "},{"Title":"Effective soundtrack, but lacks dramatic tension-even for Pokemon. **1/2 out of ****.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  POKÉMON THE FIRST MOVIE MEWTWO STRIKES BACK / (1999) **1/2Starring the voices of Veronica Taylor, Rachael Lillis, Eric Stuart, Philip Bartlet, and Addie Blaustien. Directed by Michael Haigney and Kunohiko Yuyama. Written by Norman J. Grossfeld. Running time 75 minutes. Rated G.Pokémon The First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back is the first feature film from the Japanese Anime cartoons called Pokémon. These Pokémon, or pocket monsters, are the latest craze across the United States, coming as electronic games, playing cards, action figures, collectible figurines, television programs, and now movies. If you are a big fan of  Pokémon, and desire to become a master trainer with your special Pokéballs, then Pokémon The First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back is the perfect motion picture for you. Otherwise, this is a movie in which parents may drop their kids off.A little background on Pokémon There are 150 little creatures who battle each other, the victor earning their trainer merit badges. Such trainers are preteen friends Ash Ketchum, Misty, and Brock. Team Rocket, the villains, want to steal one of Ash&#146;s most powerful Pokémon, Pikachu. Members of the team are Jesse, James, and their boss, Giovanni.Pokémon The First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back tells the story of scientists who clone DNA from the worlds most powerful Pokémon, Mew, creating one even more powerful called Mewtwo. This Pokémon is angry his purpose for existence is to be studied and breaks out of captivity planning to rule the world with his phenomenal cosmic powers. The earth&#146;s only hope is Ash Ketchum!In Pokémon The First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back there is found a variety of children&#146;s favorite Pokémon, such as Pikachu, Meowth, Togepi, Onix, Ninetales, Mewtwo, Charizard, Zubat, Mew, Wheezing, Arbok, Charmander, Psyduck, Magicarp, Bulbasaur and many more. I only question how we are to follow these character&#146;s intentions when only their names are spoken. In the animated short story proceeding the movie, Pikachu&#146;s Vacation, I did not understand anything of what the Pokémon were attempting to accomplish.What little plot the film contains seems a bit complicated for its target age audience. The movie resembles another segment in the cartoon series, never developing its characters. The only refined character here the Pokémon Mewtwo. We learn of his motives and confusion as a creation. Even he is flawed, however, because his powers are so great other Pokémon offer no competition in battles. This leads to the movie&#146;s lack of creditable tension.Some of the action scenes do work well and contain enhancing chemistry. Pokémon fans will surely be enticed by the picture&#146;s excitement, but others not familiar to the genre must take what the movie has to offer at face value. The animation is true to its original Anime style, not Disney quality, but still is satisfactory. The closing twenty minutes are intriguing, propelling us into a contrived but well-structured conclusion.Why are so many popular music artists contributing their talents to this movie? The soundtrack is excellent, provoking interest and inspiration. However, the music is too good for the film as a whole. Pokémon is simply not worthy of names like Christina Aguilera, Britney Spears, NSYNC, 98°, and Vitamin C.Pokémon The First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back offers many moral messages for children to follow and conform. Yet there are so many ethical themes pounded at the audience about the indecency of fighting, the importance of friendship, the meaning of love, and the advantages of teamwork, we can almost identify them as clichés instead of standards. With another Pokémon movie scheduled for release this summer, audiences can expect to see similar elements to be demonstrated in times to come.Pokémon The First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back is brought to you by Warner Bros.  "},{"Title":"Has it's moments but is ultimately weakened by silly moments, ill matched tone and poor characters","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When a group of scientists are offered funding into genetic research if they agree to try and clone the greatest ever pokèmon, Mew, the end result is success and Mewtwo is born.  However Mew is bitter about his purpose in life and kills his masters.  In order to become the greatest he throws open a challenge to the world to battle him and his pokèmon.  Ash and his friends are one of the few groups of trainers who pass the first test and prepare for battle.  However they soon find out about further cloning and Mew 2's ultimate plan for the earth.Of course I assumed I was going to hate it!  That's why I felt it was only fair to make my own decision based on actually seeing it myself.  I have never really given the show much time but I don't feel like this was a barrier to the film, apart from not knowing all the names of the pokèmon. The film starts surprisingly well, with a very dark tone and some deep issues from the point of view of Mewtwo.  However once the films moves to Ash and Pikachu the tone changes and, although it has moments, it never gets the original dark tone of the opening.  The result is a very mixed film which has far too many light touches or cute moments which overshadow the darker issues around Mewtwo's creation and inner rage.  The violence within him was interesting but sadly whatever spark of adult subtext might have been present is snuffed out by the kiddie feel good moments and comic touches.Some of the film is actually quite good but only the darker stuff.  The film's climax could have actually been a little moving IF the actual message (`fighting is bad') wasn't so contrary to the concept of these `pocket monsters'.  I quite liked the animation, it has the feel of anime without actually having the quality and imagination of what we have come to expect from that genre.The biggest weakness next to the uneven tone is the lack of characters. Mew 2 was genuinely complex and was the most interesting part of the film, however the main and supporting characters are really paper thin. Whether it be `heroic boy' or `clowning baddies' or `cute monsters' or `tough monsters' none of them are ever taken beyond the tagline point.  I had hoped that the film would recognise this but instead it has everyone just doing the basic stuff and none of the characters actually grew as a result of having a movie to expand into.  Of course I'm reading too much into it and most kids will be happy with this, but I expect a kids film to at least recognise that most kids will be taken to see the film by adults and therefore it would be a good idea to expand it where possible.Overall I didn't feel like I'd wasted my time watching this as it had a few good moments and the character of Mewtwo was interesting enough to keep me watching.  Sadly it is of uneven tone and is defeated by silly moments and a total lack of character - either in the humans, who aren't portrayed as `people' and the pokèmon, who just make noises and come across as marketing materials rather than characters that I should have any involvement with. Not as bad as everyone says but more frustrating as it occasionally shows potential before blowing it. "},{"Title":"Not for all tastes","Date":"19 March 2000","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon has never been my cup of tea, but one thing it has never been is un-original.  True all the children's elements are here, which is good, but this film is not for thrill seeking movie goers and especially parents.  But at least the film has some redeeming value (unlike the show, which is usually just worthless garble).  The movie is entertaining in some points and it teaches kids a few points.  Which is good because the anime in this movie is probably the worst of it's kind (and I'm an anime lover) and not for people who are looking for in depth character studies.  But if your looking for a over-rated match between 2 human like creatures with weird animals fighting in the process (with a message at the end that fighting is wrong) this film is for you.  "},{"Title":"A++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  PokemonThe First Movie is defineitly a movie for both the kids & the adults. A lot of fun. You will wanna watch it over & over & over till you wanna go to bed. One of the best Family Films ever made, but wait till you how good PokemonThe Movie 2000 "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I don't get it. Why do kids sit in front of their TV's and watch this stuff?! And why is it that I had to sit through this with my 4 year old cousin? Why???This movie, in my opinion, doesn't even do the mediocre show justice at all. No tounge-in-cheek jokes, not a really good soundtrack, no really good action scenes, nothing of that. And all of the above listed is in DigimonThe Movie, which is worth more money than this.ConclusionIf you are the most Hardcore Pokefanatic (and what kid ISN'T), then get this. If not, stay away. If you want more modernized anime, get DigimonThe Movie instead. Hands down, it's the better buy. "},{"Title":"stupidist","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Talk about a dumb dumb movie. Really stupid. You couldn't even understand half of what was said in this movie.My five year old nephew wanted to see it, so i took him, of course he liked it, but i thought it had to be the worse cartoon movie of all times. I give this movie 0/10. Horrible movie. I can't believe they made 2 more movies.  "},{"Title":"good","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  this film is good for anyone. Trust me. not that this film is the best ever, but it is not one of the worst animation movies ever. It's the best (one of them), and the best Pokemon movie yet. Note You Pokemon haters may not like this, obviously, but if you don't know, come and see this.P.S. Whoever came up with the ending is a genius, as it is unpredictable. "}{"Title":"Pokémon the First Movie Fun or Flop?","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Being the really big Pokémaniac (as we're called in the Pokémon World) that I was, I was more immensely excited when I heard the very first Pokémon movie was coming out - yep the very first day, first session - Pokémon The First Movie, 9.30am, December 16th, 1999 - I was there. Watching it.But... I was a bit let down.It starts with the 20-or-so minutes of 'Pikachu's Vacation' - harmless fun it may seem, but after a while you get sick of hearing 'Pika pika' and Charizard's grunting all the time. But surely, the best was yet to come, right?Well I must admit - the actual movie-movie 'Mewtwo Strikes Back' was a lot better than the pre-movie diversion, but even then it didn't seem that fantastic. It's basically just another episode of the hit TV series, that's been dragged out over an hour and a half.Okay, so the special effects were spectacular and amazing and 'wow', but the film just did not fit into my #1-favorite-film-of-all-time slot, despite my best attempts to keep an open mind throughout the movie, saying the best bits will come...However, one of the best scenes is at the end - it's very sad and touching (although you'd never admit it - imagine telling someone that you were on the verge of tears of some over-sized Japanese beast?).What I don't get is all these people who complain that 'Pokémon' is a c**p anime in terms of other Japanese shows, but let's think about this. Hmmmm... maybe Pokémon?? I mean, it's a damn sight for successful than any other anime, with a world-wide following!! The rest suck.But anyway, getting back to the movie...On the plus side though, we get to see some brand new Pokémon, and the soundtrack goes off! From Britney, Christina and Vitamin C to *N Sync, 98 Degrees and the Midnight Sons - this CD has it all; the best song? The very slick M2M song (and theme tune) 'Don't Say You Love Me'.It's a good movie - but I'd put the following restriction on it R3-13! Anyone older than this, should probably avoid it. "},{"Title":"Why did THIS anime have to be the one to become popular?","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Sadly, the wonderful art of Japanese animation has been stereotyped by the Pokemon craze. Other anime films, and even TV series, have complex plots and themes, and often have animation quality that comes close to Disney in terms of detail and fluidity. However, Pokemon is one of the worst examples of the genre. First off, it markets itself too excessively...other anime, such as some mecha shows, rely a little bit on merchandising, but Pokemon goes way too far. As for this movie, it suffers from oversimplification and talking heads. While this is OK for a TV series, it's not OK for a motion picture. The only real saving grace of the film is the villain, who's dialogue at least consists of more than a variation on his name. Otherwise, you've got those meddling kids. Contrary to what people have been writing in these user comments, a lot of anime fans HATE Pokemon. Trust me-it's giving the genre a bad name.For decent anime, I would recommend any of the Hayao Miyazaki or Mamoro Osshi films, and if you're not looking for self-contained feature films, try watching stuff like try checking out the Gundam and Tenchi series on television, or some of the stuff by Studio Gainax(Wings of Hommenaise, Neon Genesis Evangelion), Sunrise(Cowboy Bebop, Blue Submarine No.6) or Xebec(Trigun, Nadesico). "},{"Title":"Don't Know Why I Saw It.","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am not a fan of Pokemon at all, so I have no idea whatsoever why I took my value film time watching this hunk of crap. It is a boring animated movie that is not clever, entertaining, funny, fantastic or excellent in anyway. I wasted over 1 hour watching this film, and I had much better things to do.For Pokemon fans, this movie will simply be brilliant, but for the rest of you out there, I advise you not to see this.Rating 3 "},{"Title":"A TERRIFIC musical score!","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is an addition to my earlier comment.  In that comment, I said that Mewtwo was what made the movie work for me.  Actually, it was Mewtwo and something else, and I could kick myself for not mentioning it before.  The musical SCORE (not the songs) by Ralph Schuckett and John Loeffler is MAGNIFICENT!! In fact, it took the release of the score on CD (from Koch Records) for me to realize just how good it is.  From the haunting English horn passage at the beginning to the high-flying Dragonite Takes Flight to the terrific action cues to the sad Tears of Life, this score nails all of the emotion and excitement of the film and can stand perfectly on its own.  A must-have!! "},{"Title":"Rip-Off, thy name is Pokemon","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Oh, come on people. This isn't anime. Ghost in the Shell was anime. Vampire Hunter D was anime. Akira was excellent anime. This is just poorly drawn crap. The characters have three mouth movement still, regular, and a poorly drawn mouth that fill the entire face. The main character, Ash, is just a whiny loser who, of course, is the only person who will ever become a Pokemon master, even though he expresses his anger and determination of a match by......turning his hat backwards. How utterly idiotic is that?I remember a time when a kids movie was a movie that kids could understand and enjoy, but adults could get a pleasure out of watching, ie Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory, Hook, Young Frankenstien and Mrs. DoubtfireOver the years, studios increasingly made kid movies that spoke to everyone at a two year old level, ie The NeverEnding Story 3, Stuart Little, and Disney's own HerculesWhile I, at first, ignored but did not mind Pokemon, it quickly grew on my nerves. When I got dragged to the movie by my brother (as punishment for my lousy grades on my report card), I sat down, prepared to go to sleep for an hour and a half. Boy, was I wrong.The plot sucked. Nuff said. But I found many things that ripped off other, more enjoyable movies. Here are a few1)The plot is a Frakenstien parable A creature is created, it goes nuts and kills everything it gets near. It's never explained why it was created, nor was it explained how they amplified its power.2)This is one thing that infuriated me from the begining of the show (which is the worst thing I've ever seen)- The Pokeball. If you look hard enough at the simulatrities, you'll see they got the idea directly from the Ghostbusters ghost trap- right down to the blinking red light.All in all, this film was a waste of time and money. The fact that they're making a sequel less than a year after the first one is a guaruntee that it will be even worse than this one.Stars 0 out of 6 (idiotic sludge) "},{"Title":"Kids Must See, Parents Must Avoid","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This Movie is incredibly bad, but any kid even remotely interested in Pokemon will have to see it.  My suggestion to parents is that you rope one of your friends into taking your kids to see it so that you won't have to suffer through it.  Or better yet you could elect one parent from your neighborhood to take all the kids to see it at once and get it over with. "},{"Title":"This Movie Sucks","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm going to say this as nicely as possible so as not to hurt all the little childrens' feelings....THIS IS THE WORST MOVIE EVER.  And I have seen Baby Geniuses.  If that doesn't tell you something, nothing does.  And what the hell are you people doing giving this movie 10 stars?  At the time of this writing, less than 200 votes have been tallied and POKeMON already has 36! 10 votes!  I must say, you people are losing respect every minute.  What happened to all the film fans? "},{"Title":"An absolute torturefest","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Parents, when you take your kids to see this film, be warned. They may enjoy it, but for you it might be a real torturefest. I saw an advance screening of the film and it was pure torture. It starts off with a cartoon short called Pikachu's vacation (Although I wouldn't actually call it short because it ran 22 minutes). Then the movie came on which ran about 76 minutes. It involves a pokemon named Mewtwo which wants to take over the world with his biologically engineered super-Pokemon. Parents, be prepared to answer your kids about what DNA is because that term is used heavily throughout the film. Parts of this film seemed like a science documentary. The ending is very corny and the whole movie itself was not worth it at all. "},{"Title":"Should have been called What the hell mon?","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Anime is usually pretty cool. This is a rare exception though. Pokemon has been well-established as a franchise with cartoons, toys, movies, made-for-TV movies and made for direct-to-DVD movies as understandable only by children. I was briefly involved in the craze for a couple months before I realized the story had nowhere to go. The movie is basically the same. Young Ash and his buddies are invited by the pokemon Mewtwo to a tournament to fight other Pokemon. On the way there are really, really awful jokes about vikings and inane fight scenes. I gotta tell you something funny, I actually saw this movie in the theater back in 1999, and I remember kids being so bored they constantly got up to go get snacks during the most exciting parts of the movie. During the so called finale where clones of the pokemon fight each other I'm totally confused. The pokemon trainers come to a startling conclusion Fighting is bad(Keep this in mind for later). Then Ash wants to stop the fighting so he runs between two of the pokemon and gets turned to stone. Then the pokemon cry and the tears turn Ash back to normal... WHAT?! You're kidding me. This movie is trying to teach the lesson that if you cry hard enough your loved ones will come back!? Bull! Then finally at the end the memory of Ash and everyone else is erased so the lesson that fighting is bad is basically gone. Isn't this pretty hypocritical? I mean first they acknowledge that fighting is bad, and then they go back to fighting because they have no problem with exploiting these poor creatures. Ironic, and hypocritical. I mean there's no story! It's just about Pokemon fighting and everything learned is erased by your stereotypical deus ex machina. I would expect that lazy plot device in an episode of the show, not a full length movie. Once again, for a kid's movie this is terrible. "},{"Title":"completely retarded!","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  What the hell kind of movie is this?  Are there any decent films to show kids these days?Pokemon The First Movie is not better than a standard episode of the TV show.  As usual for cheap, hokey, Japanese animation, the dialog is dumb, the animation minimalistic (relying too much on looping, pans, and freezeframes), and the characters all look like freakshow drop-outs.  Why is it that everyone stops every sentence with huh??? in these cartoons? On a plus note, the ending battle (featuring some shamelessly out-of-place obnoxious 80's light rock music) has Pikachu getting repeatedly bitch-slapped by his clone...  There's just too many heavyhanded messages which just serve to confuse more than anything.  This is probably the type of film which has lead to declining SAT scores in America... I doubt any kids who watch this will escape without significant brain damage.As if the Pokemon people don't have enough American dollars as it is, they have to rake it in with this 70 minute commercial... avoid. "}{"Title":"Uhhhh....","Date":"23 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"        First of all, I'm not a Pokemon fan.  I rented this movie one day because I was frightfully bored.  Now, the movie itself was not ALL THAT BAD.  Sure, the dialogue sucks, the characters suck and you could care less if Ash suddenly blows up, but the movie did have a few redeeming qualities.        The animated short, Pikachu's Vacation was not one of them.  The short was nearly UNBEARABLE, as it was all in Pokemon Jive Talk.  It was so excruciating I nearly fast forwarded to the movie.        Now the movie itself was ALMOST average.  I didn't care for any character except maybe Mewtwo, who was the only one somewhat developed.  The movie does have a good message, but they almost state it directly.  The final battle was almost exciting, but other than that, this movie is for the Pokemon fans.   3/10 "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was incredibly funny because of how lame and just silly it was. Morals were thrown in just to make the parents happy. It had somewhat of a plot, so I gave it a rating of 3/10, which it certainly did not deserve, a rating that high. It is possessing the kids, and the whole movie is nothing but a big ad for Pokemon. I don't understand what kids see in this lame stuff.Overall this movie was incredibly boring, the dialogue was poor, and the animation was a pitiful imitation of Japanese anime. The story was there, I'll admit, but barely. I don't even see why this movie had an average rating that high.Do NOT see the Pokemon movie! It is a complete waste of money and time. "},{"Title":"Dark version of TV series","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The show is usually light and fun with slapstick humor, Poke fights and a bit of Japanese style cartoon drama. This film, however, is more typical of Japanese anime intended for teens or young adult males as the main villian, MewTwo, is an angry mutated psychic clone bent on world destruction. The film starts with the complete destruction of an island of evil scientists by MewTwo and ends with a Poke battle that more resembles a violent WWF free-for-all then the usual fantasy battles on the TV Show. There's also a lot less of the silly wordplay and slapstick of the show. The kids I took were happy to see it but they really like the show better. The short before the film is a throwaway that seems to have been originally intended for very young audiences on TV. It's odd how this release misses the intended age group both ways. "},{"Title":"Dang. Overlooked By the Academy AGAIN!","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"   Pokemon the First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back is not exactly low 100 material for IMDb, but it is pretty bad. I guess kids would like it if they like the show, but you'd have to be a pretty die hard fan. I guess that's why it's on the low 100. No plot, no good characters, no interesting parts. Well, maybe some original parts, but nothing great. I think what really ruined this film was that awful Pika-Pika-whatever intro about some lightning creature and a bunch of Pokemen/mon. Otherwise, I feel this film would have an average rating of 4 instead of 3.3.1.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"An excellent film","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This film is probably one of the best movies I've ever seen. I've seen other film greats like Gone With the Wind and Citizen Kane, but this movie is probably better than them.I first saw it last March, and I grew to like it so much that I saw it 14 more times before year's end.The best part of this film is probably the music. It fits nicely with the themes. I was extremely disappointed at the English version's music.Kaze No Issho Ni, the film's ending song, is now my favorite song. It's heartwarming and can even bring tears to your eyes.If you're a Pokemon fan, you should definetely check this movie out. "},{"Title":"You know, I didn't *quite* hate it.","Date":"20 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The opening uber-kiddie cartoon was horribly painful, but in a sort of masochistic way it was fun. I imagine that a horrific torture might be watching the uber-kiddie cartoon over and over without stop.The rest of the movie wasn't quite totally and completely horrid. It felt like someone had an OK plot, but was forced to graft it onto a crappy Pokemon format. Pokemon is just a slight step up from Teletubbies. I'm not anti-Anime, just opposed to crappy anime.The movie works best in the parts where it feels least like an episode of Pokemon. This might have been a decent movie if the author could have sold the idea to someone other than Pokemon.  "},{"Title":"The First and Unfortunately Not the Last Pokemon Film.","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon The First Movie (1998) Dir Michael Haigney, Kunihiko Yuyama / Voices Veronica Taylor, Philip Bartlett, Rachael Lillis, Eric Stuart, Ikue Otani One of the worst films ever made that is directed at children. It is a mindless and shameless piece of trash aimed at kids about a bunch of colourful little monsters contained in tiny spheres let loose by their human owner for no other purpose other than to fight. They speak some sort of gibberish as if constipated, and their human owners are so poorly animated that they lack expression. It is directed by two individuals because two people can make a movie twice as pathetic as one can. Story one involves a vacation and story two regards the world's strongest Pokemon. Of course, he cannot be controlled and he attempts to vanquish the world using Pokemon clones. Do we care about this nonsense? It lacks not only the depth of a superior animation such as The Prince of Egypt but also the animated quality. Instead it exploits violence as fun. It is always a laugh when these conservatives issue attacks on R rated films yet they will be quick to overlook the absurdity in Pokemon as entertainment fit for children. Ikue Otani can be credited for providing the noise of this pathetic creature. It is a film for no apparent reason other than to cash in on the popular cartoon. Putting it in a garbage dispenser would do it justice. Score 0 / 10 "},{"Title":"Lamest. Movie. Ever.","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There are two facts I'll never understand 1. This movie grossed more than 163 million dollars. 2. This movie has a 5.7 rating.DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE. It'll be the most wasteful 1h 15m you ever spend, even if you procrastinate on a regular basis. Even if you love Pokemon, you're probably better off watching a few episodes than watching this. If you're older than 2 years of age, don't waste your time.Let me reveal the AWFUL plot of this movie. So there's Mew, the greatest Pokemon ever. Then somebody makes a clone of Mew, Mewtwo. Mewtwo tries taking over the world with the help of clones of other Pokemons. He invites Pokemon Masters like 10-year old Ash (owner of Pikachu) to take over the pokemons and make clones of them. He has the clones fight with the originals but Pikachu refuses to fight and inspires Ash to stop the fight between Mew and Mewtwo. Ash stops the fight and turns to stone, then all the Pokemons and their clones start crying and the tears somehow come over to Ash and revive him (goodness knows how). A TWO YEAR OLD COULD'VE THOUGHT SOMETHING BETTER.I still can't believe this movie grossed 163 million dollars. As for the exaggerated 5.7 rating, that's because of (1) die-hard fans who can't rate it below 10 because it's Pokemon and (2) those who give it a 7 or 8 rating thinking it was horrible, but it must be great for kids.This movie is for kids, so if you're beyond the age of about 9 I advice you stay away from it. That's not to say that I recommend it for those below 9 -- there are much better kids movies than this. "},{"Title":"This movie is failed, but not as much as people think","Date":"26 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie isn't a complete failure. People shouldn't bin it without understanding the message this movie is trying to communicate. Sure, the action isn't that spectacular, the relationships between characters is obvious and boring, but look at Mewtwo.Mewtwo is the star, not Ash. The movie shows the suffering Mewtwo faced, and what he did after escaping from it. Ash and co. are just a tool for the movie. It is Mewtwo that makes the movie what it is. This movie portrays Mewtwo's encounter with humans for the first time, its reaction when its being controlled and its actions after it escapes.Sure, Ash, Misty and Brock appear, but they are not that important in the movie. I think this movie would have been worth it if Ash and his friends were replaced with characters that didn't just stand there like a 3-year old. I would give this 4/10 because of Mewtwo, nothing else. "},{"Title":"Could have been better...","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Pokemon The First Movie wasn't bad. But it wasn't great. It was merely OK. Personally, I cannot see how this movie inspired several sequels - it wasn't that great and the plot was a bit simple and uninspired, even if it had a dark feel and had a far more epic scope than the cartoon series - hugely climactic battles at a stadium and massive storms at sea combined both of these aspects to give the film a more cinematic feel that would work better in cinemas than just a standard episode. But the film just does not feel inspired. Mewtwo may have been quite an effective villain and he was sure someone who you really grew to hate (or should I refer to Mewtwo as an it? I don't know), but there was something slightly sterile and square about him that just didn't work. And I'm fed up with the sentimentality! Tears bringing Pokemon back to life who then slaughter massive monsters may be all good and nice, but it is just so boring and will make people take the rip. The score wasn't that great either, and Misty and everyone else except Ash and Pikachu were just kind of sitting on the sidelines watching the action instead of doing much. This film was short and action-packed enough to ensure a very small number of people walked out on it, but it should have been far more intelligent and less predictable to be called something truly special. 5/10 "}{"Title":"Pokémon","Date":"26 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Although I'm not a Pokémon fan anymore, I won't deny that I didn't like this film when it was out. I can remember crying when Ash died, I found it so sad, seeing little Pikachu trying to wake him up. I was only seven at the time, and I absolutely adored the shows. I sing the theme tun to annoy my family now. I think when all the Pokémon started crying along with Pikachu to bring him back to life, was a really lovely moment. God, even Jessie, James and Meowth were crying, and they were the enemies! Mew was a cute character, and the real difference between her and Mewtwo was shown clearly, by the fact that all she could say was Mew whereas Mewtwo could speak proper English. Good story lines for the fans. I've noticed Pokemon's disappeared now too..... "},{"Title":"Wow...this movie sucked hard.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I went to go see this once because my crazy Chinese godsister insisted we go to see it. I go to the theatre and they hand me packs of Pokemon cards (some kind of promotion or something), so I took them out, screamed POKEMON!!! and threw them up in the air. Needless to say, a lot of kids were injured that day in the stamped to get the cards. Anyway, I head into the theatre. Let me tell you this about the movie...it sucked. Bad. Really bad. The plot was cheesy, I could see the ending from a mile away, the voice acting sucked, and the Pokemon talking got on my nerves, and I saw this when I was 13, for god's sake!Bottom line you're better off watching Akira or something. I don't know. "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever.  **spoilers**","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  And coming from a fan of MST3K, that's saying something for sure.All right, I haven't seen this film for a while, but I've seen it too many times in a lifetime already to want to see it again.When this film came out, Pokemania was undoubtedly at its height.  I myself couldn't help but being swallowed up by the phenomenon (or fad) I thought the games were mildly amusing, the TV show (at the least the pre-Orange Islands episodes) was enjoyable enough (not funny, but enjoyable), and (well, later on, anyway) became a huge fan of the trading card game.  Well, several weeks after it opened (hah hah, I wasn't one of the mindless Poke-addicts who lined up six months before the freakin' film was even released!  BWAHAHAHAHAHAHA!), my parents finally allowed us to see the film. And it sucked.  Big time.Don't think this was some kind of chauvinism there where lots of die-hard Poke-freaks that I knew that hated the film.  And, like I said, I DID like `Pokemon' prior to seeing this film.The film's success merely confirms the fact that the films with the biggest box office draws (save The Lion King, The Sum of All Fears and perhaps Toy Story) will be the stupidest, loudest, most overblown things you've ever seen (Pearl Harbor, anyone?).You'll probably call a racist, but I hate anime as a whole.  While admittedly I haven't seen some of the more mature stuff, most of the stuff I have seen (Sailor Moon, Monster Rancher, Card Captors, and yes, the grossly overrated Dragonball Z and its spin-offs) is pure sh*t.  I guess I'm saying that I **could** like older anime; I'm just saying, well, these shows suck.  I've seen snippets of some of the apparently more mature or real anime, though, and I've hated them just as much.  And that Daf Punk or whatever the hell those blue anime freaks are called &#150; get it away from me!Well, everyone else have given background to the plot, so I'll jump right into my scathing reviewNow, the movie, being an animated feature, obviously wasn't going to be too long.  But 55 MINUTES??????  I could've stayed home, popped in one of those Pokemon videos with three episodes on it, and had an enjoyable time, and been entertained for nearly twice as long.  To pad out the running time, however, they throw in Pikachu's Vacation, an outwardly stupid but surprisingly charming short.  It details a huge daycare full of Pokemon, and the heroes' Pokemon's (mis-)adventures.  While nothing is funny per se, it's lightly diverting and actually quite amusing &#150; though the human characters, whose faces are for some reason are never seen a la billions of other cartoons (only for the short the faces are blotted out, though), are actually much better than they are when they are seen and are the center of attention.Then there's the film.  Mewtwo Strikes Back.  Sounds like a sequel to me; why would you call the FIRST movie in a SERIES blah-blah Strikes Back? It's like calling Star Wars Episode I The Empire Strikes Back.Anyway, if the commercials weren't so obnoxiously misleading (i.e., implying and even outright SAYING that this would be the greatest Pokemon match of all time), I might have considered this a film, not an anime version of Hobgoblins (who, as one reviewer of that film rightfully claims, does NOT deserve to be called a film).The film opens with Mewtwo awakening in a laboratory, in a glass case, in a liquid (water?).  He hears voices, smashes the case, and then communicates with the scientists, who reveal that he was a genetically engineered creature.  He then proceeds to destroy the lab and slaughter all inside. Okay so far.The next ten minutes or so has Team Rocket boss Giovanni training Mewtwo via a special power suit (or whatever it was called), using some clips that actually occurred on the show (e.g. Mewtwo beating Ash's rival Gary's Nidoking and Arcanine).  Mewtwo goes native again and destroys the building in which he and Giovanni are in (though somehow Giovanni escapes).  Still presentable, though definitely below the first scene.Well, we're introduced to our main characters Ash, an annoying, selfish little ash-hole (pun intended), who wants to be a Pokemon master (-bator), and has the `star' Pokemon, the annoying-as-hell Pikachu, whose chants of Pi pika chu! grew annoying three seconds into the first episode of the show.  Everybody always says something, and Pikachu says his catch phrase, or the high-picked cha!!!  Misty is the most sensible of the bunch, though once she got that dumb@ss egg Togepi (who makes an annoying high pitched shrieking sound and, like Dill from The Rugrats, is just there to be a cute baby character whose dumb slapstick antics are supposed to be funny) her credibility was extremely stained.  She's given to quick changes of temper.  Brock is perhaps the best, but that's not saying anything; even though he's a horny perv, he's still better than all of his friends.Then, an even dumber trainer happens along, and challenges Ash to a duel. Ash easily defeats all of his Pokemon very quickly (including three at once &#150; isn't that illegal by Pokemon rules?).  Wasted in this scene is the introduction of Donphan, an elephant-like Pokemon who wasn't introduced until Pokemon Gold and Silver; Donphan just appears, and is defeated quicker than you can even realize who it is.Soon, they're invited to the home of the World's Greatest Pokemon, yadda yadda yadda, you've read how it goes from there.The final duel between Mewtwo and Mew, and the real Pokemon and the Poke clones, is horrid.  Instead of an exciting battle scene, a slow, boring pop ballad plays in the background, and Pokemon, their powers turned off, b*tch slap and push each other.  The film then makes an anti-violence message, which is completely out of place, since all Pokemon do is fight.Horrid end, with Ash somehow being turned into a rock by psychic hyper beams (shouldn't they've destroyed him?), Pikachu attempting to shock him into revival, and Pokemon Tears somehow bringing him back to life (I don't get it, either).  Stupid, happy, cop-out ending with memories being erased, et cetera, et cetera.The worst movie ever.  Period.One star.  "},{"Title":"I want to burn all prints of this piece of garbage.","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm not saying Japanese anime isn't cool, but I am saying that Poke'mon is the stupidest most worthless thing in years. I can't believe they made a movie, they must have been drunk or something. My little brother is watching this piece of trash all of the time, I can't wait till his tape wears out. I might not live that long, though. If you want Japanese anime, watch Akira. "},{"Title":"is this pokemon??","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just saw the movie, it was okay but totally not the pokemon kind a movie the tv series a much better, just the stupid humor to entertain children. this movie was a make the world a better place, oh how lovely, we are such a good friends-movie with a lot of 'action' The one thing I liked about it was the cute sounds of pikachu and mew.    -saar- (dfgizmo's sister) "},{"Title":"It's like a drug...!","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"    This is real children's stuff! The normal person (if one exists) isn't really going to know what the hell Pokémon is. You've got all these cute looking monsters with special powers and abilities and for some reason they're fighting each other. You see chances are that the normal person isn't really going to care. The film is based on the ever so popular TV series&#133; and that TV series is based on the ever so popular video game! And that usually means 'adults beware'!  The film is about Pokémon (of course), which translates as 'Pocket Monsters'. The main character is a Pokémon trainer by the name of Ash. He and his friends Brock, Misty and his loveably cute Pikachu accept a challenge to face off a rare evil Pokémon by the name of Mewtwo. Mewtwo is an experimental Pokémon that was genetically created by scientists. But just like Frankenstein, the experiment went berserk. So you see it's up to Ash and his friends to stop him. Now if none of this makes any sense to you then you might as well stop reading and forget about the film. It'll be probably be as complicated than an Alfred Hitchcock film!  Now to be honest, I actually quite like the TV series. It's enjoyable and funny. But the film is a very poor effort. There is a nice link between the TV series and the film that sheds some light on a few things, but it's only worth watching for that reason. Oh, and for the 'blink and you'll miss it scene' when a Tentacruel hugs Team Rocket! Also the animation isn't really anything ground breaking. There are a few noticeable touches but it isn't really that different from the TV show.  One great thing though was the villain Mewtwo! Now he was a proper bad guy. But this being a children's cartoon means you've got one of those violence is wrong messages and unfortunately there's also one of those dreamy endings. It's all highly predictable, simple and to put it straight, not very good.  Before the film there is the horrifically cute short titled 'Pikachu's Vacation'. It shows all of Ash's Pokémon basically having fun and are talking in their own way (as most Pokémon can only say their name). Subtitles might have been a benefit for the parents that were dragged to watch this. Why this precedes the film is quite a mystery, though I can only suggest that it's because the film itself is too short.  It may be awful but it's going to do very well and make a stack load of money mainly due to the incredible hype and a clever marketing campaign about collecting rare trading cards. In fact because of the success of this film, two sequels are on the way. Kids are going to love it! Parents aren't going to understand it! The wise one is going to stay away from it!My Rating - 4 out of 10 "},{"Title":"You liked WHAT?","Date":"8 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now first off I'm going to say I am probably the only adult that likes this Pokemon movie, I'm 32. while I'm not going to say it was the best Anime I've ever seen, it has it's moments and I've seen a lot of Anime too, and this one is a good one for the kiddies. I've read the comments of all the people that bad mouthed this movie for no real reason other than just to be mean.If you people think this movie was so bad you'd really hate to hear what I thought about saving private ryan.I guess Anime should only be for Anime fans.  "},{"Title":"An average movie--a little gloomy in spots, but a good showcase for those Pokemon characters.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie was everything I expected and, unfortunately for some, more. After watching the TV series with my daughter who is hooked on Pokemon, I knew basically what to expect, and there are few surprises in the way the movie develops.  It's cute, and fun--but parts of it are a little dark.  In our theatre several people with young kids walked out, and I suspect it's because the movie might be disturbing to young kids. (it's target audience??) Still, in total, it's good typical Pokemon entertainment with less inspired animation than we are used to from, say Disney, but definitely worth 6.00 if you're already a Pokemon fan or if you want to see what all the long lines (at the toy stores) are about. "},{"Title":"Choose Something Else","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This highly disappointing big-screen bow for the animated television series Pokemon does a great disservice to the Pokemon franchise. The television series is fun, funny and highly entertaining. This film is dull, dark, unimaginative and hypocritical. My advice is to go to the local video store and rent some of the TV episodes. Your kids will thank you for it, and you'll see what Pokemon is really about. "},{"Title":"Great place for kids to exchange cards","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Before the movie, I was surprised to see kids 5-16 running around the theater hunting for anybody to exchange cards. The movie appears to have created a forum for their favorite activity.Pikachu vacation really was boring for me, but then, I'm an adult and don't have the fascination. I was there to take my 6 year old to see it. He was totally fascinated and loved it.I am not quite sure what to think of the fighting involving all pokemon. Even though, the end of the movie indicated that fighting outside competition is bad, the entire concept seems to be for masters to battle each other through their POKEMON.For the audience appeal and satisfaction (mostly pre-teens), it was a very good movie. But for any adult, I pity them when they take their children to see it. "}{"Title":"Great movie . . . until the end.","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  First of all I would like to say that Pikachu's Vacation sucked hardcore. It was stupid, had no story, and was only put there so that the real movie, when it came on a half hour later, would feel longer than it really was. Next came the movie and I was surprised.  It was quite enjoyable.  Mewtwo was blowin people up left and right and the Pokemon Theme remix was also cool.  But then the ending . . . it was horrible.  I half expected all of the Pokemon to hold hands in a circle and sing the Barney song . . . it was that bad.I'm sorry if I have given away any of the movie, but I felt it was only fair to warn you.  Only about one hour of the movie is good and thats the middle part.  The first 30 min. (Pikachu's Vacation), and the last 30 min. (The loss of Mewtwo's wevos) were just disappointing.  If you are a Pokemon fan and want to see the movie go right ahead, it will humor you.  But if you haven't watched it before and want to get a taste of what it is, watch the TV show instead.  It is much better than the movie. "},{"Title":"Is this really Pokemon or like Mewtwo, a clone of itself?","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is a kid's movie?Sure, Pokemon The First Movie contains those cute Pokemon, familiar characters such as Ash and Team Rocket, and the usual moral, in this instance Don't fight/celebrate the similarities within each other, just in time for the holidays. But there is one scene, where Ash intervenes between Mewtwo and Mew, and he turns to stone (don't worry, Ash gets revived by the tears of the Pokemon around him.)  But for a few traumatic moments, with Pikachu valiantly trying to revive him, you could hear and see the children crying around me.This is a Pokemon movie?Sure, PTFM contains those cute Pokemon and familiar characters such as Ash and Team Rocket. But what is Team Rocket's purpose in this movie? If their few scenes were cut out, they wouldn't be missed. Ditto (no pun intended) for the new Pokemon, Donphan, Snubbull and Marill- Donphan appears only in the opening scenes for the obligatory explanation for the uninformed of what Pokemon are and why they battle each other.This is a hit?Think of PTFM an extension of the animated series, and one won't be disappointed. There's lots of screen time for that irrepressible Pikachu, and the classic storyline of good versus evil. Supporting characters Brock and Misty have enough to do without making them feel overused or unwanted. However, PTFM left me wanting more. After leaving the theater, I couldn't recall any of the soundtrack, aside from a jazzed-up version of the Pokemon theme, and I felt that there could have been more to the plot other than the heavy-handed lesson which was actually spoken by the characters, rather than suggested by their actions.As indicated by its title, Pokemon The First Movie is that, a gracious attempt at testing the waters in bringing Pokemon to the big screen. Let's hope its successors fare better.  "},{"Title":"Pretty bland","Date":"10 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Scientists clone the rarest Pokemon, Mew, into Mewtwo, an almost omnipotent creature who becomes the first non-human Pokemon master.  With his army of Pokemon clones, he tries to take over the world.  There are a few amusing bits, but the final anti-violence message is so cloyingly heavy handed, the animation so dull, and the characterization so lifeless (the humans and the non-verbal Pokemon have about the same level of depth) that this makes you realize why Disney is the king of animated fare.  Very little for non-fans or any adults to enjoy. "},{"Title":"Rubbish film","Date":"27 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Absolutely terrible film. Ghastly, horrid. This is a disgrace to Pokémon and is not similar to the original show. Ash dies in it and is brought back to life in a stupid and cheesy scene. Nobody should be brought back to life in a film, I accept that they don't have to be realistic but this is pushing it, and essentially giving children a wrong message. This movie is also much too scary and it is boring. The whole spirit of the Pokémon show simply isn't in it. Not to mention that the special effects are bad. I have given it the lowest rating on here that I can. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. "},{"Title":"A good movie made bad","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" When the first Pokemon Movie was released in Japan, it was an absolute hit. People loved it. When it came to America, thousands saw it and immediately thought it was great. However, upon comparison, the American version (or dub) is horrible. The dub has an anti-fighting kind of thing going on, which is the complete opposite of what Pokemon is. Pokemon is a game in which you have creatures fight each other. The dub also displays Mewtwo as a cold villain who wants nothing less than to take over the earth. The original Mewtwo was nothing like this. The part that I hated the most was what they did to the climax. You have a bunch of Pokémon fighting their own clones, and you play the worst song that has ever been made, Brother My Brother. A climax is defined as the most exciting part in the movie, so why put the most boring music into the climax!? Overall, the original is a very good movie. And I said original. If you must see it, see it in Japanese. The dub isn't worth spending any amount of money on. "},{"Title":"Heart-breaking, disappointing, and revolting","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Well, despite the fact that this movie makes a little bit of critic about clone and genetic manipulation, and the human limits. This movie sucks! Yeah, is not a good movie, even if Norman J Grossfeld tries to sell us the business, this movie is not a good one. Is only a piece of dead flesh, part of the Pokémon phenomenon that now is also very very very dead, but not buried yet. This movie is a living corpse, a zombie with the only intention of infect other people and turn into poke fans. I am being hard, yeah, I was a poke fan, and not very proud of it. Pokemon the first movie talks by itself. It's a cloned product, made in the free time of the company just to make it look so damn silly and cheese that at the 20 minutes of movie you go like Mewtwo. What the hell am I doing here? And then later, more questions. Who am I? I did the same question to myself, for a moment I felt like a child, then turn into a 40 year old guy, then back to my 14 when I saw the movie. OK, I went to the preview screening, it was free, that was fine. At the end of the movie, everybody cheered and clapped with elation. I didn't, I just walked my way out of the theater and went to home, to write like three pages (in my language, Spanish) about how bad-very-damn-bad this movie is. Then I went to the theaters paying money for a ticket to see if they changed something. No way! The changed nothing. So the preview screening was only to extend the Pokémon cancer more. Thank god, now is returning to it's origin. "},{"Title":"Recycled Trash","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie just plain sucked. The jokes were too stupid, and the animation is stand-still. How the hell do you get someone to turn back from a stone just by crying?! The only reason I watched it was cause my sister wanted to and she kept begging me to watch it with her... jeez I wasted an hour of my life... "},{"Title":"It didn't suck!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I happen to like Pokemon.  I'm not ashamed to admit it.  So I went ahead and rented the movie.  I enjoyed it (although the Pikachu cartoon at the beginning is ascloseasthis to being a poke-endurance test).  It deserves more credit as there are some scenes with a kind of surreal beauty that I didn't expect.  Nice. "},{"Title":"Popcorn Movie","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokémon the First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back is an interesting film, to say the least. WARNING This review contains spoilers.  I'm not familiar with the Pokémon series or the products, but as someone who likes Japanese anime, I thought it might be refreshing to watch Pokémon.  I was disappointed by the Pokémon movie because it lacks sufficient depth, plot progression, character development, or even any form of organization.  It almost assumes that all children are mindless and only appreciate psychadelic colors and strange creatures. I'll admit, as a university student, I may be a little out of touch with understanding child-oriented films, but it doesn't take much effort to realize from watching this film that Pokémon the First Movie is a complete no-brainer.  The movie is loaded with cheesy moral lessons that children are sure to ignore, and shallow in its explanation and development of the expressed moral lessons.  There is nothing wrong with using a movie as a medium for teaching morals, but instead of allowing children to discover and learn these values through their own logic, the Pokémon film simply explains everything away.  Perhaps I'm simply being nostalgic when I call for a return to kid-animation films like The Secret of NIMH and The Hobbit where the plot development, animation, soundtrack, story, and moral lessons all intersect in a non-gratuitous way that doesn't actually rot the mind away.  Even live-action children's films like CTW's Follow That Bird and Jim Henson's The Muppet Movie have more to show for in terms of intellectual development than the Pokémon film.  Pokémon the First Movie Mewtwo Strikes Back is by no means a timeless classic, and it ranks with such poor films as Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.  Perhaps the only redeeming value to Pokémon is the voice acting by Megumi Hayashibara.  If you're looking for a good anime, stay away from Pokémon.  A better choice that teaches a spectrum of values and is far more entertaining would be Neon Genesis Evangelion. Yesterday's generation had GI Joe, Smurfs, Transformers, and Strawberry Shortcake. Today's generation has Pokémon and Hanson.  Are we destined to become mindless at the hands of increasingly poor entertainment?  I should hope not. "},{"Title":"A movie for the fans...","Date":"29 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie doesn't deserve the shellacing it's received by so many.  I'll admit that the Pikachu short that precedes it was maddening, like watching an acting exercise where everyone has to use the same word in a conversation.  When this hit the theater, I stood out in the lobby with the other parents, trading headache medicine and bolstering each other's spirits.   The film itself is an extended episode of the TV show, which is still better animated than the average Scooby Doo or GI Joe episode.  The biggest complaint is that the movies aren't very inclusive.  It's a kids movie, as opposed to a family movie  only hardcore fans and underexposed children will appreciate them.  Of course, try explaining the charms of Kid Video and Thundarr the Barbarian to today's kids.  As far as the first movie goes, it feels like there's about twenty minutes missing that would have made the film more whole, as opposed to wholesome.  But the goofy bad guys are funny, and at least it's better than the Thief and the Cobbler...  5/10. "}{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The series is terrible so what makes you want to go an see this derivative mush, everything in the movie is horrific (meaning terrible) The only good thing is the way my life was before I saw this movie and when the credits rolled at the end. (well the credits were cool). Overall I hated this movie as you may already know, 4 other terrible pokemon movies are coming out soon... why? you may ask, its to please those insolent kids who still like pokemon (no offense) "},{"Title":"Very much aimed at children.  Young ones.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Another example of a movie with an interesting precept but that falls down in execution.  Perhaps this is because of American translation over-simplifying the script.While the precept was interesting, it still was a little hackneyed.  The dialogue was obviously aimed at children and the ending was trite.That's from an adult's perspective.  It might be interesting for kids, but I personally would prefer to expose my kids to a little more sophisticated thinking.  I don't want to dumb down the next generation.  "},{"Title":"Updated Review","Date":"8 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"       Some of you may have read my past review of this movie, but I thought I should finally update.  The first review I wrote was actually written one day before I got my video in the mail.  Importing can be murder, but this one was worth it.  So, unfortunately, I have to denounce the American version to a slight extent.  I may not like it as much as I used to, but Mewtwo Strikes Back (Japanese) has now become my favorite animated movie (yes, better than Toy Story 2).     The dub made a very good effort, but now that I've seen both, I realize where the movie kinda falls apart in English.  Would someone please tell me who the genius was that put that Brother, My Brother song into the fighting scene?  The music in the English version, overall, is not that great, but that song was unforgivable.  They want to make the fighting is wrong point, which is fine, but the song just pushes the moral on us prematurely.  This really ruins the emotions in the ending part.  The Japanese version, on the other hand, has a fast paced music score, then changes when things really take a turn for the worst.     This is the version I really consider to be a tear-jerker.  It is, as I said, the best animated movie I've ever seen.  The American one is fine and all, but let's face it, it's not the real Mewtwo Strikes Back.  I still give the movie a 10 (after all, the Japanese version is still the same movie) and still like the dubbed version, but if you liked it in the slightest bit, or if you didn't like it, you MUST see the original.     Well, I can't wait till the sequel is released.  My strategy for that one Order the Japanese version about a week before the movie comes to theaters, see it opening day, then I should have the Japanese video a short while afterwards.  Repeating to all people that said this was a bad movie  See the movie in Japanese!  NOW!!!!  Guaranteed that you'll like it better. "},{"Title":"Why the hell make a movie?/ A fun adventure for a die hard 9 year old Pokémon fan!","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Im in one in two minds- so Ill do two reviews!Why the hell make a movie? Why, why, why make a movie? This is like saying ill go out in the rain with my best outfit on Were they all blind when the animators were making this? It was better making a series! Also this film just wants to make me laugh! A TEN year old - discovering his destiny and sacrificing his life for the sake of Pokémon. EXCUSE ME?? hello earth to planet real life a ten year old would not be doing that. They would be playing football. Also, this scared my little cousin to death and was crying- do you think thats how you score good movie points?? make half your audience cry while half are laughing their heads off?A fun adventure for a die hard nine year old Pokémon fan! If you are completely NUTS about Pokémon then this is SO for you! Feel the rush of excitement as you watch the trainers try to defeat mew two. The most powerful Pokémon on earth. And realise the true meaning of master and Pokémon. Then feel your heart burn as you see young hero ash sacrifice his life for the sake of Pokémon. A heart warming story. "},{"Title":"Oh My God- and there's a sequel!","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not that my little sister didn't go nuts for this movie... not that anybody under the shocking age of 15 I know didn't like this movie... I didn't. First of all what is up with that little pointless stupid cartoon with all the pokemons doing nothing in the beginning, I mean are they trying to bore us to death before the main event? Mind you, I wouldn't mind sleeping through the movie. What is the plot in this movie? A bunch of pokethings go to an island and fight another pokething. Another unfortunately successful attempt to get kids to buy more and yet more and even more merchandise. The creators of Pokemon are brainwashing my sister and way too many young kids in the world. I can't see my sister without a Pokemon shirt or hat- she even wears Pokemon shoes. She's dropped Barbies and only plays with Pokemon toys. And of course since this movie has come out on video it's the only thing she can watch- instead of watching the good Disney classics, which actually have something that I think is important in movies... they're good. "},{"Title":"Absolute rubbish!!!","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  there was only one good thing in this movie....Mew2's eyes. and that is about it.Now for me to say this about an animated film then you know it must be bad.ok, animation aside (it is tv quality animation) the ending was awful. The fight scene should have gone on longer with Mew2 vs mew fighting properly instead of being in balls all the time.And can you really like a movie which has such a mediocre ending??I won't spoil it for you (although that's really hard to do).Luckily for me I saw this on a video I brought my little brother...I pity ANYONE who had to waste money on going to see this in the cinema.But I dare say all the 0-6 year old pokemon fans will love it. Hey if you can like such a crap show then the crap movie will equal it. "},{"Title":"A triumph of horrible animation and storytelling","Date":"19 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon   Mewtwo, a super Pokemon, is determined to defeat the regular Pokemon and take over the world. I listened to the commentary after this movie ended, and there was universal agreement the parents all had a glazed look in their eyes and mumbled how appalling it was, while the children had the same look, but felt it was the best movie they'd ever seen and couldn't wait to go again.Based on the tv series, the Pokemon craze is omnipresent, having spawned games, toys, trading cards, and every other manner of merchandising imaginable.  And like most fads it is shallower than the kiddie pool at your local playground.  Pokemon the movie embodies Japanese anime at its worst - poor production values, horrible dialogue, and a nonexistent plot. If you have ever been curious about anime, check out Perfect Blue or Princess Mononoke.  If your kids demand to see this movie, try to bribe another parent to let them join their horde, it will be the wisest $20 you've ever spent.  The tragic thing about this movie is that this movie has already earned more than $100 million at the box office.  Even worse,  they're already working on the sequel&#133; "},{"Title":"Bad Rap, Great Movie","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I'm 17 years old and am tired of the bad rap that the Pokemon movie is getting.  In the theater, everytime I go (3 so far), I see parents with attitudes of This is a kid's thing that I'll never understand, so I won't try.  Also, the legions of film critics that down the movie on the basis of knowing nothing about Pokemon. The most frequent complaint I hear from critics is that the main focus of everything Pokemon is fighting, yet the movie tries to teach that fighting is wrong.  Anyone that is familiar with the show should realize that the nature of the ending battle royale is very different from the regular battles seen on TV.  I also see some people using their children's views to down the movie.  Please, if you're going to do that, let your kids write the review.  These people ruin the experience for others and have the nerve to think that they know something about Pokemon.  I've heard someone describe Magnemite as pairs of magnets and screws.  I don't feel they have the right to review this movie. That being said, on to the review.  Pikachu's Vacation gets worse each time I see it.  The pokemon transitional scenes are pretty annoying.  It wouldn't have been that bad if the animators left 'em out.  Thank God that Mewtwo Strikes Back gets better every time I see it.  The themes seem a bit too mature for kids and could leave them confused.  Mewtwo is a character that is discontented with his terms of existence and lashes out at the race that caused him the pain of life.  His struggle results in him luring trainers to his island and making powerful clones of their pokemon. Eventually, it leads to a brawl between the clones and originals.  Some might expect to see the good guys look like they're in trouble, then they suddenly make a come back.  Uh uh.  The fighting reflects pain and suffering.  This leads to the only real flaw this movie had.  It was moral saturated, not a surprise with Pokemon, but the morals are flattly stated by the characters, instead of letting the audience see them through the symbolic suffering in the final battle.  Still, I thought the ending was well done, showing Mewtwo finally finding peace with his life. If you're a Pokemon fan, this movie is definitely worth seeing.  If you're a person that has never seen the show or doesn't know the themes found in Pokemon, stay as far from that theater as you can.  If you're an unaware parent, try not to get turned off by Pikachu's Vacation and, overall, keep an open mind.  I'm a big time Pokemon enthusiast, and I really think people shouldn't dismiss it as a kid's thing.  It can be more grown-up than you might think if you give it the chance. "},{"Title":"ummmmm... okay","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Okay... this movie was indeed an experience ... but for some reason two words came to my mind while watching it... Stupid and LSD...  But now looking back on it, I think I found it rather enjoyable... the animation style was a little odd... even for anime, but it had an overall charm that made it good. I wouldn't recommend seeing it over and over.. but seeing it once would be something to do "},{"Title":"coulda been better","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  pokemon had so much potential when it hit the scene....but this crap of a movie just left it at that potential....and where do these damn new pokemon keep coming from? and when u really think about it pokemon is about slavery, trapping animals and making them do your will....but overall this movie didnt do much for me. "}{"Title":"What a waste!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw Pokemon The First Movie with pretty low expectations. Yet I wanted to see what all the hype was about. Some scientists discover a new Pokemon that's called Mewtwo. Ash and his buddies Misty and Brock venture to fight with the monster. While those who like anime may like the atmosphere of the film, the plot is paper thin and it looks as though it was thrown together in a short amount of time. What could have been only an hour to an hour and fifteen minutes drags on for at least two hours. I nearly fell asleep in the theater! A complete time waster! "},{"Title":"As much hype as Star Wars and zero delivery.","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I took my three kids, 9,7,3 - we were all anxious to see what they could do with the big screen, big sound, and a longer time for story development. We expected to see every Pokémon - we expected to see some history of the Pokémon - we waited for over 6 months for this one- we expected new animation techniques - we bought tickets early - we stood in line. It wasn't worth the wait, the money or the time spent.  This is a long TV episode that offers nothing more and has no clue that it is on the big screen. A waste of time and space. "},{"Title":"Below Expectations","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I entered the theater on November 10, I expected a film as good and exciting as the Japanese version. Instead, what I got was a piece of junk changed so much that it's almost unrecognizable.The movie's main meaning and the animation remains, but other than that, everything else was different.For example, Mewtwo was turned from a mischievous troublemaker into a 6'7 organism of evil heck-bent to destroy the world.The music was the best part of the original, but it's the worst part of the dubbed version. I almost gagged when I saw the end credits, which was one of the best parts of the Japanese version.If you're a Pokmon fan that hasn't seen this film, I would advise you to stay away from it. Watch the Japanese version instead.  "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I didn't like Pokemon the first movie because it was not my type of cartoon and movie. Nearly everone got into pokemon as it became very popular all around the world when we all first heard about it. Pokemon all started in 1998 and got very popular, since then in these days i think people has got less interest in pokemon as i think they are interested in something else. I give this movie 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This movie has nothing for adults.","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I gave this movie a two which is the exact age you would have to be to enjoy it. I am a huge fan of japanimation and animated features in general but this film(if that is what you call it)is just a lame attempt at selling merchandise to young kids. I went along with my seven year old thinking maybe there would be something in it I could enjoy. The animation itself was good, which is why I gave it a two, but after a few minutes the lack of substance made my wish it would end.  "},{"Title":"MEWTWO STRIKES BACK IS BORING!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I went to see Pokemon the Movie and was excited. I really wanted to see Pikachu's Vacation and get those four cards. I went in and got my seat and the movie started. I started to watch Pikachu's Vacation and it was good but then when this Mewtwo Strikes Back thing came on it became very boring. It was just the story of some experiment goes wrong and then takes over. It was not exciting just a waste of $5.00. But I got a card which is okay. "},{"Title":"Great movie for the die hard's , Ok for the causal viewer or people who have not seen the show!!","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is a tie in to all the Pokemon craze going on right now. The best part is the short(it's almost 1/2 hour!!). In this short , the Pokemon go on a vacation. The play games relax and have some fun. After this is the feature film of PokemonThe First Movie. When it starts , reseachers are trying to clone Pokemon for future use by human. The new Pokemon escapr after it kills it's creators(for this it should of been a PG or PG-13 rating!!!) . Then challlenges other Pokemon and takes them for future use. Meanwhile Ash,Misty and Brock(the good guys) are enjoying a moment of rare peace. They get invited to a island for a unknown reason. Team Rocket(bad guys ) hels them go there and loses the way to the island. Once there , the new Pokemon wants to get rid of both humans and Pokemon alike. The original Pokemon from which this evil Pokemon was made saves the day. But not until all the Pokemon have been cloned. This movie was OK if you are a causal viewer (like me), but the die hard people and children will love it!!at least the animation is better than Disney !!But remember this movie is basically a marketing gimmcik by the people who make all stuff out so the public will go out and buy it in droves!!this movie was basicallly recycled from the mid-1980's when the studios did the same thing with TransformersThe Movie,G.I JoeThe Movie and My Little Pony. The list is quite endless on this thing with popular toys and Hollywood!Oh Oh when will Hollywood learn not everything need a toy tie in like the upcoming Toy Story 2 for example?The movie is not even out and the stores already have the toys!!Gimme a break!!please no more toy tie in movies!!How about a big cartoon of any studio without all the toys to go with it!!CD soundtracks are cool though!!So remember if you are a die hard fan of the show (or your kids are) you will like this movie, but  causal viewer might wonder what all the fuss is over!!BTW, I gave this movie only 1 star!!After my review you should understand why!! "},{"Title":"2 Hour Infomercial for the Brainwashed Kids","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think Pokemon is the most boring movie I have seen in the lastseveral years. I did not expect much, it was my 10 year odls'movie of choice. I am horrified by the degree to which my kid'smind has been brainwashed to accept this as valid entertainment.There is no plot, animation is below average.I gave Pokemon the First Movie a 0 which this movie in my viewbarely deserves&#133;&#133; "},{"Title":"Adults hate it... kids love it...","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  My wife and I hated it. This has got to be one of the most insipid, blatant, vapid, dumb movies of all time. Oh yes... our boys, ages 8 and 10, loved it! They were glued to the screen. It's basically halloween candy on the big screen. What more can I say?  "},{"Title":"why did they bother? The only thing good about pokemon is the game","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  when I saw this film I lost faith in the film industry, this piece of film is a pathetic exuse for a movie,more like an extension of the awful series,well, there is one thing good about this film, I didn't expect any better "}{"Title":"Boring and annoying.","Date":"28 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Well. I had no intention to see this in theaters, but I had to watch it on video while babysitting.The movie follows Ash, a pokemon trainer and his friends, trying to stop Mewtwo, who has turned out to be a dangerous and deadly scientific experiment.I don't know about this movie. It could have been good, if I was about six or seven years younger and into the Anime genres, but I really thought it was stupid and boring. One does have to remember, though, that this was made during the Pokemon rush, when everything was Pokemon-oriented, so maybe this is why the quality is so horrible.Overall rating - D- "},{"Title":"Whats goin' on here?","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  So I'm flyin' through the data base writing up stuff on Hitchcock and Welles, and then I start thinking to myself (as many film majors do), but what does it all mean? And then I think sure these old classics are great, but what new things are going on? What movie did I REALLY enjoy that came out in the last year or so? And then it comes to me The POKEMON MOVIE!!! Come on people! What is more fun than 151 little cute monsters running around spouting off their names repeatedly while kicking the crap out of each other.So then I go to the imdb page, and I see that it got like a 3. And I about lose it. But then I check the other reviews, and everyone is my age, and everyone more or less likes it. So, the question remains, what is going on?The answer is a matter of how 'in' you are. Everyone must know that Pokemon is like the hippest thing out there. The people who don't like it are in denial! Look, for what it is, its cool, especially Bulbasaur.I call for a change of rating. We should get every Pokemon fan to vote on this thing, and get the rating up to at least a deserving 6. This movie is Awesome! I have seen it twice now, and I plan to own it as soon as possible.  "},{"Title":"Pokémon The First Movie","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This consists of two films, a ridiculous opening film called Pikachu's Vacation, and then the real film. The first part of the film is stupid because of the many ridiculous and hardly cute creatures. The real film, Mewtwo Strikes Back is obviously worse. Basically scientists have captured rare Pokémon, Mew, and copied his DNA to create the most powerful Pokémon in the world. They succeed, but they were expecting this new creature, Mewtwo to obey them, what they created was a monster with his own ideas. Meanwhile, Ash, Misty and Brock are invited to a stadium where they will meet the ultimate Pokémon trainer, what they actually discover is Mewtwo. Filled with battles and struggle does not help it. A movie from a TV show I used to watch as a kid is inescapable, I just wish it could have had a bit more effort put in, to at least improve animation or create something more interesting or creative. The worst moment, that my brother first described to me, is when Ash is turned into stone, all Pokémon cry and the power of their tears wake him up, absolute rubbish. Poor! "},{"Title":"Exit Two, I Choose You!","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This may have been one of the most painful experiences of my adult life.  To indulge my six-year old son, I took in the movie on opening day. Ninety-nine percent of the film glorifies violence -- then at the end they try to give it deeper meaning with the violence is not the answer message.  Someone is getting rich by flooding our lives and burying our senses with meaningless creatures that were best left in the gameboy.  I count the days until this flash in the pan has gone the way of the dodo. "},{"Title":"Nothing but hype...absolutely nothing!","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The only reason this movie hit it off is because every kid from ages 2-9 dragged their parents to it, nothing more... besides the fact that it has virtually no storyline, absolutely horrible animation- following the over-hyped tv-show tradition- and boring fight scenes (besides the fact that they are exposing kids to violence)... what's the hype for?  WHAT?!I'd suggest a family outing to Toy Story 2 and forget this sorry excuse for a cartoon mess... "},{"Title":"It's bad enough for the 1","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Now you have to understand this. The ONLY reason I saw this movie was because my sister is a big Pokemon fan, and my dad taped it for her. (There has to be some movies for your sister my dad said, We just can't watch war, action or good films all the time) My expectations were at the bottom of the barrel. And you know what? I was absolutely right. This film sucks on so many levels. It had a crappy beginning, a crappy middle, and a very crappy ending. My personal feeling is that everyone associated with this movie should be dragged out into the street and shot. What a waste of film and time. 1/10 (actually more around -5) "},{"Title":"So bad, it's awful","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There are no words in the English language to describe how truely awful this film is. In fact, I don't think the word film can be used in this context. Japan gave us game shows where contestants are tortured in various ways (Endurance) until last man standing wins the prize.Watching Pokemon is similarly torture.The animation is terrible. The story/plot is terrible.Easily, the worst film I have ever seen. I also happen to think that the Pokemon animators are part-time car designers for Toyota, Daewoo et al - ghastly or what?Finally, when Pokemon the (disaster) Movie came on TV here the newspaper I buy gave it no (zero) stars and merely described the film as unclassifiable. That about sums it up.An easy 1/10.  "},{"Title":"I love my children but never again","Date":"16 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I've seen some bad movies this year but I have to admit that this one ranks right up there with the worse.  Its hard to believe I paid to see something I wouldn't have watched on TV but I love my children so I went.  I didn't understand the long cartoon prior to the movie but then after seeing how short the movie was I could.  Truthfully the short length was the only redeeming aspect to the movie.  The three to eight year olds in the movie did seem to enjoy it but any parents that were forced to accompany their children to see `The Pokemon Movie' should have been admitted free and gotten a discount on the popcorn and drinks. "},{"Title":"Wow, and I thought the Rugrats movie was bad...","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The first time i heard about this movie, i said to myself eh, just another stupid tv-show spin-off movie.  i actually went to see this movie, which is an odd thing for me.  It turns out that i am not as screwed up as i thought i was for hating pokemon.  I mean, there are just so many shoddy graphics and bad animation a guy can take.  humor, as the stale puns in this movie is ironically called, is reduced to a few polite chuckles when a person falls down because he was insulted in some way.  not only that, but the plot was pretty dry itself.  the main theme seemed to be 150 little runts each fight each other in order to teach that fighting is wrong. hmm.... yet another thing that bothers me is the entire fan base.  i mean, could 1 million 3-12 year olds be totally brainwashed by this mindless drivel? what is so exhilirating about seeing some mouse-wannabe try to shoot lightning bolts at another mouse-wannabe?  why are people wasting their money on stupid CCG cards with even more bad graphics when they can enrich their minds as well as their pocket money and actually use feasible strategy and buy Magic the Gathering, made by the same company but 1000 times better? it's sickening. in short, when you go to see the movie and you are a civilized, smart person, bring along an airplane sickness bag.  or, even better, slip away from kid brother and watch The Sixth Sense.  that movie was great, AND it doesn't feature little runty mice killing each other.  "},{"Title":"Worst animated movie ever created","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ugh. If there's anything good about this movie, it's that it's a wonderful marketing machine. Most likely every single Pokemon fan have already bought their copy of this wretched movie. No matter. I'm going to rant anyway. This movie is just plain pathetic. It shows no creative thought whatsoever, and it sometimes gets offensive. The jokes are dead on arrival, the animation is nonexistent, and the story is a bomb. The characters are a snooze, and the movie jackhammers its message into your poor, battered brain. And then it contradicts itself. Finally, the battle scene is completely disturbing. This is the worst movie to show to kids ever. It has no moral or entertainment value whatsoever. Keep this away from the children. It should come with a warning label. "}{"Title":"A severe disappointment.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I enjoy the Game Boy, Pokemon, and even the TV show, and I expected the movie to be similar to the TV show, filled mostly with humor and cuteness and a few pokemon battles. However, the movie is not very much like the TV show. There's about 8 jokes in the movie, and the rest is an attempt at a dull plot with a predictable moral.The initial 20-minute short was embarrassing to watch, particularly because of the 30-second pokemon interludes which can only be described as a sort of pokemon-fantasia.Overall, I can understand why a pokemon fan would want to perhaps rent this movie, but I would highly recommend against it. I recommend instead renting one of the episodes, which are much more entertaining. "},{"Title":"The worst movie of 1999","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Technically, I never went into the cinema. In hindsight, the animation of the movie was the biggest annoyance. As a fourteen year old, I began to further understand the meaning of 'the generation gap'. Knowing it would be terrible as a person who dislikes Pokemon and everything associated with it, I was dragged into the cinema by avid friends. Before five minutes was up, I felt my intelligence had been insinuated by mindless adolescence.I further learned the meaning of 'diversions', and I was bound by agreement not to walk out of the cinema. I did attempt to go to sleep but the cinema seats were too similar to that of an aircraft. In the end the surround sound and the little kids laughing kept me awake. I think it was the popcorn that kept me going. Often I found myself laughing aloud at the hilarity of the velocity of idiocy. Although I hated the movie, there was one good thing about it, despite simply animated creatures attacking each other, whether or not it was against their will. They realised the importance of speaking against violence and the ongoing continuance of problems not solved through fighting. For the values that should be instilled in children, and if it takes something as far fetched as this for people to realise it, this is something worth commending, despite the fact I walked out of the cinema for the first time in five years.Due to the current craze of this movie, I can hardly believe this was the movie that grossed $100 million US+. It was the first animated movie I have seen in the cinema since The Lion King. I hope these people are not trying to be the next Walt Disney, because the title, Pokemon the first movie has terrified me to my very soul.I could hardly recommend this to anyone. Surely children deserve better. Grown ups from eight to eighty had best beware. When the next movie is released, I will be staying well away from the Pokemon excitement. At least I lived to tell the tale.Rating 1.5/10 (increase for moral values, 0.5/10 otherwise) "},{"Title":"$50 Million In The First 5 Days !! ??","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm guilty of contributing to the $50 million however my alibi is my 3 year old son who thought the movie was great! I guess since it was created for his age group I cant argue with him, It was after all, pretty harmless. Unless you have a budding Pokemon trainer in your household - stay away - far away from this one. The animation is very cheap and the sound is horrible. "},{"Title":"Why did I watch this?","Date":"28 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all, I can't stand the show Pokemon,and I am sorry to say, this film was no improvement whatsoever. First of all, there is this pointless cartoon, that made me go to sleep. Then when the main actually started, what we eventually got was... Awful animation, honestly if you want excellent Japanese animes, see a Studio Ghibli like Princess Mononoke, Cat Returns or Spirited Away instead. They are vastly superior to this. An utterly predictable and boring plot that did absolutely nothing for the film. The pace was inexcusably slow, the film dragged so much, it really did. The voice acting was pretty atrocious to say the least.The only voice actor I liked was the voice actor of MewTwo, but compared to other villains, he is pretty lousy. I will admit though, Mew is really cute. Team Rocket I found very annoying, and the ending I didn't like either because it contradicted the film's message. All in all, a boring and dull film, that is one of the worst animations I've seen.Sorry, but this is a 1/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Don't criticise people for rating this as awful because it is!","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The review I read criticising IMDb users who have rated this as 1 is being very arrogant! How dare they assume our views are any less valid than theirs! Perhaps the review I read was written by a particularly ignorant person. If they enjoyed the film that is their right. It is also my right to say that I hated this film totally. They gave no actual reasons for its supposed quality.I DID watch the film and I have VALID reasons for not liking it, not just because it is Pokémon. In fact I work in education and children I know who like Pokémon have caused me to take an interest and watch the film in the first place. I was hoping it would be OK but was extremely unimpressed by the animation for a start. It is very poor quality and dull to look at. This is one reason to not like it.The second reason is that I found it is FAR from being 'charming' or 'adorable' as the review I read, which seems very biased, stated. I felt it totally lacks charm because it was based around violence and aggression. Do people find aggression charming and adorable! This is the main reason I hated the film so much, I find it inappropriate for young children.The third reason is that the story and script are trying to be like an adult action or sci-fi film using complicated language and terminology, this I think is again wrong and not charming in a children's film. In my opinion, at the same time, it is far too childish and idiotic to appeal to most mature adults. "},{"Title":"NO JOKE this movie turned me off of Pokémon","Date":"5 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I will say here and now that, some years back, I was a HUGE fan of Pokémon. I bought the cards, watched the show, played the games and followed this oh-so-shamelessly commercial fad. That is, until I went to see this movie.Oh, how happy and rapturous I was to be actually going to see a full length Pokémon MOVIE... when it finally started, I got a bad feeling. somehow, you lose confidence in a movie when the first three minutes of an opening segment leave a ten year old writhing in his seat like a worm cut in two. then, it got worse.when the REAL movie actually started, I was assaulted by 7th rate animation, poor voice acting and an incoherent plot (not that there is one, BTW) to the point where one could consider it rape. when I finally got out (praise the lawd!) I was actually turned off of Pokémon. seriously, I never associated myself with anything remotely pokesque again. I had never actually hated a movie before, but this one did it.although many people say, ITZ FO' DA KIDZ, does this really excuse ZERO plot, bad voice acting and a diarrhea-inducing musical number? no. many people have said that the Japanese version is better, and I have full confidence in this statement, which holds true for just about all anime (I have a strict no-dub policy concerning anime) Oh, and a little fun-fact? when this movie came out, they gave away cards to anyone who bought a ticket. Some collector in Canada bought 200 tickets, solely for the cards. I really do feel for that poor SOB when he found out he had to sit through this poke-b******t. "},{"Title":"A terrible way to start the film series","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Don't waste your time with this one but do rent the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th if you wish. What makes this so terrible are the following 1) Ash's personality changed from the show 2) the English edition changed the animation making it look a bit second-rate 3) the fighting is wrong moral was rather pointless to place in the English edition as it was inconsistent 4) there's no plot just battles 5) some of the voicing is rather clumsy especially Mewtwo's 6) the CGI glares on the 2D, and 7) unnecessarily long some needed to be edited (Charizrd getting bitten on the neck was too shocking and violent to put in a kids movie thought his experience and memory is deleted at the end as they are sent back in time and memory is erased). Although popular the stuff mentioned above drove this anime to where is should go nowhere "},{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I give this movie a 1 out of 1,000,000. I hated this movie completely..I mean how cheesy can it get. A guy whose name is burn't wood (ash) has a creature called a Pokémon named pica who looks like a doll with too much makeup. A giant Pokémon thing tries to become the ultimate trainer and as in all kid shows you know he cant because Mr. Burn't Wood (ash) is gonna win like always. DUH. I mean who in the right mind would go through a hurricane to get to an island without a boat. Another thing how could he live through a hurricane in the water. I mean look at hurricane Katrina you don't see people swimming and flying through it. Also look at the weird plot I mean a giant vacuum sucking up monsters i mean really who enjoys this. Maybe little kids but their little and like this kind of stuff. "},{"Title":"I'd give it a 0, but there the vote only goes to 1.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Pokemon sucks! This movie proves just that. It's childish, pointless, stupid, and anything else I can think of that I can't type in this column. This Pokemon c**p has done serious damage to the minds of children, and this film doesn't help much any. Definitely the one to miss! "},{"Title":"DON'T See This movie","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie sucked.  I saw bits and pieces of the movie with my little cousin, and i couldn't understand it.  The movie is pointless.  The movie is basically just a big advertisement for their toys.  Don't bother trying to follow the movie because all it is is a bunch of crappily animated characters telling you that certain poketheings can kill other ones with their wacked powers.  I recommend that you don't see this or let your children see this for your sake and thiers. "}{"Title":"???","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I just don't know; am I the only one around here who thinks that this is one of the most ridiculous, most pathetic films ever produced??? Also, I find the mentioning of Ghandi in context with this silly little piece of family entertainment rather tasteless - forgive me if I'm wrong (which, I believe, I am not!). So please take my advice, get out your history books and find out something about REAL pacifism and humanity. "},{"Title":"This Movie Sucked","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't believe I went to go see this movie. The plot was bad, it was boring, the music sucked. Pokemon was popular then, but now, it's just stupid. They made 3 movies already, and each one is worse than the one before it. Don't see this movie, don't waste your money and time. Don't even see the other 2.  "},{"Title":"By far one of the worst movies ever made.","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I can't believe this excuse for a movie.  It's terrible.  This movie even makes Glitter look like a good movie.What really makes me mad is that I got to see this on the day it came out and I thought it was the best movie ever.  Now that I think about it, it's one of the worst movies ever made.Don't waste your time.  It's a terrible movie. "},{"Title":"Who knew crap could be taken off the TV and thrown onto the big screen?","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is totally cheese. It totally ruins what could've been a potential movie. Mewtwo's desire for destruction and trainers having Pokemon partners ends in a crappy ending. He obviously is a bad enemy. The cloning, I have to admit, is smart, but the fact that he has no idea who he is, where he came from, and just a simple desire to kill, kill, kill is just stupid. Why would he kill Mew for? Mew is the reason why he has the power he has today. And, if at the beginning of the movie, when the scientist created Mewtwo, wouldn't they know better to put all these things into a poor creation's mind? Probably not. Ash and Misty have got to be the worst characters ever to be drawn into anime. The voices are absolutely awful. If you don't love Pokemon, DON'T GET THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"please, please, Please, Please, PLEASE watch the Japanese version instead of this.","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I saw this film on November 10, 1999, I was a big fan of the original, and I was wrong in expecting this to be like the Japanese version. I should never had put my trust in 4Kids. Norman Grossman and Michael Haigney destroyed Takeshi Shudo's brilliant script with a bunch of, well, trash. The music was okay, but it would have done much better in something other than Pokemon. The Japanese score was much fitting. And what's with putting all that junk on the ending credits? Ugh. I nearly got sick to my stomach, considering the Japanese version had Kaze to Issho Ni at the end, which may be the best song almost nobody's heard.If you're a Pokemon fan, please watch the Japanese version. It is MUCH better than this. "},{"Title":"I cry for today's youth","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  when a country that has such great television shows for children like Japan exports something as inane as pokemon, its just sad. When it becomes a national phenomenon, its tragic. But when, the progenitors of this series actually try something with the narrative that makes the movie tolerable, even borderline good, it is a heroic feet. but when the American distributors neuter said heroic feet because it may be offensive to some parents, it is a crime against society as a whole. I am only sorry I cannot give a lower rating than 1. "},{"Title":"Unclassifiable","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" God, this movie is so bad. I was forced to watch this with my little cousin last week, as his a Pokémon freak. I went in with an open mind thinking it might be alright, but oh man I was so wrong.This should be a horror movie, as horror movies both frighten you and shock you. This movie was very good at this. This movie scared the hell out of me with Pikachu's vacation (I wanted to kill myself while watching it) and it also contains the shocking content of the movie.This movie is a rips off Frankenstien (the 1st movie) so bad. Mewtwo goes around wanting to kill everyone. Exactly the same with Frankenstien. Also created by scientists. The battles are lame to. Some small stupid looking animal called Pikachu can kill basically anything with one hit....The end is just bad somehow the main (loser) character, Ash is turned into Stone by getting caught between some blast. I thought the blast would of ripped him apart.... I'm also unaware of the chemical formula for Pokémon tears but its truly amazing that it can turn stone into organic matter. Whats lame about this film is that it puts an empty moral in that violence is wrong yet throughout the whole film, they glorify it. It was probably placed there just to please the parents, as the kids would of taken no notice.This film is horrible and no one should watch it. Thank God it wasn't very long, but I still feel like I've been robbed an hour of my life. "},{"Title":"I cry for today's youth","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  when a country that has such great television shows for children like Japan exports something as inane as pokemon, its just sad. When it becomes a national phenomenon, its tragic. But when, the progenitors of this series actually try something with the narrative that makes the movie tolerable, even borderline good, it is a heroic feet. but when the American distributors neuter said heroic feet because it may be offensive to some parents, it is a crime against society as a whole. I am only sorry I cannot give a lower rating than 1. "}]