[{"Title":"There's no limit to mountaineering melodramatics","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"77 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While mountaineering is one of the most exhilarating of sports it has produced little good fiction, and few good fictional movies, though there have been some excellent documentaries ('The Man who Skied Down Everest', the Imax 'Everest' film, for example). Somehow, when it comes to fiction, the clichés take over, and this film, with some genuinely gorgeous camera-work and impressive stunts, is full of them. The wealthy megalomaniac determined to conquer K2 at any cost, the climber who lost his nerve when his father was killed who pushes himself into action to save his sister, stuck in a crevass high up the mountain with the moneyed one, the bitter old man of the mountains who is essential to the rescue, the guide who has sold out, It's all there. One does expect some improbability of plot in a film like this, but the thought that someone might cart Pakistani Army liquid nitro-glycerine in back packs to the top of K2 to blast a crevasse open really was a bit much.Apart from a very attractive opening sequence in Utah (Monument Valley, I think) the film was shot in the New Zealand Alps, with a few clips of the genuine Karkoram Himalaya spliced in. For this viewer, it brought back pleasant memories of climbing in the University holidays around the Southern Alps. But climbing is a dangerous sport; on one trip I was accompanied by four people, all of whom subsequently died in separate climbing accidents (one on Makalu, next to Everest). There is a fair amount of special effects malarky (no-one, not even Temuera Morrison pretending to be Pakistani, would fly an old military helicopter so close to a mountain wall at 21,000 feet), but there are also some genuinely stirring shots. Unfortunately, the acting for the most part matches the script. Chris Connelly, good at sensitive young men, is wrong for the brother bent on rescue (it's more of a part for Bruce Willis), and Bill Paxton is only moderately menacing as the ruthless Richard Branson-style billionaire. In fact the only decent piece of acting is Scott Glenn's Wick, the veteran with attitude. The'comic' Australian climbing brothers, Ces and Cyril, or whatever their names were, were profoundly embarrassing &#150; I guess Ben Mendelsohn will be hoping no-one will recognise him with a balaclava on his head. There were also lackluster performances from the two female leads, Robin Tunney and Izabella Scorupco. One of them, Scorupco, is an ex-Bond girl ('Goldeneye') &#150; the casting people obviously didn't realise she was going to be spending the entire movie wrapped up in Gore-Tex. There's no sex at high altitude &#150; it's too damned cold and anyway survival takes precedence over procreation.I think Roger Ebert got it right on this one &#150; a 'B' movie with an 'A' movie budget. There are all sorts of anomalies &#150; the lack of visible water vapour issuing from the climbers, their sprightly behaviour even after hours at 26,000 feet, the use of north wall hammers to attack a rock/ice pitch, the miraculous helicopter piloting &#150; but somehow the magnificence of those great peaks comes through. The worst thing about a movie like this is that it portrays the mountains as hellish, which is far from the truth. What is it the psalm says 'I will lift up mine eyes to the hills, from whence cometh my strength'? Climbing is one thing I have never regretted doing, and it would be a pity if people were put off the sport by stuff like this. Actually I think the people who do attempt peaks like K2 would see this film as preposterous, overblown Hollywood brown smelly stuff, and they'd be right. But there is some nice scenery. "},{"Title":"So much money...so many goofs!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"75 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   How can anyone spend so much money and make a picture like this?   The effects were good but how many really stupid / bad things can happen in one film or one person's life.  If only two of the many, many catastrophes that happened in the movie happened in real life it would be like lightning striking you twice.  Everything that the actors did (pretending to be the  best of the best climbers) seemed to go against them.  Really, do you think a professional climber would leave his back pack where it could slide down the mountain?  This is your life we're talking about.  How about a nylon climbing rope that snaps two feet above the ground just after stopping a long fall.  You can't see anyone's breath and it's cold up there.  But the way, there aren't any open flame fires that I know of (unless the fuel contains it's own oxygen) anywhere near that altitude.  Or how about a professional climber (who relies on good lungs) that smokes.  Really, enough is enough! If you can't think well you might like this movie but it you have some brains, no way!  No real plot development - only special effects over and over and over...Unfortunately not even plausible special effects.  Jumping a crevasse (didn't they know it was there before they took that route) and actually sticking to the other side.  Come on! I could go on and on but I won't.  Nice scenery though.  I like the actors but not in this movie. Well, that's my take and thanks. "},{"Title":"Exciting and well-made action adventure film.","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"55 out of 79 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm surprised by all the hostility shown toward this movie on IMDb. Had I read the reviews here, I would have skipped this well-made and entertaining film. For one thing, it was a pleasure to see an action movie that didn't involve guns and shooting - enough of that nonsense. Instead, this film is full of spectacular scenery, good looking actors and actresses, and some unexpected insights into issues of morality, judgment and sacrifice. As far as the accuracy about details of climbing, I couldn't care less. This is not a how-to movie. And as for the wisdom of transporting nitroglycerin across dangerous terrain, check out Henri-Georges Clouzot's masterpiece, The Wages of Fear or its excellent remake by William Friedkin, Sorcerer. Neither one of these great films was hampered by such a questionable premise. I highly recommend Vertical Limit for exciting escapism. "},{"Title":"Comments from a real climber","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"115 out of 203 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having climbed in the Andes, Tian Shan, St. Elias and othermountain ranges across the planet, I was often asked what Ithought of this movie, and it's accuracy. This is, without doubt, the least accurate film on climbing I haveever seen.  This movie is simply absurd. I consider it about asaccurate as, say, Spy Kids is to global espionage. In addition to the gaffs pointed out, I wanted to state what wasmost amusing to me Inside the crevasse, the climbers ice toolsbounce off the crevasse walls like they're made out of solid steel(and 'ping' just like it). But when Chris O'Donnall does his fullsprint (at altitude!) and huge leap across a cavernous abyss, hedrives his ice tools into the other side - made of solid rock - andsticks like Spiderman. The film is filled with many other absurdimplausabilities that insult the sport it manipulates in the guise ofentertainment. Aside from that, as so many others have noted, the movie issimple minded action. If you don't mind laughing at much of it, anddon't for a moment think it represents realistic climbing, leave yourbrain at the door and you might have some fun. But most peoplewill just find it absurd rubbish.  "},{"Title":"Into Thin Air","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In this high-octane action film, three climbers make stupid decisions at 26,000 feet, en route to the summit of K2, the world's second highest mountain. The climber's peril thus necessitates a rescue, which puts additional people on the mountain and at risk of dying. That's it. The story is thus fairly thin, but the filmmakers insert all kinds of natural and human obstacles, conflict, and difficulties to rev up the action and excitement.The film's CGI creates compelling tension. We have the illusion of vertical scale, or perspective, which translates into a needed sense of vertigo. The sensation that the characters could, at any moment, fall to their deaths is the film's strength.The mountain scenery is also nice, although it is sometimes wasted, because of the film's fast pace. Cinematography is quite good. And some of the scene transitions make the film flow really well.Dialogue seems flat to me. Production design and costumes are adequate. Acting is largely irrelevant.By far, the biggest flaw is the unrealistic amount of action. In the plot, everything that could go wrong does go wrong, from bad weather to avalanches to exploding nitro to human conflict and discord. It's all a bit much. But, that seems to be a problem inherent to outdoor action films. Directors cram in too much chaos.Another minus is the background music, which is irritatingly nondescript. For a film set mostly in Asia, I could have wished for more indigenous music which, when combined with the majesty of the mountains, could have added emotional depth and a sense of mystery and awe.Vertical Limit does have an emotional spine to its story, but that is secondary to the super action plot. Viewers who expect well thought out characters, meticulous plotting, or a subtle theme will need to look elsewhere. This film is strictly for people who like heavy-duty outdoor action. "},{"Title":"Great Sound & Stunts,  So-So Story","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When I saw this shortly after it came out on DVD, it got high marks just for the spectacular sound alone. It had some of the best rear-speaker sound I had ever heard. It was a showpiece for DVD players at the time.The movie is interesting with it's main fault being a common one overdone action at the end. Along the way, however, it has many almost jaw-dropping scenes and some spectacular mountain scenery which looks great on the sharp DVD transfer. The stunt work in here is also incredible. Martin Campbell, the same director who did The Mask Of Zorro and Goldeneye, is good at producing eye-popping action scenes.The dialog at times is juvenile, but it could have been worse. The profanity was lower than expected, too. How accurate is it concerning mountain-climbing? Probably like most films totally inaccurate, at least that's what a mountain- climbing expert told me, and I believe him.All in all, however, a far better film than I expected.....strictly for the entertainment. "},{"Title":"Entertaining Mountain Climbing Film","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Usually I do not care very much for mountain climbing films as they usually have a very similar plot. This film had plenty of action with Helicopters flying all over the place and horrible snow storms and also entrapment in caves deep under tons of snow and ice. The film starts out with a father, son and daughter adventuring up a steep mountain during a very sunny day and having a wonderful time with each other. Their father was a very experienced climber and all of a sudden a tragic situation happens and a horrible life or death decision had to be made within seconds. There is lots of scary scenes and plenty of explosions and more action than you can handle. "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood action film no respect for reality.","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a so-typical Hollywood action-flick you almost can't believe it. It seems like the producers looked up this bunch of cool gadgets mountain climbers use (many of which are sharp or have pointy ends) and tried to portray some of the most irresponsible climbing you could think of.Sure, it's hell if your sis is stuck in an avalanche on K-2 but, as some climber already pointed out in basecamp, you don't go risking another six people to 'possibly' get two down. Besides, there are better ways to do this than by strapping a can of nitroglycerine to your back.(small note dynamite is essentially chalk soaked in nitro which stabilizes it. Guess they hadn't thought of that?)Furthermore, you never climb beneath another group's ropes (lest they fall and drag you with them...), you do not sprint across a ridge wearing glacier-irons, you do not sit on a 5cm ledge without a safety rope attached, you do jump out of a helicopter trying to fall down unless you intend to end up spaghetti.In short, this movie severely damages the image of the real mountain climbers, who consider safety and precaution a way of life and not something to disregard to look cool. "},{"Title":"Spoilers from here.","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Not only vertical but also horizontal limits are achieved after watching this heroic climber film. Go see 'The Eiger Sanction' instead. It is embarrassing to see how the climbers are portrayed here. They are clumsy, stooped and drag some weird explosives to the mountains. There is also a mysterious snowman-climber and king of the hill who lost his wife years ago and lives now only in mountains and his only food is mantra om mani padme hum. Certainly not believable either. Chris O' Donnell though is a good actor and the other members of the cast are also good. This is worth 2 votes. What this film lacks is reality based storytelling. There is also a bit of a problem with timing, film is a little too long. "},{"Title":"Vertical Limit - an adrenalin rush for some","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I know the experts have said how terrible this film was in regards to realism, but since I'm not a climber, I'm rating it on excitement level. Vertical Limit is certainly an exciting film. I caught myself forgetting to breathe at many points throughout the film. It starts in the past, somewhere in the United States' Southwest. Here we see a father and his son and daughter climbing a vertical rock. An accident takes the life of the father and sets us up for the events that take place years later in the main part of the film. Unless you are a climber and insist on an accurate depiction of the sport, I recommend this film for pure adrenalin rush.Also, the scenery is absolutely some of the most beautiful in the world. It ALMOST makes me want to go climb a mountain (not really quite though).Fans of Alexander Siddig (previously known as Siddig El Fadil) will want to watch this movie whether they are interested in climbing or not. He plays Pakistani crew-member Kareem, and yes, this film is set in Pakistan as they are supposedly climbing K2 in the Himalayas, but most of the movie is actually filmed in New Zealand. Only a few sequences were actually filmed in Pakistan (for backgrounds). "}{"Title":"Your disbelief may reach it's Tolerance Limit","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Your disbelief may reach it's tolerance limit in this latest entry in the `How much stupid action sequences can we cram into 2 hours' school of film making. This one really stretches credibility! How many `cut the rope before we all die' scenes can you take in one movie? Possibly one of the worst movies of all time. Ed (Wood) come back, all is forgiven!  "},{"Title":"Too unconvincing to enjoy.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's not the painfully thin story line, predictable plot or shallow stereotypical characters featured in this movie. It's not even the constant stream of amazingly improbable events, which give you the feeling the director hopelessly underestimated the reasoning abilities of his audience.What left me disappointed and even a bit annoyed after seeing Vertical Limit is the absolute and total failure of this movie to capture any of the real thrill, excitement and hardship involved in scaling the world's second highest mountain.Books like Jon Krakauers' Into thin Air and movies like David Breashears' Everest prove that you don't need helicopter rotor blades threatening to dismember climbers or unstable nitroglycerine that explodes if exposed to sunlight to create an exciting story. When Martin Campbell decided to deny the audience any sense of the real technical, physical and emotional challenges of climbing K2, and therefore had to resort to action-movie style heroes, villains and explosions, he left behind a movie too unconvincing, for me to enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Not for climbing pros, yet for everybody else","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" With story lines, motivations, and names strongly echoing the basic threads of Into Thin Air, this movie makes for an entertaining watch. Of course, purists will tell you that the climbing is not credible, etc. etc. but then again, neither are aeronautics in Star Wars, North African life in Casablanca, or archeology in Raiders of the Lost Ark. With excellent mountaineering skills at play there would not be falls, near-misses, plots or anything else worthy of an action flick here ! So enjoy the action, the guts of the producing team in producing a mountaineering thriller (a rare genre) with excellent photography, but only listen to the pros insofar as not using any of what you see here in real life. "},{"Title":"It wasn't that bad!","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I can't believe how many people pick on this movie! It's a movie...and movies are meant to entertain. I thought it was a good story line, very suspenseful & emotional. Yes, there was a lot of unbelievable problems that arose, and maybe the acting wasn't all that great. Chris O'Donnell is very cute to look at, but I have to admit he's not the best actor out there. Scott Glenn is great in every movie he is in. The rest of the actors were OK. I just don't see why this movie was picked on so much. I don't watch movies so I can pick on them, I watch them for entertainment..and I was entertained by this movie. I would recommend it to anyone who is wanting to see an edge-of-your seat, emotional movie. "},{"Title":"Strange plot","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Although this is an entertaining movie, the storyline was quite disappointing. The whole recue-operation in this movie is beyond believes, no doubt, but hey, it's a movie. But this was what bothered me the most As soon as this main character discovers his sister, and manage to lift her out of the cave, the plot switches to the save harbour of the camp-base, where his sister is recovering from her adventures. I was wondering if a chopper was waiting on top of the mountain to bring them, and his not-able-to-walk-anymore sister, back to the basecamp. Or perhaps they took a bus? Somebody tell me, after such a horrible trip to reach her, leaving almost everybody dead, they managed to go back to the camp,carrying her. Should we use our imagination on this one? Or couldn't the writers figure out how they would manage, so they simply let this fact out the movie? The way back, carrying his wounded sister, with the lost of so much equipment and men, should be more exhausting and impossible then getting there. But in an amazing way, they managed to get back. I guess i have to use my imagination on this..Bad plot. "},{"Title":"Someone should burn the film this movie was made on","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you enjoy seeing a good action film, without having to listen to the sounds of snores and groans from the audience around you, DO NOT see this movie. This movie might be passible if they were intentionally  trying to make a spoof. Sadly though, they actually expect people to take this movie seriously. In short, the writing is bad, the characters are shallow, the plot is obvious and pointless, and the action is laughable. You'll leave the theater nauseous and $5-10 dollars worse off.  Buy a V-8 instead. "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  warningSPOILERS! YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!i don't get this film. The main characters who claim to be the best are eternally plagued by disasters in their endeavor to rescue their friends1. At the very beginning of the film, it seems that because there is a scene where people are climbing a mountain, a disaster has to occur, and in fact, in this scene, three people die2. 10 minutes after a guy arrives at a military depot, being introduced to the nitro glycerine his team will use, disaster strikes already. One of the canisters leaks(how cliche)and threatens to blow everyone to bits. If nitro glycerine is so volatile, couldn't the team use something less volatile, such as dynamite or C4?3. While trying to drop off the team on the mountain, disaster strikes(again)as the weather threatens the lives of the team. If they are so proffessional, couldn't they have anticipated such violent weather?4. about 4 minutes after the last disaster, disaster strikes(again). One of the team members is nearly diced to pieces by the rotor blades5. while scaling the mountain, a nitro cylinder slips out of a guy's backpack, and disaster strikes(again)when one of the climbers is nearly killed in the blast6. As if nearly getting fried by the blast wasn't enough, the film decides to whip up an avalanch to kill off the nearly killed climber.7. Back at the depot, the nitro glycerine crates blow up.8. Two climbers are nearly killed when they don't realize that the cylinders react to sunlight, which, by some ill-fated luck, happened to be exposed entirely to the sun!9. They manage to discover this fact, and cover up the cylinders in snow...but, disaster strikes(again) when the cylinders *somehow* leak nitro glycerine into the sunlight and...can you guess what happens?10. Finally, the trapped climbers suffer from Pulmonary Adima, which they should have been prepared for as proffessionals.Now, as you can tell, in this story what should have been a by-the-book rescue mission, turns out to be disaster after disaster after disaster. If you've seen the trailer then you've seen the movie. Either these climbers are cocky and unprepared, or they're incredibly unlucky.Vertical Limit, however, portrays the harsh cold misery the trapped climbers have to endure very well. You can actually imagine how they must feel like, dying bit by bit from the intense cold, just by listening to their coughing and looking at their shivering. "},{"Title":"The one line summary is about I all could talk about this movie.","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was absolutely terrible.  It looks like someone forgot to tell Chris O'Donnell about Physics.  I figure by the time he hit that cliff-face from the jump he was going a good 45 miles an hour.  He then proceeded to latch on and make it across.I'm sorry but that was the moment where I totally just lost all respect for this movie.  It started with the terrible CG in the beginning with the hawk and climaxed with that.  Do not waste your time with this one folks. "},{"Title":"Suspension of Reality is Required!","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Even if I didn't know a thing about mountain climbing I would never believe you could leap across a 150 foot crevice, land on the vertical rock face and stick there.  How about sliding 300 feet down a snow face, with some speed I might add, unable to stop yourself, and then amazingly the old ice axe grabs right on to that soft snow at the lip and saves you from a 1000 foot drop.There's a lot of action in this film but apparently the writers have neither seen, read, or heard anything at all about mountain climbing.  The plot is very thin and is based over and over on really stupid, unbelievable mountaineering decisions and feats.  By the end of the movie I was expecting the remaining climbers fly up to the top by the force of their will.  But alas, no flying was seen, which was one of the few things about this movie which didn't overcome the laws of physics.Have you ever seen a movie where there are hundreds of bullets flying back and forth as two guys shoot it out, with not one single shot hitting it's target, and then the hero runs, leaps, rolls, jumps up and shoots the bad guy right between the eyes and saves the day?  That describes most of the scenes in this entire movie.The movie isn't boring at all, there is always something going on, no matter how unbelievable.  So if you can suspend reality for two hours then this movie is for you. "},{"Title":"Limits","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Cinematic life exists in a world that is large and intimate. Film can also thrill -- without much effort on the part of the viewer -- more than any other medium. Any other art can exceed it (TeeVee is not included in this) but only by dint of effort.This tradition of summer films whose only purpose is to thrill is a strange phenomenon. Incidentally, it must put strange pressures on the filmmakers who want to surf that ever more lucrative wave. Thrill films are basically pornographic the story exists as the barest excuse to cobble together the `good parts.' Acting/reading is incidental. What matters is pace and intensity.But sex pornography is pretty much always the same thing, and thrill porn must always top the previous standard. Nonetheless, there are only so many things to work with fights, car chases, explosions, elaborate spaceships, monsters,Egypt, outerspace, underwater are problematic because these types of film depend on familiarity for instance an exploding space ship now has to look a certain way, quite contrary to reality, or it doesn't look real. Car wrecks must always flip and fly or explode or we don't believe it. You can press humor only so far, as Renny Harlin discovered in `Cutthroat Island.'Renny himself discovered the possibilities of mountain adventure with `Cliffhanger.' Its novelty alone brought success, in spite of cheesy effects and the burden of Sly. Now `Vertical' dips into the same pile, but with much better effect technology and more investment in a story of sorts. It is the same rescue bit, but with two side plots the kid who sacrificed his dad to save his sister -- the climbing ace whose wife was killed by a climber to save that climber's life -- the confluence of those at the end when the ace kills the bad guy climber in identical circumstances, validating the son's decision (and incidentally again saving the sister).There's some art in all these plotline symmetries, even to the presaging in the opening 2 unrelated climbers disrupting a trio, and I appreciate this.The effects are rather good as effect movies go that opening sequence may become classic. But the pacing is dull and repetitive, outcomes and images predictable. One problem is that everyone is wrapped up in cold clothes, so much of range of the actors is off the table. Which is a problem because the director really wants the actors to add dramatic tension to the mix. Alas this group would be unable to do that in the best of circumstances.The heaviest burden of this film is the existence of the IMAX film on Everest. That film depends (as do all IMAXen) on swooping heli shots over ridges, But it has grandeur and thrills this film can't come close to. "}{"Title":"One of the Worst Movies Of All Time","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This has to be one of the worst, over-emoted, cheese filled films of all time. This thing has got more schmaltz in it than ALL of the Chick Flicks girlfriends past/present have ever dragged me through.Poor Ed Viesturs looked embarrassed to death as he somehow agreed to malign his own personal character in this turkey of a film. His only saving grace is that there can not be too many people that actually remember his 'performance'.Maybe people actually gasp like this above 26,000 feet, but you can't watch it for minutes on end. I was actually rooting for Robin Tunney's character to die, so sick was I of seeing that wide-eyed, wide-mouthed look of panic on her face.Fortunately for myself, I only had this on as background noise while I performed real work at home. I can not imagine the horror of being trapped in a theater while this was playing.And the situations. There were more unbelievable, Rube Goldberg type accidents, or death caused through stupidity, than even the dumbest of schlock horror films.If you're fit enough, and want to try it, by all means train and go mountain climbing. Don't let this joke of a film scare you away.If you like to laugh at unintentionally hysterical over-acting, this film is for you.If you like action films, and want to be genuinely entertained, do yourself a favor and don't allow a quantum particle of reflected light generated by this junk to reach your eyes.Acting The Worst - Overemotional, Not A shred of control exhibited by either the actors, and by extension, the director.Plot On Paper, Marginally Believable - As Depicted On Screen, Grade F- Silly.Action Scenes Judging by the characters lack of luck in this movie, I doubt that they could get out of bed without winding up in the hospital, let alone actually making it to the mountain.Overall 0/10 - Feed it to the shredder. "},{"Title":"Factual Limits","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Dear Lord, what an awful movie!  The characters are all the usual clichés. There is a total disregard for science, physics, and common sense.  Gee, how can we make this exciting... I know, let's strap Nitro on their backs for some reason!  Let's make them click radios instead of talking.  Let's take every plot device out of every other action movie and see if we can fit it in!  Shucks, you sure we can't have a car chase?And I hate the Nitro crapola that Hollywood seems to come up with.  Yes, if you even sneeze it will explode!  How did they get it there to start with then?  Who knows.  And if anyone thinks ANYONE uses liquid Nitro for ANY purpose, they should research where the funds for the Nobel prizes come from.What a piece of crap. "},{"Title":"Gag - this movie stinks.  Go watch K2 instead","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I suppose some action junkies may find something likeable in this movie.  For the rest of us, and for those who want a choice mountain climbing movie with plenty of good scenery and plot twists - go watch K2 instead of this movie.Nothing can save Vertical Limit from itself.  Not the star cast.  Not the scenery.  Not the action.The plot is sophomoric and very predictable, the acting is marginal, many of the scenes are obvious fakes, and the action sequences are less than one would hope for.Its obvious that the producer had one thing in mind - explosions on a mountain - and forgot to add a believable plot or credible acting.  Save your $.  There are plenty of action movies to choose from which are better than this film.  And if you want climbing - 'K2' kicks this film's booty. "},{"Title":"Poor FX And A Poor Script","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  !!!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!!!This movie was spoiled for me right at the very start with some laughably bad back projection , even though I was hypnotised by Annie Garrets cleavage I couldn`t help noticing how fake it looked ( The rock face not the cleavage - Boy was that real ) which killed any potential tension because instead of watching a group of characters fighting for their lives I couldn`t think of them as anything more than a bunch of actors pretending they`re people in a life threatening situation Did I mention Annie`s cleavage ? Good because it`s worth mentioning twice . Unfortunately the action them moves to K2 . Did you know it`s very cold up there ? You do ? Well that`s a major bummer because Annie keeps her and the film`s prize assets firmly underwraps in case of frostbite . Much of the film does obviously take place on location amongst rolling mountains unlike the fake mountains at the start of the movie but VERTICAL LIMIT`s main failing from then on is its very lacklustre script which tries to be a high concept thriller with a low concept subplot featuring family loss , but there`s too many plot holes in the former ( Why nitro ? ) and too much tedium in the latter to make this a memorable or even interesting film . If the story had been about Annie stuck up a mountain on a very hot day I would have no problem watching it over and over again  "},{"Title":"Makes you think of climber's dilemmas","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I won't tell you what the spoilers are, but this movie makes you think about the ethical dilemmas advanced climbers face. Especially above the Vertical Limit where your own life is pretty much dying above that limit as you approach the summit.In an article by The Guardian entitled Mount Everest the ethical dilemma facing climbers the author discussed whether climbers should stop to help casualties. Also, check out article in BBC News The ethics of climbing Everest in 2006.Another interesting article May 1 2015, especially considering recent Avalanches in Nepal. Mount Everest climbers in dilemma as climbing season draws closer in Nepal So you should ask yourself would you do what Vaughan did with the medical kit?If you family member were trapped on top of K2 or Mount Everest, would you go rescue them?If you were at base camp what would be your motivations to climb to the top to rescue someone?And if you were a AF Pararescueman, would you not absolutely love this movie? Hoorah! "},{"Title":"Sends the wrong message","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  In summary, to save Annie's life costs five other lives; hardly worth the price, right? The body count would have been less if Chris O'Donnell had just let her die up on the mountain. I hope she was really special or had the cure for cancer or something that grand to merit such a waste of humanity. "},{"Title":"Live action Johnny quest! (but lame)","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Watching this movie I was immediately reminded of Johnny quest! There are many striking similarities.. (Although I like Johnny quest, I did NOT like this movie). Just like JQ, this movie has countless falling from a cliff only to grab a ledge at the last moment moments. This movie was unbelievable. Not in the sense of being great, but it was just literally UNBELIEVABLE. I don't think if ONE thing that happened in the movie happened in real life anyone would survive. Also, acting was mediocre, and music could have well been the score to any other action movie. The facts were frighteningly inaccurate, and it wasn't even the correct mountain!If you want to see a REAL mountain climber's movie, check out Everest (1998)!! "},{"Title":"Do climbers really decide who to sacrifice like this?","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, this is a pretty bad movie, as most of the comments here will indicate.  But, there is one thing I was left wondering about  do climbers who are hanging on an overloaded support system routinely cut some of the group loose to fall and die in order to maybe save the rest?  This plot device gets used twice in this movie.  Interestingly enough, it seems to be the first course of action people think of.  We'll try to swing around a bit, but then just cut that old load, sorry Dad, and we're all okay.  But, at the same time it's considered evil to withhold a limited lifesaving miracle drug from the seriously injured member of a group who is not likely to survive anyway, (having expendible cast member tattooed across his forehead).Didn't this film have to have someone who actually climbed to create the action sequences?  Didn't they every complain about the stupidities?  Heck, I'm not a climber at all, but I've seen enough National Geographic to recognize many of the stupidities in this film.  "},{"Title":"awful movie","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The movie has been shoddily made and too many holes in the story. The climbers are shown to make too many mistakes like losing their backpacks, ice picks or whatever they are called getting loose, not expecting avalanches after big explosions. Actors especially Wick muttering gibberish as if he is praying in Urdu. They could have made it better if they had shown graphics indicating base camp, the routes of the 3 search teams and time line of events happening.It had some engrossing parts. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"AD NAUSEAM !","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I am in total agreement with tthompson-1. This was a total waste of time and money. It's so improbable that all the bad things that can possibly happen, happen. Especially to the 'best of the best', even Murphy's Law has some limitations. and that's my take on it. "}{"Title":"Great Action Flick.","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you like Action movies for their escapism, you will love Vertical Limit. It deserves a 9/10 rating.If you need reality, go elsewhere. It would only be a 2/10 rating. Better yet, go watch a documentary.This movie is no different than the Spielberg formula, from movies like Indiana Jones.  However, for those of us that like the formula, this is great entertainment.The writing gets a 5/10 Special Effects - 10 Camera work - 10 Acting - 8 Character development - 6Have some fun, turn off the thinking cap, and watch this action flick. "},{"Title":"too many back-to-back, far-fetched, drawn-out action scenes","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This filmed offered some good acting, some ok dialog, and a very poor storyline. Instead of enjoying edge-of-the-seat thrills, I was left trying to follow along with  'suspended disbelief' in too many back-to-back, far-fetched, drawn-out action scenes. The unfortunate effect of one impossible situation after another was to make the climax rather anti-climatic.This, combined with the lack of character depth and inconsistent theme (and inconsistent properties of the 'nitro'), made this movie is entirely forgettable.  "},{"Title":"This film- good? No","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe there are so many people commenting on this film who seriously believe this film is well made or directed.... I have to say it is technically probably one of the worst films I've ever seen. However let me qualify that statement by also saying its actually quite entertaining - I'm not quite sure how -perhaps it's something to do with the stereotypes, cliches or cheese - but it somehow it is. Its not in the cinemas anymore so if you havent seen it the question is- should you rent it? Well if you don't expect anything remotely realistic or believable then you might be OK.  "},{"Title":"Frozen Turkey","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  George Bernard Shaw once commented that the British Everest expeditions of the twenties looked like 'Connamare picnic parties surprised by a snowstorm'.  And so it was with this bunch of jokers.  You wouldn't even expect them to survive a wet weekend on the Scottish Munros... indeed the way they were a leaping and a prancing about they looked to be more at 2800 feet not 28000 meters!Nice ad for North Face fleeces and woolly bobble hats but totally unbelievable.The Nitro was completely unnecessary, the trapped climbers had already made a big enough hole in the snow to climb through.It was funny when they found Mayame Wick's body, like this woman had been deep frozen at 28000 meters for four years.  Hasn't Martin Cambell ever taken a frozen turkey out of a freezer (apart from this one?) - it doesn't move, it is SOLID!  But not Mayama, she looked more like she'd just fallen asleep in front of the TV. "},{"Title":"Laughable, and still no fun.","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Absolutely the only thing I can say to this film's credit is that it did not live down to the lack of promise of the opening scene.  Had it sustained that level of atrocity, it could have been quite funny, but it managed to descend further into boredom and even hammier acting (this is quite an achievement).  Imagine what else you could do with two hours of your life. Even knitting would have an edge of excitement. "},{"Title":"Technically inept Hollywood treatment of mountain bagging full of product placement.","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The stuffed bird on a string effect at the beginning of the movie was the first alert that this was going to stink!Your powers for `suspension of disbelief' had better be in top form if you want to enjoy this one. If there was a technical climbing expert giving advice for this they must have put their head in their hands on day one and just given the nod to any old thing that took the director's fancy after that.Slim story line padded out with the desperate family guilt, girl meets boy, will they all die oh no its going to be ok for the few still breathing at the end.Product placement is rife throughout. Does a survival rate of 3 out of 13 really encourage anyone to get out there and share the experience?Nice scenery - I'm from NZ I have to say that. Shame it didn't add to the film greatly.If you want a mountain movie watch Cliff Hanger. If you really want a mountain adventure/thriller read Touching The Void by Joe Simpson.  "},{"Title":"can we say Repetitive","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  this movie blows!!!  it sucked sooooo much i was just happy I had someone there to entertain me.  THe same thing flippin happens 5 times in the movie.  Ok now really, how many times can you see someone falling off a cliff and dieing with out just bursting out laughing on how badly acted it is?  Oh and trust me, the acting is bad.  I can't belive someone actually paid for me to get in to watch this this horrid piece of videography.  Oh to be able to be soooooo easily entertained that this movie could instill something in me other than laughing.  I have to say, the only good part about this movie was the brothers.  NOW THEY KICKED ASS! But over all, the movie blew.   3*/10* "},{"Title":"Flush it","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm usually pretty good with summaries Acting-Laughable, corny, except for Scott Glenn and Nick Lea Direction-Pretty good, suspenseful, but tiring Editing-Too long Score-Horrendous, disgraceful to the music industry Drama-Dumb Action-Too long but very exciting Believability-Far-fetched Like action? It's for you. Like drama? Don't go. "},{"Title":"Yawn...","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was so excited to see this movie ~ but was disappointed early into it. A lot of up and down climax.  If you want to build a good ride, then pump it up at the beginning, hit the climax of excitement and then wind it down.  This movie went up then down, up and then down, up then down...and if this bores you to read it, then it will do the same on screen. Chris O'Donnell was far to wimpy for this role.  The most enjoyable part of the movie was the two Australian brothers, the French-Canadian femme fatale, and the always enjoyable and extremely talented Scott Glenn. I gave it a 5/10 when I first walked out...and a 3 /10 the next day. Didn't cut it for me.  "},{"Title":"Climbing Mt. Improbable","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, I'll admit that I was swept away momentarily with the non-stop, edge of the seat, will they live or will they die action.  But when the snow and ice finally stopped falling, it was hard for me not to walk out of the theater laughing.  The combination of silly sub-plots, ridiculously unbelievable physical feats, and a lame ending proved too much for this reviewer.  Any serious climber, or even someone just vaguely familiar with the sport, will probably reach the same conclusion.  I swear I read somewhere recently that an expedition went up Everest for the sole purpose of retrieving spent oxygen bottles.  I guess the director either felt that the reality of needing oxygen at high altitude didn't fit into the action sequences or he's an environmentalist.  If you're the type of movie watcher who can completely leave your brain at the door, or in this case at home, maybe this movie is for you.  If not, I'd skip it. "}{"Title":"A Big Disappointment.","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  *Warning Spoilers*Vertical Limit had an intriguing trailer, it looked like fun entertainment. Unfortunately, it wasn't fun. It was hardly entertaining, either. A big disappointment.Vertical Limit kicks off with a prologue that has the Garrett family dangling perilously from a mountain face. Paw Garrett demands that his eldest, Peter (Chris O'Donnell), cut him loose to save his sister, Annie (Robin Tunney), which he does - much to her horror. Two years later and sis has got herself stranded halfway up K2, and Peter has to lug a load of highly unstable nitroglycerine up the mountain in order to rescue her.A stupid movie from the start, Vertical Limit has mix of dumb-ass cheap thrills and ugly, silly special effects. The performances are terrible, Robin Tunney has the only watchable role. The script is disastrous, you'll be screaming at the screen in agony at how flipping stupid the whole thing is. The film is so predictable, I mean, of course O'Donnell is going to save the day and rescue his beloved sister Annie! And the stupid blonde bitch who should of died instantly still lives, and typically falls in love with Peter. This is one of the few films where I cared for none of the characters, because none of them were developed, and I just wanted them to all suffocate and die on the K2.  Boring, annoying, stupid and disappointing - Vertical Limit is one of the most embarrassing New Zealand films ever made, and it isn't worth your precious time.I rate Vertical Limit 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"This is what happens when you steal the action from Cliffhanger and the story line from Shakespeare","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You know a movie is going to be bad when the audience laughs at a supposed emotional climax.  Meet Chris O'donnell, a mountain climber with absolutely no muscle tone, his sister Robin Tunney, with absolutely no acting talent, and the ridiculous plot with absolutely no sense.  First of all, the relationship between O'donnell and Tunney make Angelina Jolie and her brother look perfectly normal. Most people just look at their siblings, they gaze longingly into each others eyes.  But besides the weird relationship, the story is ridiculous.  The same tragedy that separated them brings them back together which then separates them which in turn brings them back together (Whew!  If that doesn't make any sense, welcome to the viewing public's experience of this movie)  Scott Glenn appears as his usual haggard self.  He really gives new meaning to the word crusty.  Bill Paxton does his best at being menacing (his best wasn't good enough).  The ending is as expected, extremely predictable. By the way, if a movie was ever guilty of gratuitous explosions, this is it.  As I was leaving the theater, a 10yr old summed this one up the best,I rate this movie a C for Crap! "},{"Title":"bad","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  -WARNING SPOILERS-This film was fairly bad.  First, there was so little character development that when the characters started dieing I just did not care about them. Second, the plot had so many holes in it that it was unbelievable(ex. nitro).  Third, the special effects were so fakey.  Why do film makers think that nearly every action movie made nowadays has to have totally fake looking computer animated sets and characters(ex. the eagle and most of the mountain itself).  Forth, there has not been a single good movie since June! Why is hollywood continuing to make these lousy movies? If you are looking for a better mountain climbing film(although it has equally corny special effects) rent 'The Mountain'. "},{"Title":"(not very) special effects, and thats it","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  this movie was _not_ worth the ticket! is is not enough, that there are dangerous mountains, no, there are dangerous explosives. well, and then the whole group is too busy killing each other to realize that. Only due to miracles there are some survivors at the end of this film - eventually it would have been better if there would have been none. however, if one is interested in nice mountain images and a frosty atmosphere (and that only), it might be worth watching. "},{"Title":"It's a Mixed Bag","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"     Is there some reason why Hollywood has a problem with keeping their flicks somewhere within the bounds of reality?  Chris O'Donnell's sister is trapped somewhere below the summit of K2 with win-at-all costs tycoon Paxton.  Stars are attractive and the basic plot is sound, maybe even outstanding, but what's with these moments where suspension of disbelief become just disbelief?  Think of a cross between Armaggedon and Cliffhanger and you're in this neighborhood.  Unintentional laughs when you see the microphone boom glide in and out in several scenes.  Scott Glenn does a real nice turn as enigmatic expert climber Wick, the film's most interesting character.  Definitely a mixed bag.   "},{"Title":"VERY BAD story, and scenery / action was disappointing also","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I did not go to see this movie for the story. I expected it to be bad, and I got what I expected and then some.  The plot was paper-thin and the acting was very forgettable.The main reasons I wanted to see the movie was for the scenery and because mountaineering interest me.  The scenery was, for the most part, impressive. If you can get past the ridiculously fake looking ice cavern and some scenes that were so obviously done with a blue screen that it was almost amusing, you are rewarded with some breathtaking cinematography.The mountaineering aspects of the story, however, were atrocious.  Most of my knowledge of mountaineering comes from a few Jon Krakauer books, but I understand enough to know that this story was ludicrous.  The action sequences were so over the top that I had to check IMDb after seeing it to make sure John Woo hadn't directed it.  There was just nothing believable about the movie at all.Wait till it comes out on video, or, better yet, just hold out for cable. "},{"Title":"Great movie but with many flaws","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great, but it had a few flaws in it.  First, the trailer revealed way too much about the movie.  The trailer had the best stunt of the whole movie in it. Second, the actors didn't seem to really get into the movie at certain times. But on the flip side, the movie had a great plot in it, good actors, breath-taking scenery, and a great beginning. I give it **** out of *****.  I would recommend it to anyone who loves action movies.  It is an overall winner for this holiday season and beyond.  "},{"Title":"Everything you expect","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What is wrong with these people who want every movie to be like gone with the wind? or Titanic?  When I went to the theater to see Vertical Limit, i got everything i wanted to see, great action sequences, great special FX, a few funny moments, and not a bad story.  Sure some of the scenes were pretty incredible and unbelievable, but if you want a movie about reality, or believability, watch your home movies!!  I really enjoyed this movie and I am telling everyone to see it, but to see it for what it is, a great action flick.  Some people are just too picky about everything and should just relax and try to enjoy a movie once in a while instead of trying to pick it apart. "},{"Title":"Campbell Takes You To The Top","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  	A team of mountain climbers run into dire straits when they encounter a turn in the weather and become stranded during an assault on K2 in `Vertical Limit,' a thriller directed by Martin Campbell.   Millionaire businessman (and experienced climber) Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton) has surrounded himself with the best climbers in the world to help him reach the top of K2 and effect his `life's statement.'  And coincidentally, there just may be some publicity in it to help him launch his new airline, which is scheduled to make it's initial flight (over K2, of course) just as they make it to the summit.  World renowned climber Tom McLaren (Nicholas Lea) is in charge on the mountain; but when conditions dictate a return to base camp, Vaughn's money and position prevails and they continue on with what becomes a fool's errand.  Watching the proceedings from below is photographer Peter Garrett (Chris O'Donnell), who is in the area on assignment for National Geographic.  Garrett also happens to be an expert climber, as is his sister, Annie (Robin Tunney), who happens to be a member of Vaughn's team.  When it becomes clear that the stranded climbers have a window of but a certain number of hours for survival, Peter goes into action and puts together a rescue team; he's not about to let his sister die on the mountain.  To lead his team he enlists the help of a local, Montgomery Wick (Scott Glenn), a legendary climber who knows K2 better than anyone else alive.  And with his team in place and good to go, the adventure begins. 	The story-- by Robert King, with a screenplay by King and Terry Hayes-- is substantially well written, and though it has a sense of `been-there-done-that' about it, it's like your favorite ride at an amusement park; as soon as you get off, you want to get back on and go again.  That's the way it is with this movie.  It's familiar territory, but under the steady hand of director Campbell, and with the help of some breathtaking photography, it's a heart-stopping, exciting film that refuses to let you off the hook from the opening sequence to the very end.  The only flaw overall would have to be that King and Hayes took the low road-- or the easy way, if you will-- by introducing a plot twist that concerns the relationship between Vaughn and Wick that is somewhat cliched; almost as if they felt the drama of the rescue and all that surrounds it was not enough somehow.  They were wrong; the element in question merely serves to lower the bar a bit.  Happily, however, it is not enough to negate the entertainment value of the entire project, nor does it significantly alter the fact that this is basically a good story.  I mention it only because I feel that had they used a more imaginative, alternative means to their end, it would have made what is predominantly a really good movie an exceptional one. 	An interesting cast was assembled for Campbell to use in the telling of his story, most notably O'Donnell, who has attained a level of maturity that gives a credibility to his character that he has lacked somewhat in previous outings; and Scott Glenn-- looking aptly weather-beaten here-- who effects just the right touch of isolation to make Wick a somewhat enigmatic presence.  Tunney makes her Annie believable, which is especially important in putting across the climbing sequences, and Paxton does likewise with Vaughn, though his character is not really much of a stretch for him as an actor.  But he does deliver.  The real find here, however, is the charismatic Izabella Scorupco (Monique), who not only proves that she has what it takes as an actress, but is a classic beauty in the style of Lake, Leigh and Bergman rarely seen in Hollywood in the past two or three decades.   	The supporting cast includes Steve Le Marquand, Ben Mendelsohn, Temuera Morrison and Robert Taylor.  There are a number of scenes in `Vertical Limit' that will have you on the edge of your seat and may even have you gasping aloud; at the same time, there are certain aspects of this film that have inevitable conclusions.  But Campbell has put it all in a fresh, exciting package that makes this movie more than worth your while and is thoroughly entertaining.  Check it out; It's a ride you're going to be glad you jumped on.  I rate this one 7/10.              	 "},{"Title":"Needs a little more oxygen","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you put together a few panoramic shots of K2, a lot of snow, box office stars and some special effects you get Vertical Limit.  But what Vertical Limit does not have is believability.  First, the actors are simply not dressed properly for the mountains of Nepal and Tibet.  They look like they're going on a ski trip.  They're not even properly dressed for New Hampshire.  Second, the actors exert themselves tremendously during the film, all without oxygen.  No one can do that.  It is not humanly possible to jump from one cliff to the next above 21,000 feet without oxygen. Oxygen-free ascents have been done before, but at an arduous pace with no clowning around along the way.  Even with oxygen, climbers will tell you that the body behaves very differently at high altitude.  I'm sure more than a couple of climbers have already groaned through this one.  This movie was ruined because someone didn't get their facts straight. "}{"Title":"Ummmmmmmm, yyyyeeeeaaaaahhhh.........","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is a wintry piece of eye candy that throws plot and character development out the window in order to squeeze in as many shots of people dangling from cliffs as possible.  Although many of the trickiest scenes were done with the aide of blue screens and matte backgrounds, the film features many breathtaking aerial shots of the Pakistani Himalayas.  The most beautifully composed sequence of the film is its first, in which Annie Garrett (Robin Tunney, End of Days), her brother Peter (Chris O'Donnell, Scent of a Woman), and their father are rock climbing in Utah.  Someone slips up, and Peter is put in a position where he has to decide whether to save himself and his sister or risk killing all three climbers.  He chooses the former and lets his father fall to his death. Fast forward three years.  Annie has apparently excelled the sport of female mountain climbing so much that she is on the cover of Sports Illustrated, while Peter, having given up climbing after the accident, is a nature photographer.  The two are rather awkwardly reunited in Pakistan, where Peter learns that his sister is part of a mountain climbing dream team seeking to scale the second highest peak in the world, K2.  The climb is part of a publicity stunt created by billionaire Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton, A Simple Plan), who plans to wave at the inaugural flight of his new airline as it soars over K2.  However, the overzealous Vaughn leads the team into heavy weather, trapping them in a crevasse.  To save his sister, Peter assembles a team of international climbing experts-among them, foulmouthed twins from New Zealand with a penchant for misogyny, a tough-as-nails supermodel from Canada, a Muslim who speaks only in cliché, and a grizzled climbing veteran with an uninteresting subplot. They plan to blast their way into the crevasse with nitroglycerin.  Why anyone with any sense would carry such a highly sensitive explosive on such a perilous mission is a matter screenwriter Robert King III doesn't care to address.  From here, it doesn't take long to figure out who lives and who doesn't. Director Martin Campbell keeps the film moving nicely from stunt to stunt, but gets bogged down by superfluous scenes of people screaming mountain jargon at one another through howling winds.  O'Donnell seems like a former teen idol that never made it to the pages of Tiger Beat.  His turn here as an action star doesn't quite pan out, but I applaud the effort.  In fact, most of the characters are so laughably underwritten and one-dimensional that we really don't care who gets buried under the snow.  Paxton, an otherwise reliable leading man, plays a villain about as evil as a Teletubby. Your opinion of this film will depend on your tolerance for banal storylines and extreme close-ups of snow speckled faces.  Vertical Limit offers incredible scenery and remarkable stunts, but not much else. "},{"Title":"The worst story ever.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The stunts and special effects could not save this horrible movie.  The worst story line one could imagine.  The Imax movie was more entertaining and a better story, and it was a documentery.  The endless stupidity dressed up as suspense was frustrating.  Dont go see this film if you if you are considering it. "},{"Title":"A film with an excellent opening sequence drops audience off shortly thereafter","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was encouraged by the opening sequence, grabbing although a little campy. But once the first scene ended the rest of the film was flat.  And yes, that's possible even with a thriller genre.  The character who was supposed to be the important one, Annie, was boring and shallow.  Yet so much was put at stake for the sake of that character.  Partly it was the writing, and partly I think it was the actress (Robin Tunney) who delivered an uninteresting and sometimes annoying performance.There were moments in the film that were entertaining.  Go if you like Chris O'Donnell, and go if you're into climbing (though you'll be annoyed at the misconceptions this movie encourages about the safety of climbing,) but don't go if you expect the hype to match the actual film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable but not great","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First, Vertical Limit has some outstanding photography and special effects. Some scenes, particularly the initial setup, are very well done.  However, the plot is not outstanding, and tends to wander.  I give it points for trying to be more than just an action flick, but the plot tends to lack focus.  Basically this movie is a fun diversion, but not particularly engrossing.  6/10 "},{"Title":"Great action!","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The vertical limit is a whirlwind of a movie.  THe first scene knocks you off your socks!  The movie only goes up from there.  Action takes place every ten minutes and you will never be bored.  Of course chris o' donnel does add a little chesse factor but he does a good job.  The sfx are amazing.  This movie was very good chessy at times but overall good 8/10 "},{"Title":"big pile of poop","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had the misfortune of watching this steaming pile of poop. Don't waste your time, go and buy an ice cream or take a pleasant stroll, or water a plant, or feed the birds in the park, or bake a cake, or eat some m&ms, or learn to cook Thai food, or smoke a joint, or read a nice novel, or grow grapes, or look for a monkey in Malaysia, or divide and rule, or write your will, or dye your hair, or grow a beard, or wash your feet, or shampoo your cat, or skate backwards, or fly a kite, or climb Kilimanjaro, or eat your neighbor, or purchase some nerd glasses, or make pasta instead. You will surely find more joy in any other activity. "},{"Title":"A movie that would make David Hasselhoff proud ...","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A movie that would make David Hasselhoff proud ...This was like the mountain climbing version of Baywatch without pretty half naked girls ... cheesy, ridiculous, beyond unbelievable stunts, cheesy lines, forced acting, and not cheesy enough to be funny, just insultingly dumb. You don't need to be a climber to appreciate how ridiculous this movie is. It reminded me of the kind of disaster movies you used to see in the 70's like towering inferno, except that, incredibly, it's worse.The movie is about a group of climbers that get trapped in a crevasse, in the death zone, on K2, around 26,000 feet, and a rescue team that undertakes an expedition to find them. The crevasse is a bad Hollywood set with lots of fake snow. One rescuer sits down casually in the snow at 23,000 feet and rolls a smoke. One rolls out the Persian carpet runner that he carries up in order to pray to Allah - I kid you not. If they had performed a live exorcism on the mountain it would have fit the implausible plot. There are explosions from nitroglycerin that the rescue team carries (it's that lame), climbers hanging from ledges with one arm while they dramatically swing their climbing buddy below them, just one stupid and stupider thing after another.If movies like this inject some humour you can forgive the idiocy - it can actually add to the film - but this is so self serious as to be fetching, overly sentimental and dumb.I gave it a 3 for some scenery - at least the scenery that wasn't fake. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous, but the tension makes it fun","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" On the infamous peak K2, a climbing expedition gets trapped in a cavern after an avalanche. A rescue is mounted to help save them. Thank God for nitroglycerin!From the get-go this is one very silly movie. Even the goofs section seems to suggests that not even the film makers knew what they heck they were doing as apparently everything about K2 and mountaineering is wrong. That doesn't really limit the audience too much, though it probably made some people cringe or laugh out loud.Logic aside this is actually a pretty fun movie. There are good tense moments of peril along with some cool stunts and action, which is really all a movie like this needs. Don't ask me why one can of nitroglycerin can make a huge fireball hundreds of feet high, while a whole storage shed barely damages a mountain side upon destruction. Don't ask me why this movie was even made let alone funded. Just sit back for two hours and enjoy, but be sure not to think too hard. 6/10Rated PG-13 for intense scenes of action/peril "},{"Title":"A Fun Romp for Those Who Can Suspend Belief and Enjoy It","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I'm surprised that some viewers have been so hard on this film. Sure, the plot is formulaic, and for those of us who are experienced mountaineers, the events and stunts rise occasionally to the ridiculous. But this movie was far superior to some of the mountaineering films made in the early 90s (K2, Cliffhanger). It is also visually beautiful to watch if you enjoy the mountains or are a climber. Other perks for the armchair mountaineer include a cameo by Ed Viesturs (as himself).The plot is a simple one. Accomplished young sibling climbers become estranged after the death of their father in a climbing accident, but are reunited in the K2 death zone after one becomes trapped with her climbing party at high altitude and her brother forms the rescue party. From there, all that's required to enjoy the unfolding events is an ability to enjoy the stunning vistas and not take the details too seriously.The movie was well cast, with an earnest Chris O'Donnell as a young hero, Scott Glenn as a mysterious, menacing, yet fundamentally well intentioned old school climber, and Tom Paxton as a hard-charging self-absorbed businessman.Also, when this film was first released the plot had some timely elements in the wake of the 1996 Everest disaster. The notion that wealthy clients could guarantee themselves a summit via high-priced guides--often with tragic results--was most certainly not fiction. No doubt the Everest story, although much more serious than this enjoyable bit of mountaineering fluff, influenced the writer of the screenplay here. "},{"Title":"Why do people like this movie?","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I bite my tongue when giving this a '3'. The premise is jaw-slackingly stupid. There are 30 technical errors in the opening rock climbing scene alone. K2 does not look like that- not even close. I counted 204 errors. I am a climber, so of course I had to see this film. I just don't understand how a climber or non-climber could get into this plot and believe any of the characters abilities, motivations or actions. The stunts were retarded and so beyond the realm of human possibility I laughed through the entire thing. Comedic value is the only reason I can give this a 3. Nobody acts like these people act in the mountains. Not emotionally or physiologically. Literally every use of climbing/rescue equipment was not only incorrect, but absolutely insulting to the intelligence. At least Cliffhanger was cool in that 'Stallone's a bad ass' way. This movie just stunk. Seeing Ed Viesturs (playing himself) refuse to assist in a high-altitude rescue in near-perfect weather was a slap in the face- the man has always shown bravery and selflessness in real life- they didn't need to portray him that way.And I own the darn thing- so something must be seriously wrong with me ) "}{"Title":"Well the scenery was nice","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit makes Cliffhanger look like an epic. I wouldn't mind all the corny speeches and far fetched action sequences if the story was capable of making you care about any of the characters, and it didn't seem as if the actors were bothered either. "},{"Title":"If only I knew....","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The best way I can describe Vertical Limit is as the Godzilla of mountain-climbing movies.  Its massive lack of imagination was topped only by its gigantic plot holes.  The characters in this film were as flat and undefined as half a stick figure drawn by a kindergartner on Ritalin working on a deadline.  Not once during the two hours and ten minutes of my life that I will never get back did the film even skim the edges of anything that could be identified as `entertaining.'  This film also was a cause for concern if the people climbing these mountains are this untalented, then we can anticipate many icy deaths in the near future. The film is the story of Chris O'Donnell who is a National Geographic photographer.  His sister is a guide to the evil Bill Paxton, who is trying to climb the mountain as a publicity stunt.  (He has just purchased an airline and, against all rules of reality, plans to wave to the first flight and it soars by.)  So naturally there is an avalanche and the climbers are trapped in a cave which is conveniently positioned near the avalanche. Chris O'Donnell, obviously, is the only one brave enough to venture up the mountain and save his sister, but he soon recruits others whose only purpose in the film is to die so we feel sad and O'Donnell looks braver.O'Donnell gets the brilliant idea that it would be quicker to blast his sister out rather than dig for her.  (Apparently he expects the laws of physics will tailor to his needs and the explosion will create a nice, carpeted passageway leading straight to her rather than bury her under massive amounts of snow, as would happen in the real world.)  Rather than selecting dynamite or some other normal explosive, he `wisely' chooses nitro glycerin, which as we all know explodes if shaken.  This film was obviously written by semi-talented monkeys who were promised a banana.Overall, I believe that Vertical Limit is a waste of celluloid and every copy of the film should be burned so as not to expose future generations to this painfully wretched insult to the sport of mountain climbing.  Bad Flick.  "},{"Title":"I reached my horizontal limit about 45 minutes in (SPOILER ALERT!!)","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I agree with most of the other comments here......such a good cast, and I'm sure in the case of Martin Campbell, good intentions, but boy oh boy!!I am by no means an expert outdoorsperson; my idea of exercise is grabbing the remote, firing up the TV and doing some quick warmups at the keyboard before launching into a day of websurfing.  But even I found this movie very far-fetched and laughable during the parts of it I managed to stay glued to. In addition to the other oopsies everybody else pointed out, if we're going for realism in a movie, can we avoid using fake spray-on Christmas-tree snow on people's faces and sets??  Aacckk, I hate that look in movies!  I realize we can't really freeze people to death for the sake of realism, but with makeup and special effects and huge budgets that we have today we can avoid this little faux pas, can't we??It seemed to me that this movie lasted for about 6 hours.  Maybe this is an after-effect that the director was going for, maybe he wanted us to sense that when you're climbing a 28,000 ft. mountain, your sense of time is distorted or something.  Personally the only inclination this gave me was to wonder how I could get up and leave the room about 27 times, read about 30 reviews of movies here on the IMDb, and this movie was still running!! Freezing to death probably would have the same effect on the brain, I'd assume.The first thing that made me dubious of this flick (and I must admit I didn't even catch the first 45 minutes of it) was after Scott Glenn (in his best David Carradine-from-Kung-Fu incarnation) agreed to go on the rescue expedition, and the helicopter has to literally drop the rescuers off on the mountain.  After watching the (kid's toy-looking) helicopter thrash about in the maniacal winds for about 15 minutes, wondering how the heck, even I knew that a helicopter couldn't survive in a) winds like that for that long, b) hovering at that altitude just wouldn't cut it either, and c) I was ready for that rotor blade to chop the girl's head off just for an encore.And ok, maybe I'm being a little heavy here, but I'm sorry, I just can't take Chris O'Donnell seriously in a movie while I'm waiting on the edge of my seat for him to dash into the Batcave and come out in the full Robin package.  He sure could have used Batman's help out of this mess.  He's so, well, golly gee, earnest or something, he reminds me of Beaver Cleaver trying to act in a big-boy movie.All in all, I would just say, save yourself the time and energy.  The little mountain climbing episode at the beginning of Ace Ventura  When Nature Calls was far more entertaining for me, and sadly, more realistic.  I felt sorrier for that poor little raccoon that for any of the popsicles in this dud.Holy Avalanche, Batman, get us out of here, quick!! "},{"Title":"Fatal flaws abound...","Date":"16 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Motivation is the key element necessary to sympathize with characters in fiction (in film or otherwise). To enjoy characters, even though we may not like them, we must know that what they do has a legitimate purpose. There are a number of fatal flaws in this film surrounding mountaineering in general. Rather than mention them all, I'm merely going to mention one that reflects directly on character motivation.The trapped climbers know the dangers of high-altitude pulmonary edema. This motivates them to take injections of 'dex' (short for dexamethasone) to ward off symptoms. The rescuers also know the dangers and know the victims' supply of dex is running out. This motivates them to race against time and adversity to rescue the trapped climbers. The problem? Dexamethasone has no effect on high-altitude pulmonary edema whatsoever. It's used only in the rare instances of cerebral edema where the primary symptom is denial of the condition, not a mad rush to acquire the medicine or administer it. For pulmonary edema, the proper medicine is nifedipine -- taken orally, not by injection.You would think a major studio production where motivation centers around a medical condition would have a medical adviser on the payroll. Checking credits, I didn't see one. What a stupid (and preventable) disaster of a story ... and film. "},{"Title":"Egads this sucks!","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Awful, predictable movie, a waste of time, glaring errors, what more can one say. I remember when they were trapped in that chasm and I kept thinking there's something not right about it. Then it dawned on me they don't show their breath! It's cold and I don't see any white breath coming out of their mouths! Unbelievable to forget that one! Another thing what was the use of that one stunt where the guy runs, and jumps across to the other side of the mountain? For entertainment purposes only? What can you say, another groaner from Hollywood. My God, and to think people actually say this was a good movie?I did however give it a 2 out of 10, just because Bill Paxton did try to act above this garbage. "},{"Title":"A Wretched Mess of a Film","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A friend of mine recommended Vertical Limit, claiming it was a high octane, rollercoaster thrill ride, similar to Renny Harlin's Cliffhanger.  I was sorely disappointed, as this movie is downright awful. **CONTAINS SPOILERS**   The opening scene in which Chris O'Donnell has to cut the rope, thus sacrificing his father's life to save the lives of himself and his sister, is taken right out Cliffhanger.  The acting is pretty mediocre, the special effects weren't great either as the blue screen shots were obviously fake, and the action scenes, which usually involved some sort of climbing equipment malfunctioning as the climbers dangle precariously from a rediculously high cliff, were hardly suspenseful.    The editing is pretty atrocious too.  Too many scenes cut from the characters hanging from a cliff with no clear way out of their predicament to them relaxing back at camp, without explaining how they got there.  The scene of Chris O'Donnell leaping across a five hundred foot wide canyon happens so quickly that before we have a chance to laugh at it it's over.    Bill Paxton starts out playing a believable nice guy but suddenly turns bad and starts killing his climbing partners for some reason.  The rescue mission on which O'Donnell embarks to save his sister involves the climber carrying six canisters of nitroglycerin (which is always on the verge of exploding) up the mountain.  Apparently they plan to blow their way through the mountain to save some idiots who fell into a crevasse.  I don't think this is a standard rescue routine.   Anyway, it is all very predictable, with lame characters, stupidly unrealistic situations, and boring action scenes.  Overall, a terrible piece of filmmaking.  I don't recommend it.  3/10 "},{"Title":"The Summit of Stupidity","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  They should have bound this movie with X-men, due to the fact that everyone in it seemed to have supernatural abilities. Eg. When the main character jumped off the cliff, and lived through it... and what is with the nitro?? Honestly, how could they survive falls and spills around every corner, but when they put it out in the sun, it blows up? The director of this movie must have spent too much time in the sun himself, and due to this fact his brains have fried!!! "},{"Title":"Yikes...Math formulas have been more exciting.","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, gotta tell you.  I just got through watching this flick...and wow. One exciting scene after another.  If you can stand watching a movie in which every scene is exciting.  Not that exciting is bad, but you think the movie makers might take a moment to actually LEARN something about mountain climbing before taking on the task of making this film...and maybe take a moment to try and think of an exciting scene that hasn't been done a trillion times over in every other exciting movie ever made.I dunno, long story short...this movie is basically Cliffhanger without the edge of seat aspect.  Granted, Cliffhanger wasn't exactly oscar material, but at least the action in that didn't seem so forced.Eh, just my 2 cents.  Worth sharing I suppose. "},{"Title":"Heckler's Paradise","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  All these years, later I still clearly remember what a great time I had watching Francis Ford Coppola's Dracula in the theatre--I laughed out loud almost non-stop from beginning to end. Perhaps the only unfortunate part of this experience was my nagging awareness throughout that at least a few of my fellow theatre-goers apparently didn't think they were watching a comedy.Vertical Limit falls into the same slot as the aforementioned film in my personal system of categorization movies best watched on the small screen, despite massive diminishment in grandeur, because in that venue one is free to laugh and jeer and make bets as to who will die next without fear of reprisal--assuming one chooses one's video-viewing companions wisely.Make a big bowl of popcorn to choke on and/or hurl at the screen, stock up on beer in case of impromptu drinking games, and hit PLAY. I assure you, you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"If it's an action flick with no action, then what is it ?","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's very hard to create an action-packed thriller about mountain climbing. Maybe it's because it's something so remote from our everyday lives, or maybe, as it happens to me in those kind of movies, the thought of Hey, if you're stupid enough to try and climb a mountain just for the sake of climbing, don't be surprised if you hurt yourself! comes to mind, and creates an instant distance between you and the film. Regardless, this movie is painfully cartoonish. The acting is laughable, the plot is laughable. It's so annoyingly predictible. Just, don't waste the time. Really.  "}{"Title":"What a piece of s**t","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I Actually felt insulted by this movie. I mean, they could at least have tried to make it a bit realistic. How can it be that 8000 meters above sea level, where temperatures rarely go above -30 degrees celsius they stand there without any hats on. They look like they just had their makeup put on. It actually shows in a persons face when it is that cold. And one guy has a ring in his ear. If that was in real life he'd probably loose the ear.Watch K2 instead./Henrik  "},{"Title":"One for the out tray...","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You know from the first 5 minutes where this movie is going. Just watch Cliffhanger. This is bad acting, and a bad, sad and old story. A couple of good stunts make 5 minutes of it watchable, but the high-fivin', back slappin', hootin and a'hollerin'  party scene in the Himilayas reminiscent of the Presidents speech in Independance Day, is too much for any sane person to bear. God Bless Hollywood, you make the rest of us glad of where we are. Spend you money on a popsicle instead. "},{"Title":"inaccurate","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Don't read further if you want to waste time/money on this movieI am a Muslim and a Pakistani living in Canada. I would like to point out a few inaccuracies in this movie.It is shown that Pakistan army cannot even take care of its explosives. How real does that sound? The whole movie is based on taking these explosives atop K2. lack of good script.Muslims do not pray the way it is shown. With 1.2 billion muslims in the world the collective ignorance of the west seems ridiculous. More research was needed. and certainly they don't talk while they pray.I live in Canada and i know that you cannot run on the snow. The guy runs on the snow and uses two axes to hold on to a cliff. After doing that you can only hang there and wait for your death.Made for people of texas who have probably not seen a lot of snow. I give it 2 out of 10. waste of time and money. could have been much better. "},{"Title":"What a laugher (not in a good way)","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The painful thing about watching this movie is seeing Ed Vistuers  appear in it. As a real mountain climber with film experience (IMAX' Everest) he should've seen the Hollywoodization of his craft and rejected it outright. As a climbing movie, Vertical Limit is a laugher (sea level to summit in 2 days???). As an action/adventure movie, it's merely adequate. The views of the southern Alps in New Zealand were nice, though. Skip it and go see Everest at the IMAX instead. "},{"Title":"Somewhat rubbish","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There is just so little to recommend about this film with so many things going against it. Dumb plot, poor dialogue and next to zilch excitement. The entire cast struggle with shallow characters that are hard to care about.Recommendation to avoid.  "},{"Title":"this movie is the biggest disappointment of the century...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay. I went to Vertical limit with some expectative, the trailer was very good. The only problems was that about 20 minutes this movie started i noticed that the best scenes where in the trailer... this movie really, really socks! Horrible plot, awful characters and the poorest dialogues that i've ever heard in my life. I'll gave it a 1 but the special effects where good and some of the scenes where exciting. The rest is a festival of bad casting, bad direction e etc. This movie is really horrible! I hope it draws in the worldwide box office like it did in the E.U.AMy verdict 3 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"An avalanche too far...","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in Austria at a 'Sneak Preview' in English one evening when I had nothing else to do. As it turns out almost anything else would have been better to do. It was a waste of time. Why? Because it is totally unbelievable from beginning to end. It has a ridiculous plot, poor acting, unbelievable scenes and a predictable story. It has a dramatic start, but quickly becomes boringly repetitive. Climbers all outfitted with enough nitro to level a building? Sudden gross ineptitude by the commando leader leading to the entire lot blowing up? And what about our hero leaping for faith across a 100 foot chasm and landing on the far side clinging to a vertical wall? This is easily one of the worst action films I've ever seen for the simple reason that it insults everyone -- the viewer, the actors, the climbing profession and our collective intelligence. Those who like this movie are strictly suckers for 'eye candy' and grand effects. Sorry, they don't replace a hopeless movie. Save your money...almost anything else is better...  "},{"Title":"Boring mountain action","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  All the usual action movie clichés are here the Wise Old Man, the K2 veteran who has a spiritual connection with the mountain; the surfer dudes who spend their time in the basecamp getting stoned; the beautiful girl with the perfect make-up at 7000 meters; the hero who used to be the best but hasn't climbed since he lost his father in an accident.I can buy all this, and more, provided that the action scenes deliver. In Vertical Limit they don't. It's an endless row of repeating the same scene the professional climbers make some incredibly stupid beginner's error, and find themselves hanging off a 500 meter vertical rock wall secured only by a broken ice-axe. Then a period of the usual sentimental Hollywood dialogue where old conflicts are brought up, while they are trying all the most stupid ways of resolving their situation.After a while this gets boring and you find yourself thinking about other things, like why on earth they bring highly explosive liquid nitroglycerine to the mountain. The 19th century invention dynamite seems to be unknown in the mountaineer community. Or why the professional climbers try to climb the next highest mountain in the world wearing knitted caps and 60s style parkas. Or why they choose to put down the rescue team from a helicopter on a narrow shelf on a vertical rock wall. Do the film makers really want me to believe that this is _the_ best place to drop off people from a helicopter at 6400 meters on the _whole_ K2?To summarise, boring action scenes combined with the usual clichés and stupid plot makes this movie not worth the money.  "},{"Title":"What a piece of uninteresting crap!","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, let me just start with saying im a sucker for good action movies! I love the fast cars, the lovely women and everything, but I truly did not enjoy this movie.First of, the plot is pretty thin. I was disappointed on how little effort the makers of this movie put in in trying to make the characters interesting. Before we got to know them, they died.Second, its really annoying that hollywood cant produce One action movie without mind-blowing-explosions! Come on, we are in the mountains for gods sake! What do they think of us anyway? Im not a retard who has to get explosions delivered to make me happy.This film is a result of over achievement. Its too much. Its an insult. "},{"Title":"Another Hollywood formula movie...","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hollywood makes some GREAT movies, but much of the time, the money is just too easy in making formula movies. This could have been a great movie. The real climbing involved in ascending K2 is VERY dramatic and difficult. Unfortunately, this movie really has nothing to do with real climbing, and just settles for countless scenes with people dangling over   yet another cliff.  And of course they have to haul explosives up the mountain so they can have the necessary Hollywood BIG EXPLOSIONS...Go see Everest in the iMax theaters, to see a real climbing movie...   "}{"Title":"Good cast BUT very mediocre directing, screenplay, and photography.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Rates 2 of 5 stars.  Some thrilling moments, but there was so little real mountain climbing skills exhibited it made me. . .well, you get the picture. If you knew nothing about mountain climbing, and saw this picture, you would get the impression that a heliocopter could fly you to 21,000 ft on K2 then it would take you only 5 hours to reach the summit, which, in reality, is not done by too many people even today. Other inconsistencies are that the climbers in the movie are freezing yet rarely wear their goggles, and they leave parkas unzipped, etc.  Add in the local Pakistani military leader who appears both sharp and incredibly stupid, with some trumped up excuse for hauling nitro glycerin up a mountain. . .This is dumb, dumb, dumb. Don't bother seeing it in the theatre, wait to rent it, as long as you don't have high expectations. "},{"Title":"Tells about the Fears of K2","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie because it was filmed in my country, Pakistan. At the end of the day, the movie proved itself not less than other quality productions of Hollywood.The movie expresses the depth of love between a brother and a sister; their natural and emotional interaction. It is the best thing in the movie.There are some severe technical flaws in the movie. A Pakistani character Ali was shown praying but the way he was praying was totally wrong. The producer and director must have consulted some local Muslim about the way of praying before filming this scene. I do not expect such flaws in the Hollywood movies.In another scene, two brothers were shown enjoying sun totally nude. In Pakistan, foreign expeditions are always accompanied by local climbers and guides. Most of these climbers and guides are Muslims. For this reason most foreign climbers respect their religious emotions and do not show such nudity. Therefore, the scene was very unrealistic.All Pakistani characters were acted by non-Pakistanis. If actual Pakistanis were used, these characters would have been portrayed better.I read all the names of the credits. Only two locals were consulted for the movie and they were climbers. Local consultants would have been very helpful in filming localized scenes like those that that related to Pakistani characters.The makers could not hold themselves from expressing their emotions about Pakistani Army. It's three o'clock. Time to wake up Indians says the army officer and then bang bang of Pakistani artillery. It was a totally unnecessary scene and effected the overall quality of the movie. "},{"Title":"Come back, Stallone, all is forgiven","Date":"17 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Any film which makes you long for the good old days of plausible, enjoyable films like Cliffhanger <cough> does not have much going for it.Awful, truly awful.  I lasted 30 minutes before I turned if off in disgust.Good effects, but where was the plot....?  "},{"Title":"So unendearingly incompetent...","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You know those movies in which the hero/ine is so incompetent that you find it hard to sympathize with him/her at all? Like the bimbo (as described in Scream) who goes up the stairs instead of out of the front door when the slasher is going after her? Well, if you do like this kind of movies or heroes/heroines, you'll have a field day with Vertical Limit, in which the protagonists, purportedly the best climbers ever, commit over and over again the kind of mistake that would get them killed if they tried to climb a flight of stairs in their grandmother's house, not to mention what would happen to them if they tried indeed to climb a very high and bad-tempered mountain, as they are supposed to.So the movie is about two hours of watching our heroes slipping, tripping, getting lost, their ropes snapping, their axes sliding out, their dangerous and extremely toxic explosives spilling out... They are soooo stoooooopid, it is very very hard to feel anything but impatience for them.Not to mention the toilet-paper-thin realism. Everybody else has mentioned how they lit fires and don't suffer of any kind of oxygen deprivation in thin air, or how you cannot see their breath even in very low temperatures. This is one no one else has mentioned so maybe I'm the one who's wrong, but, aren't loud noises a no-no in high mountain, because they can trigger avalanches? So, isn't it a bit unorthodox to attempt a rescue by blasting the mountain away with nitroglicerin? Isn't it a bit unorthodox in any case?What else can be said about this movie. The acting is bad, the plot is bad, the special effects are bad. The continuity is bad. The direction is bad. It does not even work as unintentional comedy. And they found Ed Wood so funny because of the incompetence of his movies. These guys are just like good ol' Ed, only with more money. "},{"Title":"A bunch of people take some junk up a perfectly good mountain","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'd never have guessed, but Martin Campbell claims that his inspiration was The Wages of Fear (1953).  You can see the similarity when (and only when) it's pointed out both films involve transporting nitro-glycerin over uncooperative terrain, and both films take their sweet time about even mentioning the nitro-glycerin.  (Although in neither case does it ruin the effect to know that the nitro-glycerin is coming.)  It was this feature of The Wages of Fear that particularly struck Campbell.It's a pity he wasn't struck by something else, like the decision to film in black and white.  If nitro-glycerin really DOES look like Cottee's lime cordial, better we don't see it in colour.  (Although perhaps another director would have convinced us that something so goofy-looking could actually blow things up).  Other things to be struck by in The Wages of Fear the way it shows two approaches to each problem, the first setting up the second; the clarity of the quest; the unusual, intriguing obstacles; the precise editing.  With Vertical Limit I have to struggle to remember what the characters were trying to do and how (and if) they did it.The story's moral is a bizarre one.  We open with a family of rock-climbers in one of the drier parts of the United States, halfway up a monolith; very soon there's an accident, and daughter, son and father (in that order) are hanging from the same rope, which looks as though it won't hold.  The father asks the son to cut the rope between them, so that at least the two offspring survive, and the son - after some hesitation - does.  There's a helpful shot of the father hitting the ground, in case we'd forgotten about gravity.  Cut to the Himalayas.Here's what I'm predicting the brother will be there already; the sister will arrive to meet him by chance; within seconds, they'll start quarrelling, and she'll give him a hard time about cutting the rope.  Bingo, bingo, bingo.  It was during this quarrel that my heart really sank.  Once, just once, I'd like to see a film in which the survivors realise that the person who cut the rope did the right thing, or in which even those who don't realise this, understand it was a difficult situation and hold no grudges.  What purpose will this bickering between brother and sister serve?  Here's what I'm predicting none.Bingo.  There is, though, some more rope-cutting (literal and metaphorical), and the moral of the story seems to be this cutting the rope (sacrificing one life to save others) is the right thing to do if you're the hero, the wrong thing to do if you're the villain.  The converse (sacrificing a greater number of lives to save a smaller number) is ALSO the right thing to do if you're the hero, the wrong thing if you're the villain.  It's hard being the villain.If Campbell had thrown out the nitro-glycerin, the villainy, the poorly thought through ethical dilemmas and the rest of that rubbish, and made a simple rescue film, it could have been as thrilling as he wanted it to be.  As it is we're reduced to looking at the mountains (New Zealand doubling for Asia), thinking things like yes, they ARE big. "},{"Title":"Wheeeev! This movie crosses the limit of decent filmmaking!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Contains spoilers!! I've just returned home from the theater and I just had to comment on this movie. 'Cause damn this movie sucks. This must be a joke - a very expensive joke. The acting, the sets, the effects and the plot is totally laughable. I feel like I've been raped and robbed by the producers. I wasted 2 hours of my life and payed about 6 § for the ticket. Damn I feel stupid now.The movie addresses its audience like we were 13 years old and had an IQ of 35. The examples of the lack of quality are numerous and the entire movie makes no sense at all. If the effects was as good as expected the film would be acceptable to watch. But no they are embarrassing poor. Not even the clichés are funny nor are the action exiting 'cause it is all predictable and 'cause it is one long repetition of accidents.1. The animations are poor (just look at the eagle in the beginning...it says it all!). 2. The sets look cheap (they look like the ones used in superman the movie). Worse than in Batman Returns. It is so obvious that the caves are fake and the snow isn't real.3. The acting is tragically poor.4. The plot is predictable and stupid. Examples4a. If the father was such a great climber he'd have had his own knife to cut the rope. Also he'd never climb under other people if he was experienced!4a2. Why risk more peoples lifes to save a few.4b. Why do the helicopter have to set the rescue team off at that altitude where the helicopter can't be controlled??? Couldn't it set them off 100 yards further down where the heli was easier to control and where there were less danger?????4c. Why was Montgomery Wick left alone before the rescue attempt by Chris dumbass O Donald. Montgomery was the climbing expert why did they ask for his help if they just leave him behind?4d. And tell me how the hell did they transport her down from the damn mountain when she finally found her??? She was almost dead and the two survivors were pretty worn out...4e. What a coincidence that Montgomery would find his wife...and what great detictive work by O'donald in solving the mystery about her death. Quite a Sherlock Holmes move by O'Donald. The frozen chick looked good by the way! LOL.4f. Why couldn't they hold on to the water bottles and their backpacks???4g. Pretty impressive that an iceaxe can be so efficient and hold 4 people...also impressive that his arms wasn't torn off his body when jumping 40 meters down...he must have reached more than 100 km/t and weight over 100 kilo with his backpack...he must work out! LOLSummary I could go on and on about this movie. I've never seen a worse movie than this. I strongly advice you not to waste time and money to see this film. If you've already seen the movie - and liked it - you must be one of those types who finds Rickey Lake, Jerry Springer and Van Damme entertaining...my advice for you is simple - SEEK HELP "},{"Title":"Jesus, who the hell optioned this???","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  At this moment in time, there must some Columbia studio exec. rubbing their hands with glee, because they have managed to sell ice to the eskimos...H.L. Mencken once said, no one ever went broke underestimating the stupidity of the American public. I would add a codicil to that and add the British audience too.My god what was this?A film that finally proves that O'Donnell cannot act his way out of a paper bag, that Tunney looks great in climbing wear but looks like an actress trying to play a climber and Scott Glenn phoning in his usual performance as Mr World-Weary. Add Bill Paxton as the murderous millionaire (aren't they all), a stunning piece of miscasting with Temeura Morrison (a Maori) playing a Pakistani with a New Zealand accent and the standard comic relief Aussies and what you have is a real crock of a movie. Even the stunning photography (and it is stunning) cannot save a movie based on cliche and one-dimensional characterisation.Ludicrous writing too. For example, just how did the Izabella Scorupco character get across that ravine after the O'Donnell character leapt across it Superman style. He leaps across, hangs on for dear life, cuts to another scene and hey presto, Scorupco is there with him. What did she do, levitate across??? Who was the consultant on this film, David Copperfield?If you want a man-in-peril-on-the-mountains movie stick to Stallone with Cliffhanger. Avoid this at your peril.  "},{"Title":"Utterly worthless -- do not see this movie, EVER","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't begin to describe how bad this movie is. Do not see it. Do not rent it. Do not even look at the box. If I had not been with other people I would have walked out of the theater. I hate myself now for having stayed. Trust me, you'll hate yourself too if you pony up the cash to see this.This movie is nothing but a huge waste of time and money. It starts with a scene that is so ridiculously bad you just want to say kill me now and spare me the pain. Then it gets worse. Scene after scene of idiotically fabricated suspense, horribly unrealistic dialog, and nauseatingly ludicrous situations. Even the special effects are bad. Many of the climbing scenes are obviously being done on a Hollywood soundstage, with the lighting of the actors not even CLOSE to matching up with the lighting in the background scenery. In fact, no aspect of this movie even approaches anything that could be remotely mistaken for reality. "},{"Title":"Has moments but is surprisingly lacking in real excitement","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Years after he and his sister survived a climbing accident where their father died, Peter and Annie Garrett find themselves on K2 for different reasons.  Peter is on the foothills taking pictures for National Geographic, while Annie is part of the documentary crew with playboy millionaire Elliot Vaughn, who is aiming to reach the summit in time to promote the launch of his new airline.  However when a storm comes in., most of the party are killed with only Elliot, Annie and leader Tom surviving in a crevice. Peter puts together a rescue mission, led by veteran Montgomery Wick.It is just this film's bad luck that I watched it only a matter of days after I saw the much better Touching The Void.  That film had me on the edge of my seat with my mouth agape at times with a story of a climbing accident and the aftermath.  However Vertical Limit doesn't go for realism at any point.  The plot is a real mess; it doesn't risk having it's thrills from the effects of the mountain so it also adds a traditional bad guy and a `wages of fear' twist involving the climbers carrying nitro in their backpacks.  That's not to say the film doesn't have exciting moments - the opening scene is very dramatic and powerful (despite O'Donnell's crap wide-eyed acting) but it never reaches that again.  Instead, it settles for effect shots of climbers hanging over great heights etc.  These are visually impressive and they do manage to get a sense of urgency to them but it never lasts long.It's a shame, because Cliffhanger was enjoyable and Void showed that the real drama can come from just the mountain itself, however here it keeps adding more stuff to try and force drama out of the situation.  The lack of real characters is a problem - instead we have very wide clichés almost; `dudes', wise old men, ruthless billionaires, sexy mountain chick and clean cut siblings.  Aside from the opening sequence, it is hard to feel an emotional connection to any of them and, as the latest disposable actor hangs over a drop awaiting the chop I was more focused on how good it looked rather than nerves over the outcome.  O'Donnell is as bland as he often can be and didn't impress me at all; likewise Tunney was a bit `all-American' for my taste.  Paxton could have been sending up Richard Branson if he hadn't been playing it so straight.  In a similar vein, Glenn would have been better if he'd put his tongue in his cheek and acknowledged how daft his character was!  The support cast or `drop monkeys' as I call them are an average enough bunch but the film basically kills them off one by one like a horror movie - to much audience apathy I might add.Overall this is an OK film if you can just turn off your brain and enjoy the vertigo-inducing effects.  However with no good plot, dialogue or characters it will be very difficult for anyone to really get involved in the film beyond this aspect.  I can only plea to you to seek out a film with a fraction the budget of this and that's Touching The Void.  It is a true story with no digital effects but it is a similar setting but much, much better. "},{"Title":"Quite Possibly The Worst Movie I Have Ever Seen","Date":"21 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is quite possible the worst movie i have ever seen. Seriously. It was absolutely terrible. Whomever thought that this is even comparble to The Perfect Storm is completely out of their minds. This completely unbelievable and a total waste of time. Do not waste your human existance on watching this horrible piece of crap. "}{"Title":"The script was as good as adjusting your Vertical Hold","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Great special effects technology, but that was it.   No script, no acting, no nothing.   I was expecting something like The Perfect Storm.  This was nada, except for the woman on the rescue team; look out Sigourney! "},{"Title":"Enough is enough.","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical limit is not only a movie about mountain climbers and their courage.It's also a melodrama it begins with the obligatory  family psychological trauma   and the ending ,so to speak,is symmetrical to the beginning;it's also a vertical thriller' there's a murderer among the characters;it has   also two comic reliefs which are not funny at all.But the biggest flaw is O'Donnell;he does not act at all,always stupidly smiling,and always fresh as a daisy,even when he is in the most dangerous situations .He never seems exhausted ,the same goes anyway for his female co-star.Scott Glenn is easily the best of the lot but his part is underwritten and he is not given a single chance to shine.The best is the beautiful landscapes .Take K2  instead. "},{"Title":"After Proof of life, this felt like a masterpiece...","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  ===== Rating System ***** Must see **** Very good *** I liked it, but you might hate it ** I hated it, but you might like it * Avoid ====If you can forgive this movie for its undeniable flaws, it's actually pretty enjoyable. If you don't mind-A ridiculously fake eagle at the beginning, which is unintentionally hilarious-People taking nitroglycerine up a mountain, only for it to explode several times for no apparent reason but spectacle-An ending which makes the whole movie seem pointless (It's a rescue mission, after 24 hours of climbing and victims and rescuers half dead, suddenly they're down and safe again with no explanation whatsoever)then you're in for a 120 minute thrill ride with great action sequences, some amazing stunts and a couple of funny moments. If you take it too seriously it is probably the worst movie you'll ever see.***    "},{"Title":"Decent action movie","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having just seen this i am having this feeling like this movie really tried, but something was just missing.The movie is about Peter and Annie Garrett, as young claimers they lost their father in a horrible accident, since that they have lost the contact to each other and have gone their seperate ways, as in faith they meet at the foot of the mountain, k2, Peter is working with the national geographic while Annie, now a famous claimer, is about to go for the top of k2 with a rich business man who wants to be on the top to make commercial for his new company. And OF course something a bound to go wrong.By saying that i can say already now the movie is rather predictable and there are a lot of very clear set-ups and same amount of pays offs, and that is okay, problem generally is that most of these accidents happens becuase the participants of the story are so damn stupid at times, especially handling their explosives.The movie doesn't make you wanna byte your nails, it lacks realism and suspense, it's a decent claiming movie with some beautiful scenery and cinematography, which is what keeps the movie alive a long way, although i wish they had spend more time with it, the opening scene has breath taking scenery though. There doesn't come many movies of this exact genre, actually only ones i can think of is Cliffhanger and Touching The Void, having only seen Cliffhanger i think that one too lacked realism, but at least that one was filled with suspense. Now i'm looking forward to see if Touching The Void manage to combine those things into a good cliff hanger movie, it sure looks promising, i can't wait.  "},{"Title":"You have got to be kidding me.","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think it was possible to mangle a movie this badly.  The story. The writing.  The direction.  The performances.  The everything....Wouldn't thinking people, even in purposely elevated dramatic situations, stop after something bad happened and make an assessment of a situation? Creating dramatic intent is one thing.  Stacking the deck with constantly impossible situations is lunacy.  Placing 6 rescuers onto a mountain who are fighting before they ever start is pathetic.  Oh, we're climbing a 28,000 ft mountain, we're supposed to be at 26,000 feet, we're moving like we are at sea level, and we're looking up at other mountain peaks??  Did the concept people think no one would notice?Too bad Mystery Science Theatre 3000 isn't still around.  This flick could have darted past 'straight to video' and gone directly to MST3000 and their reviews, it is that entertainingly horrendous.The absolute least someone with half a brain could have done is allowed the mountain to be one of the antagonists instead of springing junk like carrying nitro onto the side of a mountain (whoever thought that one up should be made to fill their pen with that stuff before writing their next story to film... it was so provoking, I think I will ask the next expedition team about how much explosive they plan to take on their next sojourn to Karakorams... not... at least they didn't make it a nuclear device, it being Pakistan and all though am sure that thought may have crossed some minds), a subplot 2/3rds of the way through ala stumbling into Wick's frozen wife, oh pa-leeze, or the giant leap for mankind Chris O'Donnell takes to reach the other side of a chasm, or the fist fight between sis and the bad guy after suffering exposure for many hours at 26,000 ft.......It is one thing to suspend reality for the sake of some drama.  It is another to misunderstand your genre by a few thousand light years.  Other than a spoof, it missed whatever mark it was trying for....I highly recommend this film as a definitive How Not To guide for making a dramatic story/film.  Oh, where is MST3000 when you need them? "},{"Title":"Oh my goodness, this is horrible.","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is one of the most insulting I have had the misfortune to see in a very long while. I will not waste too much time on this comment, since I already wasted enough on the movie itself.First of all, it is painfully obvious that the actors are aware of the quality of the script. They all seem very tired of the film, and they all do their job - not a bit more, not a bit. The only exception from this is Scott Glenn, who by pure professionalism manages to present a decent performance. Clearly the director are also aware about just how much the script sucks, because he has evidently not even tried to inspire the crew to some good acting. I have seen better directing and acting on `The days of our lives'The FX is quite alright, as is the sound. The surroundings are fairly beautiful. But this doesn't help a bit in the long run. Well, actually it helps a bit, because otherwise I wouldn't even had finished the movie at all.What is most upsetting however, is the way the professional climbers are presented. They are all clumsy and careless, and all of the accidents are somehow related to errors that the climbers do. This is not by itself necessary bad, but when all the errors are related to pure sloppiness and utter negligence for safety from almost all the climbers, it becomes absurd and preposterous.Do you remember the old crappie movie `The Net' starring Sandra Bullock ? That movie became sheer nonsense, and was a total joke, to all people knowing juuuust a bit about computers. The same is true for Vertical Limit, if you know juuuuust a bit about climbing.I might also ad, that you DO NOT have to be ANYTHING of an expert on climbing, to see through all the insane errors that the climbers do. Hell, a normal person with an IQ above 70 wouldn't make those mistakes.Apart from being insulting regarding everything that has to do with the climbing, the script are also very lame from every other aspect. It was undoubtedly written in 6-7 hours by a really really tired person. It is so filled with cliché, that Hollywood should form a class action for thievery.Please do not see this movie. "},{"Title":"avoid","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I agree with all other comments on this film.  How can someone so expert be so stupid?  There are too many gaffs to recall, but the helicopter scene was truly laughable.  The running jump by Chris was a total joke, let alone the fact of him running at that altitude with all his gear on, straight down should have been the only way he went.  Forget it. "},{"Title":"Utter garbage!","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Painful to watch. While I'm not a mountaineer, I am a rock and ice climber and have many mountaineer friends. I thought the amount of technical inaccuracies in this film were inexcusable! I wonder if Metolius sued the production for the opening scene. I wouldn't be too happy about having my products(the cams) shown failing, even in the wholly fake way they did it. To top that off, the story just blew! It seemed more like a string of what's the next bad thing that will happen skits than a contiguous story.I also thought effects were terrible! Starting with the horrid comps of the bird at the beginning through the pathetic paint-job of the two guys getting vaporized(go frame by frame on the DVD and you'll see what I mean) and even the cheesy practical effects in the ice cave.Mt. Cook is a beautiful place in real life, but it looked rather feeble in the context of this film. Especially when they depict everybody up on the 2nd highest mountain in the world without down suits, oxygen, or acclimatization periods. Not everyone can be as super human as Ed Viesturs. And Ed, if you're reading, what were you thinking???My condolences to all climbers and mountaineers who saw this piece of junk, but especially to those who were tech advisers who had to sit there and watch it being made. However it did look like it was fun to make, as they did get to go play on a glacier and do some alpine ice. "},{"Title":"Typical Hollywood action film no respect for reality - WHO CARES?","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am not a climber - but i enjoyed the movie? As indicate previously - is it based on reality? Who cares- for myself - I like to go into the cinema - and I like switch off - that IS the TIME where I DO NOT want to bother about reality. BUT....if you are after reality - stay at home and watch a documentary! I am just SICK of people giving there expert opinion on a movies! The rope was the wrong strength - the gadget was not properly applied - Who bloody cares! Let us ask the question - why we watch movies - to get simply entertained and to forget the normal bullshit we have to worry about day in- day out! I have seen movies rated a 1 point out of ten and I enjoyed it. I have seen movies rated a 7.4 = eg --> The Dressmaker......sorry i thought it was boring. Lets note one thing we are all different - we are all on a different level - it is that we all see movies with our own eyes and let our emotions run..... and that it what I like - if a movie takes me on an emotional journey!Rudi "},{"Title":"Vertical Limited in Thrills.","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Vertical Limit (2000) Dir Martin Campbell / Cast Chris O'Donnell, Robin Tunney, Bill Paxton, Scott Glenn, Izabella Scorupco Action disaster flick about endurance and death. Chris O'Donnell and Robin Tunney play siblings reunited after four years. Central plot has O'Donnell leading a rescue mission to bring Tunney to safety. The setup establishes the sibling relationship before venturing into formula and a totally contrived ending. Director Martin Campbell knows how to stage exhilarating action especially after directing the James Bond comeback flick Goldeneye and The Mask of Zorro. O'Donnell holds his own. He quit climbing but wishes to encourage his sister who will be accompanied by two males in a climbing expedition of the world's second highest mountain. Tunney as his sister is a competitive climber. Both witness the death of their father four years earlier during a climbing exercise and both are coping differently. It is obvious that O'Donnell will succeed in the rescue and Tunney will grow mental stability. Bill Paxton is terrific as a champion climber with a secret of his own, although the handling of him in the conclusion is questionable. Scott Glenn as a mysterious climber is a joke, and his heroic scene is ludicrous. Izabella Scorupco hasn't much luck in roles since Golden Eye, and isn't exactly making a comeback here. Mediocre yet well produced freeze fest. Score 5 ½ / 10 "}{"Title":"Strong Story, No Need For Bombs","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While I enjoyed Vertical Limit, some aspects of it contributed to a feeling of unevenness. One thing I would have done differently, as a director, is to eliminate the explosives. Blowing a hole at the top of the crevass that your friends and family are at the bottom of is folly, and even if you do feel the need to bring explosives (in avalanche country), use something relatively stable, like dynamite.Dynamite would have been readily available, for it is used to mine Himalayan salt in Pakistan. Certainly, the man with the millions of dollars could have afforded some. the exclusion of explosives from the scenes would have contributed to a more believable alpine adventure (think Without a Trace). The story line was good, and I appreciated the strong, complex dynamics and connections between the brother and sister, and between the two siblings and the rescue team leader. While Vertical Limit strove to expose the harsh realities of technical climbing (especially at K2), however, it lost some steam by being very lax in re-creating the conditions that would have been met by the climbers, even at K2's Base Camp at 18,645 feet.No one was even wearing hats at the alcohol-ridden barbecue at Base Camp, the night before the climb. It would have been blisteringly cold, between -20 and -50 farenheit. No professional climber would have been drinking alcohol at that time.On the mountain, in the raging storm, the climbers did not even have the sense to pull the Cord-Locs on their hoods tight Snow would have accumulated inside their hoods and parkas, then melting. The stoves they used did not even have a forced flame, Like MSR or Kovea. They looked more like Sterno or alcohol stoves, which would not work at that altitude.One scene threatened to de-rail the credibility of this picture That of Chris O'Donnell's character, when he lept 50 feet forward and 40 feet down, and grabbed onto a snowy cliff face while wearing an expedition pack. If the director felt that such a feat was absolutely necessary to keep our interest in the movie, he should have at least made the distances half of what they were, and when Chis O'Donnell hits the cliff face, he is knocked unconscious and is hanging by his rope as the woman climber tries in vain to pull him up until she jury-rigs a make-shift pulley system.One question about that scene How does Chris O'Donnell's character get the woman climber across? Would it have been too much to ask to show 20 seconds of that?Of course, the conditions inside the crevass would have been much colder, darker and desperate than showed, but I can forgive that, I suppose.Although I am glad that there were not one but two women in the rescue team, in reality, they would have not been allowed Women just don't have the brute force necessary to haul 200-pound guys down the mountain (or up on a rope).While I am tempted to say that it is unrealistic that the veteran and renowned ascent team leader and National Geographic photographer (also a highly-experienced climber) could be cajoled into continuing the ascent after the severe storm warning had been issued to them, we have seen bad decisions in the past by real-life alpine team leaders, leading to disaster.Although it may seem that I am being very critical of Vertical Limit, my score of 8 shows that I am willing to forgive the sins that Hollywood felt compelled to commit. The strong inter-personal dynamics, strong story line in-general, and clear, bold decision making in the script made this film worth watching. Heroism is always a welcome theme in the movies I watch, and in Vertical Limit, everyone's a hero in his or her own way.Scott Glen's character as the rescue team leader and sage mountaineer was superb. "},{"Title":"Grasping at air . . .","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You know what I get tired of? Those movies that gather a lot of egotistical people together who are experts at a particular profession or activity and have them talk to one another as if they have been performing this profession/activity from the time they could crawl. They talk in a lot of jargon, they usually insult one another in fun, there is usually one argument that almost comes to blows and most of the time there is a legendary crazy old coot famous for being, well -- a legendary crazy old coot. These movies usually supply a large company of stock characters including the seasoned expert, the good looking hero (who has usually lost a legendary relative, most often dear old Dad), the beer-guzzling party animal, the beautiful sidekick/love interest, somebody's brother (99% of the time he doesn't make it) and of course the usual no-name actor just thrown in so that he can die in a display of spectacular stunt work.I have seen this formula applied to firefighters ('Backdraft'), air traffic controllers ('Pushing Tin'), navy pilots ('Top Gun'), stock car racers ('Days of Thunder'), surfers ('Point Break'), yacht racing champs ('Wind'), storm chasers ('Twister'), Alpine skiers ('Aspen Extreme') etc., etc., etc. They aren't exactly people that you would want to be around as an amateur because as these movies usually go your death could be foretold even before you met them (If they are such experts then why do three-fourths of their crew die?).'Vertical Limit' supplies all of the stock characters and hurls them into a chaotic series of predictable tragedies each one seemingly designed to wipe out the supporting characters in the order of the actor's place on the Hollywood celebrity food chain. In other words, if most of the people in the audience know who the actor is then the longer that character's death will be delayed in the film's running time. If they have top billing, they make it out alive.The movie begins when Peter (Chris O'Donnell), his sister Annie (Robin Tunney) and their father (Stuart Wilson) are rock climbing when an accident leaves them hanging from a rock with a clamp that is about to come loose and send all plunging to their deaths. Dad (at the bottom end of the rope) informs his son to cut him loose to lighten the load, which he does after some heated shouting.Three years later in the Himalayas a group of mountain climbers have gathered to see off a team who are about to go on an expedition despite warnings that a harsh storm could shift it's direction at a moment's notice. The two kids meet up just as Annie is about to head out with a famous gusto millionaire (Bill Paxton) and his cautious guide (Nicholas Lea). After the usual banter about turning back the three press on and barely miss getting swallowed up by an avalanche only to end up trapped in an ice cave. This provides the time-honored tradition of having people trapped together so that they can argue about the need to conserve supplies despite the fact that one of them is standing at death's door (for this person's identity, see which of these three actors you haven't heard of).Peter gathers a rescue team made up mostly of the aforementioned no-name actors so that we can watch them die according to the aforementioned Celebrity Death Meter. The expedition is lead by The Crazy Old Coot (Scott Glen) a long-haired mountain man with no toes whose wife's death leads to one of the most effectively bone chilling sights that I have seen in a movie in a long while. He leads Peter and crew up the mountain because he knows the mountain better than anyone. To make matters worse, the clock starts ticking for Annie as she contracts pulmonary edema.No time for plot development because the movie is too busy hurtling its characters from one crisis to another. The movie also adds a stupid plot device involving O'Donnell deciding to carry nitroglycerin so that he can blast open the area where his sister is trapped. The movie isn't kind enough to explain why they think that such an unstable, unpredictable chemical can be used to open the ice cave without causing an avalanche.The movie has the usual stuntwork with characters hanging by pick axes over precarious drops, having them swallowed up by avalanches and having them slide back down the mountain and trying to get hold with their axes. It does provide one fascinating piece of stunt work as the climbers have to climb out onto the leg of the helicopter, slide to the end and drop onto a ledge. I'm starting to count on one hand the number of movies that don't provide the chopper pilot the opportunity to shout 'I can't hold it!' 'Vertical Limit' reminded me of 'The Perfect Storm' a much better movie about people who put themselves in harm's way to save their own skins. The movie wasn't perfect but as least I felt like the sailors on that boat seemed to belong there and had individual personalities that carried them even when they made the wrong decision. They were played by actors that I knew but the way they played their characters made me believe that they actually lived life on the sea. The actors in 'Vertical Limit' just look like actors in front of a blue screen supplied for the movie's overblown stunt show. These characters may come on screen talking a lot of jargon about mountain climbing but it seems to me that most of their success comes from dumb luck. "},{"Title":"Slick and Shiny Whitewash","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" With All of its Slick and Sheen Look, in Front of it all is some Lame Acting, Dull Dialog, and Impossibly Cute Hair. In Fact Things are too Cute by a Half and lots of Repetitive Action Overkill. There are Nitro Canisters Placed in the Movie for Accidents Waiting to Happen Again and Again. There are Literally too Many to Count Cliffhangers that After a While just Hang there with Inevitable Endings.So Many Things are Repeated in this Eternally White Whitewash of a Movie that Numbs the Brain with Excess and Over Plays its Mountain Habitat and Resorts like Clockwork to Sub-Plots that are Excruciatingly Unexciting. This Exercise in Adrenaline Junkie Junk is a Non-Stop Excursion Up Top that is so Dismal in Everything but Environment that it is Rendered Grounded after Every Action Scene.You can Enjoy this as a No-Brainer Action Flick but it is so Heavy on Horrible and Annoying Characters that even the One's Worth Rooting for here are Buried in Heavy Breathing and even Heavier than Ice Melodrama. It's a Tough Terrain to Weather and Your Enjoyment will Most Likely be Based on the Eye Candy Element. But be Prepared to Wear some Really Dark Goggles because this Movie is Glaringly Goofy. "},{"Title":"A really nice movie...","Date":"21 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Vertical Limit is a really nice climbing movie which has to do with a group of climbers who in their effort of conquer the world's second highest peak K2 were being trapped and now an another group of climbers are trying to rescue them.I liked this movie very much because it's a movie with plenty of suspense, action and of course climbing. I also liked this movie because of the interpretations of Chris O'Donnell who plays as Peter Garrett and I believe that he made one of his best interpretations, Robin Tunney who plays as Annie Garrett and Bill Paxton who plays as Elliot Vaughn. Another good interpretation made by Scott Glenn who played as Montgomery Wick.Finally I have to tell you that I strongly recommend this movie and I believe that if you are a fan of climbing movies then you will just love this one. "},{"Title":"A Pop Tart Without Topping","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I've been forced to watch this so called movie and it was so bad i could kill a kitten with my teeth right now! It's not every day that a generic product for the masses can make you feel dumber scenes after scenes but this one does it brilliantly; after 2 hours i feel like a Pop Tart without topping.Not dramatic, not original, not funny, not exciting, not realistic, not entertaining, not well written, not well directed, no nothing!! Even the music is cliché and boring as hell!!Everything i hate about cinema is in this pile of predigested dog food. Even if you haven't seen it, you've seen it many times before without knowing it, if you know what i mean... Sooooooooooooooo unoriginal and boring!Martin Campbell, you are now on my blacklist, give me back my 124 minutes!In two words Generic & Stultifying. "},{"Title":"Fun movie but if you're annoyed by inaccuracies you'll be screaming at the screen.","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Overall a fun film to watch on a Saturday evening but it's not really worth setting aside a night specially to watch it though. Besides the climbing inaccuracies the most hilarious feature was by far the fact that military grade nitroglycerin is apparently extremely leaky! Every five minutes one character or another is blown up by this uncontrollable substance. I also found it interesting how the men in charge of storing and using the nitroglycerin are careless enough just to leave it lying around. Only after the sunlight blows it up do they realise it reacts to heat, is there no safety label or something?The plot has good potential but unfortunately it has been poorly executed, nevertheless I wouldn't brush it aside immediately. "},{"Title":"Action movie gone slasher !","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Don't get me wrong. This is marvelous action, with unique locations, smart plot, and perfect directing. The climbing scenes are excellently made, I never felt overabundant, or originally any, CGI. Obviously, a lot of efforts was spent behind this movie, rather gem. However, some points bugged me. Let's see how bad they are.First off  the way the second act was written. The movie kind of remakes the Seven Samurai story, yet for nothing but killing most of them, as if they were there for just getting killed ! No doubt that the movie overused the matter of the nitroglycerin bombs, and badly. Yes, they're a heck of thrill element, but not to an extent where the Pakistani army doesn't know how to save them, or the Pakistani general doesn't see their leakage under his foot, or the movie uses them as Freddy is used in Nightmare on Elm Street's movies ! Chris O'Donnell is talented, however not that charismatic, and doesn't fit action movies so much. In fact, hiring him with the lovely Robin Tunney back then, whether was for cutting down the budget, or as a chance to experiment new stars, proved to be something not that successful. And after 10 years, both of them ended up in TV shows like NCIS  Los Angeles and The Mentalist.Although I don't think, for a second, that a helicopter's fan can only cut off a sleeve of someone while getting centimeters close to her. But, for the sake of an action scene, I'll forget about this. Nevertheless I won't forget that the movie's evil man, played by Bill Paxton, returns to the same place where he went into big accident a few years ago, near to the man who he killed his wife ! Cheeky ? Maybe. Odd ? Full Yes !I liked that, finally, a Muslim character was shown in a Hollywood movie without the forever usual dealing (being a heartless brainless terrorist !). I suppose that was for putting wildly different characters together. Especially, when that character, of a Pakistani religious solder, joins forces with an Australian nihilist playboy. Btw, the Islamic prayer's moves weren't done rightly. Clearly they needed an expert on the set for that.Izabella Scorupco is no less than great, as an actress or a beauty. I don't know, and eager to know, why she was exiled from movies ? Because within nearly 20 years, after her first starring role in Golden Eye, she made something like 5 movies ! Being a James Bond girl was sure a problem more than a blessing. It's embarrassing that even when she got work, like in here, it was with Golden Eye's director, Martin Campbell. As if no one else wants to work with her ! (she even was offered the lead female role in The Mask of Zorro (1998), for the same director, but turned it down). Otherwise, she doesn't like acting !So, I'm a big fan of this movie, its script, directing (and Scorupco!). But, in the same time, I hate some points, on their top is the sense of laziness at the second act's writing; it's where this fine action leaned toward being an easy slasher. The final verdict  The bad points turned out to be light, and this is a real classic movie. The authentic trailer is one of the best as well. "},{"Title":"Best thing about this film are the few glimpses of  Chris O' Donnell's amazing behind-in gear!","Date":"20 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film has a slow dragging plot that seems to not go anywhere. It also has that cheesy American 'Indiana Jones' feel to the movie, but without the fun of Indiana Jones.It has annoying characters in it like the 2 stupid Australians who i kept wishing would get buried under an avalanche! There's n point having all the near misses, because we know that the main characters are not going to die. There are some real touching moments in the film and i have to give it to Chris he is not just a stunning face, he can actually show real depth of emotion. Best thing about the movie is that Pakistan is portrayed in a positive light as it's people and country always seems to get demonized by western movies. The second best thing is the stunning Chris O Donnell and glimpses of his beautiful behind when he's rock climbing  "},{"Title":"Not three bad","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It has truly stunning scenery. It isn't a climbing guide and it's not meant to be. I really don't know what people want from a film these days. Reality TV seems to have rotted people's brains. This is FICTION. Enjoy it on it's own escapist level, or don't watch it. In fiction you can take certain liberties. That is why it's fiction. Taking up a sport as physically demanding as climbing because you saw a movie once is ridiculous.What's good Chris O'Donnell is a solid choice for leading man, and Robin Tunney doesn't disgrace herself as the single-minded sister. Scott Glenn is the standout as the reclusive loner, but he doesn't really have enough screen time. It was also frankly a relief to see the Pakistani characters, although minor, treated with some respect, making them reasonable, reasoning men.The problems Far too many crises. Avalanches, explosions, the helicopter nearly cutting someone to ribbons, the list never ends, and as characters just keep dying you start to feel as though the punchline is just going to be more death and destruction. Which is a little wearisome. The script is also somewhat clichéd. It's worth watching once, but this is certainly a movie I wouldn't go back to. Many of the minor characters are just there to die, so they are not especially well-fleshed out. The central 'villain' played by Bill Paxton is a pale shadow of what a villain should be. Contrast Michael Moriarty in Cliffhanger, but since the real 'villain' is meant to be the mountain, Paxton's character is not given enough substance to be more than a one note performance.All round, the film scores on beautiful scenery, but crucially falls down on the overloaded plot. "},{"Title":"Someone left the cake out in the rain.....","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Peter Garrett must launch a treacherous and extraordinary rescue effort up K2, the world's second highest peak.Confronting both his own limitations and the awesome power of nature's uncontrollable elements, Peter risks his life to save his sister, Annie, and her summit team in a race against time.The team are trapped in an icy grave at 26,000 feet - a death zone above the vertical limit of endurance where the human body cannot survive for long.Every second counts as Peter enlists the help of a crew of fellow climbers, including eccentric, reclusive mountain man Montgomery Wick, to ascend the chilling might of the world's most feared peak to save her....I'm not a mountaineer, or even a casual climber, what I am though is a super movie geek, and when I see good trash, I know what i'm, seeing. This has guilty pleasure written all over it, and any movie featuring Scott Glenn having a moment with a frozen corpse, is worth watching.Probably one of O' Donnells last high profile film, VL makes no sense at all, it starts off very tense, maybe the tensest mountain based openings since Cliffhanger, and this is where in some peoples eyes, it fails, because it has reached it's peak too early on, and the rest of the film feels lame compared to this scene.The plot is silly, as is the script, but the most woeful thing about the whole thing is the sets. It's so obvious that they are all climbing fake walls, and it ruins the mise en scene.But it's not all bad, the film is exciting if overlong, and Paxton is great as as the pantomime villain.Plus it's the best film ever to be released featuring two men laughing about spilt water and then being literally vaporised "}{"Title":"Goofs","Date":"15 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Producers seem to have to put some effort into making a good movie about mountaineering, but some goofs are just too hard to overlook, even from the point of view of a novice climber who never was within a thousand miles of K2.Your sense of incredulity should spike up from the first scene, which depends crucially on the idea that the key character, a seasoned mountaineer, somehow does not have a knife on him mid-climb.Assorted similar goofs go on and on. A mountaineer who walks around near the edge of a precipice without her backpack, all the while waving around her ice axe as if it weren't the primary tool intended to save her life in case of a fall. A different mountaineer who does not appear to make any effort at self-arrest (other than a lot of yelling) when he slips and starts sliding on a glacier. There are many examples.Here's the main problem. Why is it that, in real life, you can't take a bunch of people from K2 base camp and tell them to fetch some distressed hikers at 26,000 feet? The answer is lack of altitude acclimatization. In other words, these people would basically lie down and refuse to move (or at least come down with a severe case of altitude sickness, including headache, dizziness, and vomiting) about halfway up. But that wouldn't make for such a dramatic movie, would it? So we need to play down that angle, and instead work on some external dangers. Like the need to carry some canisters of extremely volatile nitroglycerin to the top of the mountain. (Of course, its extreme volatility is the primary reason why not a single military in the world actually uses the stuff - nor did for the last 100 years. At the very least, they'd use sawdust soaked with nitroglycerin, better known as dynamite because it's way easier to handle.) "},{"Title":"uneven flawed movie with scary and thrilling scenes. action adventure fun.","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Family differences and personal grudges add drama to an already tense situation as the lives of a team of mountain climbers hang in the balance in this action drama. Peter Garrett (Chris O'Donnell) and his sister Annie (Robin Tunney) are the children of Royce Garrett (Stuart Wilson), an avid outdoorsman and climbing enthusiast who died when an accident left all three hanging from a single rope; Royce ordered Peter to cut him loose to save the lives of his kids, even though he knew it would mean his death. Years later, Peter has given up climbing and become a respected nature photographer, while Annie, who holds Peter responsible for her father's death, is a famous world-class mountain climber who is hired by Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton), a self-made billionaire, to help him scale K2, a mountain in the Himalayas that's the second-highest peak in the world. In the midst of the climb, dangerous weather strikes, and Elliot, Annie, and their crew find themselves trapped in a cavern that's been sealed tight by an avalanche. Peter, who is near K2 working on an assignment, quickly organizes a crew of expert climbers to save Annie and the other mountaineers, who must work under a tight deadline before the trapped climbers run out of air. Peter's partners in the rescue include beautiful medic Monique (Izabella Scorupco), radical climbers Cyril (Steve Le Marquand) and Malcolm (Ben Mendelsohn), disciplined Pakistani crewman Kareem (Alexander Siddig), and Montgomery (Scott Glenn), an eccentric outdoorsman who has a score to settle with Elliot. While backgrounds were shot on location in Pakistan, most of the climbing sequences in Vertical Limit were actually filmed on mountain ranges in New Zealand.starring Chris O'Donnell, Bill Paxton, Robin Tunney, Scott Glenn, this is a pretty action adventure movie packed with some really breathtaking and heart stopping for specially me since i am really scared of heights.i am rating it this much just for the adventure fun and special effects action scenes of it and the fact it got my breath away but still the movie has flaws and it is not actually very good.this is a movie about mountain climbing, very harsh conditions are shown when the brother has to save his sister after she with two other guys is trapped due t an avalanche. its directed by Martin Campbell with average direction, he could have been slightly better but still okay. good cinematography pretty scary and eye popping mountains really looks good. screenplay had flaws it was uneven. plot was a bit shaky too.recommended to action adventure lovers. "},{"Title":"deserves at least an eight-star rating, when seen as a comedy","Date":"13 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In a race against time a reluctant young mountaineer (Chris O'Donnell) organizes a desperate rescue operation when his sister is trapped on the slopes of the world's second highest mountain. Never mind the sheer physical impossibility of so much frantic running, jumping and shouting above 25,000 feet; to best enjoy this artless (not to say mindless) thriller be prepared to accept a cast of papier-mâché characters (with dialogue to match) and more than one glaring plot hole for instance how, after taking such astonishing risks to reach their goal, did the rescue team get off the summit so quickly?One thing is sure rarely have there been so many photogenic, well-lit young faces on one mountainside, and never have any climbers had to face so many superhuman challenges, all of them above and beyond the usual rigors of Himalayan mountaineering bad weather, a murderous vendetta, a debilitating case of pulmonary edema, a vial of (only sometimes, and then conveniently) volatile nitroglycerin, avalanches, rock falls, a helicopter accident, some messy unresolved family history (O'Donnell was once forced to sacrifice his dad to save himself and sis during a near-fatal climbing incident), and of course a blossoming high-altitude romance.The film was clearly made for home entertainment-sized screens and expectations, and if nothing else includes some picturesque alpine scenery in between all the ruddy-cheeked close-ups and obvious soundstage backdrops (the often sloppy process work is proof that even the latest in digital technology offers no guarantee of credibility). It wants to be an adrenalin-packed, FX action thrill ride a la 'Twister' (the 1996 movie, not the party game), and in that regard succeeds as a more or less ideal guilty pleasure for undemanding viewers looking for two hours of low IQ entertainment. "},{"Title":"Some Good Photography but Cruddy Dialog","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Another example of poor dialog, and mismatched/obtrusive music, Vertical Limit was barely passable for a Sunday afternoon freebee from the public library. It features quite a few actors possibly now past their best movie-making days. The story seemed more-or-less standard and cutout. Sometimes the effects looked blue/green screenish too. There are an awful lot of implausibilities to try overlook, and they happen so often that the movie becomes tiresome such as requisite bungling decisions and (spoilers)somehow the Pakistani military giving American civilians explosives. The good points of the movie include some of the set pieces and locations, and quite a few scenes with pleasing photography. Nonetheless it doesn't save an unthoughtful and idiotic script replete with failed attempts at humor. Not really recommended, but there are certainly worse movies out there. "},{"Title":"Action and advenute eye candy at it's best","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is a action film that has two main problems Chris O Donell in the lead and the script. Why Martin Campbell decided to cast Chris is a puzzle to me. The film's action sequences are sharp though and the rest of the cast turn in good performances. The stunts are great and some of the action sequences actually leave on on the edge of their seat. "},{"Title":"Some tension, OK special effects, otherwise&#133;BLAH&#133;","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"   From the dramatic open you have to suspend lots of disbelief The climbers would not continue their hobby, and the significance of the accident would have ended up as a `Nova' or `National Geographic' Special on PBS. Coupled with that, I think the brother and sister would face a small case of depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, perpetual anxiety attacks, well&#133;you get the point on how far-fetched this movie is. While I don't remember the exact location where the climbers go next, it looked like the Himalayas. I recall that the significance of the excursion was either a competition or search for climbers lost in a previous expedition. Two characters (Scott Glenn, Bill Paxton) had ulterior motives on what it was all about.  Whatever is the case, the final scene between them was pure hokum. Please tell me that this speaks for the rest of the movie. Seems to be the case based on most reviews.  "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Action and Adventure","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really love this film! It is a superb action/thriller with an excellent cast, compelling acting and a well-grounded plot. I bonded with all the characters, and was swept along with them in the adventure of it all. The scenary was utterly magnificent. The action and special effects are thrilling. The film focuses on a desperate rescue attempt atop K2, probably the most dangerous mountain in the world for climbers. It is a most refreshing change from the usual mindless, bloody fare of the genre. As with any Hollywood production, there are elements that must be overlooked in order to live the excitement and danger the characters face. Anyone familiar with nitro, will have to just ignore the liberties that are taken, and the didos performed with it. And I thought the resolution at the end of the action was a little too quick. But this film conjures up the chaos of battle in my mind; where everything hits the fan all at once. Anything that can go wrong does. Then, extreme determination to live is all that gets you through it. That is the essence of this action adventure film. The people are realistic and the acting is superb from one and all. I thought Scott Glenn was most compelling in his role. And watch Izabella Scorupco. She turns every moment into flawless entertainment. And Wow, is she beautiful!  Watch this one; and just have fun.  "},{"Title":"well-produced but flat and lifeless","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Overblown story is the latest addition to the 'special effects and nothing else' genre. O'Donnell is a once great mountain climber who's lost his will after a painful and tragic incident. He's at odds with his younger, equally adventurous sister, but eventually must put the past behind him and confront his fear after she gets stranded on top of one of the highest peaks in the world. Another one of those movies that has all the special effects that money can buy, but poor plot development and corny human drama. Some breathtaking special effects and lavish scenery hold your attention, yet the whole film still feels hollow and contrived. ** "},{"Title":"Oxygen Deprived Writers Fail to Connect with Audience","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The writers must have been at altitude when they put this one in their laptops, because the writing was just a little too canned and the characters just a little too dingy to be in a dramatic action flick. The telegraphed delivery of the deaths of expendible characters was so over-used that it was difficult to connect with any character at all. Even the plot device of orphaning the two main characters fails to build enough of a sympathy bond. Heck, it works for Disney, so you can't blame them for trying.I have climbed long class III's (difficult, but no ropes required) and I was suckered in by the stunts in the previews. Given my exposure to the sport, the technical gaffes and medical screw-ups were distracting enough to overcome any lasting impact of the stunts. For example, not everyone reacts to altitude the exact same way, even well below the altitude of K2.Bill Paxton plays an eeeevil villain and Scott Glenn plays (what else?) a grizzled old man who knows everything. The rest of the characters just don't make the leap from the screen to the audience. Aside from a few great one-liners (all seen in memorable quotes--at left) and some fantastic stunts, this movie is missable. Maybe we should cut the rope again, just to be sure.  "},{"Title":"Will test the limits of your patience...","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  ****POSSIBLE SPOILERS****If you, like myself, lost a parent in a violent accident, fast forward through the first 10-15 minutes. Not only will the opening scene insult your intelligence, but the accidental (and unnecessary) death of dear old dad is absolutely gut wrenching! I was upset for the rest of the evening!Vertical Limit is the epitome of how NOT to make an action thriller... a plethora of goofs, factual errors, bad acting, boring stunts and tired cliches, all borrowed from other movies, and not even worth repeating here.This is quite possibly the first stinker I wish I HAD seen in the theater. Maybe viewing the mediocre stunts super-sized the would have entertained me in some nominal way. Hard core fans of Star Trek Deep Space Nine may want to see this movie solely for the presence of Alexander Siddig, but be warned that he plays a one-dimensional, highly stereotypical character. Oh well, I guess he needs the work.  "}{"Title":"It put me horizontal. *Yawn*","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Standard connect the dots action/adventure yarn with an abundance of thrills, spills, and chills. Unfortunately, it registered 10 on the Richter scale of hammy acting, dipsy dialogue, and toilet paper thin plot. Hell, I was actually happy to watch some of the mountaineers go sailing over the edge, they were so obnoxious. Even with all the excitement, this was just plain dull.  "},{"Title":"Big snowy pants...","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched this on (someone else's) video, late on a Sunday night, with  a very limited choice of things I hadn't already seen, so under the circumstances - perfect viewing...  the plot is ridiculous, the scenery breath-taking (although not breath-showing as some have pointed out!), the amount of people blown up/ dropped off a mountain satisfactory... Have never climbed (have no desire to do so) so had no idea what was right or wrong in the technicalities, Chris O'Donnell and Robin Tunney got on my nerves as they always do... but otherwise... likeable rubbish. Please don't spend money on it though!! "},{"Title":"This movie reminds me of another.","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This seems to be a remake of the story The Wages of Fear. This book was written in France and made into a movie over there going by the name of the book in 1953. Then William Friedkin remade it as Sorcerer in 1977. The movie Vertical Limit is a poor remake of this story. Sorcerer is a far better movie and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Climbing K2?   Leave your beard at the door.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Poor, poor Krycek.  He only wanted the best for everybody.I am actually recommending this movie.  Give it a chance.  It becomes quite interesting and exhilarating toward the end.  Vertical Limit, of course, is hokey most of the time.  Some things I just couldn't swallow. And I still don't know what to make of Cheech and Chong - rock climbers extraordinaire?  Hmm....I dunno.Hudson does a good job wearing the lovable yet selfish/murdering/greedy billionaire character jacket.  The special effects are complimentary rather than embarrassing.  But let's stress something.  If you're the type of person that has a blood-lust out of b****ing about all the plot flaws, inconceivably hopeless coincidences in action triangulation, and complete disregard for exact, precise realism...then you're NOT going  to like VL.  But if you just like adventure-movies that use their dramatic license, then I say go for it.Just lighten up.  Vertical Limit is an entertaining, fun escape out of your meaningless, pawn-like existence, so stop trying to look for God in every movie you let yourself sit through...relax and enjoy the ride.And one more thing an incredible performance by Nicholas Lea. (Nobody ever mentions him, do they?  Damn shame.) "},{"Title":"Lot of flaws and lots of thrills.","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit begins with a bang, bogs down a bit as it develops it contrived story, and then builds to one harrowing mountain climbing situation after another. Good old fashioned melodramatic escapism, this flick is a typical Hollywood product with many obvious flaws. However, if you turn off your brain and go with the flow you'll likely find watching Vertical Limit to be a fun and exciting nail biting experience. "},{"Title":"it's so very, very.... mundane","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was looking forward to this movie, despite the bad rap that was going around it. Well, unfortunately, the bad rap was rather true.The only really good thing about this movie is the filming. It has absolutely stunning scenes of the mountains, as well as some impressive shots in general.Other than that, I find it to be a rather mediocre affair, very similar to other movies released throughout the years. There is a few plot twists and turns, but they're very small and not well utilized.I get the general impression that this originally would've been a great movie, but during production all the great things got lost somewhere.The characters are somewhat believable, although they are all very, very stereotype in my opinion.Summary If you get a kick out of not-too-intelligent movies where man faces the great wrath of nature, this is probably your thing. If you prefer more cerebral movies, watch something else. "},{"Title":"O'Donnell just gets worse","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Many actors have their trademark movie roles Jim Carrey is well known for his rubber-faced comedy antics, Tom Hanks for his solid straight-faced Oscar quality acting, Eddie Murphy for loud black comedy, and Chris O'Donnell&#133; well he's known for his awful, awful films.From Batman and Robin to last year's &#145;The Batchelor', O'Donnell has gone from bad films to even worse. So as I walked into O'Donnell's latest multi-million dollar picture Vertical Limit, lets just say I wasn't expecting much. After walking out of the same movie, the little I had been expecting was even more than Vertical Limit offered. Let's just get one thing straight Vertical Limit is a bad, bad, BAD movie. From the wooden acting to the wobbly sets, it's terrible from start to finish. The plot is weak, the script is a poor rip-off of Stallone's Cliffhanger and as for the special effects- I've seen better results from cut up cornflake packets and PVA glue on Blue Peter.We start with Peter Garrett (O'Donnell), sister Annie (Tunney) and their father climbing up some cardboard and polystyrene&#133; oops sorry- incredibly realistic rock face. Some amateur climbers above them slip off the face and fall to their deaths while their ropes accidentally entangle with our heroes. We're left with Annie, Peter and their dad all suspended from one rope with the hook beginning to fall out of the cliff. Their father, tells Peter to cut the rope and sacrifice his life to save his own and his sister's.From there we cut to &#145;three years later&#133;' Peter and Annie have survived and Annie is attempting to climb one of the most dangerous mountains in the world &#150; K2 in Pakistan. Her brother has given up climbing after being blamed for their father's death by his sister, they've barely spoken in the time since. Yep, you've guessed it; her party gets into trouble and estranged brother O'Donnell vows to save his sister because he couldn't save his dad. Altogether now, arrrr&#133;There are many problems with this film, but possibly the biggest one is why the audience are meant to empathise with O'Donnell trying to save his sister at the expense of multiple other lives. It wouldn't be so bad if her character had been developed into a nice person to begin with but with all her constant whinging and whining, it's clear that she's a big pain to begin with.Most of the climbing scenes are terribly unlikely and inaccurate, take for example climbing K2 with just one rope between each pair. On top of that, if you decide to climb one of the world's most treacherous peaks when you know a storm is approaching, quite frankly you deserve all you get!There are few saving graces, only the comedic Australian duo spring to mind, but they don't last long enough to save the film.The script is weak, the acting is poor, there are too many clichés and as for the set (especially in the opening scene), Jordan's chest looks more realistic. And so in the words of the immortal Anne Robinson, Chris O'Donnell, your films are the weakest link&#133; goodbye.3/10   "},{"Title":"Damn!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is only an average/pretty good film, but it could have been much more. The directing was very good, the acting was OK, but I have to say, the script was a real stinker. There were a couple of predictable things, plus the main characters were all very lucky. And that was not even all. There were also a couple of (convenient) coincidences. All in all a well directed, average acted piece of crap script brought to the big screen.6,5 out of 10  "},{"Title":"On second thought, don't hold your breath.","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Martin Campbell's Vertical Limit begins with a shot of a canyon that is nothing short of breathtaking.  I'm lost, staring at the screen in utter amazement.  What beauty!  What photography!  Unfortunately, within a few seconds, an enormous bird glides onto the screen.  It was probably meant to be a hawk, but it's so poorly made you can't be sure.  You would think in this day of amazing digital capabilities, they could at least afford a realistic looking bird.The rest of Vertical Limit continues in this manner.  Sure, there are moments of extreme grandeur, but they're always interrupted by something so horribly fake that it's simply painful.  The result is one of the most bloated films I've ever seen.  Everything is either overdone or done poorly.  Take the script.  Or better yet, don't.  Besides the fact that it's completely illogical and chock full of cliches, the basical story is dead on its feet.  The heroic rescue team risks its life to save their friends is certainly serviceable.  The idea of six people strapping nitroglycerine to their backs is not.  There's also James Newton Howard's soundtrack, which is so bad to the point of being offensive.  It's obvious that Vertical Limit is intended for people of limited mental capacity, and the musical score confirms this.  Nothing of any interest can happen without a dramatic flurry from the orchestra.  In fact, it's not just when something interesting is going on.  It's all the time.  I'm thinking of one particular instance where there is nothing going on at all, and suddenly there's a Titanic-esque panflute solo.  Come on, people.  This is ridiculous.Martin Campbell knows how to direct.  (Remember Mask of Zorro?)  Here I guess he simply chose not to.  Actually, that's not quite fair.  He deserves some praise for making a movie that, for the most part, looks really good.  Or maybe this is just because of the camera work, which is as stunning as it is overdone.  Yes, that's it.  It's the camera work.  What Campbell did manage to do is get terrible performances from a very capable cast.  Not that I can blame them in the least.  When the material you're given to work with is this bad, decent acting isn't a possibility.Vertical Limit tries to be everything and ends up being nothing.  There are parts that are clearly aimed at being exciting, engaging, or romantic, but they fail across the board.  If your reason for going to the movie theater is to have your intelligence insulted for almost two hours, then this is clearly the film for you.* 1/2 (out of ****) "},{"Title":"predictable boring and unbelievable","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The acting in this piece was formulaic and uninspiring - none of the characters were developed and the tragic start to the film (the fathers death) had little bearing on the character development of the children. The effects while grand were no better than any other action film. The characters of both Australian climbers was stereotypical and shallow.The photography was the best part about it but one only has to look at Himalaya to see great cinematography ..... "}{"Title":"Ridiculous plot, serving only to put characters in extremely dangerous situations (some are fun though)","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Large parts of this picture reminded me of Cliffhanger, which had a very similar theme and a punchier plot, i might add (if you're gonna step into the ring..). Chris o'Donnel 's traumatic experience rang a few bells for instance, as did his relation with his sister and the rescue-mission gone haywire. It must be said, the 'special effects' and the action sequences were very entertaining, but is it to much to ask when we expect a tiny bit of coherent plot along with the rest? And maybe it's been said before, but can someone explain to me the use of taking along nitroglycerine which is obviously the most volatile explosive in the world? if you ask me a few sticks of dynamite would have sufficed.  "},{"Title":"Makes me want to become a film editor","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film actually had potential. If you are one of the scorched movie goers that Hollywood targets nowadays -- one who needs to be titillated every minute with visual stimulation -- it's a fun movie. But any involvement with the film on a deeper level is quenched by the constant barrage of improbable, silly, overdone, more-more-more, action scenes. The movie served the scenes, instead of the scenes serving the movie/plot/story. And it's such a shame, because, it actually had a decent story premise, but the over-the-top action killed the emotional empathy that I had for any of the characters. The script must be what attracted a fine actor like Scott Glenn -- but then, no actor has control over what finally ends up on the screen. Again, a fun movie if action is all you want -- but this film could have been a lot more. "},{"Title":"Entertains more, taxes less","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Think of a good action-thriller - Die Hard, Ronan, and throw in some great outdoor scenery and you have Vertical Limit - a movie that is entertaining without taxing the brain.  It has a clear objective, well defined villain and hero, some internal conflicts that periodically rears its ugly head, and a formula ending.  The acting is good especially Chris O'Donnelland Robin Tunney as brother and sister. Taking from the book, Into Thin Air about men who mistakenly think they can conquer Mother Nature, the film explores the mountain climber's risk taking psyche, their male brotherhood rivalries as well as an ethic of self-survival that runs counter to love and loyalty.   But the heart of the film is the action scenes with breath-taking shots of an awesome avalanche approaching tiny mountaineers, of sheer ice that breaks and consumes, and of the precipice before a huge fall.  There is even a double sequence involving the almost impossible retrieval of a life-sustaining backpack and the desperate efforts of two people to save themselves after falling off the edge.  Never mind that in some of the most intense scenes - the father and his two children dangling off the side of the mountain, the female climber who has just lost her partner and fights to stay on, and the final rescue beyond the vertical limit of human endurance - everyone who survives is instantly recovered and brought back.  Think of an action thriller which truly had a central message, The Poseidon Adventure, and you can see how Vertical Limit hems and haws but falls short.  The issue of the commercialism of the mountain climb and how that was doomed to fail would be a red herring.  Rather it is the issue of self survival and how the film delicately walks all around it that ultimately demeans it.  It wants to be brave and say cut the rope, exsanguinate the dead, ration the dexamethasone but it also wants to leave room for error, for that emotional break that overrules whatever is rational.  Enjoy Vertical Limit for entertaining escapism, not for any measure of insight.     "},{"Title":"Great Action, Lousy Script","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film has some amazing special effects and the action sequences (and there are PLENTY) arevery well-directed by Campbell. O'Donnell seems miscast - almost too soft to pull off any of his daredevil moves (and yes, I know that's part of his character - I just feel the actor peaked in Men Don't Leave) Scott Glenn and the actor who portrays Skip do excellent jobs given depth to what could have been cardboard characters. Opening scene is right up there with Cliffhanger and luckily, unlike Cliffhanger, it doesn't have a ridiculous villian. Bill Paxton tries hard and delivers a fairly steady performance but the script is filled with so many logic problems and one main, HUGE plot point involving nitro is so unbelievable, I cant believe it made it into the shooting script. If you want a brainless, sit back and be wowed visual flick, then you can't go wrong. But if you want some mental meat on these bones, you will be starving when it's over.    "},{"Title":"Worth a big screen viewing","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hearing some of the reviews, I'm wondering if I watched the same movie. Lame plot , lame character development, overall mediocre acting, BUT pretty much has you on the edge of your seat throughout.  To the couple of wannabe directors who commented on the blue screen shots and weak FX's what do you want? Actual death plunges??? Go rent Faces of Death I, II, III, etc...if you want graphic detail. I don't, as a rule, like action pictures; lots of action and a lot of fun, lot of scary thrills...acting's pretty good in spots, at least entertaining.  Three stars, a thriller roller coaster ride for the holidays... "},{"Title":"Not a Top Campbell but a Worthy Second-Placer","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First of all, let me just say that I really like Martin Campbell's work, especially GOLDENEYE, which is in my view one of the best two or three Bonds, and THE MARK OF ZORRO, a rousing adventure in the old Hollywood style.  I liked VERTICAL LIMIT also, not as much as those other Campbell films, but enough to feel like my 6 dollars were well spent (I saw a matinee show).However, at 100 million dollars, I think the film is underproduced.  First of all, why it was decided not to photograph a big screen adventure like this in scope beats me.  Campbell is a master at using the wide, wide screen in spectacular ways and LIMIT, restricted to the 1.851 aspect ratio, feels claustrophobic and unexpansive despite the locales it supposedly takes place in.Second, while some may like the special effects in the movie, in my book the film suffers from too much digitalization and too many obvious CGI's.  The helicopter scene, with the characters hanging on for dear life thousands of feet above ground, is obviously filmed on a set that's lit like a set with a cyclorama that looks like a cyclorama.  Something similar happens with the opening sequence in Utah (just compare the obvious artificial quality here with, say, the opening rock climbing scene in MI2).There are literally hundreds of shots in the movie that are obviously shot in the studio's green room and later composited with live action backgrounds that look artificial -- too digital, if you will.  (These, folks, are the kinds of shots we'll be looking at years from now saying, Wow, did we really buy that back then? like we do when we see films like THE MOUNTAIN today).  Campbell is a master action filmmaker and has such a good sense of how to photograph action sequences that you almost forget you're watching phoniness most of the time.  But still...Finally, Chris O'Donnell is too puppyish for this part.  He looks good, and acts alright, but the film would have benefited from a bonafide film star like Brad Pitt or Matt Damon.All of this notwithstanding, VERTICAL LIMIT is better than most movies out there and well worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"definitely worth the watch","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit first caught my attention with its trailer, and from the looks of it, I thought this would definitely be one exciting film.  I was not disappointed.  It was a roller coaster ride from start to finish. Although some parts were predictable, I found that my heart still jumped when it happened.  Not only were the action/disaster scenes intense, but the whole story made me feel the character's fears, and the cold.  This is not get into big trouble and get pulled out quickly.  This is get into big trouble, then get into bigger trouble, and then into complete disaster, and maybe they can get out of it.  I, along with the audience cringed and jumped quite a few times and came out with white knuckles.  The bottom line is, if you want to see a thrilling adventure, this is it.  "},{"Title":"F/X meets The Stupids","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit may have some of the most amazing special effects of the year, but the F/X in this flick can't take the place of holes in the story, ridiculous characters, and insane stunts and other things that occur. To start, when you are trapped underneath the surface of a mountain with no light sources, it is pitch black. There should be no lights on at all. Second, only two of nine climbers were ever seen wearing their helmets. Third, it is impossible to fly a helicopter in gale force winds, 21,000 feet alongside a mountain, and keeeping it steady. I could've said oh well, its hollywood but i didn't. The reason for that was because the pilot held it almost steady about two inches from the side of mountain. Fourth, no sane mountain climbers would ever scale one of the biggest mountains in the world when they know a storm is approaching them. Fifth, why couldn't they blast the mountain with regular dynamitistead of using nitroglycerine? The things the people in this movie are unbelieveable and crazy. I give this movie a 6/10, and only reconmend it to action fans. if you are looking for movie that shows the troubles of mountain climbing and its REALISTIC, then stay away, because this movie in all explosions, avalanches, and special effects. "},{"Title":"Pretty exciting adventure","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is a mostly entertaining adventure-thriller that gets the job done with plenty of thrills and excitement. Chris O'Donnell stars as Peter Garrett, a professional photographer for National Geographic who we see in the opening scene climbing one of those tall mesas in Utah with his sister Annie (Robin Tunney), their father (Stuart Wilson), and two other climbers. A tragic occurrence befalls them. Fast forward to three years later, when Annie plans on taking a rich Texas tycoon (Bill Paxton) up K2, the second tallest mountain in the world. Things don't go according to plan. A storm gets in their way, and they end up falling into a cave. Through morse code, Peter finds out his sister and a few others are still alive. He then gathers a team of climbers to help him go up the mountain and rescue the people trapped in the cave. Vertical Limit reminded me somewhat of Sylvester Stallone's excellent 1993 action movie Cliffhanger with its beautiful scenery and mountain climbing. It's not as good as the Stallone picture, but Vertical Limit is very well done. Director Martin Campbell, who directed the very good 1995 James Bond thriller Goldeneye, does an terrific job with directing action scenes that keep you on the edge of your seat (I know I was). The cinematography is gorgeous, and the stuntwork outstanding. Portions of the story is the only weak link in Vertical Limit. There were some parts in the story that were kind of ridiculous, but it's only a minor problem. The performances are good though. It's nice to see Chris O'Donnell in a good movie again. He hasn't made a good film in five years since Batman Forever, and he's very good here in Vertical Limit as the one who does everything he can to save his sister from the jaws of death on the mountain. Other good performances are turned in by Tunney as the sister; Scott Glenn (looking bizarre) as a long-haired Zen climber; and Izabella Scorupco (who played the good Bond girl in Campbell's Goldeneye) as a French-Canadian climbing nurse. Only Paxton (who's usually good in most of the films he's starred in) comes off negative. He's not all that convincing as the heartless tycoon. Aside from that and some of the story, Vertical Limit is a very good adventure movie that definitely had me on the edge of my seat. As far as action-adventure movies go, this is the best one out right now.*** (out of four)  "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is a really good movie.  The action in the movie was excellent and breath taking.  The movie really drags you into the story especially in the second half when most of the action is taking place.  The story seems so real that everybody in the theater was gasping and covering their eyes and stuff like that when things were happening.  It's a must see for anyone who likes mountaineering or is just interested in that kind of stuff. "}{"Title":"Pretty good, histerical theater reception","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went to see this today and thought it was pretty good.  The villian didn't really need to be there and wasn't very villianous.  I kind of felt sorry for him.  The only characters you really did care about were the two austrilian brothers who add comic relief to this movie.This movie was a little better than cliffhanger and not as good as Perfect Storm or Alive.  It was entertaining though.The CGI was at times terrible (the opening shot of the eagle), and sometimes it was OK.Anyway, in the beginning of any mountain movie there is a fall/accidental death, so I'm not spoiling anything for you.  When Chris Odonnel cuts his dad loose, it shows a bird flying and landing.  Then it shows the dad smack into the ground with a thud.  I think this is supposed to be sad, but I laughed out loud to see what would happen.  Then the crowd erupted with laughter.  It was wierd.Go see this movie I guess and laugh in the beginning.  "},{"Title":"Would Someone Please Get Martin Campbell a Decent Script?","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While the script is filled with cliches, underdeveloped characters, plot lines that go nowhere, and general absurdities, the film itself is great fun.  Chris O'Donnell plays a former mountaineer who returns to climbing in order to save his sister (Robin Tunney) and two other climbers (Bill Paxton included) who are left stranded due to a storm on the most difficult mountain in the world, K2.  Along for the ride are a wild-eyed veteran (Scott Glenn), a local climber who lost his cousin in the storm, a somewhat mysterious female climber, and two crazy brothers who are there simply to provide comic relief (and do so successfully).Indeed, the strong points of this film are the humor and, of course, the action sequences.  Director Martin Campbell, who showed what he can do with a good script on The Mask of Zorro, films the tense climbing scenes very, very well.  Admittedly, there are a few too many sequences where a lone climber is left hanging by a couple of fingers but, again, this is a script problem, not a directing problem.  The only real shortcoming with the directing is that the surroundings aren't used the way they could be.  The climbers are on the most difficult, and one of the tallest, mountains in the world.  Yet, it always seems that they are in a tight space.  There are very few wide shots that truly show the expansiveness of the area.  During the few shots of this type found in the movie, the viewer is left breathless. It's a shame there weren't more.  Campbell also does a fine job of pulling out good performances from actors and actresses who didn't get much to work with.  Bill Paxton is his usual wooden self, but the rest of the cast, especially O'Donnell and Tunney, give fine performances.  Campbell is a highly capable director who can do both action, which he showed in Goldeneye, and drama, which he wonderfully displayed in Zorro.  A good script could put this guy on Hollywood's A-List of filmmakers.This movie is certainly not a great film dramatically (again, a script problem), but from a pure action standpoint, it is hard to top from recent memory.  It brings to mind another recent disaster film, The Perfect Storm. Both provide terrific action, but fall somewhat short elsewhere.  Still, Vertical Limit is a really fun escape.  Just take it with a grain of salt.  "},{"Title":"A dressed up B movie, complete with minimal direction and awful dialogue","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Were we supposed to take this movie seriously?? It was entertaining, but that's pretty much all that could be said for it. The dialogue is on par with modern B flicks like 'Bats' and 'Bad Moon', the direction (by the talented Martin Campbell) was way off, and it's obvious that there were a lot of problems during production. Why do I say this? It looks like they went with an early, unfinished cut, and that the production team just wanted to get it over with and go on to bigger and better things, and didn't even bother to do more than a take or two, so ultimately the entire film has this crude, unpolished look to it.Piling on the criticism, did anyone even bother to hire anyone to monitor the continuity in this movie?? I mean, even my films have fewer small problems with it than this. For starters, the entire thing takes place above 26,000 feet in the middle of the snowstorm, but not once is the characters' breath visible, and it makes you feel like you're in the tropics, even though all of the faces are constantly frozen, everyone's always shaking so much that it's almost nauseating, and wearing a ton of heavy clothes-- but you don't see their breath. Additionally, there a ton (literally) of small errors and places where computer effects are obviously added in. For example, one scene has a shot of the midday sun, and tracks out to reveal that the camera is actually inside a hut looking out a barred skylight, but when the sun is supposed to go behind the bar, the special effects/cgi crew apparently forgot to actually put the sun behind the bar, so it just goes over top of it and looks fake beyond words.The dialogue is unbelievably bad for a movie that had an estimated budget of over a hundred million dollars. A four year old could've written a better script. The characters aren't really flushed out, and other than the two main characters (Peter and Annie Garrett), you barely know the names or faces of the others, and feel for them or generally care when they run into the inevitable troubles that seem to happen in every climbing movie. The villain of the piece doesn't emerge until minutes from the end, and never is actually very menacing, it seems he was just made into a villain to spice things up a bit... as if the mountain wasn't bad enough already.I know it sounds like I've absolutely trashed this movie, but I can't say I didn't enjoy it. The stunts and locations were stunning, and rare action scene that actually worked was exhilarating... but that wasn't often enough. The acting was surprisingly good for a script this bad, Scott Glenn being the stand out. He was given one of the weakest, most two dimensional character in the piece and almost succeeded in making Montgomery Wick fun to watch.There's no doubt that this had potential, but it is little more than a bloated disappointment. It runs way too long, takes forever for anything to happen, and is generally, well, bad. This film supposedly went way over budget during production, but it doesn't really show. Only a few shots actually had a high gloss, refined look to them, and a more efficient director could've made the film on far less. A really good climbing movie still has yet to be made, as neither 'Cliffhanger' or 'K2' were really all that good, and this sure doesn't fit the bill.Entertaining, but little else. It's better to stay away from it, especially after it leaves theaters, where at least the action and scenery seem impressive.4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Vertical Limit keeps you on the edge of your seat.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the previews for `Vertical Limit,' I was really impressed with all the action.  The movie has a lot of great action that a disaster movie should have & the scenery of New Zealand, where the movie was shot, was beautiful.  The workload on the cast to make this movie looked very demanding.  However, I felt that parts of the movie plot was a bit predictable, & foreshadowed a bit too many times. "},{"Title":"Sucking Air Through Teeth Noises!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  That's all you'll hear throughout all action sequences.This movie is really good at what it set out to be a pure action/thriller.I'd seriously recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good thrill. Yes, there is some corny character stuff but that's not the important part.The movie is NOTHING like Cliffhanger (except the fact that they are climbing)It is so much better at presenting thrills that really captivate you and have you on the edge of your seat.On one negative note the opening scene  why did it end like that? Who decided to end the shot like that? What a miscalculation. "},{"Title":"Crackerjack thriller in some good form","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is a film that is one of the best films in the category intense depiction of weather (others include Twister, Cliffhanger and the recent great The Perfect Storm), and while it delivers the suspense 5 fold, it might be loose at a couple of things, for instance, overacting, and not needed characters.  The plot follows a trio who try to climb a mountain, but when an avalanche comes around, they must be rescued by O'Donnell and company.  While Paxton makes a good villain and Glenn is in fine shape as a crazed climber, some character points aren't needed, and drag the film just a tad.  Otherwise, this film is a prime example of popcorn entertainment with action that does good in films with bad action.  Directed by Martin Campbell of Goldeneye and Mask of Zorro fame.  B+ "},{"Title":"Thrilling, entertaining, yet predictable","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I work at a movie theater, so I had seen the preview many times before watching the movie. I went into it expecting mediocre acting yet awesome special effects. The acting turned out to be better than I expected. The special effects were cool, yet I was disappointed because most of them were included in the trailer, so I had basically seen all of the jaw dropping stuff. This movie is a typical disaster/rescue predictable type movie, so I was intrigues when a plot began to emerge (an issue involving a character named Montgomery Wick.)I thought that the emerged plot was far too underdeveloped. Over all, if you're in the mood to be on the edge of your seat, go see this movie. I give it 8.5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"GREAT MOVIE!!!!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was very well done.  Even thought it recived low ratings I give it a 10!! It was another Man Vs. Nature movie but it was well done. I highly recommend this movie "},{"Title":"Intense!!!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit started out intense and just kept on going. In the beginning of the movie there is an emotionally intense scene which has a huge impact on both Tunney and O'Donnell's characters that shadows many of their reasons for doing and not doing things. But everything that happens on K-2 helps them to realize they must forgive themselves. I lost count of how many times I jumped or gasped. Paxton character is a very arrogant and selfish jerk and in some scenes reminded me of a shark just waiting to attack its prey. The action was very intense and very well put together and of course the acting was great! The scenery was beautiful as well!! "},{"Title":"A Fun Time but overKILL to the Extreme","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had high hopes for this film after seeing the thrilling opening sequence in Monument Valley, Utah; but, alas, it was not to be.THE STORY A famous female climber gets stuck in an ice cave with two others near the top of K2, the second highest mountain on Earth. Her brother, who has sworn off climbing because of his father's climbing death, has no choice but to assemble a team to rescue the trio.WHAT WORKS As already mentioned, the opening sequence is excellent, the locations (New Zealand Alps) are great, the story pretty much keeps your attention (until the absurdities really mount up -- pun intended) and both Robin Tunney & Izabella Scorupco are deliciously beautiful.WHAT DOESN'T WORK As the story continues the believability decreases severely. In fact, the crisis/suspense/action sequences are so EXTREME and strung so close together (especially as the movie proceeds) that they tend to make you bust out laughing -- the very OPPOSITE reaction the creators wanted. By the very end the ridiculous overkill made me lose interest in whatever story was supposed to be there.FINAL ANALYSIS I was hoping for something unexpectedly great like The Edge, but ended up with a fun but ultimately shallow time-waster. For comparison, Cliffhanger is Apocalypse Now next to Vertical Limit.GRADE C "}{"Title":"Popcorn-Kino","Date":"2 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Warning when you want see a true based or more realastic movie, then I would say you should watching the German movie Nordwand. Vertical Limit is in other words just Popcorn-Kino. Nothing more and nothing less. Sure, those EXPERTS in this movies are stupid but who cares? The movie itself is thrilling, breathless and entertaining. Also I like any actors like Nicholas Lea (famous for his role as Alex Kryzek in X-Files) and Chris O'Donnell. In a supporting role can be seen Alexander Siddig who was Dr. Bashir in Star Trek Deep Space Nine.Its a good movie. I liked it in the movie theaters and I still like it on blu-Ray. "},{"Title":"Like cliffhanger, though much much stupid","Date":"5 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" oooh how I hate the vertical limit. The trailer for it was exciting and fast and thought the movie would be the same. Instead we are treated to characters facing boring and stupid dangers on a dumb mission, all the time trying to act like it all matters to them. The dumbest thing in the movie is, professional climbers are sent on a mission to rescue a highly respected, yet asshole businessman(he is played by Bill Paxton, just in case you may not understand he is a jerk at first)who was accompanied by Robin Tunney just to add some whining and screams to the whole rescue thing. The team has high explosives in their backpacks because that is what you should have during a highly dangerous climb(There is a reason they have that but don't ask me I am no rescue climber) so you know somebody is going to blow themselves up. Oh yeah, the dumbest thing, in the end none of this matters since all of them get killed, including Paxton, who falls to his death by one final sacrifice act of one of the climbers so other can survive. So all of the characters are dead just so Robin Tunney can go on, just to get killed in second season of Prison Break. Bang up job, guys! "},{"Title":"Physics? Mountaineering? Where Art thou?","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I started mountaineering a couple years ago and became interested in this movie. Having seen it, I don't really know what to think of it. There is no logic in this movie. How do friends catch the fall of five people and then start ripping out one after the next? Who will ever use nitroglycerin as an explosive? Have you ever heard of a T- anchor? Why are there icescrews on the rescue teams harnesses if nobody uses them? How can a guy start running on about 8000 m without having done any high altitude acclimatisation? To summarize my impression on the movie If you ever had anything to do with mountaineering or climbing this movie will drive tears into your eyes. You will either cry or laugh a lot! "},{"Title":"Like Cliffhanger without the villains killing people.","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Yes, in this particular mountain movie you do not need John Lithgow and his gang of gun toting thugs killing people on the mountain, the people kill themselves quite nicely thank you very much. The story basically starts out with a tragedy very similar to the one that occurred at the beginning of the film Cliffhanger. Years later (of course) the sister who was involved with said accident is still climbing, while her brother has pretty much given it up. Well, the sister is part of a group trying to climb this super mountain that the one millionaire in the group tried before, but had a lot of misfortune as a guide died and he barely got off alive. Well they soon get stuck in some ice caverns near the top and a rescue mission involving a lot of people forms. And most of these people are going to die in great slow motion fashion like in the film Cliffhanger the movie would probably be better titled many deaths on the mountain. The ending is fairly predictable as well, with more deaths making the whole rescue effort and all the sacrifice pretty much for one person. The acting is bland as we get Chris O'Donnell who I have not seen in anything since this movie and Bill Paxton who seemingly appears in any movie. The scenery steals the show, and there are some good action sequences here and there to make the movie watchable. I also learned a lot about what edema is. "},{"Title":"If you are prepared to cling on till the end....","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The scene is set, hot shot mountain climbing siblings Peter Chris O'Donnell & Annie Garrett Robin Tunney are witness to an horrendous mountainside tragedy involving their father. Annie continues on in the mountaineering way of life, Peter, somewhat understandably considering what happened, loses his nerve and sulks away as a normal mortal doing photography for a living. But Annie, whilst on an expedition up K2 with rich egotist Elliot Vaughn Bill Paxton gets trapped during an avalanche. Enter Peter who must get over his personal woes and go save his sister from impending death.Martin Campbell GoldenEye, No Escape, Casino Royale & The Mask of Zorro ) directs and David Tattersall is in charge of the cinematography. Overlong at two hours, and at times too talky, Vertical Limit just about manages to rise above its sign posted formula to produce an effective popcorn thriller. The action sequences, once they arrive in the second half, come in rapid fire succession and are very well constructed by Campbell and his team. While Tattersall's work at Monument Valley, Pakistan and New Zealand is worthy of the rental alone. The question is if viewers can get past the first hour,? where loads of base campers ponder dangers and personal complexities, or perhaps more importantly,? if the barely adequate acting of Tunney & O'Donnell can stop you from wanting to free-fall off of your local cliff face? The inadequacies of the pair is more noticeable due to the presence of Paxton reliable as ever and Scott Glenn in the support cast. Glenn is the best thing in the movie, his grizzled, hurt, man with a mission climber, Montgomery Wick, holds the attention and offers up a more interesting emotional thread than the telegraphed one involving the siblings.A mixed bag but certainly an entertaining enough one if you hang on in there. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Corny","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Peter (Chris O'Donnell) and Annie (Robin Tunney) are brother and sister who once shared a tragic mountain climbing experience. Since then, Peter has refused to climb but Annie gets lured into climbing K-2 with a novice billionaire. (Of course) they need rescuing and (of course) Peter leads the way.This movie uses every mountain climbing cliché in the book and is so predictable, it's pathetic. After just minutes we know where the story is going and sure enough, it goes there. There are a few exciting disaster scenes, but they're weren't enough to hold my interest.The Extras feature on the making of the movie was the best part of the DVD. I had assumed the actors were acting in front of blue screens with stock mountain footage in the background, but to my surprise they actually filmed it atop snowy and icy peaks (in New Zealand) and the actors did a lot of their own stunts. If I had known that, I might have been more patient with the movie, but it really was a connect-the-dots climbing movie, complete with dastardly businessmen, noble climbers, an avalanche, and deadly crevasses. Disappointing. "},{"Title":"really disappointing, don't even bother","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A very predictable movie, a lot of unnecessary action and drama, which was totally unrealistic. The trauma surrounding the brother and sister was so ridiculous and badly filmed and acted that I, with all the best intentions, could not feel any sympathy for any of the characters. Just one bunch of silly people doing silly and impossible things with explosives in beautiful mountains. I don't know what this movie was about, it was certainly not about climbing. Pity that the beauty of mountains be used as a background for such a ridiculously crappy film. Don't even bother to see it. "},{"Title":"spectacular views and not much else of consequence","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" lately,it seems the last few movies i have reviewed have basically been of the wall to wall action and realty defying stunts category.the same holds true for this movie.the only difference is,most of the action and stunts happen to occur high above sea level.on mountain to be exact.i actually almost hated this movie.there's little in the way of script,but to be far they just didn't have any room for it,what with all the explosions and stunts.the one redeeming feature this movie has-is the scenery.there are very breathtaking views.but other than that,i can't muster much enthusiasm.to tell the truth,despite nothing but stunt after stunt after explosion,several yawns escaped.i was bored out of my gourd.not a good sign.but,because of the spectacular views,i'll give Vertical Limit 3/10 "},{"Title":"Strange","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The good thing about this movie it has some nice scenery. Everything else is a problem.The plot, in as much as it can be said to have a plot, is strange, to say the least. It suspends all use of common sense, for one. I've never heard of anyone ever carrying liquid nitro-glycerine up K2, rescue mission or no rescue mission. And of course the flasks had to leak! I mean, seriously, if you were carrying liquid explosives in your backpack, wouldn't you check to make sure that it wouldn't accidentally leak? And why did it react to the sun? And why didn't they know it would react to the sun, somebody must have used it before, surely? And is it just me, or can you actually see the end of the microphone on some of those mountain scenes? "},{"Title":"Well, I took the cover's advice, held my breath, and I ended up in the hospital!","Date":"6 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" What seemed pretty promising, turned into a total mess of a film. I remember when Vertical Limit came out, I was 15 and wanted to see it, but my friends never wanted too. Eventually, I forgot about it, but recently, I was renting movies and came across it and remembered how much I wanted to see it. So, finally, I got to see what this exciting movie was all about. Well, take the word exciting and replace it with waste of time.Now the plot isn't bad, a sister and brother loose their father in a climbing adventure gone bad, and now the sister has decided to climb one of the world's tallest mountains, but an avalanche causes her and two other of her team members to get trapped and are left to freeze to death. But the brother decides to take matters into his own hands and takes a team up there to free them.Special effects were good and that's about it. The plot itself, was really twisted and got turned into an unneeded drama fest. It could have worked well, but honestly, this movie was badly miscasted in my opinion. Certain disaster movies work despite their cliché's, but Vertical Limit, well, it reached it's limit and went past it.3/10 "}{"Title":"Great movie - good entertainment.","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I am a hobbyist climber &#150; have done sport and alpine climbing in the European Alps, Yosemite, Lake Tahoe and Nepal. While in Nepal last year I got my hands and toes severely frostbitten with partial amputations, and one of our porters died of altitude sickness. So I have a bit of personal experience with the risks that come with high altitude climbing. Based upon that, I'd have to say that a lot of the climbing scenes in this movie are silly (1) The movie suggests that Elliott, Tom and Annie summit from base camp in one day. That is simply not possible. (2) Everyone is looking way too fresh, considering the altitude at which they are at. (3) None of the climbers or the rescue teams seems to need to acclimatize. (4) A lot of the climbing stunts are just not possible. Now, having said all that, if you look at these scenes from a movie and drama perspective, it makes sense. Shooting a full fledged Hollywood movie at high altitude is just not possible &#150; aside from the logistical nightmare the actors would be sick all the time &#150; would do little to improve the looks of say Monique or Annie. Frankly, who wants to look at a bunch of climbers coughing and spitting and struggling their way up to the summit for two hours?Here's the bottom line this is drama &#150; it is intended to entertain us, to make us laugh and cry and excited and anxious about whether they are going to make it to the summit safe and sounds and back. Really does anyone truly believe that Batman or Superman or James Bond exist? "},{"Title":"Plenty of pretty pictures, nothing of interest","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I originally saw this in theaters and couldn't really remember any of it, when I recently heard it was going to be on TV. All I remember was a distinct sense of disappointment. Having just watched it again, I now know exactly why; there's really nothing in this film to justify its existence. There's some nice visuals, but nothing worth sitting through two hours of painfully dull and pointless film for. By now it's a cliché, but this was truly two hours of my life I will never get back... or four, if you want to get technical. The plot seems to be made up as an excuse to blow stuff up and create excruciatingly predictable 'life/death situations' as the MPAA puts it. Knowing Martin Campbell(as little as I do; seen two other films by him), it most likely was. The pacing is hideously awful, as is the acting. If you don't fall asleep, you'll find yourself laughing at the pitiful attempts at convincing performances by pretty much all involved. The special effects are decent at best. The intensity is lacking due to poor acting and even worse character development. I never felt for any of the characters, since all of them are poorly acted, the better part of them are clichés and stereotypes, half of them are just there for comic relief(promised but not delivered) and the fewest of them are even slightly interesting. Not much else to say; just avoid this one. Nothing worthwhile here. As Officer Barbrady of South Park would so eloquently puts it Ok people, nothing to see here, move it along. I recommend this to... uh... well... fans of Campbell, I suppose, if such people exist. I urge climbing fanatics to stay far away(much like anyone who appreciates quality cinema), since apparently even the climbing aspects(as far as realism goes) of the film are completely off. 5/10 "},{"Title":"One of the Dumbest","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I should have been forewarned about this turkey, just from reading over the goofs list. The characterizations are one dimensional, although in an action flick that wouldn't normally be a show stopper. The plot seems borrowed from so many other climbing movies, basically an excuse to film some gorgeous mountain scenery.My main problem is that most of the actions of the characters make no sense. Climbers have goggles, peering into bad weather, but the goggles are neatly perched on their foreheads, not covering their eyes. People freezing in an ice cave would normally be clustered together to conserve heat, but not these geniuses. No one in his or her right mind would jump from a helicopter (with nitroglycerin in a pack to boot) to an ice ledge without even safety ropes; whatever happened to rappelling, which would have allowed the rescuers to safely disembark.At about that point I gave up, and wished that all concerned would up and die, bringing this to a merciful end. Better yet, the wedges in the first scene would all have given way, saving a couple hours of viewing time. "},{"Title":"Vertical Limit!","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Vertical Limit is an excellent film that boasts a excellent cast which includes Bill Paxton, Chris O'Donnell, Robin Tunney, Scott Glenn, Temuera Morrison, Izabella Scorupco, and Roshan Seth. The acting by all of these actors is pretty good. I liked how Paxton was in this film. The action is really good and the mountain climbing and snow scenes are excellent. The film is very exciting and the music by James Newton Howard is great. The movie is directed greatly by Martin Campbell. This is a great and thrilling film. If you Bill Paxton, Chris O'Donnell, Robin Tunney, Scott Glenn, Temuera Morrison and the rest of the cast I've mentioned above and exciting non-stop action films then I Strongly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Jump vertical for joy for this one","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  From the non-stop action sequences to the writing to the special effects, Vertical Limit is one of the surprise hits of the 2000 and will impress everyone.Though the plot is cliche, the performances from Chris O'Donnell, Robin Tunney, Bill Paxton and Scott Glenn more than make Vertical Limit a worthwhile box office smash. Vertical Limit tells the story of a brother's mission to save his sister and a summit team from an unforeseen avalanche, which has them trapped beneath snow. O'Donnell must save his sister played Tunney before it is too late. Vertical Limit is a huge adrenaline rush to everyone who watches it because it is involving from the opening scene. One can always tell a great movie from a good movie because great movies pull you in. From the avalanches to the inner conflicts between the summit team members, Vertical Limit drew me in without breaking a sweat. Furthermore, the special effects were so real, they made me feel like I was part of the rescue mission. It is rich in plot and it contains strong performances to back it up.However, above all the one thing that impressed me the most were the performances and how the actors worked together. First, O'Donnell, who has lit up the screen with his talent and charm once again. O'Donnell has taken charge of the situation and has taken command.Some may say this is not a breakthrough role for Robin Tunney; however, I strongly disagree because she has come out into leading role and shines at the same time. Aside from the two stellar performances by O'Donnell and Tunney, the most valuable actor award belongs to Scott Glenn because he exudes wisdom and demands respect in his role as the veteran and expert mountain climber.Vertical Limit is a high energy, action packed, in your face adrenaline rush that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Vertical Limit has one of the finest ensemble casts in 2000. This is a MUST SEE not once but twice.  "},{"Title":"Decent","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Given its awesome natural settings this film can't be fully appreciated even on a big screen TV. Only the silver screen can do it justice. There is some good dramatic tension and competent acting (Glenn is a standout). Martin Campbell (Goldeneye, The Mask of Zorro) knows how to direct action. He reunites here with his former Goldeneye Bond girl Izabella Scorupco. The climbing scenes looked authentic (at least to my untrained eye) and were thrilling to behold though they weren't quite as breathtaking as Tom Cruise's rock climbing expedition in Mission Impossible  2. P.S. Whatever happened to Chris O'Donnell (Batman Forever, Batman & Robin)? He has been in some fairly good movies like Scent of a Woman but he seems to have fallen off the Hollywood radar in recent years.  "},{"Title":"Pretty predictable stuff but worth the watch","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is pretty predictable stuff but an enjoyable watch. The acting is pretty solid except for Chris O'Donnell who is a little melodramatic and in some parts as wooden as Paul Walker. There are good performances especially from Scott Glenn as the widowed, mysterious climbing expert and Bill Paxton as the greedy, evil business man. Basically Chris O'Donnell defeats his fear of climbing (due to seeing his father die in a climbing accident) and leads a rescue team to save his sister who is trapped up K2. While predictable there are some exciting scenes and good action in this. Well done to director Martin Campbell for giving us this good action/drama which is definitely worth the watch and will put anyone off climbing.   "},{"Title":"Oh boy...","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Vertical Limit is one of those movies of which the makers seem to think that they can get away with anything, just as long as it's packaged nicely. In this case they can't. This movie is so stupid that no amount of fancy stunts and effects is going to save it. First of all, nearly all characters are supposedly experienced mountaineers, but it's clear that not a single one of them knows a thing about alpinism. Every law of physics is completely ignored, as we see people jump over huge chasms and grab hold of the other side without any kind of problems, we see nitroglycerin that gets set off by sunlight but not by people that perform all kinds of crazy jumps with the same nitro strapped to their backs and much much more. I laughed myself to death when the nitro finally exploded and created an explosion that a tactical nuclear weapon would be proud of. All of this wouldn't be so bad if the movie didn't take itself so seriously. Going over the top with action is OK, as long as the movie knows it's over the top. Instead, we get a movie that tries to pass itself of as realistic we get an overly serious and cliché-ridden plot filled with boring and predictable characters. Everything is there, from the traumatic experience at the start to the obligatory love interest and the occasional comic relief in the form of two Australian hippies. Throw in some corny and melodramatic one-liners (on this mountain you're not dying, you're already dead) and you've got an yawn-inducing two-hour soap episode that happens to be set on a mountain.They couldn't even do the effects right...some of the shots are so clearly shot in front of a blue screen that it's a disgrace for a 21st century movie. In a '60s Bond film, the blue screen was charming. Nowadays, it's just sloppy. Anyway, I could go on for a while like this but the bottom line is that Vertical Limit is a movie with utterly ridiculous action, huge leaps in logic, and a tired and boring plot, without offering anything to make up for that. NO STARS "},{"Title":"Inventive but outrageously improbable thriller.","Date":"12 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is a big, slick, mindless action film from a similar stable to Cliffhanger (1993) and K2 (1991). It could just as easily be retitled Disbelief Limit, for it does indeed push the boundaries of audience acceptance to new limits with its outrageously improbable storyline and plot developments.The story follows a mentally scarred climber (O'Donnell) who has not scaled a peak since the ill-fated expedition which saw him have to cut his father's rope (thus killing poor old pa) in order to save his sister (Tunney). Years later, sister Tunney is climbing K2 when her team is hit by a freak avalanche and trapped in an underground tomb. O'Donnell enlists an eclectic rescue team to get her out before she runs out of oxygen. Members of the crew include mountain guru Scott Glenn, seething after his wife died on an under prepared ascent; doctor Isabella Scorupco, in it to prove that she can; a couple of boozy Aussies, who want the money and have a carefree attitude to life anyway.There are spectacular moments in this film, but few touch on reality. Scorupco's escape from a terrifying bomb blast, followed by the subsequent avalanche, with just a broken finger is pretty hard to swallow. The contrivance in the plot which requires each climber to wear a nitra-bomb on his back seems unconvincing, and in many ways is a plagiarised plot device from Wages of Fear. The dramatic helicopter sequence looks fake, and I'm quite certain that no-one could hang on so valiantly if it were to happen in reality. However, Vertical Limit has the courage to roll with its ludicrous moments and treats them as part of the fun. So, if you watch the film as a fun experience, and remember to leave your brain and your need for plausibility at the door, then there is a couple of hours worth of entertainment to be had here. "},{"Title":"Sweet!","Date":"15 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you are a great fan of action adventure films, then you will love VERTICAL LIMIT. I have loved these kinds of movies since I was a little tike and I still enjoy watching people get killed in a good, survival of the fittest type of action flick.Chris O'Donnell, Bill Paxton, Robin Tunney, Scott Glenn, Izabella Scorupco and a bunch of other guys must try to survive atop of K2. The toughest mountain in the world. The icy coldness takes it's toll on them as the action heats up and the disasters rise. CLIFFHANGER would be a similar movie, if only it wasn't about money. Either way, they are both similar. The intense life/death sequences that earned the film a PG-13 rating are just that...intense.If you are a fan or action, see this. VERTICAL LIMIT 5/5. "}{"Title":"emotion,adventure.","Date":"3 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It is an exciting movie, of adventures, action. The photography is excellent, fantastic landscapes. The script probably fails a bit, but it is ideal to happen(pass) awhile entertained(delayed). Chris O'donnell is fantastic, does a good paper(role) in the movie. The voting of the serious movie photography, 10, script 5, actors 10, do what they can before a slightly sluggish(weak) script, entertaining movie, 10. "},{"Title":"Thoroughly Enjoyable","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie. From the opening sequence, I was sucked right in, and wasn't let down for the next two hours. There were fantastic performances all around (with the exception, perhaps, of Bill Paxton, who I just find bland in all his performances), most notably from Robin Tunney, Scott Glenn and Chris O'Donnell. The rest of the rescue team were a very clever mix of characters, with something a little different to offer. I particularly liked the comic relief moments from the two Australian brothers. While some may discredit the movie on the basis of its technical inaccuracies, I am prepared to let that slide because the movie was simply there to entertain for two hours. And that is exactly what it does. Even the first 40 minutes of the film being used to set the story up was enjoyable, because it gave a good feel for the different characters and the overall atmosphere at the camp base. Overall a hugely enjoyable movie. 9/10. "},{"Title":"A very bad film with excellent scenery!","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If mentioning things that happen constitutes a spoiler, then here come several...This film starts off with a totally unbelievable scene, then spends the next two hours hovering between the improbable and the impossible, with a fair heap of the predictable thrown in.First of all, how are we supposed to relate to a guy that would kill his own father in front of his sister, rather than take a chance on saving all three of them?   Surely a slight swing of the rope would have enabled Annie to get another fixing into the rock wall (we see a similar but even more difficult move successfully carried out later on by Monique).A good action movie has to have some credibility.  This has just too many unlikely or downright ridiculous elements.   Taking nitroglycerine along on a mountain rescue mission?  What on earth for?  Surely all you could hope to do with it would be to bury once and for all the people you were trying to save.   But it's OK, it's not dangerous until someone tells you that sunlight makes it unstable - then it's liable to go off the very next second.  Still it was obvious all along that someone was going to get blown up, and of the three pairings we knew which one was the most expendable.Yeah, some of the scenes were quite gripping at the beginning, but as it went on I was thinking How many more people are we going to see dangling from ropes?It was getting laughable by the end.  What I really wanted after the huge explosion that was supposed to get the trapped three out of the crevice, was for Monique to turn to Peter Garret and say, in a perfect Michael Caine accent, You're only supposed to blow the bloody doors off!The scenery was beautiful though! "},{"Title":"Goes to the limit","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie recently and thoroughly enjoyed it.  Although there are maybe some discrepancies within the film compared to with real life, I didn't notice them (maybe because I'm not a climber).But this movie delivers a lot of action and after all this is what action movies are supposed to deliver, and it delivers it well, showing us stunning scenery and well as vertigo inducing screenshots.The story line was a valid one and totally realistic, and the story unfolds in a steady way.I watched the R2 DVD version of the film and there are tons of extras on it, and you also find out when watching these extra's that although there are special effects in the film, a lot of work and climbing was actually done.Summary  Totally enjoyable action movie, with great scenery, a must to watch.  "},{"Title":"HOLD YOUR BREATH","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hold your breath it is a ride. A great film those backgrounds looked so real so awesome. The cast and crew did great the story and plot were good to I saw this movie the first day it came out to the movies and i loved it. On a scale of 1 out of 10 i would give this film a 10 "},{"Title":"A credible effort with a refreshing variety of characters","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A credible effort on most counts, Vertical Limit succeeds by relying on a varied and engaging set of characters, supported by a constant succession of exciting set-pieces.It was refreshing to see a hugely-budgeted Hollywood film introduce us to a mixed band of Americans, Australians, Scotsmen, French-Canadians and Pakistanis, even if, somewhat inevitably, it is members of the first group alone who survive the rescue mission on K2. We have a decent premise for Chris O'Donnell and Robin Tunney's strained sibling relationship, and solid sub-plots going on around them, particularly Scott Glenn's revenge mission against Bill Paxton. Indeed, Paxton's billionaire climbing enthusiast is a fully sketched out villain, his tough-but-fair, Branson-esque veneer seeming genuine enough until we reach the denouement.Mountaineering purists may bemoan the lack of technical accuracy, but I must say this passed me by, as I am sure it did most ordinary cinema-goers, who came to be entertained, not to watch a documentary about climbing.I also have little sympathy for those who claim that the relative failure of the rescue mission undermines the basic premise of the film we know it's a crazy idea....but like the film itself, it might just work....and the latter does.    "},{"Title":"Generic Action Flick That Tries Too Hard","Date":"28 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Three years ago, during a rock climbing incident, Peter Garrett sacrificed his father's life to save himself and his sister, Annie.  Annie never forgave him, and Peter never forgave himself.  Peter took solace in exploring the sea-level side of Mother Nature, while Annie scaled new heights of rock, fame, and personal achievement.  Her notoriety lands her a spot on a team attempting to climb K-2, the world's second tallest mountain.Her team is lead by a millionaire who, surprise, surprise, follows only what feeds his ego and his fortune.  He consistently ignores warning signs of impending danger, stranding his team on the top of the mountain when inclement weather closes in.Peter, surprise, surprise, just happens to be in the area and heads up a rescue operation.  He enlists a legendary mountain climber who, surprise, surprise, has a secret agenda fueled by his history with the stranded millionaire.  With nitroglycerine strapped to their packs, the team of six heads up the mountain to save the trapped climbers.  Along the way, things explode, snow falls, and people die.  And everything--absolutely everything--turns out to be a life-and-death struggle the helicopter ride, backpacks, even the sunlight!Vertical Limit is no more about mountain climbing than The Patriot is about the Revolutionary War.  The mountain, the jargon, and yes, even the characters are background to the action.  In fact, Limit tries desperately to remind us that it is an action movie, so much so that it seems to be deathly afraid of going too long without testing the strength of our hearts.  This wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing if it weren't so blatant.  Never have I seen a movie turn a five second shot of a man tripping over a rock into an edge-of-your-seat, nail-biting event--at least, not until I saw Vertical Limit.What's worse is that it's obvious why they felt it so necessary to turn the action-ometer to overload because that's all there is.  There is nothing else interesting about this movie.  A few characters may actually break into the two-dimensional realm, but none make it into the third.  The conflicts are as manipulated as the action, and the plot is completely and utterly predictable.  I honestly can't think of a single surprise contained in the film.But what Hollywood blockbuster has ever let any of those things stand in the way of a good time?  In terms of entertainment, Vertical Limit certainly delivers.  I'm not at all sorry I saw it, but I now have a new question nagging at me is it possible to make a good action movie about mountain climbing?  Judging by Hollywood's success rate, the answer appears to be, no.7/10 **1/2 C- "},{"Title":"Worth seeing, but not paying the $8.50 at the theater.","Date":"22 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  SPOILERS Although many points were ridiculous (not seeing their breath-- which, honestly, probably would have gotten on my nerves anyway-- and how the nitro exploded sometimes when there was less of a reason to than other times... if that makes sense)it was still an exciting film that kept me paying attention and on the edge of my seat... most of the time.  The only thing that made me a little frustrated (and confused as to why the film did this) was that 9 people were on the mountain (6 to rescue 3) and only 3 came back down. Four of the rescuers died.  One of the trapped was rescued.  That hardly makes the overall point to the entire film commendable.  It's actually kind of like well ok they saved his sister, but what makes her so damn special??? You'd think they'd let more people live!!  Anyway, if I've totally turned you off from ever wanting to see it, don't listen to me.  Overall, the movie was worth watching more than once, and Chris O'Donnell is enough of a reason to see it the first time.  Shaggy, highlighted hair over clear blue eyes and rosy cheeks looks good on him!! "},{"Title":"bad!!!!","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I think this movie was totally silly and ridiculous. I agree with the one who said how could someone spend this much money on something like this. I saw some TV movie about a climbers group lost in the hymalayas that was even better then this, with all its technincal tricks. they are so contradicting themselves in it. SPOILERS!! In the beginning they said that it's not worth sacrifying the lives of 6 people to save 3 of them!!!! And then, in the end, 3 persons only survived. Now what was that good for. This was a nonsense idea from the beginning and they should just have left them in the mountains. This just makes the whole movie so unrealistic, and i'm not talking because i am taking this to seriously. not at all. i hesitated for a while to watch it at all, so i knew what i was probably going for. They were really behaving like on a boyscouts camp-tour at the age of 6, smoking near some nitro,.... I was wondering why now one has fallen over his own feet yet???? And then the poor 3 people in that hole had only 6 hours to go and peter and blondie had to have a very dramatic talk about why she wants to leave the camp. WHO CARES AT THAT MOMENT?????And then there where these ultra funny scenes, where i didn't really know whether there was supposed to be some humour with them or not. like for instance, all at the beginning when the father fell to the ground, like a rock, sorry this was probably supposed to make everyone cry but i just thought i was going for some scary movie parody. and then the long lost girlfriend of old yeti standing there all frozen, looking like a plastic doll (shame to the costume and makeup artists). Whow, and that huge blood stain in the end, all from this tiny little plastic bag? And monique carrying 4 adults at one point in the end, how is this supposed to work for a woman who apparently is NOT a body builder?  well i could go on forever,...but prefer to watch a good movie instead. "},{"Title":"Vertical Limit had a lot of great action sequences but a weak story line and some very un-interesting characters, but overall had enough entertainment value to make it worthwhile.","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Three years after a tragedy that cost them their father's life, Annie Garrett (Robin Tunney) and Peter Garrett (Chris O'Donnell) meet at the base of K2. He's there taking pictures for National Geographic, while she's part of a team created by billionaire Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton) to head to the summit as part of a publicity stunt for his new airline. When they near the top, the weather takes a turn for the worse, and just when they decide to head back down the mountain, Annie falls into a crevice, followed by Elliot and lead climber Tom McLaren, while an avalanche takes out most of the team. Peter decides to risk a quick climb up the mountain to save his sister, and takes along Mongomery Wick (Scott Glenn), an old time climber, and friend of his father. Along with 4 other team members, the 6 of them must risk their own lives, to save the others, with time not on their side.   The action sequences in the film were amazing. Very realistic looking, and very dangerous. The biggest problem I had was that every time something exciting would happen, the director would cut away to another story line which slowed down the pace. It was very stop and go for most of the movie. The opening sequence was very poor in my opinion. It reminded me a lot of the opening to Mission Impossible 2, just not as well done. And we all knew their father was going to die, but was it really necessary to show him hitting the ground? The entire opening just didn't feel right. Then the movie got very slow as got to meet the rest of the characters. I didn't really care for any of them, since we really never got to know any of them. We were just introduced to them, then they went on their business. Once they started the rescue mission however, at about an hour into the film, things started to pick up. Watching the three teams of two climb the mountain, and all the pitfalls that occurred, was very exciting. It's hard to describe action sequences, but rest assured, they all looked and felt very real. And there were a lot of explosions to keep things interesting. But as I said earlier, for every exciting action moment, they would cut back to the three trapped in the mountain, where most of the time they would be coughing. It slowed down the pace of the movie tremendously. While it is necessary to go back and 'check up on' the rest of the characters, it needs to be paced better, so the movie doesn't slow down as much as it did.The characters weren't very interesting, other than Paxton's billionaire who had his moments. Peter and Annie I didn't care for too much, while Wick was just another strange guy who enjoyed climbing mountains. His story line dealing with his wife and her death upon the mountain didn't move me too much. Vaughn on the other hand was interesting. He had this look of madness in his eyes that I wish had come out more. He did snap on one occasion, but other than that, it was more of a fury in his eyes. Some of the supporting characters were OK, like the two brothers who enjoyed sunbathing nude on the mountain, but they weren't explored very well. And sometimes you couldn't understand what they were saying. Then there was the strange romance between Peter and Monique (Izabella Scorupco). Where the hell did that come from?So overall, if you're looking for some really good action, take a look at Vertical Limit. But if you're looking for a good story, don't bother. "}{"Title":"I CANT BELIEVE U PEOPLE!!!!!!!! This Movie Rocked!!!!!!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand you people! This was a good movie! I admit there were some mistakes, (did anyone else notice that Peter was holding his picks wrong during half the movie?) but the movie was still pretty good. This might be because I'm a sucker for action movies where people are blown up and people kiss, but all in all, this movie totally rocked. I give it 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  for action buffs only, but great","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Vertical Limit is pure and simple, for action buffs only. But there's plenty of action, and it's quite original and interesting in that regard.The plot twists are clever, the acting's fine.They make a pretty good stab at characterization and plot, considering the genre.I think what got me the most was the thrill of the mountaineers themselves. Similar to Drop Zone, which features skydivers, there are extras including real-life climbers, whose zeal for the sport is contagious.Who should see this film-- action film buffs-- outdoorsy types who see the occasional action filmI'll give Vertical Limit a 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Are we all on the same page?","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe there is someone out there that didn't like Vertical Limit.  It is fast paced, action packed, thrilling and has the best special effects I've seen.  This movie mostly takes place on a mountain, in a storm, with freezing cold weather.  Even if the scenes were not real, they looked real and had me on the edge of my seat.  Since I don't know a thing about mountain climbing, which was probably the case for most viewers, I could not imagine what good mountain climbers would do in this horrible situation.  The movie is so intense and the acting so powerful, you don't have time to think about what's not there.I think Vertical Limit should have been considered for Oscar but that's just my opinion.  The filming of this movie was quite an accomplishment for Martin Campbell and my hat is off to him. "},{"Title":"Thin plot, great action","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A very entertaining film, interesting throughout and the cast does a good job.  The scenery is breathtaking and the realism of mountaineering is captured well. I rate it 8 out of 10 stars ******** "},{"Title":"Mindless Fun","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Only Paxton and Glenn give strong characterizations in this movie, but the action sequences are a lot of fun to watch unfold. This movie is best viewed when you're not in the mood to think too much. The script could have used another draft and could have easily fallen apart if not for the capable hands of director Campbell. The sense of awe K2 should bring to the viewer is curiously missing. Still, this is a decent action film that is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Watch the National Geographic special on K2 instead","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  ***MINOR SPOILERS*** Terrible film. I had a feeling I was in for a hack film at the opening shots of Monument Valley. An eagle flies through the landscape. In the close up, it is clear it is a computer mock-up of an eagle. It is so poorly done, it looks like Mothra attacking Godzilla.The plot is pedestrian and predictable. The 'cliffhanger' action sequences are so incredibly contrived they evoke laughter instead of chills. Teenagers will no doubt enjoy it but it is third rate tripe not worthy of the acting talents of Scott Glenn. Robin Tunney as the sister stranded on the mountain is embarrassingly amateurish. The only strong actor in the film is the Izabella Scorupco in the role of the French-Canadian climber.Did the screenwriters even reread what they had written? The lost climbers have 22 hours to live. It will take the rescuers 27 hours to find them. They need the crusty veteran (they should have called him Quint) to help them climb quickly as he knows the mountain. So they get within 3 or 4 hours of the lost climbers and they stop and pitch tents and have a nap. Come on!I stopped the DVD when Chris O'Donnell is saying Welcome back to his sister. They didn't even mention the fact that four people died to save her stupid butt. Five if you count her Dad at the beginning.I can't believe people spend millions of dollars on such amateurish pap.If you have rented the DVD already, your money isn't wasted. Watch the National Geographic special on K2 that is in the Special Features section. It is the only thing worth watching. "},{"Title":"Just an excellent movie - But have to be seen in cinema","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  When i first went to the movie i didn't know that i will become an addict to the film.  The visual effects are really great and the unknown actors are very good. In addition, i would like to add that the main issue of the film - the great connection between a brother  and a sister -make the movie even more  a MUST SEE film. "},{"Title":"Ludicrously Unlimited","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie a couple of days after seeing Cast Away; what a pity.....the latter has excellent acting, direction depth beauty and feeling....all attributes lacking in Vertical Limit. Within a short time of the film commencing my eagle-eyed companion noticed a number of goofs including cameras shown in sun glasses...microphones in certain scenes......actors suddenly going from unshaven to shaven...and so on. You only need to go to the goofs column in IMDb to see other such errors. The story is contrived to enable us to witness a mountain rescue...but there are no characters in this film that elicit any real sympathy...and there is one ludicrous part played by a blond actress who seems like she is incapable of climbing a few flights of stairs let alone a mountain! The way the brother and sister are portrayed in this film alludes to incest...the baddiemulti-millionaire is portrayed as a seriel killer....and by the time the rescue is under way one hopes that all the characters would simply vanish under a pile of snow.... I would have thought that real life mountaineers would find much of what is portrayed in this picture as laughable......I certainly did....rbrb. "},{"Title":"An entertaining movie but totally Hollywood","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw vertical limit today and I am very disappointed in it.  After seeing the previews I knew that it wouldn't be something that I would like.  I do have to say that I love climbing movies and I do a lot of climbing myself. I do have quite a lot of knowledge in High Altitude climbing, though I have never been there.The movie was too unreal.  I like movies that have at least some hope of reality but this went beyond that.  Let me lay out for you everything that is to unreal about the movie.1.)  Base camp parties with beer and over 100 people never happen. 2.)  Helicopters cannot fly as high as they did in the movie. 3.)  After 30-45 minutes in a crevasse you freeze to death and   therefore your dead.  Unlike the couple days in the movie. 4.)  No bottled oxygen for any of the climbers the entire movie.  Only a few people in the world can climb at that altitude without oxygen. 5.)  No sherpas the entire movie to haul gear.  It just all appeared. 6.)  Jumping off cliffs and dangling from ice axes is Hollywood. 7.)  People can't live at high altitudes unlike one man in the movie. 8.)  Real climbers where entire jump suits with about 5 other layers of clothing.  These climbers, or should I say actors in the movie had about one layer on that was thin with no insulation. 9.)  You can see your breath because it is so cold in the mountains.  Not once did we see anyone's breath, even in the crevasse.Well, now that I am done complaining about the movie, I do have to say that it was entertaining but predictable.  I basically predicted every major part of the movie.  If you like movies that are real and have REAL action, then you won't like this.  But, if you are sucked in my Hollywood and like anything entertaining, then you will like Vertical Limit.  If you want to see a good climbing movie involving K2, watch the movie called K2.  It is old but still good.So to rap this up, Vertical Limit was truly a disappointment to me.  I can't believe how badly they portrayed High Altitude climbing and how bad of a disgrace it is to the real High Altitude climbers.  Don't go to this movie and send Hollywood a message that unreal climbing crap like this, is not good. "},{"Title":"triple cheeeeeese, puh-leeese!","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Gosh, right up front I must admit this it is the cheesiest movie I've ever seen in my whole life. I mean for F's sake, there were like 4 to 10 times someone are hanging on last centimeter of cliff/glacier in the very last moment, plus the family crap, boy/girl crap, very little decent humor, beautiful scenery, huge explosions, good guys are very good, bad guys are visibly bad, the decisions first make are so heroic... half of the audience was laughing half of the time - at just how cheesy it was. at some point I was even wondering if could be this special type of comedy - where everything is made artificially totally cheesy cheese cheesy... well anyway...  "}{"Title":"Excellent thriller","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"     From the very first scene, Martin Campbell proves to be an excellent director for this type of movie. A thrilling edge of the seat thriller, that also has a decent plot with intriguing characters.    I can go into specific scenes and explain why they were so great and why I think they were done so perfectly, but that will just ruin the movie. Just watch it. Satisfaction guaranteed. "},{"Title":"Vertical Limit it is","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  From the start through to the end.....I was on the edge of my seat! I cried, scream and laugh.........this is what Vertical Limit brings.Although this movie doesn't have much of a storyline.....and almost similar to Cliffhanger, I was stunned at how much on the edge it is.Chris O'Donnell brings out a knock out performance....I love him in this movie...... Bill Paxton...........well....what can I say....he was just plain good!Vertical Limit is a thumbs up, for those who loves a non stop action movie "},{"Title":"it's a gotta see it","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's a gotta see it film.  Very well done, edge of your seat material from the beginning.  Scott Glen should get supporting nomination.  Interesting explanations of vertical limit, air pressure, lungs, breathing, and peoples' will to survive such adversity. "},{"Title":"Technically competent thriller lacked heart","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film bugged me.  The mountain was such a beautiful set, and a formidable adversary, but this Hollywood treatment seemed to cheapen the mountain and the image of the sport itself by failing to portray the inner landscape of its characters.Vertical Limit was good at presenting defining moments for the main characters.  The unforgiving environment of high-altitude climbing is good for that kind of thing.  If you were able to suspend your disbelief long enough to put yourself in the shoes of the characters, it should have been possible to get lost in the film.Unfortunately, the characters never got developed enough to empathize with them, nor does one have any time to reflect anyone's predicament.  There was so much emphasis on a string of suspense sequences that stretched from one end of the film to the other, that the script never really got a chance to work at the character level...  The film had all of the elements, competently executed, that a good adventure film should have-- an excellent inciting incident, a pure and noble motive for the main character, a series of risks that the protagonists must overcome...  in short, a textbook script.What it lacked was heart.  Peter and Annie are brother and sister who look at each other like lost lovers when they meet at K2 base camp. And Peter's love interest, the supermodel nurse, has no palpable chemistry at all with Peter, so when she kisses him on the lips at the end in a kind of a boring end-of-movie-substitute-for-an-embrace, it looks forced.Twice, Peter and the Nurse met, and you could tell they were supposed to be baring their souls to each other in a gesture or an anecdote, and yet the scenes came off cold.  Someone decided this movie was about the mountain, and that it wasn't important to get these kinds of scenes right. The characters were secondary.  But the characters should never be secondary. Without the characters, all you have is a motion picture postcard!  "},{"Title":"Occasionally I remembered to breathe","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie!  I thought the actors did a great job and made me very glad it was them running through the snow and jumping those cliffs. OK, so some of the cliffs weren't real, but the movie made them look real. So, on to the other subject.  Great special effects.  I loved the blasts even if they all didn't make sense.Overall, a great adventure movie.  Great characters and plot.  The whole thing made me want to be in tip-top shape and not afraid of heights! "},{"Title":"Great in its own genre Some stuff was too much though","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is intense to watch!  From the very beginning straight through the end there's almost no time to sit back and relax.  The tension is made palpable and you almost don't have time to worry whether anything is realistic.  The scenery is gorgeous and the actors all do a fairly good job.  However, there's a couple things this movie could have done without and been better for it the nitro obviously.  Adding that was great for some cool special effects explosions, but after those explosions I didn't know whether to say That was cool and laugh like Bevis and Butthead or to cringe in movie critic and amateur climber horror.  Other things that detracted include some of the off the wall climbing techniques that went on.  Overall if you go into this movie without expecting realism and just look for some great tension and action, you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Mediocre cliche filled effort.","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A mediocre film with Chris O'Donnell and a team of climbers trying to rescue his sister (Robin Tunney, who has done better work elsewhere) and cocky billionaire Bill Paxton, trapped on a big mountain after an avalanche. Filled with enough clichés and bad acting to fill a century of B movies, this film is saved from movie oblivion by some impressive action sequences involving the mountain climbing and dangerous stunts. GRADE D "},{"Title":"Casting and Plot Don't Mix","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  With Chris O'Donnell starring in Vertical Limit, I was looking for something more substantive and realistic instead of an action movie.  Unlike Cliffhanger which one expects unrealistic adventure, Vertical Limit would have been more compelling if O'Donnell came across more tentative and inexperienced a mountain climber as he supposedly was.  Bill Paxton's character could have been more complex and intriguing.  While the movie was exciting and thrilling, the expectation of a more intellectually scary movie really made this movie somewhat of a letdown.  Ropes breaking at the most predictable moment, the killing off of characters on schedule, really made much of the thrill ride rather juvenile.  This movie was entertaining but it just didn't fill me with the deep emotional satisfaction that a more realistic movie could have with Chris O'Donnell. "},{"Title":"stupid snow people","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Greetings again from the darkness.  This one is chock full of stupid people doing stupid things.  The only character that holds any possibility of interest is Scott Glenn's, and he has VERY little screen time.  I guess Bill Paxton has decided to specialize in catastrophe movies Twister Titanic and Vertical Limits.  The two female leads are attractive window dressing, but just assist with the lack of substance.  I really wanted to see O'Donnell's sister faced with the 'to cut or not to cut' dilemma.  By the way, Chris O'Donnell should stick to light hearted romantic comedies - that way I won't have to watch his fruitless attempts at acting.  There are some action sequences that make this one fun in a theatre, but brace yourself for the supporting sap.  My tidbit on this one is that the writer, Robert King, also wrote Cutthroat Island, one of the worst movies of the 90's.   "},{"Title":"Good old fashoned suspense... with nitroglycerian!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There's really nothing wrong with this movie.  The editing is shabby (what's with that?  That's the third film I've seen this year with bad editing next to Way of the Gun and Legend of Baggar Vance!).  The CG can be bad, but this is very rare.  Overall, a tense adventure story.This ain't shakespear, folks.  Let me say this if you're going into this movie expecting what you saw in the trailer, well, you are going to get it.  The movie is filled with good, tense scenes.  This isn't really an action movie.  Most of the action scenes involve something along the lines of hanging in the air with the rope slowey breaking.  It's that type of tense action used in this movie.  It's a disater movie.  Only this is much better than The Perfect Storm.  Martin Campbell, the director, is in his area, and it shows.  The suspense scenes work very, very well and will make you jump. Alfred Hitchcock once said, If a bunch of guys are sitting around a table playing poker, and a bomb explodes under the table, that's a shock.  A cheap shock.  If the camera tilts under the table, allowing the audience to see the bomb slowly ticking away, followed by the explosion, then that is suspense.  That's what Vertical Limit is all about SUSPENSE.Basically, I thought this was a great movie just to sit down and have fun.  It's smart, funny, and filled to the brim with cliffhanging suspense... literaly.  Go see this movie.  It may not be a buyer, but it is worthy of a rent or watch.  I love movies like these.  It isn't great, but I liked it enough.  You may not see it a second time, but you will enjoy it enough on the first visit that it won't matter.7/10 "}{"Title":"Good, but unrealistic","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit was a good movie, however, for people who have some knowledge of climbing and the risks it involves, it may prove to be a little trying in terms of realism.  Drama and Terror at 26,000 feet may well provide entertainment (which is cool) but perhaps not the truest depiction of climbing.  Other than this, I did not think it a complete waste of time or money. "},{"Title":"BE CAREFUL NOT TO FALL OFF YOUR CHAIR!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wonderful... heart stopping... it's got humour, beautiful people and so many damn stunts! I loved it. I saw it the second day it came out, and I already want to see it again!! RUSH out and see it before it leaves theatres, because the theatre is the ONLY place to see it!! Chris O'Donnell is cute and adoring as Peter. Robin Tunney is sweet and innocent and you just fall in love with Annie. Bill is an @$$ that you'll love to hate. The two brothers you'll laugh your butt off at, hate and then come to love. And Izabella Scorupco as Monique, the sweet innocent nurse who gets banged up the most, but can still joke at the end of it all. GO SEE IT! Can I say that again? GO GO GO!!!! The beginning will SHOCK you! And so will the end. Who lives? Who dies? I know... and you will too if you GO SEE IT! You'll never guess who end up as a couple in the end!! "},{"Title":"Fascinating movie!!","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical limit can be appreciated more fully if you know about ice climbing. I was able to understand the movie because of my recent interest in the 96 Everest disaster.  I found myself having to explain to my husband what a dex shot is and what pulmonary edema does.  I also knew who Ed Viesturs is and what a great climber he is, so it was exciting to see him in the movie. All together I loved the movie!  The one bit of advice that I would give is read up on ice climbing and mountain expeditions (ie. Into Thin Air, by Jon Krauker).  You'll appreciate the movie even more and you'll understand it more fully which makes the movie more enjoyable! But even if you don't know anything about climbing this is a definite must see - it's very intense!! "},{"Title":"Vertically Challenged","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm a digital designer I'm currently working on a multimedia project that is based on extreme mountain climbing  expeditions. So I thought it would be a good exercise to see Vertical Limit and get some inspiration. Within the first 11 seconds I knew the 15 dollars I had just shelled out for tickets for my girlfriend and I were foolishly spent.  The opening scene seemed as though it was filmed on the set of  an '80s sitcom complete with a blue screen. In fact, many of the scenes appeared as if they were shot in front of a giant Bob Ross painting while people off camera threw handfuls of coconut shavings on the actors. The acting was unbelievable and cliche, the effects were >terrible and the story was painfully expected. I found even the stop action work in Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer more realistic than this flick.  As the final baby powder avalanche settled, the last  predictable line gently fell from the mouth of Chris  O'Donnell like so many man made flurries, and the closing credits began to accumulate at the bottom of the screen, I can honestly say that the only thing that took my breath away while watching this movie is when I spilled soda in my lap.  "},{"Title":"Nicholas Lea is the only one delivering decent  acting in this movie","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" And he is, still today, 12 years later, completely unknown to people, that either was'nt fans of or have never seen The X-files.He is the only character I cared about. I didn't give a sh*t about the brother and sister or any of the really really annoying characters (brits and Aussies giving the audiences moral lectures every other minute) that was at the basecamp. Shut the hell up!! I usually love Bill Paxton but he is wasted in this movie as well as the incredibly hot Izzabella Scorupco. Why put a woman with at stunning body in a movie and never show any skin at all?? The fact that most of the actors in this crap are apparently unemployed today says a lot.I can't remember the last time i saw Robin Tunney or Scott Glenn in anything.Watch CliffHanger instead. At least it has Sly, real bad-guys (unlike Paxtons character) and lots of action. "},{"Title":"Soooooooo bad....","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched the movie yesterday, and I was happy it was over. I can't believe people actually spent money to go and see this. The script was laughable, plain dumb and sooooo predictable. No good actor could make anything of this. The friend I was watching this with and I were way in advance telling what was going to happen, too pathetic for words actually. When Wick cut the rope in the end to save them - oooohhhh myyyy goooodddd - i was laughing so hard, as it was so bad. I mean, seriously, everyone that dies in that movie is because some stupidity, not because it all went wrong...And the moral of the story it's OK to (needlessly and foolishly) sacrifice the lives of 5 good people to save 1... Great one to teach the kids huh? Pfff... Don't ever watch it, I regret spending the time on it, when I could have been picking my nose instead or something like that... "},{"Title":"Visceral thrill ride","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" VERTICAL LIMIT (2000) **1/2 Chris O' Donnell, Bill Paxton, Robin Tunney, Scott Glenn, Izabella Scorupco, Temuera Morrison, Nicholas Lea, Alexander Siddig, Steve Le Marquand, Ben Mendelsohn, Robert Taylor, Stuart Wilson, Roshan Seth.Incredible special effects and noteworthy stunt work are the main reasons to enjoy this viscerally entertaining yet ham-fisted screenplay-hindering action drama with O' Donnell as a mountain climber attempting to rescue his estranged sister Tunney from an icy crevasse on K2, the second largest Himalayan peak, with the clock ticking. White knuckle suspense in the best sense with some hairy situations including a helicopter sequence and an extreme sports leap of faith. Hang on! (Dir Martin Campbell) "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever...","Date":"2 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe that Vertical Limit has a 6. This movie is absolutely spectacular. It has great action sequences that make your heart pump to the max, and besides it has a magnificent plot that keeps you at the edge of your seat from the beginning until the end.The acting is awesome; Scott Glenn is my favorite of this one, you can feel his conflict and his feelings through his eyes all the time. Bill Paxton made a wonderful villain in this movie. Robin Tunney is very realistic in her scenes as the sister of Chris and, well, Even Chris delivers a good performance (well, at least better than 'Robin' in BATMAN AND ROBIN).I can't find a single flaw in VL, the locations are amazing, the visual effects are very impressive, the score from James N. H. is wonderful, and the action is so good that when I saw the movie on the cinema, all the audience were screaming, and laughing, to the point of holding to their seats, specially in that scene when Cyril is holding an ax in order to doesn't fall over the cliff, the best action sequence of the film, in my opinion.It's unbelievable that JP3 has a better rate than VL; VL is an action-packed movie that deserves a lot more than a 6, because it has all that you can look for in an action movie Big action, great acting, great history that makes you think (What would you risk to safe somebody's life?)If you want to really enjoy this movie to the max, I recommend you to see it with your home theater; this movie has an excellent sound that makes you feel like you are actually there, in the VERTICAL LIMIT.10/10.  "},{"Title":"Well, at least it's still entertaining.","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The movie is just beyond silly but still strangely entertaining.Vertical Limit has several problems, the cast and story are just a few of them. The movie has some of the worst casting since years, everybody seems to be totally miscast with the exception of Bill Paxton, Robert Taylor, Temuera Morrison and a few other minor roles. Chris O'Donnell is an horrible choice as leading man and all that Izabella Scorupco does is scream and look pretty. But maybe the biggest problem is the beyond silly story. The main story line is not that bad but the movie is full with dumb and completely unnecessary sub plots. And of course the movie is completely technical inaccurate but that doesn't really matter, at least that is what makes the movie entertaining to watch.Visually the movie also isn't perfect. Sure it has some nice scenery but the special effects are pretty disappointing, especially in the beginning.Still the movie is not a complete wreck, it still has some nice and even exciting moments and the musical score by James Newton Howard is also surprising good and so is the excellent camera work from David Tattersall. The characters Cyril and Malcolm also saves this movie from being a disaster.Still somewhat entertaining mainly thanks to Martin Campbell's directing.6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Curly, Moe, and Larry in Cliffhanger 2","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The tone for this film was set in the opening sequence with the third-rate, computer-generated eagle. It got worse from there.This movie should have been titled Vertical Stooges, Abbott and Costello meet K2, or See a bunch of rich, bored Americans get ferried around the Himalayas by a third world army. I laughed so hard through this farce I almost had a vertical bowel. Who would want this bunch of bozos coming to rescue them from anything? I wouldn't send them on a beer run. What was with the nitroglycerin? Why not bring some small pox so you could have all four horsemen of the apocalypse right there? Of course, the canisters had to be leaking. I think Murphy must have seen a movie just like this before he thought up his law.And what about the laws of physics? I mean, I'm all for special effects, but is there anyone else out there who's tired of movies set in some fairy land where the laws of physics have been ruled unconstitutional? (I'm thinking Mission Impossible 2 here.)When will they learn? Special effects don't make a movie they only make it better (remember Tron?). There is no substitute for a good script (at least Cliffhanger had a plot), good acting (looking moody is not acting), and good directing (only Allen Smithee has directed worse films). "}{"Title":"The worst mistake of my life...","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  That movie might as well been called, Waste nine bucks.  Never before have I seen a film that I hated as much as that one.  I am ashamed that I even saw it, and I warn those who are thinking of seeing it to not waste your time, and see something new that is actually good.  When it comes out on video and DVD, see The Pledge.  At least I got my money's worth with that. "},{"Title":"PUSHING ACTION FILMS TO THE LIMIT","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  What a film. when i went in the cinema i expected a cliche action film with no plot and thats what i got and VERTICAL LIMIT is all the better for that the action barely lets up the direction is terrific and this beats nearly all action films.Disregard the negative reviews and watch this action packed thrill ride of a film just go to the cinema and leave your brain at home and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Great action packed film.","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Chris O'Donnell stars alongside Robin Tunney and Bill Paxton in Vertical Limit, a brilliant action packed film with loads of great scenes and loads of snow. The whole cast are great, especially Chris who in this film plays Peter Garrett a guy risking his life to save his sister Annie Garrett (Robin Tunney.) from one of the worlds biggest mountains.-K2. I give Vertical Limit a 10/10.    "},{"Title":"Down there with my bottom ten","Date":"23 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The most exciting thing in this film happens about five minutes in. After that, it becomes increasingly ludicrous and uninteresting.The main characters, a brother and sister who have some issues to work through, are not very interesting characters, nor is the mountain top crackpot with an axe to grind or the exotic mountaineering beauty. The rich man is too obviously evil for us to be in any way surprised when he lets everyone else down.Some of the sets are great and look very beautiful. That is not enough to hold your attention for an entire film, however. Instead, you start looking for the little flaws the broken fingers that can be usefully employed to pull people up from holes, the self-mending jackets, the light-sensitive nitroglycerine and so on. There are plenty to find. When, after some five people have been sacrificed to save the life of one and the main man gets the girl and the respect of his sister, one feels no joy or closure, only relief that the film is over. "},{"Title":"Superb Edge Of Your Seat Action-Adventure","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I was absolutely glued to my seat the whole way through this stunning movie about the rescue of a group of mountain climbers stranded in the Himalayas. This movie features non-stop action which almost exhausts those watching it.I find it strange that I have to say that none of the actors really stood out to me. Chris O'Donnell was ostensibly the star of the movie as Peter Garrett, a wildlife photographer for National Geographic who organizes the rescue of the team which included his sister Annie, played by Robin Tunney. Neither O'Donnell nor Tunney exactly captivated me. I was much more taken by Scott Glenn's performance as Montgomery Wick, the reclusive mountain climber who ends up leading the rescue mission. But this was a good ensemble cast. No one really took over, but everyone held up their end.All sorts of subplots spin around in this. Questions of who should live and who should die when not everyone can make it; issues of greed taking priority over safety and good sense; the complicated brother-sister relationship of Peter and Annie. It all worked well. I'm not usually a great fan of adventure movies, but this is a must see - and even if you end up not liking the story, it's a must see even if only for the spectacular photography.Personally, though, I can't think of anything not to like in this, and I rate it as a 10/10. "},{"Title":"Incompetent film making","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"29 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  While a number of comments admire the endless action of Vertical Limit, I found it tedious and, ultimately, boring.The problem is the lack of both pacing and dramatic buildup. Each unbelievable new cliffhanger featuring these incompetent mountaineers is not much different from the last one. No cliffhanger contributes to the next one. It is just a string of unbelievable, disconnected exciting sequences.Halfway through the movie, I would start laughing as a new cliffhanger developed. I waited to see how many ludicrous elements the director and writers could pile on (he's hanging from his ice axe over a cliff, the cornice is breaking; now the woman is hanging, and he's hanging off of her; now the nitro explodes; now an avalanche comes). But at the end of each sequence, someone is either saved or dead, and we move on as if nothing happened....Great action directors know how to build excitement on top of excitement, with a rhythm. Each situation, while locally resolved, contributes to an even larger tension, until the audience is sitting at the edges of their seats.Vertical Limit fails utterly to compound the tension of its action sequences. It ends up tedious and predictable.  "},{"Title":"Avalanche high","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Vertical Limit is a silly mountaineering adventure film with Chris O'Donnell as a mountain climber who lost his nerve. We have an intriguing beginning with O'Donnell climbing with his sister (Robin Tunney) and his father. An accident causes him to cut the rope and send his father to his death in order to save his life and that of his sister. That scene is well filmed and exhilarating and director Martin Campbell certainly sets out his stall.Three years later Tunney is on an expedition to climb K2 with a publicity seeking billionaire (Bill Paxton). She has reunited with O'Donnell who is now a nature photographer in Pakistan.However Paxton takes unnecessary risks leaving his team trapped when the weather turns and O'Donnell leads a rescue effort where they plan to use nitroglycerin to blast their way into the crevice where the climbers are trapped. Included in the team is grizzled Scott Glenn who is suspicious of Paxton as he blames him for taking risks on previous expeditions which lead to the death of his wife.The problem is by then the film gets sillier and sillier. Paxton reveals his true colours as a cold hearted egoist, the rescue team gets whittled down through mishaps, explosions and avalanches. Glenn finds a large frozen Popsicle and O'Donnell get superhuman powers to be able to jump from one part of the mountain to another armed with two axes.Despite the silliness, cardboard characters and absurd sequences Martin Campbell keeps the film entertaining but some of the green screen effects could had been better. "},{"Title":"We know where the budget went","Date":"21 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" for this high-altitude turkey, and it wasn't for the cast or the script. No, I'd say the vast majority was poured into special effects, and it's no surprise that Vertical Limit is a visually stunning film. Whether live action or CGI, the action sequences are first-rate (whether they're at all believable is another matter entirely). Unfortunately, a movie with nothing but pyrotechnics is basically a video game without the interactivity or role playing.There is a cast, of course, but it's a curious and unfortunate one. Scott Glenn's stoic, haunted climbing veteran is the most successful casting choice. Bill Paxton is the curious call here, drawing the heavy card for one of the few times in his career. But Chris O'Donnell lacks the chops to carry a film like this. Most of the other actors at least look like they're exerting themselves, but you'd never know his character is at 23,000 feet, much less trying to rescue his sister. The script is a litany of every disaster movie cliché of the past 40 years. The Eiger Sanction and even Cliffhanger are marvels of restraint by comparison. If you're looking for 2 hours of mindless diversion, or just want to give your new 72-inch flatscreen a nice workout, there are worse ways to go than Vertical Limit. "},{"Title":"Pointless","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie confused me. In the first scene Dad urges his kids, played by Chris O'Donnell and Robin Tunney, to cut the rope holding them together and send him plummeting to his death off the side of a mountain--because why should three die if two could live. Fair point, which is echoed in the film's climactic scene. However, when Robin Tunney's character and two others become trapped on a mountain with little chance of survival, Chris O'Donnell and five others set out to save her on what ultimately becomes a suicide mission for four of the six. As only Robin Tunney's character is saved from the three trapped on the mountain, that means four people died so that one could live.So is the point of the movie that some lives are more important than others--in that sometimes four people have to die to save one life? Or did the movie completely miss the point that it was trying to make--that sometimes you have to let people die to minimize the ultimate amount of casualties? Four people would've been alive if Chris O'Donnell's character had just let his sister die. I think the message got lost.I doubt anyone who reads this will find this review helpful. But seeing as it contains spoilers, I'd imagine the people reading it probably have seen the film anyway to complain with me. "},{"Title":"Rescue on K2","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Brother and sister; Peter and Annie Garrett, two climbers, have barely spoken to each other since a incident where Peter had to decide between cutting a rope that would kill their father and not cutting it that would almost certainly killed all three of them. They meet again when Peter is working as a photographer in remote Pakistan and Annie is preparing to take part in a climb up K2; one of the world's most deadly mountains. The climb is being paid for by Texan billionaire Elliot Vaughn who is determined to get to the summit having failed once before. When the weather starts to turn Vaughn pressures them to continue and disaster soon strikes; following an avalanche Annie, Vaughn and the injured climb leader are trapped in a frozen crevasse. They manage to contact base camp and Peter is determined not to lose another member of his family. A rescue team is assembled; it is to be led by Montgomery Wick, a climber who lost his wife on Vaughn's first summit attempt. At 26,000' the three survivors can't last long so it is a race against time for the rescue party as they head up the deadly mountain&#x85; and if that wasn't dangerous enough they are carrying unstable nitroglycerine so they can blast open the sealed crevasse!This is a solid enough film with plenty of exciting moments&#x85; it is also a bit too melodramatic. Set on K2, a mountain that kills a fifth of all people who try to climb it there seemed little reason to add the extra dangers of a man who would kill to save his own skin and having the rescue team carry large canisters full of nitroglycerine! If you can get past that the film is fun and has some absolutely stunning scenery, New Zealand's Southern Alps doubling for the Karakoram Mountains. The acting is okay but lacks star presence&#x85; Scott Glenn, who plays the grizzled Wicks, is the best known person in it and he is the most interesting character&#x85; the rest are a bit bland. Overall I'd say it is worth watching if it is on television or in the bargain bin&#x85; but if you want a thriller that involves action on a mountain both 'Cliffhanger' and 'The Eiger Sanction' are better films. "}{"Title":"First-rate direction, second-rate special effects, fourth-rate characters","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Film is one of the reasons I get out of bed in the morning. Conversely, it's also one of the many reasons I try to stay in bed for as long as possible. The medium has successfully made me afraid of rollercoasters (Final Destination 3), planes (too many to count), desert ground (the Tremors franchise), trains (Unstoppable), the woods (almost every horror film ever made), clowns (Stephen King's It), among countless others.Add Martin Campbell's Vertical Limit to the above list for its depiction of snowy mountains and mountain-climbing, another activity I'll never be able to indulge in thanks to the paranoia bestowed upon me by the film. If possible, I'd like to see the correlation for Americans' participation in mountain-climbing after the release of Vertical Limit just to see if I'm not the only soul who felt the need to stay away from anything large, snowy, and with a peak.Vertical Limit is a b-movie manufactured by the likes of Hollywood, who sometimes know how to make a good film of the genre and sometimes don't. While every now and then the industry throws out something like this or Eight Legged Freaks, it also was hellbent, for a while, on remaking several classic seventies disaster films such as Flight of the Phoenix and even The Poseidon Adventure.While often advantageous with the direction and the filmmaking aesthetics, Hollywood has often been miserably bad at giving their film's relatable, believable characters that don't feel like anything more than the pawn of a big-budget disaster flick. This is sadly the case for Vertical Limit, with writers Robert King and Terry Hayes shortchanging characters and relationships and instead making the picture largely about its characters dangling from high-altitudes with scenes involving forced, unremarkable dialog are spliced in for good measure.The story centers around experienced climber Peter Garrett (Chris O'Donnell), who lost his father during a climbing trip gone wrong and has now lived with the guilt and responsibility of his death for many years now. Six years later, we see he is retired from climbing, while his sister Annie (Robin Tunney) and a group of her teammates are still persistent with their climbing ambitions as they plan to climb up the treacherous K2 mountain in Pakistan. Annie climbs with the founder of the trip, Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton) along with his friend Tom McLaren (Nicholas Lea), who instantly find that the weather has a lot to be desired. The wind is brutal and the conditions are almost blinding thanks to the blowing and drifting snow.Eventually, an avalanche occurs, trapping Annie, Elliot, and Tom in a cave, hurt, cold, and undernourished. Due to Peter's experience, he decides to form a group of equally-experienced climbers, all armed with nitroglycerin in case an explosion to create a hole in the ground is necessary for rescue, to attempt to search for and return the band of climbers to safety as soon as possible. One character reckons they have about forty-eight hours to live, and since the first audible amount of time for survival in films is usually correct, think of that as the imaginary time-limit for the film.Right of the bat, Martin Campbell packs in exceptional direction with Vertical Limit, effectively showing off the mountainous regions, the treacherous conditions that come with the K2 expedition, as well as tricky aerial and midair shots of the environment for maximum effect. Campbell's directions is one of the strongest things in the picture, making the film a showcase for some of the most dangerous conditions possible while climbing a mountain.However, the lack of character-depth makes this film a task to watch at times. Consider the first half hour. After the incredibly intense opening scene, which lasts about five minutes and sort of sets the film up for suspense and potential it can't really match at any point in the future, the next twenty-five minutes are wasted on boring exchanges of dialog at a pre-climbing party. These scenes would be better if they involved some character development or at least some ideas to ping-pong back and forth, since without it we have no connection to these characters. We sit within arm's length of them the entire time.One can criticize the homebrew-style special effects if they must, however, I believe they emphasize what I was talking about earlier when it came down to the b-movie style the film was trying to achieve. Vertical Limit may not be a very strong film in the long-run, but there is an undeniable talent with Campbell's revealing and tricky direction, as well as a solid scene of intensity every now and again. But when a film focuses on an mountain expedition gone awry for two hours, one can only expect it to sour well before the film ends.Starring Chris O'Donnell, Bill Paxton, Robin Tunney, Nicholas Lea. Directed by Martin Campbell. "},{"Title":"Movies like these make my life worth living.","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This one is full of adventure and is a story of courage.If you don't like such stuff then something is wrong with you.The movie keeps you right at the edge of your seat till it concludes.High altitude scenery is a must watch.If you love the nature and it's beauty then it's the movie for you.The rescue mission shown in this flick is a bit too enthusiastic though with the explosives and stuff.Normally the Pakistan Military comes for help whenever they are called for.Himalayas are the hunting ground for the Snow leopards(an endangered species),and those are been shown there.The snow leopard leads a largely solitary life so, a very well depiction of this fact.A worth watch. "},{"Title":"ignore critics-its on far with k2-cliffhanger..go watch it..","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" every film has some mistakes,n may be it too... but it doesn't mean that its worst what if its not best...i read about it here-and watched it some months ago... its really fabtastic movie-n honestly not bad as we think after reading some critic reviews..!!it has some best scenes-graphics work-supporting cast.. only now i came to know that there's a film k2 on similar subject with slight differences...!!am big fan of Hollywood Korean-Thai-Chinese movies on diverse subjects and till date only few films made me to think why i watched those..!!its not a bad movie...have a look at this,i assure you-you may get surprised..!! else curse me for referring it to u...i give whole marks to it..n i think it deserves it..10/10happy watchingaaaaaaaa... "},{"Title":"Vertically unlimited","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I remember watched Vertical Limit in a local theatre 10 years ago, and man, was it worth my time. This one is probably not my favorite, but certainly it is not bad at all. I remembered being mesmerized by the thrilling actions and gorgeous backdrops, plus great sound effects, to the point that I thought this movie is best watched in theatres and not on your personal movie player, unless you have a decent home theatre system.I am not by all means an expert in rock climbing, and I know, this movie does not attempt to teach its audiences how to do that. OK, maybe it gives a slight taste of a rock climber's life along with all the risks, but again, this is a movie, so there's a lot more to it. Heart-pounding actions, twisted drama between lovers, sacrifice, and even comedy - you name it, and Vertical Limit delivers it all in a decent way - not outstanding though, but yep, decent enough.I can't understand some people smack this movie for the sake of 'authenticity'. It is just a movie, it's there for the sake of entertainment. If you absolutely long for authenticity, look for documentary ones instead. If you're that kind of person, you will find this movie is nothing but ridiculous and totally uninspiring - mind you, you simply have no idea what you are really doing. "},{"Title":"Visceral Chilly Thriller","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" You're on top of the world. It's freezing cold as you're climbing one of the tallest mountains in the world. A storm comes, and blows you into a deep crevasse. You're trapped, and time is running out before you die of pulmonary edema. Now what? That's the situation three expert climbers find themselves in. As a publicity stunt, billionaire Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton) decides to hold a big mountain climb with two other well-known climbers famous climber Annie Garrett (Robin Tunney) and the team leader, Tom McLaren (Nicholas Lea). Fortunately, Annie's brother, Peter (Chris O'Donnell) is at base camp, and gathers a crew for a rescue mission, including a pretty nurse (Isabella Scorupco) and a mountain hermit (Scott Glenn). It's a race against time to find the trapped climbers before they die, if the mountain doesn't kill the rescuers first.Vertical Limit is an action movie, plain and simple. Complex plots and deep characterizations are not warranted nor expected. Good performances are not mandatory, but are always a plus. Once you understand that, Vertical Limit is a lot easier to enjoy, and a lot more fun.This is one of those movies that once it starts, it never lets up. It opens with a scene that would be breathtaking had it obviously not been faked (as it is, it's still pretty suspenseful). Then it sets up the plot, and it's off.The film keeps two stories running simultaneously the rescue mission, and the trapped climbers. It brings in other sequences as needed. Both stories are equally compelling, but in different ways. The rescue mission provides the excitement, while the trapped climbers provide the tension, and the backbone of the story.The cast is solid. Chris O'Donnell, despite not having an original role, fills Peter's shoes well. He's a guy who's easy to root for because he really cares about his sister, Annie. As his sister, Robin Tunney offers more than her cute looks. She's tough, and ably conveys her complex feelings towards her brother (the first scene explains this). Bill Paxton is great as the arrogant billionaire, whose hubris causes this whole mess. Scott Glenn is suitably mysterious as the reclusive Montgomery Wick. He's takes complete control, and is not a guy to be messed with. Of special note is Nicholas Lea, who plays Tom McLaren. For most of the movie, he's very sick, and getting worse. It takes skill to pull it off well, and Lea makes it work. It's heartbreaking to see him on screen. Isabella Scorupco doesn't have much to do, even though she's re-teaming with her GoldenEye director Martin Campbell. Steve Le Marquand and Ben Mendelsohn provide comic relief as the climbing brothers, though it's hard to understand what they are saying. The only member of the cast that doesn't work is Alexander Siddig; he's so noble he's dull.Martin Campbell is one of the masters of action films. He made the brilliant GoldenEye, and the equally brilliant but different Casino Royale. Campbell knows his stuff, and he creates some outstanding action sequences. The term nail-biter was coined for this kind of a movie, and most of the credit has to go to Campbell.It's not a classic thriller, but it's a good one. "},{"Title":"Chivalry Is Not Dead","Date":"10 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The first ten minutes, or thereabouts, of Martin Campbell's Vertical Limit are very engrossing. You get the feeling you're about to see one terrific movie. Now, there are many more great minutes to be enjoyed; but, the story never gets any further off the ground. The opening introduces the film's leading man and woman, handsome Chris O'Donnell (as Peter Garrett) and winsome sister Robin Tunney (as Annie Garrett). A mountain climbing mishap results in the death of their father.The story would have worked better if quickly expiring father Stuart Wilson (as Royce Garrett) had persuaded Ms. Tunney to cut the rope, and save Mr. O'Donnell. This would have matched their later career choices; note, survivalist Tunney continues mountain climbing, while brother O'Donnell becomes a photographer. The gender reversal would have given an otherwise painfully ordinary script some real distinction, and it matches up with later events well.Still, you have a lot of excellent visual effects; and, extraordinary photography and location shooting by Mr. Campbell, with cinematographer David Tattersall. The film is set in New Zealand (as Pakistan). Immoral billionaire Bill Paxton (as Elliot Vaughn) and vengeful veteran Scott Glenn (as Montgomery Wick) try to give the story some weight. The K2 mountain is a central, inanimate character; but, like the humans, it is underdeveloped. Vertical Limit is not Chekhov, and it's not Melville&#x85; but it's okay.****** Vertical Limit (12/3/00) Martin Campbell ~ Chris O'Donnell, Robin Tunney, Bill Paxton, Scott Glenn "},{"Title":"I agree","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I agree. I saw nothing funny in this movie. I am climber and mountain ranger myself. This movie is not movie which I can call stupid or funny. What thing is funny in this funny. When you know that your sister will die soon everybody can do everything-this is sure. After time many of things you did may looks impossible but you did them. This is to be REAL climber. The credo of my company Mountain rangers White Tiger is that we NEVER leave our rangers if they have troubles at mountain. The movie is really nice and I really like it. You don't need to be a soldier to be a member of army of brave man. I think so. Perhaps I made a mistake? "},{"Title":"Wages of Fear on ice","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Periodically breathtaking, with stunts and photography that are sometimes very exciting in the dumb-Hollywood mold, this movie is mostly just incredibly stupid.Chris O'Donnell should have been a print model; whatever awful performances he may turn in, they can't take away his pretty face. Robin Tunney's whole performance consists of a series of snarls - no, sorry, it's the same snarl again and again, sometimes while coughing. Bill Paxton is in full-on Game Over mode for the whole trip. Would that it really were over as often as his overwrought face seems to indicate. Fortunately, we have Scott Glenn in superhero format, and Nicholas Lea as the guy who won't quit no matter how many bad movies he's in.Basically, in order to make a routine climbers-rescue film just a little more explosive, the climbers borrow pyrotechnics from the least competent army in the world in order to drag leaky cans of nitro-glycerine across rugged mountain terrain, bla bla bla. This, to save performers like Tunney and Paxton? Just die already. "},{"Title":"Not much suspense, and nothing to make up for that","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I was first shown this film nearly six years ago, and saw it again about a year later (both times were in high school classes). I may have liked it during those two viewings (I'm not 100% sure), but while I watched it a third time, which was just last night, it failed to impress me, no doubt about it. Five or six years ago, I couldn't see any problems with Vertical Limit, but since then, I have obviously changed somewhat, and I think I am now more observant while watching movies.The movie begins with two siblings, Peter and Annie Garrett, climbing with their father, Royce. When it all goes wrong, it seems that the rope can't hold the three of them, so Royce, who is at the bottom, tells Peter, who is in the middle, to cut him loose (even though that would mean Royce's death), while Annie, at the top, begs him not to! Peter has a tough but quick decision to make, and decides to do what his father tells him. Years later, the two siblings are both in Pakistan at the same time. Peter is there to take pictures for National Geographic, while Annie is there to climb K2! Annie is still upset with her brother's decision to cut their father loose. However, after Peter learns that his sister is trapped, he is determined to climb up that dangerous mountain in an attempt to rescue her! That plot might make it sound like Vertical Limit is filled with excitement, but it's not. I occasionally found myself in mild suspense, but very briefly, it didn't last. Yes, there is a lot of action in the movie, but it just doesn't work. That is certainly not this action/thriller's only problem, another one being that the dialogue is fairly weak in parts. There's one part with a guy literally trying to kiss his a&# goodbye. Was this part supposed to be serious? I should hope not, but even if it was meant to be a joke, it's not funny! There's some excellent mountain scenery featured in the film, but that's not enough to make up for the many flaws. The movie is over two hours long, which doesn't help.Usually, I like movies with a lot of action in them, but this one in particular. While I don't absolutely loathe it, I can see why it doesn't have a very high IMDb rating. If you want a good, well-scripted action movie that can be taken seriously, and/or a guide to mountain climbing, Vertical Limit is not the film for you. I guess there are some ways that this movie can be enjoyed. I know people have pointed this out already, but maybe you would like Vertical Limit if you're willing to shut your brain off and enjoy some mindless action. If you're not willing to do that, I would say that there's no shame in skipping it. "},{"Title":"Above average, but could have been much better though...","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I agree with what most critics said on this one. Berardinelli sums it up very nicely when he says It's not a bad film, and it doesn't fall prey to as many clichés as have afflicted its predecessors, but its numerous missteps reduce this from the level of a gripping thriller to a popcorn diversion and Ebert defines the film perfectly with I can recommend the movie as a B adventure while wondering what kind of an A movie might have been made from similar material.That's about it, I found the suspense and the sound effects good, the camera and special f/x average, whereas the set decoration and screenplay were poor, while probably the worst thing about this film for me was that it is absolutely full of stupid, unnecessary clichés. All in all, slightly above average. "}{"Title":"Fine Entertainment","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" VERTICAL LIMIT **** A group of avid mountain climbers embark on a dangerous journey in climbing a treacherous mountain. When an avalanche intercepts their path, three of the adventurers unintentionally fall into an icy crevasse which then encloses. Though they are saved from the life-threatening events upon ground, they can only survive the scanty conditions of the underground briefly. Now, a second group of experienced climbers must go on a rescue mission to save the estranged fellow companions. A cinematic adventure that suffices.Rating System ***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"Beautiful looking movie with a ludicrous story and overwrought performances","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I called in sick to work on a weekday and spent $1.50 to see Vertical Limit and a couple of other movies in one of the cheap 2nd-run movie theaters in my city and had a decent time. If I'd spent the full ticket price to see just this movie on a Saturday night, I think I might have been p*ssed.This is a great looking movie, with spectacular scenery and photography and astounding stunts. So if you turn your mind off and throat some serious beverage, munch some popcorn and soak it all in, you can enjoy it.But it is a stupid movie. The script piles absurdity upon absurdity, cliché upon cliché, and throws in plot elements straight out of a vaudeville mellerdramer, until you can't choke down even one more improbability or overwrought line. In particular, poor Bill Paxton is forced to play a ridiculous caricature of a sociopath billionaire who is both stupid enough to insist on risking his life for an ego boost AND cowardly/mean enough to kill a helpless member of his climbing party for more of the chemical that keeps them from dying of pulmonary edema. (I can't imagine Warren Buffet or Bill Gates doing that, or even Donald Trump.) And the whole thing with the nitroglycerin...uhhh,guys? Wouldn't someone in the Pakistani army KNOW that the nitro kept in their warehouse would blow up spontaneously if it got warm? Hmmmm? I mean, that IS why it was being kept in sealed containers away from the outside and sunlight in the first place, wasn't it??? Does anyone believe that once the Pakistani army guys opened up the storage unit where the containers were kept, that they would just LEAVE the thing open,with nitro sitting around in the open air for hours afterwards so they could discover (via violent explosion) that sunlight set the nitro off ? And if this stuff was from the Pakistani's munitions dump, wouldn't they also simply have a few sticks of dynamite lying around? There is one great throwaway line delivered by the Pakistani officer which almost carries the movie Well, 300 o'clock. Time to wake up the Indians, followed by the crash of artillery guns. It's a good, funny moment. There is also a nice bit with some 'field first aid' where Chris O'Donnell's character Peter distracts the nurse with a question and then unexpectedly resets her broken finger with a brutal yank in the middle of her answer; she howls in pain and bursts into tears. This was nicely done by both the actors. It was the most human and believable moment in the movie, because it was something that one climber might actually do for another on the side of a remote mountain. These two examples show that director and the writer were obviously capable good work - they just felt the movie had to be overblown and overwrought. It's kind of a shame.If I saw a DVD of Vertical Limit in a bargain bin for $5, I might go ahead and spring for it, to watch with friends on a Saturday night with several a lot of other similar movies. And VL is somewhat more watchable than the similarly themed Cliffhanger because no matter how match crap Chris O'Donnell may catch about being 'bland', he and Scott Glenn and Bill Paxton are still head and shoulders above Stallone as actors. (I like Stallone, but he's a body, not an actor.)===================================================== UPDATE (04/07/06) - well, oddly enough I did find a used copy for $6 and picked it up and watched it last night. I stand by my earlier remarks, although it's interesting to me that I actually like VL a little better now than I did back when I first saw it. I think it's because I knew where the good bits were coming up,so I had something to look forward to as the stupid bits went by. I still think Chis O'Donnell's performance in underrated here. "},{"Title":"Accurate - no, best scenes - yes","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While its pretty obvious to even a non-climber that this movie is not accurate representation of climbing, you need to understand the purpose of the movie, which is emotions of the characters involved.I keep watching first few minutes where the father is cut loose. The scene is remarkable for its intensity, camera angles, background and to some degree the acting.Throughout the movie there are wonderful scenes showing the natural beauty of the mountains.But the purpose of the movie is the emotion of the characters on the situation which they find themselves.I hope you enjoy this movie as much, and as many times, as I have. "},{"Title":"HI order   adventure","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Your hanging by a little rope and a co-climber is dangling below you, a full load on you. A mile and a half vertical free fall would be your exit from the human race and entry into eternity, should the little rope snap. What do you do? Stirring mountain vistas and a fast moving story describes Vertical Limit. The film is educational, entertaining, and gripping. Three climbers wait in a crevice while rescuers make their way up to the 27,000 foot level. Rdema is creeping into the bodies of the 3 survivors and the speed of the rescuers looms important. Turn around and go back advises one of the crevice dwellers. You'll never make it in time If the Height and cold aren't enough of a challenge, landslides are common on such snowy mountains too. I would love to see more films as exciting as this one. "},{"Title":"Wow.  Terrible.","Date":"3 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is truly a film with no redeeming characteristics.  The story is terrible, the acting is worse, the dramatics come across in a decidedly comical fashion, and, despite the fact that it was made recently enough to have at least had an impressive display of special effects, they too are quite pathetic.  I can recall several instances from the movie in which they actually used archive avalanche footage.  The picture was grainy, the mountains were obviously not the same ones we had been seeing during the rest of the movie, and the presence of this ridiculous shortcut on a product that already had so little to offer just ruined it further.  I find it difficult to believe that anyone could watch this movie and come away with any other thought in their head aside from, What the *$@! was that?! It's movies like these that cause me to fear for the future of our civilization. "},{"Title":"The height of Nonsense","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Why can nobody make a decent climbing movie? This one was so bad it beggars belief. The script, the acting, the characters were all dire. Rather than sitting on the edge of our seats my family were roaring with laughter. Far too many plot contrivances and if I see one more climber dangling over an edge I'll scream. One question If the girl was so ill with Pulmonary Oedema why didn't they just helicopter her down to the nearest village? This film is up (or should I say down) there with Deep Blue Sea and Behind enemy Lines. "},{"Title":"far fetched but somewhat entertaining","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  My only reason to see this movie was for the scenery (Mt Godwin Austen or K2) although I heard it was filmed in New Zealand.  The story line was far-fetched, unreal and ridiculous. The film was however entertaining and some of the camera shots were exciting.  "},{"Title":"Scott Glenn's most interesting role...","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ...in Vertical Limit Scott Glenn plays aged, toeless mountain climber Montgomery Wick.  When younger climber Peter Garret's (Chris O'Donnel) sister Annie (Robin Tunney) is stranded on the icy slopes of K2, Wick joins Garret and some others on a dangerous mission to help.Glenn plays Wick perfectly, with a teacher-like domineering presence whenever on screen.  Glenn's performance is touching and heartfelt while strict and almost sinister.  He steals the show, and, if I had my way, he'd have taken home the 2001 Best Supporting Actor Oscar.Aside from Glenn's A+ performance, the rest of the film is mediocre.  There are some high points of drama, especially when villain Bill Paxton (also stranded with Tunney) starts taking up their supplies.If there is one terribly bad part about Vertical Limit it's that some of the characters are killed off too quickly, with the remaining characters not exactly caring much.  This would be understandable for the stone-cold Wick, but no other characters, 7/10. "},{"Title":" fair action-adventure farce","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  chris o'donnell was devoid of charm in this film. robin tunney was okay. bill paxton was dull. there are hardly any gripping scenes it this movie. i found it very dull and agonizing to watch. i would give vertical limit 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"...","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The special effects are really bad at the beginning, it remembers me the old Godzilla movies where you could see the background was added after... the story isn't bad, but there are a lot of mistakes anybody would see, not only pro climbers, like injecting frozen liquid into their veins...We had three movies for 3.99$ so I guess it was worth it, but those who went to the theater to see this got screwed... "}{"Title":"Badest film ever seen","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Hi!Vertical Limit is the badest film i've ever seen! I have no problem with unrealistic movies. But this film is an offense for every living being on this planet. There should be worldwide prohibition laws to avoid such bad movies.Best greetings, Uli! "},{"Title":"You gotta give it some credit","Date":"11 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I kind of find the rating for this movie lower than I would have expected. Perhaps it's my fear of heights and particularly mountains, or maybe it's that it was the first DVD that I saw on my new widescreen television, but I don't think I've ever had as much fun.  Actually, I'm sure that it being my first DVD experience had something to do with that.  Nonetheless, I thought the story was great, the mountain a formidable character in itself and the angles breathtaking.  Bill Paxton got on my nerves a little, and not just because his character was a jerk, but I enjoyed all the other actors and thought that the whole idea of what it is to tackle K-2 was amazing.  The other thing was that the DVD was so packed with extras that I found myself really finding it to be an interactive experience, instead of one of those DVDs which just comes with a trailer and the movie.A very entertaining film.  A hell of a lot better than most other entertainment films.  I'd recommend this movie to anyone.  And good going on Chris O'Donnell, he seems to have found a hard time making the transition from a boy in Scent of a Woman to a man.  A wise pick for him to do this film because it played up his best attributes and allowed him to split the difference. "},{"Title":"Goes to the limit","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watched this movie recently and thoroughly enjoyed it.  Although there are maybe some discrepancies within the film compared to with real life, I didn't notice them (maybe because I'm not a climber).But this movie delivers a lot of action and after all this is what action movies are supposed to deliver, and it delivers it well, showing us stunning scenery and well as vertigo inducing screenshots.The story line was a valid one and totally realistic, and the story unfolds in a steady way.I watched the R2 DVD version of the film and there are tons of extras on it, and you also find out when watching these extra's that although there are special effects in the film, a lot of work and climbing was actually done.Summary  Totally enjoyable action movie, with great scenery, a must to watch.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought the story was good.  Nothing super special - but good.  Good guys, bad guys - and at the end, what goes around comes around.  Nothing too warped - I guess I'm boring.The visuals were spectacular - and during the opening scene - I actually jumped out of my chair.  I felt like I was hanging on the edge of a cliff the whole movie.  I think it was well done.  Maybe a true mountain climber would notice mistakes.  I never noticed a one.  I was too busy getting drawn into a great movie. "},{"Title":"entertaining!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Having seen Martin Campbell's previous movie - GoldenEye - which I thought was pretty damn good (the best Bond flick made in ages anyway) I kind of expected this action movie to be just as good. And though I think it is as entertaining as could be expected, this movie is nowhere near as good as action flicks like The Matrix or The Long Kiss Goodnight, not even GoldenEye. The cast did an overall good job, I especially liked Izabella Scorupco in the role of Monique (she also played the female lead in GoldenEye), and Bill Paxton is always reliable no matter who he portrays! The soundtrack is super and the effects just as good, so if you're simply looking to be entertained, this movie is an obvious choice. "},{"Title":"Great survival story.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit follows Peter Garrett, whose sister is trapped atop Mount K2, as he makes a daring rescue attempt to save his sister as well as two other men trapped with her.  The storyline develops well, and the plot is all but laid out for us and is easy to understand.  The special effects are great, not outstanding, but are depicted accurately.  Although it does seem impossible for all these bad things to happen to one group of people, it's only a movie, and a rather good one at that.There are some flaws, as every movie has.  For instance, a woman (I've forgotten her name) is clinging to a cliff face and drops, only to be stopped by a protruding rock.  You can definitely tell she is held by a wire, as her hands grope around her waist and hold her up.  Along with that, she swings around a small crack in the face of the wall, her arm stretched out horizontally.  Some things are always going to be overlooked by the cast and crew, and we, as the viewers, have to take the bad with the good.  Let's not shoot these guys because of a few mistakes.Vertical Limit is a great movie, especially when seen in theaters.  It is very interesting to learn how everything works up at the vertical limit, how they climb, and that sort of thing.  The action is nice, and most of the time quite realistic.  As I said, there are some flaws, but don't let that deter you from watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Great Effects","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great! Some believe that there was some mistakes, but I could not pick them up or justify that they were mistakes. The special effects were amazing and this movie will keep you on the edge. The plot is touching and heart-warming. I love the scenery and the actors were a great. You can never predict what will happen next in Vertical Limit! "},{"Title":"Masterpiece of an adventure film","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I had mixed expectations when i read some film critics. But when i saw this film on DVD i was completely satisfied and it met my imagination and more. From begin to the end it was a non stop thrill and the price is worth to spend it. I liked it also because for somebody that likes thriller/adventure and mountains this movie fulfills all these elements. All the actors played very good and the special effects were incredibly real. The sound compositon is top. It is one of the best adventure movies i have seen and i watched it already three times.   "},{"Title":"Strap on the Nitro!","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Completely absurd, enjoyable action flick, with the suspension of disbelief breaking as regularly as the actor's climbing anchors. Temura Morrison as a Pakistani helicopter pilot speaking Urdu in a Maori accent was priceless. Poor old Aussies too... every Australian in the show was depicted or described as being incredibly sexist. The American view of Australians as being likeable, uncouth, skilled outdoorsmen was  nicely reinforced. Every Australian is Paul Hogan with a different outfit. BUT... I liked it in the same way I liked Point Break... mindless likeable fluff. I suspect that one of the reasons this film has irritated so many is that it alludes regularly to the essense of climbing, its codes and spiritual leanings, while at the same time paying no respect at all to the technical limits of the sport. I have some sympathy for this position but enjoyed the trip anyway. Oh, and it gave us an addition to the English language strap on the nitro! meaning get yourself ready as we are about to do something extremely stupid and probably insanely dangerous. Must be said in a strong Australian accent for full effect. "},{"Title":"A Truly, Truly Awful Film","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Everyone connected to this film in any way must have spent too much time at altitude without their oxygen.  This movie was an insult to my intelligence, heck it was an insult to my parakeet's intelligence.  This movie is so awful it's not even unintentionally funny.  I believe this film falls under the Supreme Court definition of obscenity  it has no redeeming social value!  Don't waste your money on a rental, don't waste your time on a viewing of this putrescent film. "}{"Title":"Very unrealistic but still a nailbiter.","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film has all the thrills you want and some.   However you must overlook the mountaineering goofs (I think the person who advised the director as to the veracity of the technical aspects of this film was not very experienced, if at all.) and there are plenty, you will enjoy the cliffhanger situations which occur with pulse raising regularity.  I enjoyed it but only because of the edge of the seat situations. "},{"Title":"Lots of action, good aggressive sound track, overall light entertainment.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit has a rather low IMDb rating, somewhat too low, in my opinion. I watch a fictional action movie for one reason, to be entertained. And this one does that just fine. Lots of explosions, a few avalanches, some real cliff-hangers, in some they survive, others they don't. But the good guys all come out of it OK, and that's what we want, isn't it?? Chris O'Donnell is pretty good in the lead role.As usual, my good friend Roger Ebert has a pretty accurate review. Brother and sister climbers go their separate ways after dad tragically dies in a climbing accident in Monument Valley. Three years later they meet up as she is participating in a risky climb of K2. Weather turns bad, sis is stranded in an ice cave, no one wants to risk a rescue, but bro is persistent. In the process, he also meets his new girlfriend. Most of the created crises are quite unbelievable, but they are thrown in to keep the audience of the edges of their collective couches. A good B movie, entertaining with little lasting value. I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Good with a but...","Date":"19 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First off, I will start by saying that James Newton Howard is possibly the best composer of all time. The score for this film was fantastic.However, the film itself left a few things to be desired. The emotional conflict that kept Annie and brother Peter so distant in the beginning was lamely portrayed. I just don't think the actors tried hard enough (especially the one who played Peter). And some scenes, like the one where (spoiler here) Montgomery Wick finds his dead wife, give me the overall feeling that they could've been acted out better. No specifics though...it just gives one that unsatisfactory feeling.The real action starts when the rescue mission begins. The banter between Monique and Cyril was hilarious; and Wick overall was my favorite character (read On a rescue mission, we don't vote, we don't argue, we don't question -- you listen and do exactly as I say. Kick ass!) Even though I think too many of the rescuers (MAJOR spoiler) died trying to save Annie, Tom, and Vaughn (I mean, six made the climb, two of the original six came down), but I suppose such is life.And again, the music's great. The action is too, so I say it's worth a rental, and even a purchase (heck, I bought it myself!). *3.5 out of 5* "},{"Title":"Don't look at the screen.","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Sometimes Hollywood churn out a blockbuster that is so exciting you spend hours talking about. Other times they release a film so unbelievably dire that you spend the time you watch it seeing what the characters sound like in Dutch. Luckily I missed this at the cinema but unluckily it caught me on DVD.There is nothing positive that can be written about this film. The actors from the B list aren't bad apart from Chris O'Donnell who supports a stupid haircut and is as much an action hero as I am. The action though admittedly OK does not make you hold your breath and the casualties are so predictable that my cat could have written it. I normally don't mind the brain dead action films and even enjoyed Con Air but this is more turn your TV off than turn your brain off. If you want action and adventure go elsewhere. Luckily though the DVD does have different audio languages on it so if, like me, after the harrowing first minute you can't take any more, then at least you can learn a new language. "},{"Title":"stupid fools made a stupid movie","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Contains Spoilers first reaction of this film was that this movie is copying Cliffhanger.and oy, it's very similar to Cliffhanger but vertical limit is one of the worst movies i've seen this year. Cliffhanger is a wonderful movie but this one hits the bottom. martin campbell ain't Renny Harlin and chris o'donnell is nothing compared to Sylvester Stallone.the story is about a guy who goes to rescue some jerks who are in some kind of a hole (don't know, i fall asleep). well, he goes there with some girl and guys, nitro with them. some explosions and one joke.well, when i was awake during the film, i hated the characters. at some points i wanted the prisoners to die. they were annoying. the actors were awful. when the avalanche killed the other brother, i was glad. then there was the other brother who climbed with some jerk and the nitro exploded when they were laughing and something like that, i and my friend laughed for the next five minutes. we thought that this movie is a comedy. is it?i guess it isn't. there is this o'donnell who just can't act. retire old man already.i give you a good advice. if you're thinking to rent this movie, think again and again as long as you don't want to rent it. it just waste of money to rent this movie.because there is bill paxton my rate goes bit up. though mr. paxton did awful job.3 out of 10.     "},{"Title":"Entertaining film","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watch any movie for it's entertainment value not so much for it's being realistic.   If I wanted only realism I would never watch Star Trek or Star Wars movies.   This movie had a lot of scenes with action and tension just like in the old movie serials when I was a kid.  Whether it be realitic or not I don't care as when the movie was over I was entertained and my mind was taken away from the troubles of the world for a couple of hours and that it what counts to me.  I recommend this movie to anyone with an open mind.       "},{"Title":"Goofical Limit","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yesssss... Interesting movie. I really liked it despite tons and tons of goofs (see list).I had not seen any movie of this genre in quite a while so my jugement may have been a little distorted. However at the time I saw it I was really excited about it. The plot is rather straightforward. No big surprises (although rather cheesy ending with Wick cutting the rope) as the excitement level takes the viewer on a rollercoaster ride. One thing that bothered me is the passage of time. The viewer cannot place the action within the rescuer's time frame.Actors do a fine job although O'Donnell looks more like he just came out of a college dorm than back from a mountain.Worth purchasing on DVD, if only to show your buddies the goofs frame-by-frame. -) "},{"Title":"good effects, bad movie","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Completely mindless mountain climber movie in which Chris O'Donnell and about six others have to save three people trapped by an avalanche on K2, the world's highest mountain. O'Donnell and his team apparently fall into the act first and ask questions later category. Before even coming up with a plan they have strapped on a load of extremely volatile nitro and begun their accent. Vertical Limit tries to act like bigger budgeted version of Cliffhanger (which is a masterpiece in comparison to this), jamming it full of explosions and avalanches and even an opening sequence that is very reminiscent of the Stallone/Renny Harlin flick.  Unfortunately, the reason Cliffhanger worked so well was because it had good villains, something which is practically none existent here.  Bill Paxton plays a bit of a bad dude but other than that the main bad guy is the mountain, unless of course you count the characters' stupidity.  Thus by eliminating gunfights and chases the film becomes somewhat dull, plus the ending is just horrible.  Still the special effects are pretty good and I must admit the action scenes while being repetitive and overblown, are still kind of fun to watch, but it's definitely not good enough to recommend. "},{"Title":"The Summit of Action!","Date":"12 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie when reviewed by the critics, received either very good or very bad ratings, never in-between. The reason for this is that I think many people expected another 'Alive' when infact you should have expected every major action film ever made rolled into one. We start the film with it's only let down...a ridiculous CGI bird that looks like it's been painted on the screen by a four year old, but from there on it's a non-stop action ride with great stunts and atmosphere! As for the players...we have a great cast in this film, the only thing I would complain about is the fact that Chris O'Donnell was the lead, when clearly Nicholas Lea who plays Tom McLaren should have had it. Other than that all I can do is reflect what a lot of other people have realised...turn your brain off and enjoy the ride, and believe me you will enjoy it! Oh and great special fx apart from that silly bird at the start. "},{"Title":"Non-stop action rollercoaster...","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Check your brain at the door for this one, and strap yourself in.  The opening sequence will give you a good indication of what you're in for. There were times when I found myself longing for a break.  When the closing credits rolled, I felt as though I had just completed a workout at the gym. Unfortunately the plot and a lot of the mountain climbing facts were significantly short changed.  Still, Vertical Limit was a heck of a ride. "}{"Title":"This is what DVD and home theaters were built for.","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is a great leave your brain at the door movie.  If you have a DVD player with a decent home theater system, this movie is for you.  Anyone looking for something to think about should watch Memento, Traffic, or something that requires a neuron.If you didn't enjoy this movie at home you must be watching it on a VCR with a 19 TV.  Its fun people - no reason to pick it apart - just enjoy the ride... "},{"Title":"Do you like thrillers? I do!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Great scenes that challenge every self called effects expert. Myfriends, if you want  90 minutes (or so) of suspense, and aawsome spectacle of those crazy people climbing mountainimpossible... Well, forget the rest for a while and enjoy this greatmovie. The editing, soundtrack, unbelievable danger scenes, verywell done. Now, what is the message? I'd say...don't climb! "},{"Title":"It's Entertainment!!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I may aswell start by saying the Vertical Limit does it's job just about perfectly. It's job being to keep an audience entertained for about a couple of hours.... no more, no lessVertical Limit is very good entertainment from start to finish and does a great job in the 'wow' department. One thing which amazed me is WHY in the trailer for Vertical Limit practically every major stunt was given away, meaning there was little new for the audience than to watch people walk up and down a very large mountain. I must admit it's a small failing, but annoying all the same.Vertical Limits other problem is that it isn't difficult to tell whats going to happen. Very snowy mountain + bomb  = ......... you can probably guess the rest. Also some of it is goes into the realms of 'silly land', with people doing flying squirrel jumps over HUGE drops and somehow landing perfectly without a scratch.The plot is alright, but nothing special. Sister gets stuck up mountain, brother bravely races against the clock to save her.Despite being nothing particularly new Vertical Limit IS great entertainment, and will keep you watching all the time. It has some very good moments in there, some funny, some more dramatic, some just there for the 'wow' factor. The acting is good all round and you actually get slightly attatched to the characters. And there are some plot twists to keep things interesting. Although at the end of the film if you add up the number of people who have died and the number who were saved, it seems to have been a completely unsuccessful rescue! (please note the last comment means less than nothing while actually watching this film)I would recommend anyone to give this a go. And I'll no doubt be watching it again many times on DVD. It'll keep you hooked while it lasts, just don't expect it to hang around in your head for much longer7/10 "},{"Title":"hold your breath","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit gives you exactly what you expect after watching the trailer. Nothing more, nothing less. You can see it's stupidity in the trailer (remember the final jump!!) as well as it virtuosity (remember the final jump as well!!). Everything is exaggerated of course. The story will NEVER happen like this because NO real climber would do so many faults in a couple of hours. But that doesn't matter actually it is an ACTION flick. What DID you expect? It is fast, the special effects are well done to breathtaking. The opening sequence kicks ass compared with MI-2. And when you rent the DVD just watch the featurettes they had professional climbers you advised them and they ADMIT that all the catastrophes happening in the movie DID somehow happen before but not between just a couple of days. But honestly it doesn't matter! If you want to see real characters, a great plot and development of both than just go and see Magnolia. I am not dumb but i like a nice action flick which leaves me stunned after it's 120 thrilling and entertaining minutes. And Vertical Limit does that. That way it is not going to be my favourite movie of all time but a nice way to spend a Friday evening. Now i am going to watch Eyes Wide Shut again and guess i won't complain about it's weak special effects! Vertical Limit doesn't want to be intelligent neither it wants to be stupid it just wants to give a good time. And I think it succeeds. But stupid are those you go into an action movie and bitching afterwards about characters and story... 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Thrilling Edge-of-Your-Seat Action!!!","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    Vertical Limit is a great film that has the most action I have ever seen in a film. This movie has a great adventurous story and superb acting. The special effects are brillaint and thrilling. I wish I would have seen this in the theater, which I did want to. The action in this film is non-stop, and is a a sure edge-of-your-seat, nail biting thriller. Also the adventure in the film is great!!!! This is one of my favorite films. I even think that it was better than The Perfect Storm. The action in this film is great and the acting is superb!!! If your looking for an action/adventure/and thriller film, this is a sure renter!! I give this film a 10 out of 10!!!     "},{"Title":"The worst mountain climbers in the world?","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is as about as good as you are going to get when it comes to an action movie. The Special affects are amazing,maybe as good as i have ever seen. The first scene is amazing, the way it is shot and how realistic it looked. This is 2 hours of action,non stop . Now for the critisism.The story is oh so predictable, you just know that what happens in the first scene is going to happen again in the movie and you know that the millionaire is going to bad the bad guy without doubt will get his come uppance. Also there are a some questions that have to be asked. Why when they get caved in 40 feet below the snow is it really light as if there is daylight ?If you set aside the predictability of the film and the aspect that they are meant to be the best mountain climbers in the world yet they seem to keep having accidents ,you should love this film. All in all very entertaining. 7 out of 10 (nearly an 8)  "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Films like this are generally so caught up with the special effects that the plot and characters take second place. This one has some great acting all-round, Tunney, O'Donnell and Paxton (the leads) all give good performances, although I have always been a fan of Tunney (from the Craft and End of Days).The plot is simple, but gets some nice touches to take it above the norm every now and then, the explosion of Siddig and the other guy was excellently done. I was also very impressed with the opening sequence.A good film, highly enjoyable. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Better than I expected, given the poor reviews.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  OK, it's no classic, but this movie certainly didn't deserve the lathering it got when it was released. The opener was impressive (if a little familiar), and it took a while to get going properly, but when the action kicked in, I for one had a great time. It was also reasonably witty and the characters, while lacking in depth, were likeable enough. It was clear that the principals really were tromping around and hanging off a real mountain for the majority of the movie, as well. Maybe it was the melodrama that put people off? There are certainly plenty of intense, anguished close ups and shouting matches as the hackneyed characters sort themselves out, and these are more amusing than anything, but I was really only expecting a mountaintop action yarn, and that's what I got. Shenanigans with volatile canisters of nitro were a bonus as far as I was concerned, even if their presence did mean the audience had to suspend disbelief totally. I seem to recall the other patrons in the theatre got into it as much as I did.  "},{"Title":"Not worth seeing it ... or is it?","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Warning! A few spoilers inside!I have to say only three thingsPredictable When I first saw the movie, I could almost synchronize it after a few minutes for the rest of the movie. The only thing that was a bit surprise was the director's choice of the camera for a few scenes.Now I come to a few scenes, that I found just wrong or 'too hard'. The beginning Father is cut of the rope. Now the director could have chosen, to give a last shoot on the father's face and let him say some last words, but NO, the only thing we see is the moment he hits the ground. The next scene is only a few minutes later Main character and his sherpa walk down from their observation-place. Now a sherpa is said to be a guide for someone who doesn't know the area. Well this sherpa is SO good, he falls over a small rock, bumps his head and then breaks his leg with a great *KNACK*.The next thing I am not too sure about but I think I read somewhere, that it is not good to have metal on your skin when you are in a very cold area, 'cause the flesh will 'glue' to the metal, which is quite painfull. Now one of the leaders has a nice earring which he wears all the time and Wick's wife still has her marriage-ring on her finger when they find her.Quite good, though very black humor, is the scene, when they discover that the explosives react with the sunlight and have to take it out of the sun. The 'Pakistani group' take it out of the sun, but the liquid is already flowing. Then they do something funny and begin to laugh and in the same moment, the liquid ignites and they disappear in a great explosion.Now I won't go further and explain the other scenes, where the actors show superhuman strength in jumping and holding their colleagues with one hand when they fell down.Well if you want a nice action movie, which is funny in many ways and has a few nice dialogues, and you don't mind such faults as I mentioned above, then go ahead and watch it. I think you won't be bored. "},{"Title":"An adrenaline rush","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Most films require a good story to be successful.  This film is one of the exceptions.  `Vertical Limit' is a film that has such outstanding action, suspense and photography that its hackneyed story is barely a factor.  The story is about an improbable rescue mission on K2, the second highest mountain on the planet.  While writer Robert King tries weakly to throw some human interest into the screenplay, this film is all Martin Campbell.  Director Campbell is no stranger to the action adventure genre having hit with `Goldeneye' and `Mask of Zorro'.  From a directorial standpoint, this film exceeds both of his previous successes.Filmed in Campbell's native New Zealand, he gives us majestic backdrops and generally beautiful photography.  The action sequences are exciting and the climbing authentic.  All the actors went to climbing school and did most of their own climbing in the film despite never having climbed before.  The film was a logistical nightmare, with equipment and crew having to be flown daily to the mountaintop locations.  Weather constantly trumped the filming schedule and the film ultimate cost a whopping $75 million.  The fact that Campbell was able to complete the film at all was close to miraculous.The acting was solid all around.  I have always liked Scott Glenn.  While he doesn't have leading man looks or dynamism, he is one of the most compelling and solid actors around, like a block of granite supporting the leads with the unassuming power of his performances.  He gives another strong performance here as the reclusive guide who leads the rescue mission.  Robin Tunney also did a fine job as the veteran climber who is one of those trapped in the avalanche.  Bill Paxton has always flirted with leading man status, but never really gets the lead.  Here he does a fabulous job rendering a Darwinian character with a malicious coldness befitting the climate on the mountain.  Chris O'Donnell, while adequate in the lead, is really outshined by the rest of the rugged cast.  There is something about him that is just too whiney and cute to qualify him as an action hero.Overall, this is a highly entertaining film with little reason for existence other than the gut wrenching action and suspense.  I rated it a 7/10.  Don't bother bringing your thinking caps to this one, but be prepared for an adrenaline rush. "}{"Title":"A Heap of Insulting Garbage","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so horrible, I don't know where to begin.  From the incredibly unrealistic climbing to the maddeningly dumb script, I found it difficult to make it to the end.  I only did that so I would feel fully able to implore everyone not to waste a minute of their lives on this turd of a film. "},{"Title":"Reaches it's limits","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsInevitably losing some of it's blockbuster appeal on the small screen,this 2000 disaster flick still maintains an involving air of entertainment value.Director Martin Campbell's usual sense of darkness and downbeat tone is conspicuously absent,and not too promising since this is what made his great film No Escape so entertaining,but all the same,Vertical Limit is fun to the very end.It's cliched stuff,no doubt,the characters and set up most noticeably so,from Chris O Donnell's determined,honour motivated brother/son to Scott Glenn's reclusive mountain expert,sheltered away because of a tragic event in his past.But it's good nature and speaker system value make it worthwhile stuff to see.*** "},{"Title":"Great movie. . .very suspenseful","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie repeatedly and still think it's one of the greatest. It keeps you excited through the whole film and has more suspense than most other movies I've seen before. The special effects were great, as well as the plot. This is one of Campbell's greatest movies yet.  "},{"Title":"By the numbers and cliche ridden","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  All this talk lately of screenwriting software and the suggestion that some scripts look like they have been generated from within one of these programs rather than out of the imagination of a writer certainly shows up in this by the numbers action flick.The story revolves around climbing, you can't escape that and initially that may have looked like a great idea for a movie.  And it is to a certain degree.  It is unfortunate though that 'Cliffhanger' made a better hash of it than this one did.Brother and sister (Chris O'Donnell and Robin Tunney) are both climbers who haven't spoken to each other for three years after the death of their father in an horrific climbing accident - she blames him for his death.  She becomes a reporter for a news service - one that is covering the ascent of K2 by flamboyant billionaire (Bill Paxton).  He wants to be at the top of K2 in time to wave at the inaugral flight of his airline.  Great publicity, wrapped up in a great adventure.So after the team heads up the mountain and gets into a spot of trouble, it is up to O'Donnell to put together a rag tag team of climbers to go and rescue the party - one of whom is his sister.So the stage is set for a few interesting climbing set pieces - some of which are genuinely exciting.  Some fall very flat (O'Donnell jumping the chasm to the opposite cliff face is not set up at all - and is cut away from and forgotten as soon as he hits the other side - very strange indeed), while some are very nail biting indeed.Mention must be made of a duo of aussie actors who provide a lot of the comic relief - Ben Mendelsohn and Steve Le Marquand - they are very funny as the brotherly team who only seem to be at K2 for the weather.What really irked me about this film was the utter predictability of it.  Many early comments I was sure where to have their payoff later in the film, and I was not disappointed.  The initial accident that took the life of the father was later repeated nearly shot for shot; the grizzled old climber who lost his wife on the peak and spent the next 10 years looking for her body is resolved in a probably unintentionally comic way.  And of course the foolhardly billionaire who just doesn't listen to anyone.Chris O'Donnell again puts in another near cardboard performance; whoever in Hollywood thinks this guy can act should be given a further reality check with this film.What saves this film from being a total wipeout is the beforementioned action sequences which do provide some interesting tension to the proceedings.If just a little more thought had gone into the script this might have been more of a winner.6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Exciting, till the landslide brings it down","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is an exciting, if somewhat overplotted action film, with some absolutely terrific mountain climbing scenes.  Chris O'Donnell plays a guilt-ridden former climber who assembles a team to rescue his sister (Robin Tunney)and a billionaire (Bill Paxton), who have been stranded by a severe storm near the top of K2, the world's most dangerous mountain.  Director Martin Campbell (Goldeneye,) has done a terrific job with Vertical Limit, which is only occasionally marred by less than stellar set decoration.  Far more serious is an overdeveloped revenge subplot involving Scott Glenn and Bill Paxton.  This subplot would have been far more affecting (and convincing) had Glenn simply told the story.  As it is, a secret uncovered by and avalanche is so absurdly coincidental, it threatens to bury the whole movie.Nevertheless, Vertical Limit boasts colorful performances and jaw-dropping action scenes).  It's a keeper. "},{"Title":"Rope-danglin' and snow blowing up","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Whatever there is to say about this film, it's not a slow one. But all the rope-dangling and falling and explosions doesn't really save it from a rather lame script, average performances and about a thousand tons of incredibility. It's not a bad film, I liked it a lot more than Cliffhanger (the only other film with a lot of climbing that I can think of right now), but Vertical Limit will not make a lasting impression on me. To that end, a lot more intelligence and less rope-danglin' is required. "},{"Title":"wanted to like it","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really, really tried to like this movie.  The only other climbing movie I had seen was K2, which, despite the low budget and the melodrama, is one of my all time favorites.  Vertical Limit looked like K2 + great special effects/sound = dream come true  Holy ass, Batman, did they blow it!First let's start with the nitro glycerin.  Why would they blast in a place with an obvious risk of starting another avalanche?  Would they even consider it? Why would they use something so ridiculously unstable?  Wouldn't dynamite be immune to freezing?  I know, I know, Sean Connery's in the Hummer, and he's running into everything trying to block us...What was with the leaking cannisters?????Why wouldn't the person who authorized the use of nitro have access to information like 'keep it out of the sun'?Next is the helicopter drop off scene.  Like they would take the risk of jumping 1) off the chopper, 2) out over the abyss, 3) onto the mountain.  Why wouldn't the pilot just fly the extra ten feet to where there was ground under them?  Also, why wouldn't he just descend 100 feet where the air is more dense, so he could fly straight, rather than risking bobbing around, hitting someone with the rotors.I love how they couldn't even think of something different for the bad guy to do.  As if he'd be in the same situation twice, now he's the serial shot stealer.  Look out, that dastardly dex nabber is at it again!OK, enough diatribe.  I give it a 6 for the snow. "},{"Title":"Cool, very cold also","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is pretty nice,ive seen it twice,it looks like Cliffhanger,but it is better,the scenes in K2 are awesome,and its worth watching,even if the villain is Bill Paxton,and theres a guy called Montgomery Wick(his mother must hate him). "},{"Title":"Amendment","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  As an addition to my previous review, if you must see this movie, RENT THE DVD! While the movie itself is a total joke, the special features are really pretty cool. There is a nice little National Geographics piece on K2 that shows what it's really like up there(nothing like in the movie!) and a few good interviews. Ed Viesturs does a nice one on trekking into the mountains.It really looked like they had a great time making this movie and had some awesome climbers around as trainers and tech advisors. Too bad none of that make it into the movie. "},{"Title":"Cliff hanging","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The main problem the concept of Vertical Limit had for me was how am I supposed to care about people risking their lives by doing stupid things.  I'm sorry but if you decide to climb a mountain when there's safer and more interesting things to do - like seeing a movie - then I really don't care if you fall off and die.  But despite being panned by critics the movie hung about my multiplex for weeks meaning it had good word of mouth.  What could possibly be good about it that kept the theatre busy? Curiosity got the better of me.To be honest after about twenty minutes I wanted to walk out.  Not because the movie was lame but because I had began to care about the characters so much I didn't want to watch any of them die.  The screenwriters had solved the major problem about why should we care by putting us in the shoes of someone who did care who wanted to rescue his sister.  Other characters were humanised by being noble or funny or in love. The rescue mission in itself is one story but within that there are other little stories going on, some majorly significant to the overall picture others personal ones with accelerated arcs. A shortcut to creating characters is to create stereotypes and Robert King  and Terry Hayes are a little guilty of this but they gave the characters a fresh enough twist so they still work.  "}{"Title":"Not bad, but could use some improvement.","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is an adventure for anyone who wishes they could climb K2.  This one reminded me of the movie, K2, which I thought was better than this one.  I am glad the writer and director chose to use a completely different plot to this one.  This helped the film tremendously.  The climbing scenes and special affects were good.  Unfortunately, even though they used a completely different plot for this K2 film, the plot they chose was rather dull.  The plot, as well as the over all story were also presented rather poorly.  These two facts, hurt this film a lot, more than could be helped.  If you like films with a lot of athletic adventure or just like the idea of climbing the toughest mountains in the world, this on is for you.  If you like a good plot, pass this one by.Overall,  a little better than okay, (6 out of 10). "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies around","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is one of the best action movies out. It is miles better than Cliffhanger, in a completely different league from Crouching Tiger, and a lot more tense than The Sixth Sense. Chris O'Donnell plays a wildlife photographer who wants to rescue his sister (Robin Tunney) after she fell down into an ice cave near the sumit of K2. He takes with him a team of 5 other climbers including Montgomery Wick (Scott Glenn) and Monique (Izabella Scorupco). Accidents happen along the way, including avalanches and some really nasty nitroglycerine.The action is great, the special effects are amazing, the script is good, with some brilliant lines (She's French-Canadian. Some days she can be quite pleasant, but today she's obviously French!) and the acting is top notch, especially Bill Paxton as Elliot Vaughn.A must see movie.The only movie from 2000 that is better is Miss Congeniality. 10/10  "},{"Title":"Good Action Movie.","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit was an entertaining, fast moving, action flick.  I enjoyed the special effects and was entertained from start to finish.  The story was somewhat predictably but the effects made watching the movie fun.  I would recommend this movie as fine escapist fare.  No guns, drugs or gratuitous sex plus no self-important Hollywood stars.  The James Bond films could learn a lot from this movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool Flick. ya get it? ya get it? cuz it's got snow...nevermind.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Finally, Hollywood has managed to pump out a great action flick. I almost lost faith due to fecal matter such as Mission Impossible 2, but this movie was really better than what I expected. Sure, those who have seen every action flick may not find this as good, but those whose tastes vary will find it chock full of suspense goodness. The problems and action sequences never stop, and are never boring. Plus it takes place on a mountain top, which unless your life is a lot more exciting than mine, you don't go to everyday. So grab the popcorn, and this movie, and get ready for one cool ride. "},{"Title":"Great Locations, good ideas, implausible, standard story","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Mountaineering is an inherently risky, exciting sport, with plenty ofopportunities for drama, controversy, exotic locations, andeccentric personalities. The success of the book Into Thin Airdemonstrates this.This film is a mishmash of cliches and contrivances the rescueplot, the revenge plot, the backpack-full-of-nitroglycerine plot (seeWages of Fear, France, 1953). Plus the film is overly long, and itstill manages to leave out important plot points. My least favorite contrivance the gimmick of having characterscarry cans of explosive Nitro is an implausible excuse for havinglots of explosions. After all, what's a Hollywood blockbuster withoutexplosions? Mountaineering is dangerous and risky enoughwithout adding silly Hollywood gimmicks. If you really like the subject matter, the IMAX film about Everest isfar superior.My rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"Action Packed","Date":"1 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really liked this movie.  I had greatly anticipated it, because I love books and movies dealing with mountains.  The first scene was the best.  I rewound it three times to watch it.  The action scenes were full of suspense and heart racing.  Chris O'Donnell acted very well in this movie, however I didn't think the woman who played Annie really fit the part for some reason. I do recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"Surprise","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"       This movie is surprisingly good, I did not go to the theater, because the movie trailer was awful.  I almost went to see it twice, but the trailer pushed me away.  This movie is fast paced, very tense, and the mountain scenes got my blood pumping.  The beginning is just excellent, but the movie had a few too many sub-plots at the end; otherwise this film is great.  It is nice to be surprised when you rent a video, and expect little. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies EVER!","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was incredibly awful. It was so sad how everything tried to happen.  It was very boring and very predictable.  The scene were chris o donnel jumped to the other mountain made was the fakest scene I have ever seen in my life "},{"Title":"SORRY IT REALLY SUCKS!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I love to read books about climbing high mountains, particularly in the Himalayas. I expected this stupid movie to add something to my fascination with the subject. I wanted to feel the suffering of the climbers and the complexity of high mountain climbing.  But this movie has nothing at all. It is just a comedy, not even funny I must say. Did you see the climbers running at an altitude of 28.000 feet?. Nobody can run at such an altitude. Did you see the clothes they were wearing?. These guys looked as it they were climbing the highest mountain in Holland. Very disappointing!! SORRY  "},{"Title":"Best if you don't take it seriously at all","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's amazing the things they can do with special effects now! First we have the wonderful sequences where the Alps are made to look a little tiny bit like the Himalayas. Then there are various scenes of what appear to be computer generated avalanches. Not bad! But the true achievement of Vertical Limit comes with the appearance of one of the first entirely computer generated actors in a major motion picture. And who knows... within ten years perhaps those crazy technicians at Industrial Light and Magic will make a Chris O'Donnell that can show life-like emotions.But I'm too mean to Mr. O'Donnell. In reality, his only flaw as an actor (beyond his inability to deliver dialogue outside of a high voiced monotone) is that his screen presence is just too blandly benign. When that presence is correctly used, O'Donnell isn't really a disruptive force. See Cookie's Fortune for evidence. However, in Vertical Limit, O'Donnell just doesn't have the charisma or presence to hold the movie together. It's likely that even a proven action star couldn't have overcome the cliched script and perplexing resolution, but O'Donnell adds nothing to this movie.O'Donnell plays Peter Garrett, a former mountain climber and current photographer for National Geographic. In the opening scene of the movie we see Garrett forced to make a touch choice which led to his father's death. Naturally things are a little tense between Peter and his sister Annie (Robin Tunney), who was also involved in the opening accident. Annie, though, has continued to climb and she's about to go on an expedition to summit K-2, the world's second tallest mountain. The trek is being funded by billionaire sportsman Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton), who's using the trip as a publicity stunt for his new airline. Wouldn't you know it, though, an accident leaves three climbers stranded on the mountain with only 36 hours to live and it's up to Peter Garrett to put together a team of climbers for a rescue mission. That team includes a French-Canadian babe, two crazy Aussies, a devout Muslim, and the inevitable hairy mountain man (Scott Glenn), who knows the mountain better than anyone. If you can't look at those character types to know who's going to live and who's going to die... Well, then Vertical Limit will contain nearly endless thrills and chills. Otherwise, you're pretty much going to watch people slide down tall mountains.The first 50 minutes of the Vertical Limit script (credited to Robert King and Terry Hayes) are a little twisty and jargon-heavy. The moments involving the Pakistani army are arbitrary and the guilt laden conversations between O'Donnell and Tunney are necessary to the plot, but nothing more than perfunctory. After the rescue mission gets going, though, people mostly stop talking and the movie picks up. Director Martin Campbell is fairly proficient at directing this kind of glossy, big budget action movie. He lacks the style that Renny Harlin brought to Cliffhanger (hey, Euro-hack is a style, isn't it?), but he's a master of pacing. Working with Oscar-winning editor Thom Noble, Vertical Limit comes together very well and produces some very solid action moments.MAJOR AND TOTAL SPOILER BELOW***************************Vertical Limit ends on a strange note. We're looking at pictures of the men who died on the mountain during the movie. It becomes clear that the rescue mission led to the death of six people and the only person who was saved was Robin Tunney's character. Are we supposed to feel that it was worthwhile because the Glenn character revenges his wife's death? That's bittersweet. It would be tough to argue that the loss of human life was worth saving one climber and yet the dead are looked at as heroes. There's no point in talking about the acting in this film. Tunney is nice for me to look at. I assume looking at Chris O'Donnell will also please people. And Scott Glenn is amusing and comes the closest to acting. The supporting characters all blend together completely. Vertical Limit is not a horrible movie, but for its first hour it's fairly dull and as a whole it only delivers on a hint of its promise. This is a 5.5/10.  "}{"Title":"A very entertaining film","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went to see the movie tonight and loved it.  I don't understand why people think a movie has to be 100% realistic to be good.  The movie kept me on the edge of my seat from start to finish.  I thought that Bill Paxton and Scott Glenn were great.   "},{"Title":"Predictable, yet I was glued to my seat.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie's flaws were so obvious (acting, suspension of disbelief, character development) that I let them slide and just savored the gut wretching action....The plot left me with more questions than answers1)If Vaughn almost died on his last summit attempt, why would he keep going back? Couldn't he climb Mt. Whitney or something?2)Why did the pakistani army have nitro-glycerin and why would they give it to civilians to blow up k-2? "},{"Title":"exciting!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  You will be thrilled by this movie. The intense climbing scenes at the very beginning and in the climactic part of the movie will keep you from exhaling.Chris O'Donnell leads a team of mountain climbers up K2 to rescue his sister, who is entrapped in a pit by an avalanche. The suspense picks up from there.As with most movies of this genre, there is little else to the story or characters, but who really cares or notices? It is the suspense and action that will keep you hooked.**1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"The story was not that great, but it had some pretty amazing scenes.","Date":"20 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw vertical limit last week and I didn't think much of it in advance. But after having watched it, I kind of liked the action-scenes. The story was a bit disappointing, but especially when you tend to be afraid of heights, like myself, it's like a rollercoasterride. So overall it was a good two hours spent in the theater. "},{"Title":"More of the same","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yet another, 'so what?' American blockbuster.Nice effects, harmless enough allegedly human story, but nothing special.  What is it about Hollywood that we can say put in a couple of handsome actors, some nice effects and it'll do?  Probably because it makes money.  Hey, who needs a script or direction?Chris O'Donnell is OK if not playing a character of any interest, but this rescue story can be predicted from pretty much the start of the film - and I suppose the best performance was Bill Paxton as the evil scheming type role he does actually do quite well in.Wait till this one comes out on video. "},{"Title":"On the positive side, Vertical Limit wasn't the exact re-make of Cliffhanger that I thought it was going to be.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  (spoilers) Here's the intricate plot a bunch of people go up a huge cold mountain, stuff goes wrong, some people live, some people die, some people come back down the mountain, some people don't. Maybe I left out a detail here and there, but that's what it all boils down to.Extreme sports fans are sure to be happy to see Vertical Limit, but will probably also be disappointed because movies like this almost always screw up or manipulate some crucial reality about the sport being portrayed, like the way skydiving was pathetically presented in Drop Zone. And Vertical Limit is clearly no exception.  It's a formula film, so there's really no question from the beginning how it's all going to pan out, and the main plot can therefore be largely overlooked for simple lack of interest. However, there are a few surprisingly interesting subplots, such as the one about the climber-turned-mountain-man who remained on the mountain to search for his wife's body, because he suspects she was killed. That's the subplot to really pay attention to, because even though it's not exactly breathtaking, the way it ends is probably the best part of the film.There were a lot of good characters in the film, such as the two brothers who practically lived on the mountain, but the whole thing with Chris O'Donnell's character making a heroic mission to the top to rescue his stranded sister is just the same old crap that Hollywood constantly cranks out. It's so predictable that you already know how it's going to end after just watching the preview. Given that, and the fact that O'Donnell's ridiculous leap over the canyon in that preview probably drove off the majority of the thinking public, it's amazing the film made any money at all. Vertical Limit is recycled garbage with one or two minute ideas thrown in, resulting in a goofy thriller that is sure to be forgotten right quick. "},{"Title":"A must see for those who feel they have no talent.....gives hope to all the mediocre!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD** There are many words that can be used to describe this film. Superb, Wonderful, and Classic are most certainly not amongst them! This film is full of everything that makes a film bad. Where do I start? Well, the acting. Each and every main character excels in their role of totally destroying any form of realism this pathetic film could even possibly hope of possessing. It got to the stage where I was eager to see the demise of one character in particular, whose name I shall not mention in case it is deemed a spoiler. In fact, I should save you whatever valuable time you have by telling you to watch the first ten minutes and repeat that scene a few times. Oh, back to the acting. Right, these actors are not going to get anywhere. It was like watching a cheap remake of Cliff Hanger. Using that, to highlight my point. Can you imagine Sylvester Stallone in a Hamlet play? Doesn't work eh? Well these actors don't belong in a film like this. In fact they aint even worthy of the name actors. I'll call them Steve Martin students named after the very physical definition of pathetic acting. In fact , these Steve Martin students where most probably rejects from Steve Martin school of acting. I'm not exactly a card carrying member of Equity myself, but I'd be a great deal more enthusiastic of my own acting credentials after watching this film. To move on, there is always the plot. Well, its about some total jinx who, having suffered at the hands of climbing earlier, decides to tackle the dreaded K-2. You know whats coming next. There is not one piece of originality in the direction of this film, and I CAN'T BELIEVE I HAD TO GIVE THIS FILM A SINGLE MARK!  In fact, just writing about this film makes me angry, the cinema will charge an entry fee, as it did to me! £3.25 may not sound much, but trust me, it is! Anyway, if you're depressed, feel there is not point to life and that you are heading no-where, then here is the remedy. One, you can try and hunt down the main actress and go climbing with her, in which case you are effectively commiting suicide. Or, you can go and watch this film. I urge you to try and get a student discount as paying the full whack may just send you over the edge. However, as you leave this film, you will feel talented, happy and above all, re-invigorated with a fresh feeling of hope.If there were any justice in the World, the good people of the movie databas would afford me to vote with a zero, but I am compelled to force myself to give it a 1/10.   "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I think I liked this movie..nice comedy....It was a comedy, wasn't it? Anyway it was perfect, an 100% computer-animated eagle in the beginning and the opening climbing sequence could never been in a studio. I realized something when I saw this movie and that was that I've seen this before or at least I've seen something similar, with almost the same pathetic and unrealistic story. NB Why does the cool persons always die?? When they are dead, what is the point of continue when you know the end anyway. Message to Hollywood STOP KILLING THE COOL GUYS!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Have you ever been on skyscraper?","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Big mountains, bigger gulf and the biggest adventure. Maybe little fleeced but very interested. Avalanches was very realistic. I like it. You can see foolishness of mountaineers leader and human bravery and of course foolishly died people... I wonder how long a man fall down from the K2 before he splashes on the ground? I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Beyond my pre-set limits","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertigo, heights, cold, snow, ice, exhaustion, danger, tests of endurance and strength. Well OK, I had my expectations set to low to moderate and was prepared to be merely entertained. I'd heard so much about the special effects I was just going to enjoy them on th4 big screen. Well, don't wait for video. See this in a theatre if you can. I agree with a previous reviewer. This is a serious sleeper. The story is familiar, but the writing is very good, and the cast pulls it off. Scott Glenn does his best David Carradine. The ending is a great, circular resolution and it does work and it's right, even when you finally sense it coming. Give this film a chance. "}{"Title":"i liked it","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Personally, I enjoyed the film. I don't care if it's not close to reality. I'm not a climber. I paid my $3 at the bargain theater to be entertained, and I was. It was not a waste of money. The only weird thing I'd have to say would be the obvious on-screen chemistry between Robin Tunney and Chris O'Donnell, who were playing brother and sister. Other than that, I thoroughly enjoyed it. It's not going to win any awards, but it was fun. "},{"Title":"The usual stuff, nothing more","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well there's nothing to be disappointed at. You got cut-and-dried characters more or less interesting (personally I would say less). You watch your eyes filled with action and incredibly spectacular scenes. As for me that does not make an interesting movie, I'll forgot most of it next night. I hoped there could be something apart from the bunch of commonplaces. No way.If you want to watch a great movie about 3 groups of greedy guys carrying nitro on bumpy roads go rent H.G. Clouzot's Le salaire de la peur (The Wages of Fear) poorly remade in 1977 as Sorcerer. "},{"Title":"Was, not was","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It WAS exciting and promising.  Oh so breathtaking.  Then all the mumbo-jumbo and talking took all the action out of the movie.  Not that I want 100% action, but I thought the talking was way too much.  Too much dialogue.  I mean, they could've summarized their motive to climb up to K2 in a couple of scenes.  But they dragged it too long and by the time we reach the climatic action scenes, we're already bored and don't care about the movie.Another problematic issue is the characters.  NO character development. Did we root for any of the characters?  Not I.  I didn't care for or love or hate any of them.  I probably felt sorry for the dad in the first few minutes of the movie...  but for the rest of the film, I wasn't attached to any of the characters. That's a negative since they wanted us to identify with the brother in saving the sister.  I didn't feel their love, their hate, or their indifference.  Nothing.  Not one iota of emotion or feeling or development.Action was cool though... "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie primarily because it was filmed in New Zealand where I live, but was surprised to enjoy an excellent cliffhanger in both literally and figuratively.The start is pretty spectacular and grips you immediately, and the film manages to hold you from then on until the final conclusion.Some parts of the film are a bit unbelievable, but if you put them aside, it is excellent escapist entertainment. There are some good humorous touches, and the cast overall is very good, particularly Bill Paxton playing an excellent coward/baddy (again), and Scott Glenn, who I kept mistaking for David Carradine as he plays a very Caine-like part. Chris O'Donnell plays a very good hero, and Tem Morrison holds the flag for the locals as a Maori in Pakistan !Overall, an excellent film I would thoroughly recommend. "},{"Title":"Really discourages from climbing.","Date":"28 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went to see this movie because I'm Polish as Isabella Scorupco. I thought I would see another man against nature movie with no strong characters or a decent plot. I was wrong. It took me on a great adventure I'm not likely to forget for some time. The plot (to keep it short) is as follows  Peter Garret (Chris O'Donnell) used to be a professional climber but a tragedy happened and he decided to quit. His sister Annie(Robin Tunney) decided to give the mountains one more chance and is currently planning to go to the K2 with an expedition led by Tom McLaren(Nicholas Lea) and sponsored by Elliot Vaughn(Bill Paxton). An avalanche encounters them on their way and they're trapped. Peter decides to go there and help them out together with Montgomery Wick(Scott Glen) and Monique Aubertine(Izabela Scorupco).The acting is superb, especially Mr. Wick played by Scott Glenn. He's the Pope of climbing. Never wrong never gives up. The only thing I don't understand is why do Americans treat Izabela Scorupco as if she had nothing to do with the movie. You didn't even put her name on the poster. I'm not saying that because she was born 100 miles from where i was born but because she's the second best character of this movie. Lastly I'd like to say that people with heart problems should avoid seeing this movie just as they avoid roller-coasters. It made me afraid of heights. "},{"Title":"Well executed formula movie","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  A completely formulaic movie but very entertaining.  The thing I liked about Martin Campbell's directing is its anti-Hitchcockian nature.  Old Al was very successful at showing the strangler behind the curtain, then the intended victim, back to the strangler, then victim, etc... for about 1-2 minutes.  This built incredible suspense and was his trademark.  Most directors that try and copy this technique fail horribly (or maybe audiences have gotten tired of the approach.)  Mr. Campbell uses a more rapid fire approach  show the danger, show the intended victims of the danger, then BANG!  Now lets go on to the next scene.  This is exactly what is needed when the plot is as thin and the characters are as cartoonish as they are in this movie.  Keep things moving quickly enough and who cares about character and plot.  Lets just have fun. "},{"Title":"If you go, remember--you can't ever recover the two hours","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This has got to be one of the stupidest movies I have ever seen.  It is filled with inconsistencies, totally unrealistic situations and dramatic foreshadowing that would have a six-year-old sniggering at it.  Suspension of disbelief is one thing; this movie takes that phrase to the vertical limit.This movie gets a 1 (if I could have given it a 0, I would have). "},{"Title":"Packed with suspense!","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  If you are one of those who likes suspense, then this is definitely the movie for you. It is packed with action and suspense from the very beginning till the very end. If you have watched 'Daylight' (Sylvester Stallone) then you should expect something similar. The movie itself has too many suspense scenes that it makes you think of the logic behind it. Or perhaps the suspense is created out of nothing. If you are looking for shocks and heart-attacks then this is the perfect movie for you. "},{"Title":"Excellent and Great Fun.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This had terrible reviews by the filmerati, yet I thought I would give it a chance on an evening where I had seen (or did want to see) the other films playing.  I was greatly impressed.  Of course the direction wasn't Fellini, the script wasn't Shakespeare and the acting owed nothing to tanislavsky  - but it WAS very entertaining and two hours slipped away very quickly. Please don't watch this if you feel that every movie you see has to be an intense intellectual experience and contribute to the sum of human philosophy because you will be very disappointed  if you do want to put your feet up, immerse your brain in a bucket of iced gin-and-tonic and have a thoroughly exciting rollercoaster-ride with your palms sweaty and your heart racing, this is definitely for you.  Go see it. "},{"Title":"Action-packed entertainment and never mind those reality glitches","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There is so much action to get into what is already quite a long movie that the storytellers obviously decided to dispense with any depth of character. The tale follows a disastrous attempt to scale the K2 mountain followed by an even more event-filled rescue attempt. Mountaineers be warned don't go and see this if you will be easily shocked by the lack of care and numerous, basic mistakes made by supposedly experienced climbers. In fact no-one should see it unless prepared to suspend belief in reality along with or without a few beers first to help the process; but if you do that, you will at least get your money's worth in this non-stop edge-of-seat movie. Serious cinema fans should also be at least slightly inebriated so as not to notice the intercutting of real film with scratchy stock footage of avalanches. Lots of nice cliff-hanging (tee-hee!) moments, spiced up with some added nitro-glycerine to keep the explosions coming. "}{"Title":"Action packed film!!!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Wow! This movie is great man. Forget about storyline or character development, it's all action from the start till the end. Lots of near death situation that will keep you at the edge of your seat. Haven't seen this kind of film lately. A good watch. 7.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Someone has been growing up very nicely.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw Vertical Limit and I loved the movie. I could not tell if the nitro blasts were setting off the mountainside or my heart. Chris crossed D'Artanian with Robin. I have all three movies. Then he worked with Al Pacino. I will never complain about freezing temps again. Scott Glenn is always good and should be recognized. "},{"Title":"Runs out of oxygen when it comes to story and character.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Vertical Limit achieves majestic heights in special effects and camera work, but runs out of oxygen when it comes to story and character.What It's About Estranged mountaineering siblings Peter and Annie Garrett (Chris O'Donnell and Robin Tunney) meet by chance after three years at the foot of K2, the world's second highest mountain. (The reason for their estrangement is supplied in an exciting opening sequence that will take your breath away.) Peter has given up climbing and is photographing snow leopards for National Geographic, while Annie, now a star climber, is assisting an arrogant mogul (Bill Paxton) to reach the summit in order to salute the fly-over of a plane from his new airline, a commercial stunt that puts the climbing crew at risk.As in all mountain climbing movies, the weather is unpredictable--but in this one, the plot is not. When the mountain reveals its wrath, Peter must dust off his climbing gear and lead a team to rescue Annie's party. He recruits a ragtag group of oddballs (a cast of characters ransacked from yesteryear's westerns and war movies), which includes a crusty Jeremiah Johnson-like loner (Scott Glenn) who has his own score to settle with Paxton.Who's Involved Scriptwriters Robert King and Terry Hayes populate the plot with a pastiche of one-dimensional, but interesting characters, whose main purposes are to be in jeopardy when director Martin Campbell (GoldenEye and The Mask of Zorro) unreels his dazzling and dangerous, effects-laden dilemmas. The story calls for the rescue to team carry nitroglycerin on their climb, a less than credible plot device that nevertheless supplies sufficient tension between special effects sequences.The performances are adequate if not challenging. The three leads play off one another in interesting ways, but sometimes seem tongue-tied by the script. Lively supporting performances, led by the fascinatingly grizzled Glenn, also include an appealing Izabella Scorupco as Monique, a medic who seems more like a model.Why See It For the dazzling special effects; replenish your popcorn during the base camp dialogue.  (PG-13) "},{"Title":"This one will rivet you to your seat","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went to see Vertical Limit because it looked like it would be exciting. Wow! What an understatement. I've always been afraid of heights. Not all heights, but the kinds that make your life depend upon your grip. If I ever had the urge to be a rock climber or anything like it, seeing this film completely removed any such urge. From beginning to end, this is a real white-knuckle experience. I didn't see anyone go to the john or go out to get popcorn. The actors are capable, and while the plot is somewhat weak, the climbing sequences truly hold one's attention, to say the least. If you like excitement, go see this movie.  "},{"Title":"Improbable-Yes Implausable-of course Suspenseful-absolutely","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  the bad parts first- This movie was lined with holes which made it not as good as it could be.  Number one, the climbers are scaling the summit without ropes attached to themselves.  Wouldn't happen.  Two, Dangling climbers who are hanging on by nothing more than one person above them with a rope- should not, under any circumstances, panic and writhe around as much as they can. Three- Avalanches usually do not happen under stormy conditions as it did several times during the movie.  There are exceptions of course.  But usually, and avalanche will only occur naturally under spring like conditions when the snow loostens and the sun is shining on it.******* Moving on to another serious point.  In real life, this would have never happened.  The helicopter scene alone is enough to create evident reason why you could not rescue 3 people stranded in a crevasse ontop of K2.  You could not attempt anything as dangerous as this, and expect to be seriously successful.  Yes, in real life, Chris O Donnell might have been able to rescue the girl.  But at the cost of what?  8 lives?  That would be selfish and irresponsible of him to sacrifice that many lives and hurt that many families, just to save his sister.******** Onto the good points-  The drama was appealing enough for an audience to feel (the emotion and the tragedy).  Plus, there was reasoning in the film.  Why the climbers and the stranded people, make the choices they do.  And it is very logical.  Another great point is that the characters are not superhuman, and can die as a real person would, under the same circumstances.  Finally, the suspense, even though you know this film has its flaws, is probably the greatest I have seen in 2000.  Throughout much of the film, I was clenching my fists. "},{"Title":"Amazing special effects, gripping suspense, sleeper hit","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was not big at the box office -- what a shame -- it is an amazing, seat of your pants thriller without an obvious outcome, and for the first time in a long time, the explosions and thrills caught me off guard and I jumped out of my seat a lot.Perhaps it was the A-class theater sound, but this is an amazing film, akin to Die Hard you just don't know where its going until it gets there, and you don't know who is going to live or die as they do a little of both throughout the film.Aside from a laughable helicopter scene (I'm a pilot and helicopters don't do what they say they do in this film) its fantastically directed and acted.The cast of characters is first class, with Bill Paxton, Chris O'Donnell that guy from Deep Space nine and other up and comers. Scott Glenn plays a great role as the old mountain guru probably written just for him.After you see the film, ask yourself this question. Is the frozen woman (Wick's wife) a real person or just a made-up dummy? Amazing.   "},{"Title":"Full of Action!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It got my attention from beginning to end, which is very hard to do. You have to see it in the theater to get the full effects.  Scenery and photography were awesome. A very exciting movie. All of the actors did a very good job. They will go a long way. I will be watching for this director and actors for future movies. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, bad, boring, bad","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Beautiful scenery. I mean gorgeous scenery. Watch National Geographic. It's more exciting. Now I have to provide at least four lines for this review which is extremely difficult as there weren't four redeeming lines in the movie. Chris O'Donnell makes looking cute a real chore. However, Polish actress Izabella Scorupco (a former Bond babe) is one hot Swedish ski teamer and just to die for. Although her part was short, it was very apparent that her role was the only one the audience could actually relate to. "},{"Title":"A little over the top.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It´s a solid Action Movie, not bad but!!! Yes it´s good, but like many times in Action Movies. Some things are just impossible and give you more a laugh than a fright of heights. Since I´m living in cold Austria (at least at the moment) I didn´t really felt the cold up there at K2. Still I enjoyed watching it, lately there where just to many horror movies at the sneak preview. "},{"Title":"Great mountains!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  An extraordinarily 2-dimensional film...but one graced by nice photography, awesome mountains.  Though it opens with a compellingly dramatic scene of significant tension, none of that is borne out elsewhere in the movie.  The plot is tired, the dialogue predictable, the characters essentially unlikable, and a number of the literally cliff-hanging scenes totally unbelievable.  Everything considered, though, not a bad way to spend a winter afternoon (matinee price)  warm theater, box of popcorn, watching mountains on the big screen. "}{"Title":"action packed but predictable","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  wonderful movie i must say but not all too origional.  the special effects were wonderful and the stunts perfect...the film starts us off with action and as soon as it slows down something else happens to knock us out of our seats.i can forgive the makers for making the ending predictable, but i do have some issues with the credibility of the story...some parts just don't seem realistic and made me wonder if that would ever really happen...don't want to spoil anything...but i was cut out of my fictive dream on many occasions...all in all a great action flick well acted and funny at times...my favorite part...and those who have seen it will know exactly what i mean...is the blood, what kind of sick genious came up with that... "},{"Title":"Not Great","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think too much of this film.  It felt a little long and somewhat forgettable.  It seemed a little sloppy at times for example I think I noticed that Chris O'Donnell's hair changed at one point yet there hadn't been a change in location or a great deal of time passing.  The same happens I think with people's tans.  Hair and tans aside, there were terrible, dumb macho moments that bothered me.  It's not like I expected a chick flick but moments such as when survivors advise the base camp they survived and everyone nearby cheers were just too much.  I really remember enjoying Cliffhanger and felt that was much better.  The story of Vertical Limit had some holes.  Without giving story away, some character's physical stamina/strength varies at an unbelievable level.  Also, sometimes it seemed not too much trouble was taken to cover up the fact that people were in a studio as opposed to a proper location.  It was refreshing though that there wasn't any horrible US patriotism in this film, in one moment a character complains about medical supplies going to American millionaires and that seemed odd since I think it was at least partially American being that three of the main stars were Chris O'Donnell, Robin Tunney and Scott Glenn.  I guess these three actors were OK but it just wasn't a great film.  "},{"Title":"Beautifully made, good cohesive, a little too romanticised","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It is a beautifully filmed movies with a story that holds together and builds.  For the most part, the special effects were well made and state of the art, but a couple of times they bounded across the line of credible and into impossible, which cheapened things a little.  I think they romanticised the valor aspect a little too much, even though it was key to the story.  "},{"Title":"Do you want to be entertained?","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Then see this movie! I don't go to the flicks to pick apart a movie....I go to be entertained! This film is like Cliffhanger with MUCH more snow! Plus beautiful local (NZ) scenery.The cast is impressive with a few big names. I am NOT a Batman fan, yet I still gave it a go & was pleasantly surprised. There was plenty of laughs & edge of the sit action. However, a few of the main ensemble was left out (IMO) on ads & billing - Nicholas Lea (aka Alex Krycek of X-Files). Not to mention those likable Australian characters Ben Mendelsohn & Steve Le Marquand as the Bench or is that Belch brothers?Get out of the Heat (or cold) and go to the cinemas to see this movie & be entertained! GREAT movie, I'll be getting it on DVD when it comes out. "},{"Title":"I haven't laughed so much since Twister","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  10 times the cliches of Twister 10% of the acting ability 10% of the special effects Awful, awful, awfulI lasted nearly 2 hours before I had to leave (it seemed longer), maybe it improved dramatically in the final few minutes, but I had to sing out i hope you all die as I left. The worst dialogue that I have ever endured.I hadn't walked out on a film since Grumpy Old Men.  It's that bad.  "},{"Title":"It has it's moments but...","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Yes, there are moments of pure icy fear - especially the stunner of an opening scene, plus an extremely well shot and cut together montage of two harrowing cliff hanger sequences. There is even a surprising (and interesting)addition of drama and dubious morality at times. But overall this is too much of a plain old disaster movie to be interesting. Martin Campbell has talent obviously, witness his terrifying and dizzying mountain side shots in this film (though sadly the best bits were shown in the trailer), and the romance and spirit that he injected into Mask Of Zorro making it the best adventure film since Indiana Jones.This script however too often relies on disaster movie clichés - e.g. anything that can go wrong, will, and leaves it just a little predictable and hardly memorable. Unless something changes, this genre cannot live on much longer. There are far worse ways to spend a couple of hours, it is certainly on of the more thrilling on-edge-of-seat movies on offer for a while. "},{"Title":"What a Rush","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Where there wasn't much of a story behind the film and rush I got by watching was awesome.  The scenery in the movie was beautiful also.  The actors for the most part turned in strong performances.  The only one I wasn't impressed by was Bill Paxton's performance.  I thought it was weak and unconvincing. "},{"Title":"Is this movie a remake of Cliffhanger ???","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" From the trailers of this movie, I had high hopes of it being a really inventive mountaineering flick with spectacular stunt work !!However, after the first five minutes I got a sense of deja vu, and I felt like I was watching a remake of the 1993 Sylvester Stallone movie Cliffhanger !  Virtually exactly the same opening sequence (albeit in Arizona rather than Colarado)....O'Donnell's character suffers the same guilt complex as Stallone's due to a tragedy....and then we have an incredible series of events that compel the lead character to confront his demons and conquer his climbing fears ! O'Donnell even virtually duplicates the incredible aerial leap sequence that Stallone did in Cliffhanger !! And the way in Vertical Limit that those guys were sloshing around that nitro-glycerine in their back packs....they would have all been blown to kingdom come !The only shining light in the movie was Scott Glen as some grizzled old mountaineer....and Aussie actor Ben Mendlesohn as a wise cracking young climber !An enjoyable film with some hair raising stunts, but albeit a dissapointing one in the script department. They could have done so much more with this movie..... "},{"Title":"True-to-life","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After the gross misrepresentation of mountaineering thanks to the likes of Cliffhanger (passive protection without ropes? Huh? And like any self-respecting climber would have a defective buckle like the one portrayed still in use!), Vertical Limit is a refreshing look into the world of climbing. To say the opening scene is harrowing would be a mild understatement. As a climber myself, I was at the edge of my seat as I watched my worst nightmare unfold on the screen. Monty Wick (Scott Glenn) was right--Chris O'Donnell did the right thing. But still...... The drama is definitely there. There are too many nerve-racking scenes to describe. Definitely not for the faint of heart. Thankfully, the Aussie brothers (Cyril and Malcolm) provide much-needed comic relief during the tense moments of this movie. As for Bill Paxton's character, well, sad as it may seem, he does exist somewhere out there among the climbing world...those of you who have read Jon Krakauer's Into Thin Air will have an alarming sense of deja vu when you see his interaction with Nicholas Lea on the mountain. Speaking of Into Thin Air, having Ed Viestiurs on the movie was a nice touch, although I wasn't too impressed with the reference to the 1996 Everest disaster. But hey, if Ed was ok with it, I will bow to The Man. All in all, it's an enjoyable ride. Like I said, mountaineering WAS in sore need of a semi-realistic portrayal on the screen, and Vertical Limit, while it has its faults (what movie doesn't?), does the job quite well. Even non-climbers will get a rise (pun intended) out of this movie. "},{"Title":"Great ride","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Great action, excellent stunts, and gripping edge-of-your-seat suspense. I admit the movie lacked realism (eg. the nitro-glycerine) but who cares? Realism can get in the way of a good action movie in my books. I wanted to see bang for bucks, and in this movie that is just what I got!!  "}{"Title":"Heightened action film, but nothing more!","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  There is not much to say about this film besides that it has some visually interesting moments and some good action sequences. Other than that, the script and some of the dialogue is poor and predictable. This could have been a better film if it had less of the climber ethos and more character development. Action fans should enjoy and while 'Vertical Limit' still manages to entertain in parts, it merely becomes run-of-the-mill and is poorly paced!I still prefer 'Cliffhanger'- at least it had guns in it! **1/2 out *****! "},{"Title":"A riveting thrill ride for anyone who likes Action in movies","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is by far the best for a person seeking action. If you like Movies with suspense and a thrilling end, then you will like Vertical Limit. The special effects were out of this world. This movie left me with the feeling of being Cold and Shivering. The movie Vertical Limit is definitely worth seeing. I think it should deserve an Oscar nomination for best Special Effects and other Oscar awards!  "},{"Title":"Impressive action outweighs flaws","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The stunningly beautiful scenery of New Zealand's Southern Alps (here masquerading as Pakistan) provides a good basis to achieve a rich visual experience, provided you have a good cinematographer - and this film delivers on that.   In other aspects there are plenty of shortcomings - characters are flat, poorly developed and unconvincing; many incidents seem simply to be thrown in for gratuitous effect (I found the cliched obsession of Hollywood film directors with explosions particularly irritating) and there are gaps in the plot development - but the tight packing of thrills provided by climbers facing sudden natural hazards of very high mountains is in total enough to overcome these otherwise fatal problems. "},{"Title":"at least it wasn't boring","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The only good thing you can say about this film is that there was never a dull moment.  But then, there wouldn't be, would there, when the screenwriter has had such a low opinion of the audience that they thought there needed to be explosions to keep us interested.  There are an unbelievable number of inaccuracies, including (do not read on if you are thinking of seeing the film, I'm about to spoil the ending)No one seems to be remotely chilly, even during the storms They all seem to manage without supplementary oxygen, Chris O'Donnell can even manage a quick sprint When they get to the sister she is barely conscious - it would have been totally impossible to get her back to base camp Worst of all, there is no suggestion that maybe four people dying to save one is not really a very happy ending "},{"Title":"A bit of sensational","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well this film blew most other films this year out of the water.  I am a New Zealander so yes i am biast.  I didn't even know some of this spectacular scenery was in my own back yard.  Must go exploring.  This film is good coz its filmed in New Zealand by a kiwi director, a kiwi producer and some kiwi actors in there.  Also it is good because it shows what the australian people are really like (you shihad and crowded house stealing s.o.b's).  I give this film a hearty 9/10.  Yea.  Thats about right.  Yea.  Go Rob Waddell. "},{"Title":"Have a sno-cone and enjoy the show, folks.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Last time I saw this movie, I think it was called Cliffhanger and that Rambo guy was in it. Cliffhanger had one huge advantage. It came out during the summer...so all those shots of snow and ice made you feel a little cooler after sweating it out on the humid sidewalks. But this puppy is like selling ice in the winter. Literally. Some nice second unit shots of the real K2 (Mt. Hood in New Zealand is used for all the live action shooting). Terrific dolby sound effects in the avalanche sequence. Bad guy and good guy go up mountain. Good guy comes down mountain. Bad guy comes down mountain REALLY REALLY FAST. The end.   "},{"Title":"Chris O'Donnell's & Robin Tunney's strong acting made the movie come alive!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought that Chris O'Donnell's and Robin Tunney's acting made the movie come alive! I was at the edge of me seat the whole time... as soon as you think every one is safe something else happens. It was a great movie! "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought this was an excellent movie.  The plot was very good and most of it seemed very realistic.  Except the part where he jumps the chasm with his two ice axes, I was waiting to see his arms come off at the shoulder )When I went to see this I figured it was probably going to be one of those just OK movies, you don't tell friends you went to see, but I have recommended this to several people. "},{"Title":"Very, Very  Exciting movie!!","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This was one of the coolest movies that I have ever seen. The climbing scenes were spectacular! I saw this on the opening weekend and I am very happy that I did so. I can't wait for the dvd! This movie was very action-packed and suspensful. I held my breath when the nitro exploded and when chris o'donnel jumped off the cliff, and these are just two of many times that this happenend. Sure I will admit that it starts off a tad slow, but it gets much better. Martin Campbell sure knows how to direct action movies. Most of the ones that he has directed were great. Anyone remember a movie called Goldeneye, The Mask of Zorro? Yes both those movies also kicked ass! So, if you are a fan of action movies or you just want to have 2 hours of non-stop thrills, then go and see this today. I do not think that you will be disapointed.9/10! "},{"Title":"It is worth seeing, but it lacks something","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film is worth seeing for the action and scenery, and the plot is good enough for this sort of film.However, I found that it lacked a professional quality, especially in two issues1. There was a number of places where I thought it was important to understand what was being said, but the dialogue was actually quite unclear.2. The story was too slow in parts. Given the length of the film, I assume I can say that the editing wasn't done right, but I can't exactly point out where there should be cuts.Overall, I put this in my group of films to see when you can get a discount, such as half-price Tuesdays as available in Australia. "}{"Title":"REALLY SUPER ADVENTURE FILM DELIVERS IN A BIG WAY","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Most of the major media have weighed in with so-so reviews of this film, but don't let that stop you from seeing it (as it almost did me). This adventure spectacle is everything THE PERFECT STORM should have been but wasn't.  I can't think of the last time a nearly 2 1/2 hour film reached the end and I was ready for more.While the photography is breathtaking, the film works because the characters are compelling and the story logical and uncluttered. And although Chris O'Donnell is the nominal star, it's really an ensemble film, with colorful performances from a gallery of well-known and new-ish character actors.  Izabella Scorupco is particularly noteworthy as a mountain-climbing nurse.O'Donnell, not one of my favorites, is terrific here; sensitive and  forceful at the same time, qualities he usually doesn't project on screen convincingly.  This time his youthfulness is edged with sorrow and later desperation --  he perfectly matches Scott Glenn's cagey mountain-climbing veteran. "},{"Title":"Up there you're not dying, you're dead...unless you're pretty","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is a decent story in an NBC Sunday Night Movie sort of way. Annie Garrett (Robin Tunney) is considered the best female climber in the world. She's dating a billionaire, Elliott Vaugh (Bill Paxton), who wants to climb K2, a difficult climb located in the disputed region of Kashmir on the Pakistan-India border. He wants to wave to the inaugural flight of his new airline as it flies by the summit. I did like the timely use of location, however, as the ongoing India-Pakistan territorial guerrilla war still rages.Despite the possibility of poor weather, they make their ascent and everyone's fears come to pass. Annie, Vaughn and the expedition leader fall into a crevasse at 23,000 feet and no one knows their exact location. Annie's brother Peter (yes Midnight Oil fans, his name is Peter Garrett), in the area to photograph mountain wildlife, organizes an ill-advised rescue mission. Only the craziest and most desperate enlist.   Leading them is Montgomery Wick (the Leathery One, Scott Glenn), who lost his wife to the billionaire's last attempt to reach K2's summit. At first he's not interested, even with only hours to spare before the lost get sick and start dying. But when he hears that Vaughn is among those alive and in need of rescue, he's all ears.The characters don't get any deeper than Hero, Heroine, Love Interest, Burly Mountain Man, Rich Jerk, Comic Relief and so on. But then, we don't expect much more from films such as this. Emotional events happen early, which add weight to events that happen later and that's why we care whether, say, that pickaxe holds the weight of the climber about to fall to his death.  The characters are icons, not people, so the backstory is all they are. As it happens, though, it's enough.Again, it's an action flick so no one expects deep characterization. I only mention this because some action films fail to provide interesting characters even at the most basic, symbolic level. Those that populate Vertical Limit are, at the very least, cute. It's easy to guess who's going to live and who's going to die. Not that Vertical Limit is the first big Hollywood film to be guilty of this, but the basic selection of who lives and who dies goes this way If you're pretty, you live. If you're ugly, sorry. Down the cliffside you go.Director Martin Campbell (Goldeneye, The Mask of Zorro) compensates with some splendid (literally) white knuckle action. He truly takes you to a place where you can die slowly without even knowing it or die in a millisecond, doing something no more significant that setting your pack down for a drink of water. Nearly every deadly scenario you could think of happening on a climb happens here. Campbell's pulled off quite a technical achievement. Heck, most of the time, you can't even tell it's a set.All of this would have been enough, but the film's creators see fit to add explosives into the mix. The thing that's supposed to add excitement and energy to the story is ultimately what ruins it. I never believed for a second that they actually needed to bring nitroglycerine up there on the mission. Sending all three teams packing such a powerful, unstable explosive liquid seems to be way too self-defeating. To root for people this foolish proves difficult. What's most annoying is the inconsistencies in how they treat the stuff. Okay, it reacts to sunlight. But it also reacts to sudden movement. Yeah, I want that strapped to my back as I climb straight up a rock wall. That's what we're supposed to think, though. How can she do that? My point is, it's unnecessary. The mere fact that someone is climbing a rock wall in the first place is scary enough. I can see the production meeting now No, no no! We've all seen mountain climbing movies! It's such a delicate balance to begin with, so...what if we added explosives? At this point the money men start to drool. Someday they'll learn when they've overestimated the audience's built-in suspension of disbelief.Campbell is an able action director. He's rattled off three straight quality boom boom movies. But he's still not in the league of, say, Renny Harlin, whose Cliffhanger is still King of the climbing movie mountain.Grade C+  "},{"Title":"Vertical Limited","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie had one problem after the next which means we get a whole lot of action.  The biggest problem would be saving three lives up in K2 and that's where the whole movie revolves around.  It can easily be paralleled to Armageddon which was also one problem to the next revolving around one big problem.In this way, Vertical Limits keeps you interested, even better than Armageddon did.  There are some things added just to have more excitement... for example the nitro booming thingie... sorry, don't remember the technical term, but it really doesn't have any explanation for being in the movie.  I  know it's purpose was used to help find the three lives stuck in the mountain but... I mean, let's throw in that the sun has an effect on them to have more action?But that's ok, this movie isn't boring and that's what counts.  But it's not great and it is kind of weird that to save three lives, some of the rescuers die along the way.  Which they never really mourn or anything in the end.  I wouldn't watch this movie twice, I'd rather have waited to rent it... but in the end, it was a pretty wild ride. "},{"Title":"MST3K WOULD LOVE THIS","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Okay, the movie was entertaining.  Lotsa non-stop action. Will keep you on the edge of your seat as long as you don't look for flaws.  It would get an 8 rating for me if it weren't just one little problem---- Chris O'Donnell.  I haven't seen worse acting since Joe Don Baker in MITCHELL.  Does this guy ever sweat??  I mean here they were in the middle of the desert, climbing a rock, people are dropping like millstones, bodies are swinging freely thru the air.  A knife is used. Alot of screaming is happening.  No sweat on Chris.  Just contorted facial expressions.The same is true as Chris is climbing and swinging around K2. Explosians happen.  Climbers explode.  They fall.  They die.  Chris sees it all.  Lotsa  facial contortions.  Much yelling.  Even more physical stress. Chris never sweats.  Oh---there was one tear that I remember.  But no sweat. And lots of really bad acting. Oh, where are Crow, Servo, Gypsy, and Mike when we need them? Go ahead, see the movie.  Just pretend Chris isn't there.  You'll enjoy yourself more. "},{"Title":"Lighten up, people! SPOILERS","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  After reading many, many negative reviews of this movie, I felt like writing a counter-argument. So I am. People have complained about the scripting, the acting, the CGI, the other special effects, the climbing realism, and the plot, to name just a few of the major aspects of the film. Let me address these issues. Scripting/acting Do you realize that real people actually talk like this? If life were a movie, it would be what you naggers are calling badly scripted. People say sappy things occasionally, or dumb things. People get over-emotional. People get boring. Whatever it is that you're complaining about, it happens in the world around you. I don't know what you think is good scripting, but it doesn't happen in reality. People don't spout witty and appropriate dialogue all the time. CGI/special effects Of course they used blue screens! You thought they'd actually blow an actor off of a cliff with a rushing avalanche? You think any Hollywood actor (or stuntperson other than Jackie Chan) would let anything this dangerous happen to them on a movie set? Wow, you could tell it wasn't real. Bravo. I myself didn't notice. I was busy pushing my stomach back down into place because I was actually letting myself enjoy the movie. Why do you watch movies, anyway? Oh, the lighting was so bad on that one shot. Oh, the snow was so fake in that one shot. Oh, the eagle was so fake. Whine, whine, whine. I did notice the eagle, but what I noticed was that it was very well done and quite detailed. So you can tell it was CGI .. . big whoop. If you think you can do better, then go for it. It would be wise to refrain from criticizing that which you cannot improve. Realism Um, you do realize that this is a movie. It's all pretend, people. This is not a climbing documentary; it's an action thriller. At times, the characters are allowed to perform seemingly superhuman tasks in order to triumph. I'm guessing you don't complain about this in, say, James Bond movies. Oh, that's SO fake. He couldn't really do that in real life. OF COURSE NOT! Yes, many things that happen in Vertical Limit are highly, highly implausible, but if you can't enjoy that implausibility, then why do you go to movie theaters at all? Some people complained that the climbing was all wrong. Um, they had over fifty experienced climbers advising on this movie. If there were any inconsistencies with the reality of the climbing, that's called artistic license. It was done on purpose. Plot What the bleep is wrong with the plot? It's simple. It's potent. The egomaniac gets a climbing team trapped in the mountains. This could happen and probably has, many times. The brother will stop at nothing to rescue his sister. Don't you whiners have anybody in your life that you would risk your life for? There's even a twist regarding the Wise Old Climber's true purpose for going on the rescue mission. This enhances the plot, people. Makes it MORE interesting. And as for the nitro-glycerine, well, if you were the brother, what would you do? You need explosives. These are the only explosives available in the timeframe. Would you say, oh, let's not try it because it's SO cliched. Just let them all die. Do you think that the real K2 base camp just has lots of nice shaped charges sitting around? Pakistan is actually there. They actually have army bases. It's entirely likely that there are nitro dumps. I doubt the army would actually offer to let the climbing team borrow some of their live shells to MacGuyver up some other bombs. Since when was nitro a cliche, anyway? I can't even remember the last good nitro explosion in a big Hollywood movie. ) So anyway, that's my rant. This was an excellent, exciting movie. I thought the dialogue and acting were great. The special effects and suspense made my bowels tighten. The story was moving (those of you who have a sister will understand this). I loved it. You could too if you go to see the movie for what it actually is, not what you want it to be. If you want movies to be what you want them to be, then go make your own. "},{"Title":"vertically interesting","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is one of the surprise hits of the season. From the non-stop action to the special effects, it is sure to impress the audience.Though the plot is cliche, the performances from Chris O'Donnell, Robin Tunney, Bill Paxton and Scott Glenn more than make Vertical Limit a worthwhile box office smash. Vertical Limit tells the story of a brother's mission to save his sister and a summit team from an unforeseen avalanche, which has them trapped beneath snow. O'Donnell must save his sister played Tunney before she dies. Vertical Limit will give a huge adrenaline rush to everyone who watches it because it will involve from the opening scene. One can always tell a great movie from a good movie because great movies pull you in. From the avalanches to the inner conflicts between the summit team members, Vertical Limit drew me in without breaking a sweat. Furthermore, the special effects were so real, they made me feel like I was part of the rescue mission. It is rich in plot and it contains strong performances to back it up.However, above all the one thing that impressed me the most were the performances and how the actors worked together. First, we have Chris O'Donnell, who has lit up the screen with his talent and charm once again. O'Donnell has taken charge of the situation and has taken command.Some may say this is not a breakthrough role for Robin Tunney; however, I strongly disagree because she has come out into leading role and shines at the same time. Despite the two stellar performances by O'Donnell and Tunney, the most valuable actor award belongs to Scott Glenn because he exudes wisdom and demands respect in his role as the veteran and expert mountain climber.Vertical Limit has one of the finest ensemble casts in 2000 and these three are the main reason for it.Vertical Limit is a high energy, action packed, in your face adrenaline rush that will keep you on the edge of your seat. This is a MUST SEE not once but twice.   "},{"Title":"too talky","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I hate when action films get bogged down in dialogue.  The point of us showing up is to see action, but here we get too much verbal boredom to keep us entertained.  And it's a real shame, considering the stunts are terrific.  I guess they figured it's been 7 years since Cliffhanger, so they gave this a try.  It begins similarly, with a tragedy on a mountain, which sends a brother and sister into a distant relationship.  Their memories, and not too mention endurance, are tested a few years later when she gets stuck inside a section of callapsed mountain after an avalanche.  Aside from too much blabbing, the stunts get repetitive with explosion after explosion, repeat avalanche occurences and people sliding toward the edges of cliffs only to save themselves at the last moment.  Perhaps mountain climbing enthusiasts or more patient viewers will slog thru the LOOONG set-up and other slow moments to find something to enjoy here. "},{"Title":"This year's sequel to the best special effects drama genre","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The movie Vertical Limit.  Wow!!!  What a movie.  This is the best movie I have seen since The Perfect Storm.  I saw the perfect storm about two months ago.  Vertical Limit is filled with action packed suspense.  There were two majro scenes in this movie.  The scene of the fathers death and the scene in which they found Wick's wife.  The images were powerful.  The way the father's scene was shock is what made it soo powerful.  That's a particular way of looking at film and getting a certain idea of emotion across to the audience.  The director did an excellent job in shooting from different perspectives to show the force or emotion of certain scenes.  "},{"Title":"Fun, Exciting, UNPredictable","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought the movie was fun, the action scenes, as a read in the reviews, were top notch. They were stretching their artisic liscence with the Nitro though and that made me lose some grip on the film. Overall, it was great fun. Bill Paxton's character got me hooked, the ending was pretty shocking, totally didnt expect it. "},{"Title":"Intense","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The only problem I have with the movie is that the trailer showed every stunt of the movie.  Other than that I had a great time.  What is it these days where everybody needs to be so cerebrally challenged?  Doesn't anyone want to be entertained anymore?  No it was not the most educated script I've ever heard but then again I'm not sure there are too many mountain climbers who use the proper vernacular, especially in do or die situations.  Geez, sit back and if you like action movies and want to see special effects, then watch Vertical Limit.  It's fun, fast and intense and I enjoyed it.  Just have fun with it.   "}{"Title":"Pretty Middle of the Road","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I have 2 main problems with this film.1. For a brother and sister they spend too much time gazing into each others eyes telling each other that they love one another.2. For a rescue operation with a time limit they certainly spend enough time standing around talking to each other.For the most part the special effect were pretty good. The dialog left alot to be desired.My overall score for this would be a C+ or maybe B- "},{"Title":"What the hell were they thinking?","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  CAUTION SPOILERSWhen I walked out of the theatre after Vertical Limit, my first words were that was bad. I'm not a valley girl, far from it, but it made me that stupid! It sucked the intelligence out of me, I didn't recover for two days! The script was poorly written, and full of cliches (We gotta do it for dad!, who died in a ... guess what! A mountain climbing accident!). The acting was even worse, granted they have to read what's written, but when Chris O'Donnell is in a situation where his dad could be killed, and it was supposed to be so sentimental, it made me laugh out loud!Why did I see this movie in the first place? Well, for the effects, and the mountain climbing, and they were terrible also! The stunts were sucky, and the climbing was fake and unexciting. The best effect was when he jumped to the cliff with his ice picks, it's a pity I'D ALREADY SEEN IT IN THE PREVIEW! If your going to show the best stunt in the preview, try to have something else to offer. "},{"Title":"Hand Wrenching","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  No need to wait for something to happen here. This entire show was almost too much to watch. Some of the characters did not relate at all or were poorly outlined, but action??? Fantastic. Almost too much...go see it.. "},{"Title":"This one hit the vertical limit with the opening scenes...","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Vertical Limit is a low-budget waste of time.  Cheesy graphics, outlandish cliffhangers, and a few cannisters of nitroglycerine made me want my money back and hope that they never get off the mountain. I hit my limit with this one from the very moment it started with poor quality graphics in the opening scene.  The writers obviously know nothing about mountain climbing and totally disregarded any of the rules of real life mountain climbing. Bad, bad, bad, bad, bad movie. "},{"Title":"Simplistic story lack drama","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Annie (Robin Tunney) and Peter Garrett (Chris O'Donnell) are brother and sister climbers. During a climb, Peter has to cut their father's line to save them both. Now 3 years later, they meet again in a climb up K2. Peter is a film maker and can't bring himself to see their father's grave. She's with a team including wealthy Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton) and Tom McLaren (Nicholas Lea). Peter is unwilling to go up with the team. When they are trapped by a storm and fall into a crevasse, Peter races to the rescue with loss-stricken expert Montgomery Wick (Scott Glenn), Kareem Nazir (Alexander Siddig), and Monique Aubertine (Izabella Scorupco).I can't comment on any accuracy debate since I'm not a climber. As for its movie aspect, this is such a simplistic story that there isn't any thrills in it. Yet the father's death sticks out like a sore thumb as a Hollywood contrivance to amp up the drama. The dialog is clunky and Scott Glenn's character is cheesy. The interior sets don't look very convincing. I understand that having real locations at times is impossible. However its artificial nature takes away much of the excitements of the stunts. The marrying of real and CGI doesn't look real enough either. The best thing about the movie is the outside location shoots. At least that is some unique fun, but I can't feel the tension in this. "},{"Title":"Awesome thrilling stunts and camera works","Date":"2 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I liked the movie, it's attitude, it's camera work,.... it's everything. The story writing is good. And so the screen play is. It has got some unbelievable stunts and actions that are rarely seen. These are breathtaking, believe me. The camera work is stunning. Excellent work by Chris O'Dennell and Izabella Scorupco. This is one of the most exciting movies I have ever seen. Excitement all over with feelings. Its stuffs were so realistic and full of life that would take anybody to their life and death situation there at the top at above 25000 ft. Thanks to the director, Mr. Martin Campbell. Looking forward to more of such works from him. "},{"Title":"Do people take this seriously?","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"    If you take this movie seriously, you'll have no fun like I did. But if you laugh at it, it's pretty funny. I always need a good laugh, and Vertical Limit delivers just that..nah I'm just kidding. But seriously, if you take it too seriously you'll have no fun. Even then though, it's a pretty dumb movie. I don't know what they were thinking, but for a friday night? It's a perfect movie. See it sometime when you've got nothing to do, then maybe you'll have some fun watching it. "},{"Title":"A stinker","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Awful, really awful!There is not a limit to the suspension of disbelief that this stinker requires to you.I thought this was a decent film like Cliffhanger .. but I was wrong. Stupid characters, stupid actions, misplaced special effects, useless humourous scenes (What's the meaning of the two druggie/drunk/dumb brothers inserted into a wanna-be dramatic story?),  the laughable story of the nitro (how can you bring nitro containers with you when climbing on the highest mountains of the world?) ...  I felt asleep during the movie. My brain has its limits too.I'll give it 2/10 "},{"Title":"Delivers the Thrills but Too Soapy","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  VERTICAL LIMIT  * * 1/2    Cliche-filled and sometimes preposterous but delivers the necessary thrills and manages a lot of nail-biting suspense.  The premise itself is so thrilling and the methods and equipment used by the climbers so interesting that it's a shame they felt the need to muck up the movie with soap opera plotting. "},{"Title":"Special effects excellent...otherwise very ordinary","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"          My desire for an adventurous and exciting movie was fulfilled but that was it. Chris O'Donnell as Peter Garret was an expressionless bore.  Scott Glen and Robert Taylor (VII) were excellent in their roles. The others appeared to be average at best. In spite of this, I received sufficient entertainment benefit to make the experience worthwhile. "}{"Title":"Whoops....forgot to mention...","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Ed Viesturs, an Everest veteran and world-class climber shows up in a cameo playing himself. This is worth at least three gold stars for extra credit. And if you want to see the REAL DEAL...suggest you check to see if your local IMAX theater is playing Everest any time soon. And while we're at it, why don't you pick up a copy of Into Thin Air and read a book for a change of pace. It's a fast read and it will give you some real insight into the attractions of mountain climbing and the the dangers faced by the folks who climb for sport and/or profit.  "},{"Title":"Stupid, stupid, stupid.","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Too many cliffhangers, too many escapes, too many explosions, too many really stupid people, too many cliches.  Nobody connected with making this one bothered to give it any thought.If you want to forgive it on the basis of special effects, forget it.  The inside of the crevasse looked like the styrofoam it was, the simulated snow wasn't even close to the real thing, and nobody ever actually looked cold.They shouldn't have even tried. "},{"Title":"This is the most unbelievable movie I have ever seen!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie lacks any intelligence. The stunts are just ridiculous, the blue screen shots very obvious and the script just bad. Utterly bad. When you were supposed to be moved you just had to laugh out loud - and I'm not quite sure if that was intended... Granted, the landscape is very beautiful and Chris O'Donnell looks cute, too, but neither one can help the movie in any way. My advice Go see any movie but this. "},{"Title":"The peanut gallery is open","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  From beginning to end this movie lacked everything that can make a movie good, like good dialogue and character development. The obvious lack of research on technical matters relating to climbing, high altitude ( like consuming alcohol and smoking at K2 base camp ), and explosives seriously hampered the credibility of the movie. Not to mention the fact you can almost always tell when they are in front of a blue screen. The plot and character development were so predictable and the tension so gratuitously squandered ( it seems that any attempt to climb any mountain must be accompanied by some fatal or near fatal accident ) that enjoyment of this movie on any level is almost impossible. The acting too was just all around bad. Scott Glenn is the only actor that consistently delivers anything resembling a good performance ( although the two brothers are hysterical, they don't get nearly enough screen time ).It got so bad that during some of the many tense moments in the movie the audience was actually laughing at what was on the screen. My friends and I had to resort to making fun of it ( especially the parts about the nitro-glycerine ). Most of the time, the people around us had more fun paying attention to us than to the movie! The only reason to see this movie is to make fun of it with as many of your friends as possible. That is the only reason any of us had fun at this movie. "},{"Title":"Proving there is no limit to how bad a movie can be...*SPOILERS*","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  First off, let me just say I hate using the word spoilers, because it implies there's a chance someone could have enjoyed this movie in the first place.  I know absolutely nothing about mountain climbing, and somehow or another I managed to predict every detail of the story.  Not once did I think to myself, Gee, didn't see that coming.  Were people really surprised they found the dead wife?  Or that the nitro accidentally blew up? Anyone seeing this movie should have been able to predict which characters would live and which ones wouldn't as soon as they are introduced in the movie.  I found myself hoping that Chris O'Donnell would fall to his death. But I could tell as soon as the movie started he wouldn't.  Don't waste your time with this movie. "},{"Title":"Oh, the pain","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie is just plain awful. Below-par effects at points, brainless plot, bad acting, and storylines that go nowhere make this loser not worth wasting any money on. Not even rentable, unless you want to sharpen your movie- degrading wit. In that sense, it's one of the year's best comedies. "},{"Title":"McCheesy's take on Vertical Limit","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Montgomery Wick Peter, do you know where you are? Above 24,000, you're at the vertical limit, you're already dying. Look at you. You can hardly stand. If you think you can stop me, go ahead.A high-adrenaline tale of young climber Peter Garrett (Chris O'Donnell), who must launch a treacherous and extraordinary rescue effort up K2, the world's second highest peak. Confronting both his own limitations and the awesome power of nature's uncontrollable elements, Peter risks his life to save his sister, Annie (Robin Tunney), and her summit team (Bill Paxton and Nicholas Lea) in a race against time. The team is trapped in an icy grave at 26,000 feet - a death zone above the vertical limit of endurance where the human body cannot survive for long. Every second counts as Peter enlists the help of a crew of fellow climbers, including eccentric, reclusive mountain man Montgomery Wick (Scott Glenn), to ascend the chilling might of the world's most feared peak to save her.This movie is the most boring, pretentious, uninteresting piece of sheet that I've ever laid my eyes on. The character development is almost non-existent, the acting is horrible especially that lead girl, talk about cardboard performances. The story had potential but its the execution that failed miserably. The awkward plot scenarios, appalling camera angles and ridiculous dialogue. Chris O' Donnell can pass off as a lead actor but always he stars in atrocious movies like this. Bill Paxton's role as the supposed villain/entrepreneur will just make you laugh unintentionally. His reason for climbing K2 is pretty stupid. They're calling it a publicity stunt in the film but I think its a stupid way to promote your airline company. There are some boundaries to such things.Towards the end of the film, I was almost half asleep, the supposed high wire tension just made me even more sleepy, at that time I just wanted it to be done and over with.I remember when I was a youngling when I saw this for the first time on VHS, I totally loved this film but now, its totally different. I hated it the second time around. I guess times change. "},{"Title":"Ghastly film","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When it comes to writing about how bad this film is, I have no idea where to start. The whole film is a giant extended piece of crap from start to finish. Whole bunches of people set off rather stupidly to climb a large mountain the Himalayas. They have various relationships between them, and various domestic disputes, and I'm sure there were heaps of reasons behind it, but all the sequences involving these people bored me to tears because of the terrible actors and the stupid lines they were forced to say. Once they reach their mountain, and all seem to split up and go separately, they discover it wasn't as easy as they'd previously thought. They also seem somewhat unprepared; even if they had been prepared, many of the disasters that befall them couldn't have been avoided. The body count starts to mount, as do the soppy scenes, unrealistic disasters and crazy stunts. It's fair enough to take dramatic licence in a film, but this takes it too far, it becomes almost funny. All of the characters were so terribly unlovable, however, that I didn't miss any of the ones that had unfortunate fatal accidents. The direction was amateurish. Oh, and just watching this film will make you feel cold! Roll on the ending! "},{"Title":"Shocking!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Sooooo bad.  Terrible plot.  All these good people die for one guy's sister but nobody seems too bothered about that!  Bill Paxton is not bad enough! The two drunkards are the one bright point, that & the line about the Canadian lady's French heritage!  The footage of the avalanche does not match at all!  Some respectable people have done themselves no favours in this movie! "},{"Title":"Vertical armpit!","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Take a bunch of handsome guys, make them look as good as possible in every cut instead of letting them really act. Throw in some nice scenery and `mind blowing' action sequences. Further take some fake looking archive footage of avalanches and a huge load of pathetic corny dialogue. If that is not enough, two old, worn out hippies for comic relief - which are as funny as an enema on a public marketplace in the coldest winter when your balls have shrunk to the seize of peanuts and every lady around can see them &#150; will do! In Switzerland where I come from we say `that reeks like grandma's armpit' when something is really, really bad. Now I guess that sentence sums up the movie quite good. I have already seen better soap operas.  (1/10)    "}{"Title":"TRIPE!!!","Date":"23 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Unbelievably this movie finds itself ranked alongside George of the Jungle as the worst movie I have ever seen.  To be completely honest, if someone took a dump and filmed it for two hours, dropped in a few hundred bucks to have it fly around and do tricks or propped it against a green screen and have it visit the amazon, kremlin and eiffel tower - it would have been a hundred times better than this CRAP.  While viewing i was continually reminded of a lesser known song from Nirvana - I Hate Myself and Want To Die. "},{"Title":"Worst piece of crap I've seen in a *long* time!","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie has it all bad acting, terrible dialogue, bad special effects, horrible plot and story and no credibility whatsoever! One of the absolutely worst films I've seen in years, even worse than Halloween H20, Hollow Man and Scream 3... Lost In Space was even worse than this one, but not much... I suppose Mission To Mars is right up there as well, but that one is an ordeal yet to come, whereas I'm concerned.I see nothing in this film worth recommending, see this only if you like torturing yourself. 1/10! "},{"Title":"Vertical Crap","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Mountain climber Robin Tunney and two other stock characters, are trapped in an avalanche on a huge montain (K-4).  It's up to her brother (Chris O'Donnell) and other stock characters to save them.  Not a bad premise...unfortunately it's ruined by many things---Lousy dialogue - the lines were groan-inducing, totally predictable and boring; every single person was a stock characters seen in other disaster movies; and the opening set-up takes a full 40 dull minutes to get started (the movie runs 2 hr 10 min).  The scenery is beautiful (wide screen viewing is essential) and there are a few really exciting, gripping action sequences but that's only 20 minutes out of a 2 hr + film.  Acting--Tunney does very well with her victim role;  Bill Paxton can do his villain role in his sleep (and he does); Scott Glenn does what he can with his wise, old mountain climbing man role (unfortunately, the dialogue sinks him).  As for O'Donnell--he's an extremely good-looking man with a nice body--but he can't act.  He's blander than usual in this film and I had no interest in him or his character after a while.  If you want to see a good, suspenseful montain-climbing film, rent Cliffhanger. "},{"Title":"And then some people wonder why I have a fear of heights ?!?","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I watch a lot of scary and violent stuff but I've never felt uncomfortable with that. THIS is the only movie so far that terrified me !! I suffer from a really bad form of vertigo and around the time this movie got released in the theaters, I even felt sick when I was looking at the poster. It felt like a combination of my two biggest fears  heights and being frozen to death. Even though some of my favorite actors star in Vertical Limit, it took me quite long before I finally got the courage to watch it.The story of Vertical Limit is typical and there isn't anything original about it all. That's fine with me, I just considered it to be an old-fashioned adventure movie with good acting and stunning photography. Vertical Limit is the typical story of siblings who lost their father in a climbing accident. Ever since, the son ( Chris O'Donnel ) has stopped climbing. His sister ( Robin Tunney ) hasn't she's going to conquer K2 with the rich Texas guy Vaughn (Bill Paxton). Of course, this goes wrong and Chris has to set up a rescue missing to go and save his sister. A whole bunch of typical characters are introduced and everything that can possibly go wrong, does go wrong. The quality level of Vertical Limit is merely held up by the acting performances...and more specifically  Scott Glenn and Bill Paxton. Both these overtalented - yet underappreciated - actors are cast perfectly. Glenn is impressive as the mysterious loner Montgomery Wick who dwells around K2 and Paxton is the worst kind of bad guy a movie can have. He isn't really the villain but he's the arrogant business guy who quickly turns into a selfish, egocentric and mad person who's willing to sacrifice everything to survive. Terrific performance. All the other aspects you expect are there as well. A developing love story, funny one-liners and the oversentimental morality and happy ending. Mainstream stuff but certainly not bad. Enjoyable and recommended to fans of beautiful landscapes.  "},{"Title":"The year's finest beats 'The Perfect Storm'","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  'Vertical Limit' is a real surprise and could be a winter smash, a sleeper hit that no-one's expected. It's an up-to-date version of the traditional disaster movies that much more powerful, entertaining and exciting than this summer's 'The Perfect Storm' or any of the year's blockbusters and wannabes.I saw 'VM' at a special screening held by its Hungarian distributor. During the opening credits one of my colleague said I bet this one'll fall into the <straight-to-video> territory. Fortunately he wasn't right the opening sequence was so intense and energetic that took every present critic breath away. And then everybody catch that breath simultaneously. And that was the way it went till the very end.Mountaineer (Robin Tunney) and millionaire (Bill Paxton) are bound to the top of K2, the second highest mountain in the world, and buried alive by an avalanche. While they are fighting for life, Tunney's cliffhanger brother (Chris O'Donnell) put together a rescue team of volunteers. And the climbing is getting started...Movie screens has lacked mountaineers since 1993's unsurpassable 'Alive' and no-brainer 'Cliffhanger'. So 'VM' is an example of perfect timing. In a survey managed by the Box Office Guru (Which December release are you looking forward the most?), contenders got cca. 200, while 'Vertical Limit' got more than 2000 (!) votes.The engine of the movie is director Martin Campbell's outstanding achievement. Though Robert King's ('Red Corner') and Terry Hayes's ('Dead Calm') screenplay has it tiny flaws (e.g. nitro-glycerine), Campbell cuts in time and never misses. He was the only good thing in 'Escape from Absolom/No Escape' and the one who once again infused life into the 'James Bond' series with 'Goldeneye'. Not to mention 'The Mask of Zorro', another surprise blockbuster from 1998.'Vertical Limit' has a typical disaster-movie casting no stars but recognizable faces. Here are Chris O'Donnell, whom Hollywood has almost buried alive after 'Batman and Robin', Bill Paxton, who plays small roles in big movies, Robin Tunney ('End of Days', 'Supernova'), whose performance could be a breakthrough for her, and last but not least Scott Glenn, whose part would probably be played by Sean Connery if 'VM' were an A-star vehicle.Will 'Vertical Limit' be a winter blockbuster despite lacking for A-listers? Sure it will. Skip the others and get this to take your breath away. 9/10  "},{"Title":"The Vertical Bloody Libel","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I could not stand the vulgar display of violence and sexual rompidence that is exasperated in this piece of cinema. It reminds me a time of when I was eight or nine and was sold to an African abuser.This boots were made for walking, not mountain climbing. Because of this the mountain climbing was quite difficult.There was a point in time when i ate a large child. He often liked large quantities of salt and vinegar rubbed along his chest. I have seen the face in the mud and the children on the line.This movie reminds me of Hollywood arteries clogged by ignorant film viewers and pseudocritics. You are free "},{"Title":"An enticing arena of visual stimulation, but the script fails to deliver. ** (out of four)","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  VERTICAL LIMIT / (2000) ** (out of four)By Blake FrenchNothing bothers me more than filmmakers who believe their stupid movies explore deep, meaningful things. Maybe Martin Campbell is just plain stupid; director of The Mask of Zorro, and No Escape, Vertical Limit is not Campbell's worst movie-that goes to the 1996 James Bond installment of Goldeneye. At least Vertical Limit has a theme don't make stupid mistakes like the characters in this film. However, Campbell believes his movie examines earnest human emotions. Forget the mountain, forget the snow, forget the conditions-&#145;Vertical Limit' is a drama that could be played out on flat land, and it would still be a fantastic movie about love, family and courage, he explains. I'd like to see him justify those words; take away the mountain, snow, and conditions, and you have no movie.	Within the 124 minutes of Vertical Limit the characters actually utter the following ludicrous dialogue Up there, you're not dying, you're dead, a thousand sperm and you were the fastest, and don't mind her. She's French-Canadian. Some days she's Canadian. Can be quite pleasant. Today she's obviously French. Lines like that just scream for attention; they are blunt, obvious, and unpleasant; they examine the true depths of this production-sea level at best. The difference between an actor a wannabe actor becomes clear here. When an actor portrays a character in a life or death situation, he really needs to display emotion, anxiety, and intensity. The filmmaker's make the mistake of casting Chris O'Donnell in the lead role. With quirky, zany movies like Batman & Robin and The Bachelor, he hasn't had to act dramatically. Here, when his character requires tension and depth, he fails to provide the movie with the necessary skill. Supporting actors Robin Tunney, Scott Glenn, Izabella Scorupco, and Bill Paxton deliver strong performances, but they can't accomplish much due to the lack of a solid leading character.	The film takes place several years after a climbing accident in which two siblings, Peter (O'Donnell), and Annie (Tunney), lost their father to a fatal fall. Peter now takes pictures of wildlife, Annie's a mountain guild. For the first time in several years, they meet at the base camp of K2, one of the world's most dangerous mountain regions. She will lead a wealthy Texas businessman, Elliot (Bill Paxton) and crew on an expedition to the top of the mountain, but dangerous weather approaches. Will the crew continue their journey, even though their lives are at risk?	It's an amazingly simple story, so simple that it becomes redundant in scene after scene of climbing and explosions. While the special effects dazzle us and we savor the sweeping, breathtaking views of mountainous terrain, the masterful technical aspects of the film do not make up for the lack of a sufficient script. The scenes that do induce audience participation and nail biting suspense last way too long. Take a scene where a helicopter releases passengers high on the mountain. At first, the scene proves noteworthy; the setting and potential for disaster ubiquitous. But it tests our patience; it lasts way too long and throws too many complications in the bundle. It's like the film knows the scene is effective, so milks it for every minute it is worth. Why must movies like this always be so detached to reality and filled with stubborn characters? Isn't it increasingly obvious that the weather will not cooperate with the mountain expedition? But because of simple stupidity, they continue up the rugged terrain. The film provides the excuse that the characters are determined to achieve a self proclamation in life, but in reality, the script requires several of the character to get stuck in a situation in which they will need rescuing. We've seen this so many times before, Vertical Limit is simply too little too late.   "},{"Title":"Vertical Limit","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I has seen this advertised so much on TV, that I found it almost impossible to not watch it and get it over with, I thought it must have been popular, from director Martin Campbell (GoldenEye, The Mask of Zorro, Casino Royale). Basically Peter Garrett (Chris O'Donnell) and his sister Annie (End of Days' Robin Tunney) are mountain climbers, and are still hurt whenever they think about the death of their father, Peter cut his rope to save himself and Annie. Now Annie plans to climb to the top of K2, the world's second highest peak, but of course, disaster strikes when she, Elliot Vaughn (Bill Paxton) and leader Tom McLaren (Nicholas Lea) are caught in a storm, and while treading fall into a cavern. With the help of radio Morse code Peter pinpoints their last known position, and now he, along with other volunteers, including eccentric and reclusive mountain man Montgomery Wick (Scott Glenn), and medic Monique Aubertine (GoldenEye's Izabella Scorupco), they plan a rescue mission with less than 22 hours before they surely perish. Also starring Temuera Morrison as Major Rasul, Stuart Wilson as Royce Garrett, Alexander Siddig as Kareem Nazir and Roshan Seth as Colonel Amir Salim. It may be predictable most of the way through, but it does have a few eye-catching moments, such as snapped ropes, dislodged boulders and crumbling ledges. It was nominated the BAFTA for Best Achievement in Special Visual Effects. Okay! "}]