[{"Title":"Just shoot me...","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"150 out of 183 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In what can only be described as the worst movie made in the past decade, Dungeons & Dragons will leave you begging for mercy.Hands down, the biggest contributor to the demise of this movie was the script.  It was litterally the most insulting, inane dialogue I have ever been treated to in a movie.Props arrive next in an extremely close second.  The 35 Million dollars used to make this film must have been used on late night taco runs, because the quality of the props is abyssmal.  The prized artifact of the movie looks like it fell out of a box of cracker jack, while some of the armor and backgrounds are straight out of the Bargain Bin at your local toy store. Better attempts at fantasy film making have been shot on camcorders across the globe in people's back yards.The acting was terrible all around.  The few, and I mean FEW, attempts at serious dialogue were crushed by the worst script ever.  The only remotely cool character in the entire proceeding was Demadar, who was still pretty goofy.  I guess if I was 8 or so, I might have thought he was creepy.  The notably great actors in this film should have balked the moment they saw the script/quality of filming, and their presence on the screen only adds to the insult.Th producers of this movie should be ashamed of themselves.  Hundreds of thousands of loyal D&D fans have been waiting for over 25 years for a great, inspiring movie from their hobby.  D&D has a prodigious level of material written about it, and any one of it's 100+ books would have made a better movie if read aloud by Pee Wee Herman.This horror show of a movie will no doubt ensure the demise of a great hobby in the public eye for at least the next 10 years.  Any potential fan of the game will be unable to forget this awful movie experience.  Consider yourself warned, and never, EVER see this movie. "},{"Title":"What a waste","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"73 out of 104 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is unbelievable how this movie could have been created with such good actors and so much money, but such a bad script and directing.Dialogues are painfully bad in this movie, as is the story itself.The acting is also below any standard you would expect from such an expensive movie. Jeremy Irons was especially shocking, his performance was very pathetic and flat, as if this would be a bad movie for three year olds. That was not acting, that was a torment ! I cried every time he appeared on the screen.Thora Birch was also far, far below her level in 'American Beauty', obviously unable to tell how one should put a little life into her bad dialogue and flat character, and somehow even thinking that that was her own fault.If at all, the thief Snails (Marlon Wayans from Scary Movie) had quite some good moments in his slapstick scenes, the only good moments in the whole movie. Unfortunately they don't last long. Wayans seems to have a talent to shine even in the worst movies, however.The performance of the main actor was also bad. His dull and cheap sunnyboy behavior really nerved me, and I saw absolutely no reason for his 'being special', but far more for 'being untalented'.The effects where better than the story, but really not that exciting either.Some people say fantasy is about stereotypes, but that doesnt mean you can forget all rules how to make up a good story ! This story was not worth getting on the screen. This story was also not worth getting such good actors and effects. This story was nothing but crap !And I can't believe that Jeremy Irons and Thora Birch are such bad actors, they have proven they can do far, far better ! I can only guess it must have been the director who forced them to do such bad performances.Definitely not recommended for anyone except maybe children below ten. Oh wait, they're not allowed ? No loss. "},{"Title":"Surprising! Surprisingly bad, that is.","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"75 out of 109 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For me, enjoying a movie can be achieved by properly managing expectations; if I expect Shakespeare, and I see Shakespeare I'm happy. Now, don't get me wrong - I liked Army of Darkness, like the rest of you. If I expect to see a dumb, camp, action flick and I see a dumb, camp, action-fest, I'm happy. With the D&D movie, I expected a dumb, camp, action flick, and I received something that was so unexpectedly foul that it caused me to write the world about it. How did this movie even get made? Now, I play D&D ( admit it, y'all do too ) so don't fault me for 'not understanding the genre'. The movie had too many characters, some of which disappear inexplicably during the course of the movie. The plot made no sense; the twists at the end came from nowhere. And don't get me started on Marlon Wayans's character - you mean to tell me that in the fantasy world of D&D, a black man can't get a role other than the Black Buddy Cop stereotype?Pure crap, plain and simple. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of 2000","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"67 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If there hadn't been a Battlefield Earth, this movie probably would have gotten my vote for worst movie of 2000. The only way it is (slightly) better than that movie is the (very) occasional good set or effect.I could write for hours about what's wrong with this movie, but this is what comes to mind immediately(1) The horrible acting. I honestly can't understand why someone so talented as Jeremy Irons would be going so over the top. It's clear, however, that he isn't enjoying himself in the movie, so maybe he's getting revenge against the movie by acting so terriblyThe most annoying performance goes to Marlon Wayans. His shrieking, cowardly character uncomfortably brings up images of stereotypes from the 1930s. At least he doesn't say Feet, do your stuff! - though he sure comes close.(2) The bright, glitterly look of every scene. When you think of sword and sorcery, I think we all think of things rough and with grit. Not here.(3) The movie constantly rips off from other (better) movies, most notably from the four STAR WARS movies(4) The characters. Why the hell were the dwarf and elf in this movie? They could easily have been written out without consequence. And the main thief hero is one of the blandest heroes I've ever seen in the movie.(5) Virtually all the special effects, sets etc. are AWFUL. Sometimes they look even worse than those seen on the Xena and Hercules shows! (Though those two shows at least have the excuse of having lower budgets - and they make up for the cheap effects by having better scripts, characters, and acting!)(6) And speaking of scripts...thos script is terrible! Mainly it's because the story itself hardly makes any sense! "},{"Title":"You know you're watching a bad movie when...","Date":"23 June 2004","Score":"52 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ...the ENTIRE audience cheers at the death of one of the main characters. And tries to warn the poor saps standing outside the theater afterwards to run! run away!I started playing D&D several years ago, so I'm not some snobbish player from the days when the source books were chiseled on stone tablets. My friends and I got a group together to go see the D&D movie as a lark. It was the worst waste of my time and money. The acting was horrid, the sets cheesy, the special effects amateurish, and the story juvenile. My DM's 10-year-old son could come up with better.Oh, and after getting home, I discovered that I was allergic to something, and my arms and legs were covered in huge, itchy hives -- my fiancé maintains to this day that I was allergic to the awfullest movie we've ever seen.This movie would possibly be viewable through a drunken haze, except for the possibility that it would make you throw up.  "},{"Title":"Poor delivery, so-so effects and laughable performances all combine to produce a film that will barely appeal to kids","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Ridley and Snails are thieves in the underclass of their world. Breaking into the magic school to steal they are captured by Marina but, when her master is killed, the thieves find themselves drawn into an attempt by the evil Profion to use the power of a lost sceptre to seize control from Empress Savina, who is trying to reform and make all men equal.It is hard to really judge the plot of this film because I'm sure it could have been a rollicking, engaging swords & sorcery affair and it is only the delivery here that has turned it into a massive, insulting pile of rubbish. The way that the characters have to explain every single action in BIG LETTERS for the audience was something that grated on me and took me from thinking of it as lazy writing to finding it offensive that the writers thought I was too stupid to follow the story myself. Instead of being a strong narrative the film is just a basic adventure for kids, with effects and noise to keep them distracted. As such it is still only so-so because even children might struggle to care about the unimpressive CGI backgrounds and action set pieces. It'll please the very undemanding genre fan under 12 years old but unlikely many others.The characters are another major failing &#150; who thought that writing obnoxious, annoying or smug characters across the leads would cause an audience to be engaged by them? With this to work with, is it any wonder that the cast are roundly poor? Whalin must have thought his luck was in when he landed this role, but he messes it up with a performance that shows he is out of his depth and unsure of himself. McLellan is bland and quite irritating for the majority of the film but her faults pale in comparison to a trio of performances that stick in the mind as the worst of the film. Irons hams it up with all the carelessness of a pro who knows an easy payday when he sees it &#150; he is hilariously terrible at times. Payne's blue lipstick seems to have affected his voice and every line is delivered as a sneer &#150; it is never menacing and quickly becomes tiresome. However the worst performance is form, surprise surprise, Wayans who made me understand what Spike Lee's Bamboozled was getting at. He is a shrieking, mugging ethnic cliché &#150; even worse than he usually does and even more annoying. The odd cameo from O'Brien or Baker do nothing to stop the rot and the cast add to the impression that this was cheaply made without much love.Overall a poor film that will probably only appeal to kids. The plot is badly delivered and the effects are not as impressive as director Solomon was clearly banking on them being. The cast are lost in the middle of it all and not a single on of them gives a performance that you could call good, all in all producing a pretty poor attempt at a blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Oh Dear, another fine mess","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"39 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have just watched this film for the first time, & can confirm it is worse than what I had heard it was. Now as a rule I don't always take note of reviews of films, even if they are bad, as certain films can be bad & still quite enjoyable, even if the acting & plot are okay. Unfortunately, this is not only all the above, but also pretty tiresome & downright tedious as well.The main unknown (to me anyway) leading threesome are all dreadful & from this showing awful actors as well. Justin Whalin is just laughable & one of the worst heroes in a long while. Probably since Val Kilmers appalling performance in The Saint. Zoe Mclellan is pretty enough (which probably explains away her deficiencies amongst other reviewers) but is still dreadful. The worse though is Marlon Wayons, whose performance is not only awful & completely unfunny, but also of a racist nature. The rest of the actors are also bad, but at least the likes of Jeremy Irons, Bruce Payne & Thora Birch, know they are only slumming it, & are at least decent actors if the material is there.The plot is also weird & ridiculous, with no explanation of what is going on, & the upsetting thing was that the poor dragons couldn't have snacked on the lot of them, which would of at least made it a happy ending, for us & the dragons anyway. If you want to see a well acted & well made fantasy film watch Lord of the Rings instead. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"39 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a D&D role player and obsessed fan I couldn't wait for this movie to come out. Expecting Lord of the Rings, I was hoping to find a fantasy prelude in D&D the Movie. I had to see it twice, first time I couldn't believe how bad it was. I thought I had missed something but it turns out the makers of this movie missed a lot. They missed the D&D part, this movie only makes a mockery of the game and any plot imaginable. There is no acting, no plot. The very spirit of D&D is completely trashed. One of the worst parts is this Wayans guy who plays a Brooklyn rogue wannabe which is pointlessly killed in the middle of the movie. The characters are hardly believable (how stupid must the two rogues be) not to mention the entire action and party (Only you were meant to pass). A dwarf that barely has a role, a cute drow which also has no point in being there ... The movie barely adds up to 1 out of 10 and that's only because the dragon fight in the end is almost nice to watch. "},{"Title":"Why does god hate me?","Date":"1 March 2007","Score":"36 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why can't I give this zero out of ten? I can honestly say that this is without a doubt one of the biggest pieces of crap I have ever watched in my entire life.The cast for a start! I know...let's get Jimmy from the new adventures of superman to play a lead role! WRONG! Oh...you know who is really funny? Marlon Wayans! WRONG! I think the biggest injustice in the film is the ruining of Jeremy Irons career. I literal felt it being flushed down the toilet while I watched it. I tried to keep watching in all honesty, but I kept on vomiting blood from its sheer awfulness.The dwarf keeps disappearing, the orcs don't attack anyone, there is a big slow guy walking around wearing blue lipstick, Richard O'Brian is forced into a camp off with said blue lipstick wearing man, it was far too long (by too long, I mean it exists in our time and space), in one scene Jeremy Irons looks as though he is mounting the guy with the blue lipstick...why oh why oh why does this film exist? For those of you who have seen this...I pity you. For those of you who haven't or have considered doing so, save yourself some time and just ingest bleach. It's equally as fun. "},{"Title":"disgraceful","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"30 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can only hope and pray that all the actors and actresses who appear in this film realise their mistake and get alternative means of income, they should be ashamed of the performances they put in. Marlon Wayans does an irritatingly poor and ill-advised Chris Rock impression all the way through the film that just makes you squirm and cringe. The other performances ranged from the badly cast, Thora Birch whose other work has been superb, as the princess to the ridiculous, represented by the performance of Justin Whalin.  The total lack of any character development (which for me was needed as the characters are different from the cartoon I used to love) and the shallow acting all meant that I couldn't have cared less what happened to the characters, let alone cling on to the paper thin plot. With all this though, I sat through the entire movie,waiting for the end and feeling sure that Rocky and Bullwinkle Must be better than this pile of toss, and that dude, is saying a LOT...   "}{"Title":"What the hell happened here?","Date":"19 December 2005","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I knew it was going to be bad, but I like cheesy movies. And I knew it wasn't going to do justice to the D&D game, but I was open-minded to the effort. But good lord, this might be the worst movie I've ever seen.Lots of people have shredded this movie in a lot of ways, so I've got little new to contribute to the mass lynching. But three quick summary points The acting was embarrassing - the Jeremy Irons was clearly chewing up the set with a bad Christopher Lee impression, and Thora Birch really, really wanted to be elsewhere. Whichever Wayans got drunk enough to sign this contract was cringe-worthy, and the best thing he did was die (although he took too long getting about it).The special effects were hilariously bad. The CGI for the sets was a distant second to Wolfenstein 3D, and anything involving 'magic' could've been better accomplished with a handful of colored yarn.Finally, the plot was UTTERLY INCOMPREHENSIBLE. Our heroes are sent to find the Rod of Thingummy, because the Empress is about to lose her Whatchamacallit. As they mosey along, everyone says 'good lord, don't find the Rod of Thingummy, it's a horrible evil'. In fact, the only person that could be benefited by the Rod of Thingummy is Lord Sinister Big Bad. Still, our idiot heroes keep on trooping around, trying to find the Rod of Thingummy. THEN, the Empress doesn't even LOSE the Whatchamacallit in the first place, so there's NO need for the Powers of Good to get the Rod of Thingummy anyway. BUT THEY KEEP GOING. So, inevitably, they get the Rod of Thingummy (more warnings about 'don't find it' coming in along the way), and HEY, the BAD GUY STEALS IT FROM THEM.Furthermore, that's what turns the tide of the war! The Empress was WINNING until our stupid heroes find the Rod and give it to the bad guys, what's up with that? Champions of the Realm?! They're idiots, and are personally responsible for the destruction of the city.Which is, may I add, a good thing, as whatever Commodore 64 was building the cityscape graphics was clearly overheating at that point anyway.Avoid at all costs. This movie is an abomination. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made!","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I couldn't agree more with what the majority of reviewers have to say about this film, it was the biggest pile of crap I've ever been cursed to see at the cinema. The acting was especially shocking and horrific, Jeremy Irons's acting was very bad, from this film alone you'd think he was an amateur and had never made a good film in his life but the truth is, aside of this farce he's a great actor, which is why it was really shocking to see him camp it up as the way over the top villain. Anyone who praises this rubbish as a good film needs their head examined, and I personally thought even the plethora of cgi effects were pretty lame! The amount of other fantasy films it rips off is incredible, but The Lord of the Rings and Stars Wars seem particularly prevalent for the movie to plunder it's ideas from, and the resulting effect is merely a travesty of those classics. "},{"Title":"Mine eyes have been defiled","Date":"28 April 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can recall the event clearly... There I was... sitting upon the floor, my cousin's beside me. One of my cousin's friends had brought in a rental DVD and presented it to us with a smile stating it was the best movie ever created. Looking at the title, a rush of excitement hit us as we realized that Dungeon's and Dragon's (a game we had all loved at one time or another) had finally been made into a respectable movie. As we opened the DVD, an aura of evil emanated from it, and although we noticed the clear evil coming from this DVD, we were expecting the best movie ever created. However the moment the screen turned on, our cousin's friend slinked away, muttering something about the apocalypse. What followed was quite possibly the worst movie experience of my life. After this horrid event, I didn't watch a movie for about 6 mouth's, and I was too scared to turn on the TV, thinking that at any time the ear splitting screech of snails was to come upon me. Now... at first, we were slighty amused by it. However as time went on we realized the grand mistake we had made for watching this disgusting excuse for a visible object. DO NOT READ THE FOLLOWING IF YOU DON'T WANT SPOILERS. ALSO IF YOU ARE TO READ THIS, YOU MAY WANT TO BUY A COUPLE OF VIALS OF HOLY WATER TO THROW AT YOUR COMPUTER AS YOU DO. Alright... First off, Problem one, Snails. WHAT KIND OF A HUMAN BEING IS NAMED SNAILS??? His mind blowing screeching of RIIIIDELLLLYYYY is just plain and flat out horrifying. The acting? Throwing mine own dung at the wall would be more entertaining. The special effects? Half the scenes looked like they we're drawn with crayons. The random dwarf? Who was that guy? He just appeared, drop kicks the guy with the blue lips and then runs away to join the lard filled team. Next... If any of you did see this (then you better bathe in the river Jordan p) you may recall how they found the thieve den. THEY FOLLOWED A OUT OF PLACE BLUE HEADED GUY!!! How they heck did they know he was a thief? Was it is skin color? Does that mean every thing blue steals? ... Alright then you may remember how (when trying to enter the cave) The dwarf runs into the barrier. After clearly hurting himself doing so, JUST TO DOUBLE CHECK!!! HE RUNS INTO THE THING AGAIN!!! Now there are far too many things to mention and I can truly say the only good part was when snails somehow randomly died ... O but the worst part... Was the ending. EVERYONE TURNED INTO RED ORBS AND FLOATED AWAY!!!!!! AMAZING!!! Does that mean their all dead? What the heck was that supposed to be? If one could give a negative score, I could definitely see the digits after the negative sign on rating of this piece of garbage (which is being as kind as possible to this worthless lard) reaching around the sun. Don't WATCH IT!!! IF you do or did... I just don't know how you could live with yourself, get yourself exorcised or something. "},{"Title":"DRAGON WARS THE WINGED MENACE","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Am I correct when I finish watching this BORING movie I've just viewed a poorly-rendered version of T.P.M? With a bit of Return of the Jedi and other star wars stuff thrown in?Whoever did the editing for this movie must've either been asleep or stoned off their face, because the plot was ripped to utter shreds! So many things happen and are not explained or explained poorly. Now a movie of this genre should be easy to understand. So why did this flick blow chunks?WARNING! WINGED SPOILERS! WARNING!1) The boring political confrontation between the Princess (who was a carbon copy of Queen Amidala), and the bad-guy Darth Sidious-look-alike Jeremy Irons (whose acting was dire). Took me half the movie to figure they were fighting over plastic-looking dragon-controlling stage props so they could go to war with some enemy I missed the name of.2) The thief-hero Ridley and mage Marina disappear into a map portraying some place I also missed the name of, and then reappear. Two hours later still hadn't figured out what they'd done in the map that conjured up all the answers so conveniently. My 'I'm Bored' meter started rising sharply by this point...3) Our hero and heroine kiss. He tells her magic-users are superior and he won't have anything to do with them, then contradicts himself and kisses her. Pardon?  Nothing more is tacked on to this boring cliche romance. Did I miss yet something else here? Hmm... Maybe not...Yawn.4) SNAILS?? Excuse me? JAR JAR SNAILS? I thought we'd already endured the awful side kick syndrome, learned from it, and done away with it after the emergence of that floppy-eared, idiotic pigeon-English-speaking fool BUT NO! (or should I say NOOOOOOOOOO!!) Now Jar jar Snails squeals and screams like a girl, but at least he ain't C.G.I!5) Profion's cheesy hench man. You take Darth Maul's make up off, and what do you get? Darth Maul's blue lips! A villain has not been more fake than listening to the drawn-out hissing of his ridiculously funny, cliche lines. My acting is MUCH better... and I CAN'T ACT!6) What the heck were those blue, pulsating eye things wondering around with the guards? Why did this movie's creators include these creatures when they do nothing, not even bothering to appear during a 'climatic' battle scene. (must've run out of money to C.G.I them doing stuff other than float briefly by!)THE ENDING. It is by far the WORST ending I've ever had to endure, right up there with the NEXT worst ending in movie history Hollow Man. I rate this movie 1/10, the 1 because the end act is so lame and cliche ridden, it's a laugh! "},{"Title":"If you love D&D, you'll hate this movie","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been playing or DMing (A)D&D for most of my 38 years. Even before I hit my teens I was writing better scripts for adventures then exist in this movie; there are so many plot holes the truck hasn't been built that's too big to drive through them, and despite having a cast of actors that aren't all that bad, the acting is in most cases similarly dreadful.So, if you've ever played (A)D&D do yourself a favour and DON'T watch this movie, to avoid all the hair being ripped out of your skull whilst watching. If you've never played (A)D&D then STILL DON'T watch this movie - rent out Willow or Princess Bride or Ladyhawke or Lord of the Rings to get an idea about how good a campaign/adventure could be; watching this will just put you off ever playing the game. "},{"Title":"Fantasy Flop.","Date":"12 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Knowing some of the inside story with TSR, I will say this...5 stars (*****) to the Corporate Martyrs who sacrificed for this movie to be made. Unfortunately for us fans of the game, it just impacts its failure all the more.I have always loved the game; the role playing paper game, not the video game. I have even developed my own take of fantasy role playing games and developed my own systems. So it's a given that I was looking forward to this project with a great anticipation.Whenever you anticipate an event that much, there is simply no way it can live up to your idea of what the event should entail. There is no where to go but down. For that reason, I have waited years to write this review; thinking that perhaps I would be less disappointed in the finished product once I had had time to review it in a less biased light. I'm completely over hating it from the original disappointment. Now, I just hate it, period.I don't know what other gamers expected, except for those blokes who walked around whining because there should have been DICE in the movie. Unbelievable. I never expected anything like that, but what I ~did~ expect was a cohesive story, good quality performances, adequate direction, and AD&D-worthy effects.I was sorely disappointed in all areas and on all levels.Time did not heal the wound that is Dungeons & Dragons.Save yourself a torturous 2 hours and avoid this stinker at all costs.It rates a 0.1/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"This movie's a laugh.","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"27 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is so bad, it's good. You'll understand why once you see the bald guy (I think he ate a blue snowcone before coming to the set). You'll find yourself making fun of this movie... but that's all it's really good for a laugh.  "},{"Title":"An abomination.","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some have said that those who played the game or enjoy genre fantasy films might find something to like in 'Dungeons & Dragons'.  They couldn't be more wrong.  This is a useless, clueless film from start to finish that has no idea of what it wants to be.  It combines elements of a bad script, terrible acting, and average special effects to create a gloriously bad achievement.  It's a would-be franchise that shot itself in the foot right out of the box.  And if this is any indication of what future installments would have looked like, to that I say, Thank God.Jeremy Irons plays the evil wizard Profion straight out of Overacting 101 - he's all sneers and shouts and waving hands.  His lackey Damodar (Bruce Payne) is blue-lipped and black-armored (therefore evil) and exudes all the menace of an overripe eggplant.  Thora Birch - wonderful in 'American Beauty' - looks like she was blackmailed into this role, as she's completely catatonic throughout the film, giving her Empress Savina (the wholesome representation of all things Good) zero energy and appeal.How about those heroes?  Marlon Wayans (Snails, the thief) is completely annoying, offering nothing to the proceedings; Justin Whalin (Ridley, another thief) - the nominal hero - is a goofball who'd be outclassed by the cast of Baywatch; and Zoe McLellan (Marina, the mage) is the only one who seems to even try to keep to a thematic element of fantasy, though she's in way over her head.   'Dungeons & Dragons' is a complete mess and a complete waste of your time.  If you want a fantasy film that draws upon the roleplaying game, try the one that D&D was based on in the first place 'Lord of the Rings'.  Keep this thing as far away from your television as possible.  "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Disaster Movie","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ***** WARNING! Spoilers below *****This movie is so stunning I'm speechless. The cause isn't the great special effects, wonderful acting or interesting plot no, it's so unbelievably bad. Take a good concept and throw it completely away. Leave nothing but the name.The fantasy world surrounding Dungeons&Dragons is so vast it has an infinite number of great stories and plots to use in the movie. Yet they decided to invent a new story and it shows.If you are a fantasy fan and sober when watching this, you'll probably start to cry. Then again, if you're drunk you'll laugh your socks off (I did).The makers have tried their best to do a proper fantasy movie. They must have (this is how you can tell if they had tried to make a comedy, the movie would actually be funny at some point).The film was supposed to be a high-money production but you really can't tell it except for the computer animation. Everything is made of plastic and the costumes are very cheap-looking.Marlon Wayans' appearance is something unspeakable. It's hard to tell which is worse, the acting or the script. The only one in the film who knows how to act is Jeremy Irons who destroys his reputation quite effectively by taking part in this waste of film. Apparently in desperate need of money, he should have at least used a false name and a face-covering helmet PIf you can see this for free, I recommend. A true do-not-do-movies-like-these specimen. Just don't pay for it!------------------------------------------------A few nags, the whole list would be so long nobody wants to read itThe plot is filled with holes you can drive a bus through- A library filled with priceless magic books isn't guarded in any way, even with *magic*. Of course not. You just come in through the window.- People making their living off thieving have less basic skills in it than my grandmother.- The terrifying commando group hunting down the heroes has the brain activity of a bunch of lemmings. Not even basic training or common sense.- In the great battle of dragons you can see how just a couple of shots of dragon-breath almost collapse the wizard tower. The sky is filled with dragons just flying around doing nothing. If they participated in combat in any way, the evil wizard would be broiled in a second.The movie is based on an existing world, so why change some of the D&D fundamentals that have no effect on the plot?- Why, oh why? A mutating virus has hit the elven community. Suddenly they are short, stocky, armored in Stormtrooper-design plastic (with the most ugly ever bits hanging in the field of vision) and have _crossbows_. Were they for sale cheap at K-Mart or does someone really hate longbows? However, one elf doesn't resemble the others at all in size, shape nor color. Even more weird.- Is food short or why have proud, heavily-built dwarves been reduced to skinny (actually thinner than elves), whining little beings? Quite a setback. Also the dwarf in the movie could as well have been left out, he does absolutely nothing in the whole plot. "},{"Title":"HAM and CHEESE !","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Oh my. This movie was so phenomenally bad that I can't even think of an adjective negative enough to describe it. This is the kind of thing that straight to video couldn't have salvaged; that it actually had a theatrical release is staggering. I was expecting this film to be bad, but the true scope of its horribleness is beyond comprehension or anticipation. It is truly and magnificently wretched. Dungeons & Dragons makes _Conan the Destroyer_ seem like Hamlet in comparison.The acting generally falls into two categories mediocre actors who probably did the best they could with the material and normally good actors (Thora Birch, Jeremy Irons) who should be ashamed of themselves. Birch's dialogue is delivered woodenly as if she just wants the shoot to be over. As for Irons ((are those his real teeth?!? well, he is British)), his lines are spat out with such over-the-top absurdity it seemed he was exacting some sort of revenge on the producers. His snarling, rasping, phlegm-soaked performance left me thinking maybe he was blackmailed into doing this project. The only bright spots were the performance of Zoe McLellan as Marina and a very distinguished cameo by former Doctor Who maestro Tom Baker as Halvarth the Elf. Don't even get me started on the Marlon Wayans character -- I believe he single-handedly destroyed several generations' worth of progress defeating racial stereotyping in Hollywood. I hope he got a nasty letter from the NAACP.Hammy dialogue atop a ridiculous storyline made for an unwatchable mess. The classic Dungeons & Dragons theme is the dungeon crawl hack-and-slay and a movie with this brand name to live up to should have capitalized on that. Instead we are treated to some convoluted plot about empresses and mage-councils and an oppressed population we never see.Unlike some of the other reviewers here, I found the sets, props, costuming, and effects to be adequate for a B-movie, and even good at times considering this is really a C- or D-movie. All those thematic elements are lost behind the atrocious script and acting, however.D'ya know how sometimes you want to experience something for yourself so you can decide on your own if it's as awful as people say? Don't do that with this movie. I promise that you'll spend the rest of your life trying to get those two hours back. It's not even worth downloading a pirated copy. If you must punish yourself somehow, try smashing your face into the wall a few times; ultimately that will be less painful. "}{"Title":"I could've died, I wish I had.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What a hideous waste of time that was. Having sat for the best part of two hours in front of this monstrosity I find myself toying with the idea of crying until my bodily fluids are fully drained onto the cold hard pavement of despair which this movie has unsparingly laid at my feet. Damn you Dungeons and Dragons, why have you forsaken me??? At least Kull the Conquerer was silly and semi interesting as opposed to this pathetic attempt at film making. Brutally honest? Yes. Feel better about it? No. Also what is the ending about? Having magically turned into little flying beads of light, they all fly off together to go and spread their poor acting to all corners of the globe. Practically every single actor in this film wouldn't be out of place in a programme like Hollyoaks (only the British will understand this but rest assured it can only be described as an atrocity. So having verbally destroyed this film, I may be able to rest slightly easier for having got it off my chest. On the other hand I might just be haunted by the memory for the rest of my now tainted days. "},{"Title":"D&D?  Hellsballs, Yes!","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Is this a quality film? No, it is not. Is this a well made film? No it is not. But is it entertaining? Thats really a matter of opinion, and mine is yes, it is. One very important thing that should be remembered when watching any sci-fi or fantasy movie is that it probably doesn't have a good budget. Or casting, or effects or maybe anything good at all. You should go into these movies, and i do mean ANY sci-fi/fantasy, knowing full well that there is a very good chance it is lacking in production value. With all that said and done, this movie was an awesome amount of fun to watch. As a regular dice roller, i found the plot to be consistent with an average game, or at least with enough of the games elements to do it justice. Yes, the acting could have been better. And the writing. But it was FUN. I had a fantastic time the entire time i was watching it. I laughed, i cried (not really) and i joked about it afterward. My point is, this movie is bad for the sake of being bad. I highly recommend it for any one in need of a fun hour and a half. It's probably best watched with friends, for mst3k reasons. Just don't let any pretensions ruin a fine movie for you. "},{"Title":"Don't get caught in this dungeon","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"32 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons & Dragons is so terrible, I can't help myself from laughing at people who say they liked this film.This is one of the worst mistakes ever made in Hollywood. I had an inkling of what the end result of this film would be; however, I wanted to give it a chance.The first problem is the lack of plot to accompany the numerous action sequences. It seems to me that the action was supposed to be the main draw. I can only assume the writer forgot that there are people who actually like to see a film with BOTH action and story when they see a film. In addition, the cause of fighting the villain is so stupid; who cares.The second problem I see is casting. Combine an unestablished actor with little film experience and zero talent with a very talented veteran, Jeremy Irons and you have a disaster for a film called Dungeons & Dragons.Dungeons & Dragons should have stayed locked in a dungeon in a far off place so nobody has to go the suffering I did when I saw this film. If you see this film, good luck.  "},{"Title":"Like watching a train wreck.","Date":"14 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First How is it possible that this has 3.6 stars on this site? If I could rate it zero stars...Second How could this film have been made? There is an automatic fanbase and hundreds of stories already written from which the writers might have drawn. I almost feel as if the producers/writers had no consideration for what is appealing about the role-playing game. As a person who played the game (if... 25 years ago), I have a good sense of why it was (and is) successful. None of this comes through in the movie. From the perspective of a player, I have to say that this is a slap in the face.Third I tried to imagine how a non-player might approach this movie. I even considered seeing it as a campy, B-movie sort of experience (and, mind you, I have a weird affection for decent B-movies). But there's something sickly and ill-informed about this production; all of the sets appear to have been constructed from styrofoam blocks, and the digital effects evaporate before you can touch them. At one point, it seems to want to be Queen's Flash Gordon but can't even pull this off. You can spot a moment when Jeremy Irons has given up, and tries to pretend that it's all a joke. Too late, buddy.Fourth Oh, don't let us even start to discuss the gender/racial stereotyping in this movie. It's another slap in the face of... all of us.In summary Listen, I'm a real fantasy/sci-fi nerd, okay? So I'm always looking for some good material, and when I heard about Legend of the Seeker coming to TV, I was SO, so excited. Alas, that show is all crap and makes me want to shed my nerdy credentials! That said, Dungeons and Dragons makes that show look like genius. Please don't see this picture. It takes a big, fat dump on a whole genre. "},{"Title":"The worst fantasy movie I have ever seen!","Date":"4 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sorry guys, I really didn't like this movie. I do think not only is it the worst fantasy movie I have ever seen, honestly Legend and Princess Bride were much better, but one of the worst movies ever made.The dialogue was inane and vomit inducing. In one part of the movie Snails says something along the lines of That is the riddlyiest thing I have ever heard. Not only was that unfunny, but entirely out of place. The direction was off too, and the scenery was okay, but the camera-work was so flat and unfocused, it was barely a redeeming quality. And the plot was poor too, likewise with the special effects and you could drive a big tube train in some of the holes in the action.And the acting was atrocious. Jeremy Irons is a great actor, participating in fantastic films like Lion King and Reversal of Fortune. But as the villain in possibly the worst performance of his career, not helped by the terrible dialogue he was given, he chews the scenery to pieces, honestly the dreadful overacting puts someone like Tim Curry to shame. Marlon Wayans was cringe worthy, his humour was lame and in some cases unnecessary, and Justin Whalin; bland beyond bland. Unbearably wooden at times, and as the hero? Tom Cruise did better in Legend and he was the main flaw of that movie. Just for the record, I do think Legend has its flaws, but it is gorgeous to look at, and Tim Curry's Darkness was phenomenal, and should've got an award. Thora Birch acquits herself better, but her dialogue was poor, and I was thinking, is she a little too young for the part? Overall, terrible. You may like it, and I have no problem if you do, but as a die hard fantasy fan, I hated it. Watch Legend, Princess Bride or NeverEnding Story instead. 1/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Waste of Time and Resources...","Date":"7 September 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay, I was never a fan of Dungeons and Dragons (game), nor am I to this day. As much as I love fantasy, this franchise is unoriginal and rivals the theft that is Eragon.The acting in this film is the worst of the decade by far. Jeremy Irons is in his thousandth role as a villain, with a hoarse and over the top voice performance. The secondary characters, like the purple guy and various market people are unbelievable and horribly portrayed -- trying too hard to resemble the bar scene in Star Wars. Marlon Wayans is a complete misfire in casting, as well as the main character guy, whose name escapes me. The girl that plays the queen or princess can deliver the lines verbally, but has no idea what body language is and how to move her lips when she's talking; she's stiff as a board.The special effects are terrible, rivaling the highest budget Sci-Fi Channel Original Movie. The dragon at the beginning is so phony looking, how people could continue on believing in this garbage is beyond me. The maze and portals are ridiculous, and there's about 10 minutes of film where we get sweeping shots of tall buildings as a segue into the next scene. Just all a redundant mess this is. The final battle with all the dragons can be summed up in one word LAME.The screenplay is hogwash. Awful dialogue and terrible action scenes. The directing by Courtney Solomon (a dude, if you can believe it) is just as wretched, and I can only hope we don't see more of his work in the years to come.As far as music goes, this is a train wreck. Not one concise theme to drive the film. Just one huge mess. Avoid this at all costs when presented with the task.All in all, there's no way in Heaven or Hell that I could recommend this to anyone. To call it a guilty pleasure is too high a praise to give it. Skip this if you can, it is a waste of time and resources. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If i could give this film no stars then i would, its that bad; in fact the only thing that is good about it is the laughs you will have at how poor this title is.If your a D&D fan then steer WELL clear of this movie as you will be shocked at how they can ruin the long running and much loved franchise in one fell swoop. The movie consists of bad acting, bad special effects and bad script (which comprises of mainly ripping off the phantom menace).The main bad guy is established as being so by having blue lipstick on and talking in a slightly sinister voice, whereas the main good people consist of that guy from sliders and a comic relief element who only serves to be so annoying that you wish he would get eaten by a hydra or something.There are no real D&D elements in this film, in fact better inter racial role play occurs in LOTR between Legolas and Gimli than in this sad excuse for a film.Needless to say if your after at least a halfway decent film then DO NOT watch this one, however if you wish to clearly see how to ruin a franchise and make one of the worst titles ever seen on the screen then feel free to indulge yourself on this waste of space. "},{"Title":"Mentally scarred.","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie when it opened with free tickets, and paid far too high a price. Two hours of my life are gone forever, and could have been much better spent filling up a cup with drool, rather than suffering through the terrible script, poor overacting, and a critical hit to the future credibility of D&D.I can't believe they're making a sequel.If the Lord of the Rings trilogy were what a fantasy movie should be like, this movie was the antithesis. Film students should be forced to watch it as a learning aid of how *not* to make a movie.It really was that bad. "},{"Title":"I should sue New Line for the waste of 2 hours","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons and Dragons is truly one of the worst movies made in the last decade.  After watching Dungeons and Dragons be prepared to have feelings of extreme discontent for the evil doers that made this mess of a film.  Very rarely does a movie not deliver on ALL levels, from the story, to the script, the acting, the directing, the costume design, the computer graphics, etc.. etc..  There is literally not one good aspect to Dungeons and Dragons the movie.Throw this one in the toilet with Batman and Robin. "},{"Title":"A real insult to D&D fans.","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not a fan of D&D at all, but I could easily understand why fans would be miffed by this overblown, campy, overacted and very cheezy film adaptation.Jeremy Irons was in this movie? What? That skinny old guy who yelled a lot was really him?? You're kidding, Jeremy Irons is a great actor, he'd never be in such a corny flick! I suppose next you're gonna tell me Thora Birch was that awful Empress, right? She was?!?! My God, how did they get those two fine actors to both be in this movie and act so badly in it? That's not right!Oh, and it goes without saying that putting a Wayans brother(except Damon) in your movie is equivalent to putting a dead rat in the water supply. He serves only as a tepid comic relief that painfully reminds me of Jar Jar Binks in Phantom Menace. Effectively killing what little spark of life this film could have had.Overall, a nice enough idea completely ruined by lame CG effects and atrocious acting. Poor, fuggly little movie. Stay far, far away!My score 2/10 "}{"Title":"Pure garbage","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This pathetic abortion of a movie was just screaming for a cameo appearance by Joel and the bots.  The special effects were weak, the plot was a laughable sequence of the worst cliches, the acting was simply awful, and I've seen better scripts written by 12 year olds.Suffice it to say absolutely nothing interesting, unusual, or unpredictable happens during the entire movie.  The best part of the movie is when you're standing outside the theater and decide not to see it at all.Don't rent it either.  Don't even watch it when USA starts showing it at 3 am because they couldn't sell the time slot.  It's not even well done garbage. "},{"Title":"Did you see the size of that Dwarf?","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Did you see the size of that Dwarf? This much anticipated movie of 2000, titled as the very popular role-playing game, should do much to further the question of What were they thinking? A great deal of the movie is spend in grandiose costume and CG sets with the actors, primarily one Jeremy Irons, as Profion an evil wizard, over acting in the most laughable manner. Which is odd because Jeremy Irons has never really done anything remotely laughable.Irons had company in the theatre of the absurd acting style and that was with back up villain played by Bruce Payne as, Damodar in blue lipstick and shaved pate, delivering lines like a macho Tim-Frankenfurter-Curry.And that is what is at odds with some of the primary components of this movie. I'm sure they did not want the villains to be completely laughable because they would have wanted them to generate enough fear or dread from the audience so they would be concerned for the welfare of the goods guys.Then you have the good guys, Justin Whalin as Ridley and Marlon Wayans as Snails, who are suppose to have the kind of lighted hearted swashbuckling, devil-may-care, attitude which has been a foregone cliché' in the forms of Han Solo and Indiana Jones. However in D&D the lead character, Ridley, was more like a generic Starbuck from the TV series Battlestar Galactica. Marlon Wayans as the reluctant Snails had lines that were suppose to be comic relief but were flat and lackluster.I do want to say that I am a huge fan of the Sword and Sorcery genre. I have read many of the great books from Robert Jordan, The Wheel of Time series, Terry Brooks the Shannara series, and as well as the first three Dragon Lance novels by Margaret Weiss and Tracy Hickman. I really enjoyed those books. So don't get me wrong I do love the genre and I know what it takes to make a good Sword and Sorcery story, yet I was expecting more out of this movie.The character of the Empress Savina, played by Thora Birch was so visually reminiscent of Queen Amidala from the Phantom Menace that I could not help but be reminded of Amidala every time Birch was on the screen in those over the top costumes.The story to D&D is real predictable. You know the standard, OH my God the Princess, Empress-whatever- is in trouble and the evil mean guy is going to ruin everything for her and that will be terrible because she is so nice and concerned about her people-and she's a hot looking unit to boot- so we have to get some reluctant swashbucklers to go through a whole bunch of cool exciting stuff and find a magical thing that will make everything better just in the nick of time before evil mean guy can make the Princess or I mean the Empress lose everything and cry her pretty Hollywood mascara saturated eyes out.There is a scene in this movie where the character Ridley has to navigate a maze to obtain an important component in finding the magical thing to help the Princess err I mean the Empress. This was like a cross from Return of the Jedi and all The Indiana Jones flicks combined. I couldn't believe there wasn't one original pitfall in the whole thing.You know I always thought Dragons were supposed to be formidable and intelligent. At least in all the books I read they were. Remember George Lucas's early eighties production of Dragon Slayer? That dragon for its time was awesome and fearsome. The Dragons in this movie were so blatantly computer generated that there wasn't anything remotely sentient or frightening about them. I don't know if they want people to think that in the world of Dungeons and Dragons the Dragons look cool as unapologetically CG creations? The grand finale battle scenes were disturbing in that I kept thinking, What are those X-wing fighters flying around out there? You see there were so many dragons flying around and spraying fire out causing other dragons to go crashing to earth like jets or X-wing fighters in a dogfight. It was very distracting, as it had no look of realism. It just didn't feel like a movie that took place in the time of Dungeons and Dragons.By the way did you see the size of that Dwarf? "},{"Title":"A disaster","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember when the trailer spawned in my TV screen.I was so excited about this movie.I Love the lore of the forgotten realm .So much content they could have used.To build an epic adventure inside such a wonderful fictional world.They came up with nothing.A movie using some of the race + some dragon and some twit main character trying to role play a rogue(AK).With a retarded story .I can come up with something under 5 minutes better than this mess.I'm sure none of the producer ,scripter ever opened a book of dad.Put some elf and some dwarf and a dragon and name the movie dungeons and dragon...The special effect were horrible .Hell , baldur gate(the game) had better spell effect and visual effect .The costume look so false .It's just unbelievable they could not come up with something decent.With all the material about dad on our tablet it's unbelievable.This attempt to make a dad movie it's the same attempt we have when a studio try to display a video game into a movie.Plain horrible.Rushed for money.If you're a maniac of the forgotten realm don't watch it.If you're someone who know crap about dad don't watch it.If you're bored and retarded.Pinch your ass for 50 minutes.Better than watch this crap "},{"Title":"Meh!","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hard to say, was this movie aimed toward children? Anyway this is a rather disjointed and also disappointing adventure movie. The Dungeons & Dragons game serials showed some good potential for a full length movie but somehow they basically messed everything up.It takes too long into the movie before it really starts to take pace and something really interesting occurs. On top of that the story feels messy. It introduces some plot lines in the beginning of the movie, that potentially seemed like good and interesting ones but then suddenly decided to abandon these plot lines for such a long time and starts to concentrate on the extremely formulaic and weak 'adventerous' story-line of the young and totally uninteresting characters. Only after more than halve way through the movie it decides to pick up the first introduced plot-line again, featuring the Thora Birch and Jeremy Irons character. It feels like two totally different and disconnected parts, so when the two of them start to mix it just doesn't work out.The acting is just plain bad. You know, the sort of bad acting that becomes irritating after a while. This is especially the case with Zoe McLellan and Thora Birch. But of course also the weak and silly dialog doesn't help much. Perhaps it also has to do with the fact that director Courtney Solomon was still completely inexperienced at the time. And who's bright idea was it to cast Marlon Wayans? He feels totally out of place as the comical relief of the movie. And what a waste of the Jeremy Irons role. He perhaps has never played a more stereotypical generic evil movie villain but the movie he does it in is one of his worst. Bruce Payne also acts as if he thinks he is the new Darth Vader. Quite laughable.Amazing and surprising to see how much this movie tried to be like the Star Wars movies. Many of the characters show similarities, story elements are the same, some sequences are directly copied and really the list goes on and on but these are the three most obvious elements. It's so obvious that it becomes distracting and makes the movie terribly unoriginal to watch. Why did they do this? Wasn't the concept of Dungeons & Dragons already original enough on its own? By the way, the Star Wars movies weren't the only movies this movie uses its 'inspiration' from.The movie really isn't bad looking with its sets and such, though some of the costumes were quite silly looking. It obviously wasn't a cheap movie to make. The special effects are just reasonable for its time but unfortunately the movie relies too hard on it and overuses it in parts, of course mostly notable in the final battle.The movie has some extremely bad and silly sound effects. I also really hated the music. It seemed to be alway present and I just wanted it to stop! It was the formulaic type of music you would expect from a genre movie like this, only composed by a composer who will obviously never make it big time.You're better off not watching it.3/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Very weak fantasy that rips off just about everyone.","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Solomon obviously has neither the necessary visual style nor taste to pull this off properly. Though high-budget, the movie only rarely exhibits flashes of a high visual quality, and it isn't until the big finale that the movie gets pretty; the war between dragons above the city is visually very good. Otherwise, the rest of the movie has a rather boring look. The setting is kind of fantasy-land Middle-Ages, but the story is right out of Star Wars; there is some rather shameless ripping-off from it going on here. (Obviously, Lord of the Rings is another source.) There is a wise old elf (=Yoda) who talks about the force - without the actual word being used. Then there is the young, short, robot-like Queen with the face of an angel (Birch) who is nothing more than Queen Amidala. Then we have the hero waving a magic thingy and in the last moment deciding not to turn evil like Irons - i.e. Luke and Vader in the finale of Jedi. Then we had that major sword fight between the hero and Irons's right-hand man, which starkly resembled any sword-scene from the Star Wars saga. Then there is a canteen scene with a variety of creatures and humanoids, i.e. the Star Wars Tattooine bar scene. Some other movies also get ripped off, but to a much lesser extent, from what I gather. The film has a sort of humourish approach, but later on tries to turn much more somber in tone, so there is a problem there as well.Then there is the cast; a mixed bag. Let's start with the worst having the least talented Wayans is downright awful; it's the skinny, ugly one, and he is uniformly unfunny. (Plenty of consistency there, I must give him that once he decides not to be funny he stays unfunny no matter what.) Fortunately, and rather surprisingly, he gets killed off half-way through the movie, only to be - very, very predictably - resurrected at the very end. (In one movie catalogue the film is accused of being racist because Wayans is just a little side-kick to the white hero. Am I on the wrong planet?!) We shall continue with the second worst Jeremy Irons. From the very first scene of the movie, we are presented with an Irons who clearly has no idea what he's doing; he is grossly over-playing the evil genius, to the point where it's near-embarrassing to watch him. His grimaces aren't menacing; they are silly, overly manic and amateurish. What he did in the movie wasn't acting but a series of gymnastics exercises for the face. Birch is very cute, but appears little just a little, and is slightly awkward with her imitation of the robotic Queen Amidala. The other white brunette is charismatic, making the most of a seen-it-all-before script. The male hero is okay (over-acting at times), and so is the bald villain with the ridiculous lipstick. "},{"Title":"The worst film to represent d&d","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  must be one of the worst movies ever.. the only good thing in it was the dwarf. my and my friends role play all the time, and were really excited about the movie. but going by what happens in d&d, the movie made no sense.the main problem with it though, is that it wasn't made for people who play d&d. most (very, very, high majority) people who play d&d are in highschool, or not far off. the movie was made for 6 year olds. it was extremely childish, and utterly fake. magic in d&d doesn't work like it did in the film, wizards actually have to memorize spells to be able to cast them, or read a scroll. the way the characters interacted seemed to fake as well. the only character that can be considered well done would be the dwarf, because he actually acted like a dwarf. I rate it .1/10  "},{"Title":"Oh, dear. 1/10","Date":"17 November 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There's not much to be said about the plot of this movie, since there isn't one. Maybe it made sense to those who are familiar with the RPG, but to the uninitiated, it is never explained why any of the people do what they do. But on to the real horror. It has been quite a while that I have been so severely shocked by acting this bad. It's not even an individual achievement, oh no, it is a collective effort of the entire cast (except the dragons, maybe). On the face of Thora Birch, whom I admire for her work in American Beauty, I registered a total of two different expressions throughout the film. Her impact was such that she might just as well not have been there. Justin Whalin earned himself the number one position in my list of Worst Actors of All Times, beating even Chris O'Donnell to that position, and it should be said that this is the first time I ever saw him. Talk about a first impression. I cannot even put an adjective to his acting, as most of the time I found myself staring at the guy in shock. His presence must have rubbed off on Jeremy Irons, who really has no excuse for his participation in this disaster. Was he trying to have his last name changed to Irony? Unless he was being so ridiculously over the top on purpose, I cannot imagine what must have possessed him to act the way he did. Even the villains in the 60's Batman show were more subtle in their facial expression! The film gets one point for its dragons, though. Nice fire-breathing, fine acting ability despite the horrible script (they really had no lines, did they), and charming demonstrations of athletic prowess.By the way, if anyone would care to enlighten me as to what happened to the heroes in the graveyard in the end (things like this always end on graveyards), feel free. I really didn't get it. Which, of course, only deepens my resentment at having squandered two hours of my life on this abomination.  "},{"Title":"Oh Dear God!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can only think of two times when I ever walked out on a movie because they were so bad Hobgoblins (1987) and the sickening Dungeons & Dragons. I was horrified not only as an unfortunate viewer of this movie, but also as a seasoned gamer of Dungeons & Dragons myself.The special effects were so blatantly fake it was sad. Some of the special effects looked like they were borrowed from a Playstation. I would have laughed had they not been so bad. Half of the beginning was needlessly panning around those sad excuses of computer animated buildings. Was there any apparent reason for that besides computer animation is nifty?The acting was terrible from all fronts. I was most disappointed with Jeremy Irons who has done much better in movies such as The Mission (1986). However, as Profion he seemed more like the Phantom of Krankor, the villain from Prince Of Space (1959). The only reason he came off as a bad guy was because he snarled and had shifty eyes. And why is it that neither of the two main villains can talk right? Profion speaks with that annoying lisp and shouts out every other word. That prevents any sort of coherence at all. Bruce Payne (as Profion's bald, lipstick-wearing, transexual sidekick Damodar) talks like a sad Shatner wannabe. He appears to be evil because he speaks haltingly throughout the movie. Let me also say that Justin Whalin (Ridley Freeborn) and Marlon Wayans (Snails) make the two worst heroes I have ever seen. You can tell Snails is a good guy because he acts like a naive, smiley ferret with a sugar high.The writing was awful as well. The dialogue seemed so forced and unnatural. Especially the game-related humor, which was much too blatant. It seemed like the writers were thinking, Okay how can we put in as many cheesy, pointless jokes as possible? It seemed that their vision of the game-related humor was just to mention some of the terms. Here is an example of what they might consider funny dialogue I'm going to cast HOLD PERSON on you! You can't cast HOLD PERSON on me! You're a mere LEVEL ONE mage! I'm casting HOLD PERSON now! casts the spell You cast HOLD PERSON! Oh no! Well at least you didn't cast MAGIC MISSILE! I'm not even gonna go into the over used amounts of exposition, the extreme number of unpronounceable fantasy names, and the repetitiveness of it all.The saddest part was that it took ten years to make this movie. TEN YEARS and it ended up as this rotting pile of filth. You could get a higher quality story by taking a group of teenage Dungeons & Dragons nerds and watch them beat the snot out of goblins and ogres for 3 hours. In summary, this movie was amazingly disappointing. One out of ten because IMDB doesn't have any numbers between zero and one for voting. "},{"Title":"How LORD OF THE RINGS Would Have Looked ....","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" .... If Peter Jackson had been an untalented AmericanI don`t want to be accused of spouting Anti American rhetoric , there`s too much of that in the world , but the reason LOTR was such a big success was that it was so Anglophile . Every single actor in those epic movies gave a performance worthy of the RSC but with DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS we see a movie that panders to an entirely multi ethnic American teenage audience . How bad are the actors in this ? Well I only caught the last ten minutes ( I was waiting for another movie on the Sky cinema channel ) saw all these multi ethnic kids dressed up as elves and stuff and was totally convinced this was a TV movie about a college frat on a trick or treat prank ! That`s how bad the acting and production values were since the good guys all talk and act with 20th century American mannerisms ,  but I decided to give it a chance and watched it from start to finish a few days later but was still completely cold on the production values . Some people are convinced the LOTR trilogy is racist because there`s an absence of black characters but I think they`re making mountains out of mole hills . I`m not saying DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS is a bad film BECAUSE of its multi ethnic American bias but it doesn`t appear to be a film made to appeal to anyone EXCEPT a multi ethnic American audience , if you don`t believe look at some of the comments on this site . Even many fans of the role playing game think this film version is a jokePOSSIBLE MILD SPOILEROh and compare the ending of this movie to the heart wrenching departure of Boromir in FELLOWSHIP . It`s like comparing chalk and cheese . Unfortunately the producers of D&D thought they had a bitter sweet ending but it`s just a crap ending , but since the beginning and the middle is also crap at least the producers were consistant    "},{"Title":"This is ORC DUNG !!!","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Thank god I never purchased this wretched movie. I turned it off after 15-20 minutes. My friend warned me but I insisted on wasting 20 minutes of my time the other night giving this movie a chance. Well my friend said I could keep it and use it for kindling in my new fireplace. He said he would have thrown it out but didnt think the movie was worth the effort in disposing of it in the trash... the movie would have been responsible in wasting yet another 15-20 seconds of his time.I want to make sure this piece of %@&* is destroyed so I do not curse anyone else from stumbling across it. Hopefully it will not smoke too much as it burns. I would have been FURIOUS if I had paid $8.50 to see this at the movies. As a fan of the D&D franchise... I just have to reflect... what the *&%$ were the people at TSR/Wizards thinking?The one thing that BAFFLES me even more is that there are rumours of a sequel ?!? I'm not sure if it's possible to make a movie worse than this one but give this director his honest chance in further destroying and ridiculing the D&D franchise.  "}{"Title":"Wow, what a crap movie","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A moronic script, laughable props, wooden and predictable over-acting, and a poor attempt at childish humour combine to make this one of the longest 100 minutes of your life. I rented this one hoping for at least some decent special effects. Released in 2000, I don't think there is any excuse for the low- quality special effects in this movie. The dragons looked like characters from a Disney cartoon. Judging from the ongoing comic relief and the cliché lines (I was able to recite many of them before the actors spoke them) it became evident that this was a movie made for a 7-year olds birthday party. The props which were supposed to carry earth-shattering importance looked plastic. The enunciation of dramatic lines was enough to make you cry or laugh out loud. I wanted to turn this off at so many points...let's just say that this is a movie that will insult the intelligence and the artistic sensibilities of anyone over 10 years old. Why did I rent this? From the title alone, there is so much more that this could have been. "},{"Title":"Dungeons and Dragons the Movie... Bah!","Date":"3 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The only reason I gave this movie a 2 is because SOME of the acting was good. I refuse to believe that this movie was made by anyone who actually plays, or even knows, anything about D&D. It is a disgrace to the game and the people that enjoy it. The different races in the movie aren't represented properly. Real Dungeons and Dragons is more adult than this farce could ever be. The rogues (they don't even use that term in the movie) are horrible thieves and make the movie unbelievable. The dragons in the movie are represented as stupid creatures, but they are god-like in the actual game. The supporting characters do not even come close to representing what could have been done. It's as if a child wrote this script and the direction was a disaster. I'm deeply disappointed (being an avid D&D player for many years) and I am ashamed that this movie will paint a false picture as to how in depth and wonderful D&D is... The worst part for me was when Snails (played by Wayans) says, Why don't we just rod God while we are up here. In D&D there are many gods, of many different types. It just blows me away that the producers seemed to pay NO attention to the aspects of the D&D GAME or worlds, or races, or any content for that matter. Truly terrible. "},{"Title":"I wept for days.....","Date":"26 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been playing D&D for 15 years, I would always fantasize with my friends of a movie that could visually express what we would stay up countless hours experiencing. What we were given was pathetic. It was the type of thing that embarrasses you if you're watching it with other people. This is just another example of a movie being made by people who have little to no knowledge of what they're making. I can't believe that $35,000,000 when into this. What, was it mostly given to Jeremy Irons? He's the only real piece of talent in that movie. And Marlon Wayans? In a D&D movie?!? Finally, anyone who played D&D know that beholders are rare and deadly. We hero Boy whatsisname comes out of the cave there like 3 floating in the background? Then nothing? Why even have then, didn't waste enough man hours on this masterpiece? Long story short, pretend that this movie doesn't exist, the sequel is much better. Its actually pretty entertaining. "},{"Title":"Bad, but could be better . . .","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's simple, take out Wayans and the movie would be a lot better, not great, but better. There's no place for this goofy racial comedy crap in Dungeons and Dragons. No doubt Wayans doesn't even respect the game. Wayans ruined it for me and probably took 20 years off G Gygax's life and now he's gone. RIP. With today's fantasy film special effects tech, with movies like LOTR and Narnia, Dungeons and Dragons could have been taken seriously and been a big hit w/ characters as popular as Capt. Jack Sparrow. But here we have Wayans. You can't better this film till you rid it of Wayans.Wayans, why Wayans and black racial comedy? Why, oh, why? "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Easily one of the handful of worst movies I've ever seen. It's just awful. What's astonishing about it is that there actually is a little talent here (Jeremy Irons, Thora Birch, a few others), which could not be more badly used. Irons in particular appears to be acting as badly as possible, maybe so it's clear that he's not serious about this bowser, though Birch is awful too. The two leads are awful, especially the Wayans character, though the dwarf is a closer runner-up.There's just nothing here. It's a giant waste of time and money. It's astonishing someone spent millions making this dog. "},{"Title":"Don't get caught in this dungeon","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons & Dragons is so terrible, I can't help myself from laughing at people who say they liked this film.This is one of the worst mistakes ever made in Hollywood. I had an inkling of what the end result of this film would be; however, I wanted to give it a chance.The first problem is the lack of plot to accompany the numerous action sequences. It seems to me that the action was supposed to be the main draw. I can only assume the writer forgot that there are people who actually like to see a film with BOTH action and story when they see a film. In addition, the cause of fighting the villain is so stupid; who cares.The second problem I see is casting. Combine an unestablished actor with little film experience and zero talent with a very talented veteran, Jeremy Irons and you have a disaster for a film called Dungeons & Dragons.Dungeons & Dragons should have stayed locked in a dungeon in a far off place so nobody has to go the suffering I did when I saw this film. If you see this film, good luck.  "},{"Title":"Deleted Scenes, deleted scenes and some more deleted scenes.","Date":"3 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not going to say a lot, but I saw this in the movie theatre and didn't really thiink that it was that bad. Than I watched the DVD version and found out that they cut a lot of scenes, that would have helped the flow and logic of the movie a whole lot. Why o why did they cut these. I'm sure the ratings would have been just a little higher with the movie intact. "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, fantasy has never done well in cinema for some reason, probably because it's always done tongue-in-cheek. That will undoubtably change with the Lord of the Rings Trilogy, but for now, let us focus on Dungeons & Dragons.As a lifelong fan of the game, I had long known a movie was in the works, but even five years ago when I read the plot outline (the script was being worked on for ten years), I was disappointed.  Main heroes--thieves? Politics?  More and more it sounded like the less-than-imaginative, coorporate mentality of D&D in the 90s rather than the classic mythos of the 70s and 80s that made it great (al la, when Gygax was still with TSR).Well, I would give the movie the benefit of the doubt, and we geeks and lunatics went on opening night in full costume to mark this long awaited event.  Credit where it's due, the movie's relatively small ($33 million) budget did turn out good production values, including a wide variety of beautiful, very D&D-like sets, costumes, and special effects.  However, the movie was crippled beyond hope by the script and acting.  Yes, the plot was imaginative, but you think with TEN YEARS of development one would have realized and fixed all the plot holes, the biggest of which was the fact that, in the end, the heroes accomplished absolutely nothing!  All they did was spend the entire movie tracking down a rod that controls dragons, only to end up giving it to the villain, making him stronger than ever, and then the princess he oh-so feared whips him anyway, probably (and off camera of course) to Thorna BITCH at the heroes afterwards--Thanks for making my job tougher, guys!The acting was atrocious.  I know this game was targeted at teens who play the game, but it felt TOO MUCH like a game.  You would think that moviemakers would have learned from such fiascos as Super Mario Bros and Double Dragon that, in order to turn a game into a film, it needs to take itself seriously.  Jay Jar Wayans could have been left out, the Princess (Thorna Birch) could have tried to be something other than a piece of cardboard, and the other characters could have actually been there to do something.  Back to the fault in the script, isn't the main concept of D&D an adventure PARTY?  But in this movie, it's always a lone hero going forward while the rest of the party hangs in the back.  Well, that along with the empty ending, I guess, accidentily, they DID make a movie that plays like a D&D game of today.  Hmmmm...If you approach this movie as a campy, popcorn movie, then it's a surprisingly good treat, eye-candy mostly.  However, if you have any love or passion for D&D, any desire to be thrust into a fantasy world, or any hope of a gripping adventure, then try to avoid this movie as much as a modern D&D adventurer avoids danger.Given the rich mythology of D&D developed over the last twenty five years, the countless worlds and countless possibilities for storylines, it seems that a script ten years in the making ended up with the most politically correct (gahhhh), Star Wars-like, cheesy, save-the-world scenario possible, which, of course, is totally against the spirit of the D&D game.  Now, for a few nit-pickin's1) No fighter.  Given D&D's Conan roots, you'd think there would be at least one fighter in the party, but there wasn't.2) The dwarf.  He was almost as tall as everybody else.  Although he played a dwarf rather well (given the stereotypes), he just wasn't dwarven.3) Stolen scenes.  Mostly from Star Wars.Oh well.  Actually, an official D&D movie was never a good idea, because the whole of D&D mythology could not be compressed into one movie, or even an entire series of movies.  We're better off enjoying cinematic treats like Conan, Willow, and Lord of the Rings, and re-living their mythologies in the D&D world.  That said, look for the Lord of the Rings to completely change moviegoer's views on fantasy, and finally establish the genre.  Forget George and Jar Jar--LOTR is the Trilogy worth waiting for!I'm still a fan of D&D, even if they've totally lost their way.  "},{"Title":"The best Marlon Wayans movie this year!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You can only truly appreciate this movie if you walk into the theater with low expectations, a mild buzz going, and a group of wise-acre friends to heckle the movie screen with.Jeremy Irons chews the scenery so much, it sounds like he's regurgitating all his lines. His henchman, Bruce Payne (who looks as if he's just swallowed a smurf)delivers...his...lines as slowly....and as quietly...as...possible.It's also easy to spot the none too subtle movie rip-offs, from the ear parasite of Wrath of Khan to elements from all three Indiana Jones movies being used in the Thieve's Maze sequence. (The maze itself is three whole rooms...)The CGI dragon battle at the end is kinda cool, and Tom Baker is in it. Even if I weren't such a dyed-in-the-wool Doctor Who fan, I'd still say he was the best thing about the movie. And he's only in it for two minutes.Still, like I said, if you go in with low expectations you'll enjoy the hell out of it. Maybe. "},{"Title":"I rather enjoyed this movie.","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are many people out there who are completely and in my opinion ridiculously set in their views on movies. So when anything out of the ordinary comes along they dismiss it as bad or poorly made. When in reality it is a breath of fresh air in an ever stagnating Hollywood. It isn't often that something fresh comes along and while the story might not be the most original the style of this movie is. Some people say that the acting is terrible in this movie bu, I felt that it was very well done. For those of you who say it is corny and unrealistic I would love to introduce you to the real world. I an't count how many times I have seen people act exactly the way the characters/actors do in Dungeons and Dragons.The plot in this movie was obviously streamline for time purposes but it doesn't suffer because of this. In fact it benefits greatly by keeping the action moving and the audience engaged. For once I actually felt the urgency of the task set before the heroes where as in other movies the horrible destruction of the world always seems to wait until the hero is done having sex with the girl and all the snappy jokes are delivered. If anything is unrealistic it is that type of story. Anyway I am rambling on so to finish up I love this movie and I feel that all those involved did a wonderfully spectacular job. "}{"Title":"Not perfect, but damn good","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The actors ... falter. That's the only way I can explain it. In most of the scenes the acting is brilliant, but every so often we see a shot in which the acting is not up to par. Except for the actress who plays the Empress, who is consistently lousy.And for some reason, there's one guy with blue lips. I don't know what that's about.But beyond that, I can't think of anything wrong with the movie. The plot and the characters are engaging, the special effects are very realistic. If you know what to look for, you can tell that most of the shots of the town are 90 to 100% CG, but where the animation ends and real sets begin is less obvious.You should watch this. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but I've seen worse attempts.","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" At the time when this movie was new, I was still a young child so I was not aware of the terrible acting or background scenery, and I didn't watch other science fiction shows like Star Trek so I had nothing to compare it to. As such, I enjoyed the movie, especially the gauntlet part, but thats mainly because I played Dungeons and Dragons with my friends, and the movie was a decent attempt to portray that, although I'd have to agree that two of the main characters were expendable. The worst attempt I've seen as a game crossover to a movie is Final Fantasy. Overall, I wouldn't highly recommend it to anyone. This is a cult film at best, with only a few people who would really want to watch the movie more than once. "},{"Title":"Guilty pleasure","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sorry but I do find this film a guilty pleasure. In many ways I can criticise it from a film making point of view but still do enjoy it when I'm watching it. Especially after half a bottle of wine.The acting is generally pretty wooden or could be sold in Sainsburies as the finest quality of ham. I still have a soft spot for Justin Whalin after New Adventures of Superman.Special effects are pretty risible in comparison with the Lord of the Rings movies.Script and dialogue are poor and the plotting is loose at best. As far as I'm aware a maze does not involve a straight line, geometrically speaking.Overall a bad film but I still like it. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as many people say","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think many people go into this movie, expecting a AAA title epic, the likes of LOTR, or comes here after seeing the review (which is more a parody review, as all his shows) by Nostalgia Critic.I saw it the first time when it came out in 2000, one year before LOTR set the scale for all fantasy films to come. At that time, this movie was a masterpiece, the likes of Willow and Wolfman... and with a similar budget to boot.I found the movie to be a fair representation of the average Dungeons and Dragons adventure, and I have had a lot of those.Although there were some things that I didn't agree with, I saw those for what they were, limitations of the technology of the time and of the budget. I knew going into it, that it would be a one-man production from a 19-year-old that had spent 10 years gathering the money for it. Considering the powerhouse names we see in the movie, the quality of the production and the stunning visuals, I think that was pretty well done.This movie is skillfully made, has a solid plot worthy of the source material and the acting is on par with most AAA titles out there, despite this being a budget title and the debut of the writer/director. "},{"Title":"Bad, but so good.","Date":"11 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I give this movie three stars for the actual quality of the movie, i.e. acting, special effects, writing, etc. In entertainment value though, this movie is a solid ten stars. Quite possibly the best thing I've seen in a long time. It's one of those movies that's so awful it's incredibly funny to watch. I cried laughing it was so amazing. The plot is about as cliché as you can get; a couple of adventurers going on a quest to get a carefully guarded magic item to stop an evil sorcerer from taking over a fantasy kingdom. A plot like this is doomed to stupidity, but it makes the movie even better for it. This is definitely worth the watch, as long as you know that you've got a poorly made, poorly written movie. "},{"Title":"Coming Cult Classic for Gamers","Date":"29 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" All this is a personal view, so don't spew, don't sputter.I actually *love* that movie, not because it is good, but entirely for its camp value. It is pure D&D, at least as far as I know it from 25 yrs of game mastering, a truly deep delve in the world of gaming. That so many people despise, nay, hate it with all their heart's content (look at the board) shows, how close it hit home in that regard.Some high points and how they relate to gaming.1) Irons chewing up the scenes. He has a better voice than I do, but apart from that I do the same thing at my game table when representing the villain. Alternatively I do the menacing silent guy.2) Payne slow moving 'n stuff. You must be joking. He actually quotes me. In my games, when the group doesn't realize their foe is way over their head, I let him move slowly and utter lines like that. (Not that it would help much, stupid players) 3) Death of Snails; well, when a character (not the player!) has done enough to seriously p*ss me or the rest of the group off, he is bound to meet his end (always with fair means and a chance to escape). And who p*ssed the audience more off than Snails? I remember the cheers in the theatre. (And yet it was touching in a weird way). Snails also is a persona frequently found at gaming tables - the wisecracking dumb*beep* who is spoiling the fun with his witty and funny remarks. Death to him I say. (Representing a player and a PC? Uh-uh, multilayered reality ;) ) 4) Plot. Cheesy world saving quest with dungeon hopping and a quick dash into the elven woods for some R&R and a lot of Behind-the-scenes wisdom. What gamemaster of our (the first) generation never has used that plot line or at least considered using it? (The plot revealed in the deleted scenes on DVD actually works very well within the limited scope of a game world.) 5) General acting skills. Despite the fact that solid to good actors are doing strange things here - can you remember how your high school buddies roleplayed (i.e. acted) their characters at the gaming table? How did that look like? Ring a bell? I could go on for a quite a while.6) The dwarf too tall, mage not using spell components properly - hey, currently my tallest player is having a halfling character, and complicated spell-casting rules tend to get muddy in the thick of things. That's the way of these worlds, isn't it. You need a dwarf (and an elf) in the group to save the world, don't you know? Well, latest player to join gets one of them, regardless of height....Solomon did not bring us a movie in the D&D universe. He also did us not explain the actual game mechanics. He created a movie immersing us in the D&D experience. That's something different, and he like so totally delivered. D&D (IMHO) is cheesy, campy, over the top and (from a narrative point of view) quite often very bad, all this adding up to several trainloads of fun. Naturally this does not refer to people having adopted D&D 3.X, which tends to take itself too serious and causes the most boring gaming tables (apart from Shadowrun) at cons.All in all I nearly laughed my head off. Irons was completely unchecked by anyone on the set and so much fun! I think he tried to get back at his director, but in the end, he makes this movie an outstanding piece of camp. Will be a cult classic in 10 to 15 yrs.Just my 2 cents. If you hate it, feel free to do so. I guess you have reasons. For all the others - make a double feature of Dungeons & Dragons and The Gamers and a lot of beer, it is surreal. It rocks! You may throw in the Ring Thing just for good measure (more beer and a fondue).Oh, and avoid the sequel to Dungens & Dragons - it is supposed to be taken serious but is just a neutered piece of C-picture.P.S. Just rewatched it and put it from 6 to 7. It is great after a couple of beers. "},{"Title":"George Lucas doesn't  own the rights to adventure movies","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is mediocre, at best, but there are some surprising elements that save it from being a total waste, chiefly the score. An apprentice of Hans Zimmer (Hollywood seems to be littered with them lately), Justin Caine Burnett does a remarkable job with the music in this movie, capturing the spirit of adventure and still remaining fresh (compared to Zimmer's more stale scores of late, I'd say Burnett took all the good elements of Zimmer's style, and replaced all the overdone and trite composing Zimmer has done lately with some true originality). In short, the music saves this movie.As for it's plot elements being compared to George Lucas's Star Wars, George Lucas stole most of his stock characters and plot elements from Westerns and Arthurian legends long ago, and he doesn't own them just because his franchise is so famous. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why can't folks who are going to make crap fantasy movies just leave the nice trademarked names alone? Why do they have to try to drag a 30-plus year franchise into the muck with them? You can see where someone, somewhere, had the class to try to dovetail the basics of the classic role-playing game to the fantasy genre movie. Yet the end product is a sad, goopy mess and lots of missed opportunities for what looked to be a solid, if not great, cast. I mean, really- did we NEED to see Jeremy Irons in yet another over-the-top villain role? With badly written dialog to boot? The folks who made this didn't use the conventions set down in the game. The dragons were used as mindless pawns, easily controlled and controllable, where in the game they are one of the deadliest creatures around precisely BECAUSE they are insanely brilliant and canny. There are good dragons and bad dragons and some are able to have magic used against them, yes, but the movie was very cavalier about that point.The eye-rollingly tiresome stereotypes of dwarfs and elves showed such a lack of originality, that it was hard to give a flip if they were able to work together to stop...whatever they were along to stop. Not that the dwarven/elven sniping should stop, but it should make more sense than You're a , therefore I must hate you blindly and blusteringly say I hate you even when I am grudgingly finding you not so awful. That's something you can't find in a TV sitcom, is it? *sigh* The ending made no sense, even when trying to leave possibilities for another movie. If the PTB had just read the sources (only about three 300 page books to look through, minimum), and respected the audience they tried to reel in, there could've been a minor hit. Instead, they TPTB poop on their cast and audience and are surprised at the reaction.I just hope some bright filmmakers aren't scared off by how this was made and try their hands at a REAL D&D movie, unlike the folks who put this together. "},{"Title":"Awful...","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a terrible movie.  Though it had some really good special effects (as well as some mediocre ones), the plot was predictable and the acting was awful (or at least badly directed).  The blue lipstick on the henchman was sooooooo bad, I almost can't believe they did it - it made the villain more funny and pathetic than frightening.  Kinda like Dr. Frankenfurter in Rocky Horror, except super gay and funny WITHOUT intending to be.  The scene where whichever Wayans dies is intended to be dramatic, but is really more amusing because of the atrocious acting.  Though I am not a huge D&D fan, I have played and enjoyed it, and still found the movie to be ridiculous.  Sad to see Jeremy Irons in this movie - he's much better than this.  To be honest, I'd rather watch the 80s cartoon  - not only is there more sentimental value, but it's somewhat more realistic... "},{"Title":"Effortless to make and painless to watch.","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ****MINOR SPOILERS WHICH ARE MINOR AND DON'T RUIN ANYTHING THAT COULD EVEN BE POSSIBLY RUINED***Never in my life have I seen a movie that is supposed to be dramatic and serious, but ended up finding it funny. I'm talking almost-spat-soda-on-the-new-carpet funny. From start to finish, this pathetic attempt of a movie manages to give the viewer a feeling of having their intelligence insulted. The first scene, involving a dragon, still leaves me confused to this day. When the main bad guy attempts to do something cool, it ends up falling apart. Then, the CGI dragon (which wasn't too bad looking) ruins the entire scene by having an unrealistic blood-turns-water-into-oil-burning-on-top-of-water effect, therefore lighting an entire lake on fire. 100% nonsense.Then the heroes are introduced. They speak of robbing a place the viewer has no clue about, then suddenly the local government is explained in 5 lines. Cut to the cheesy moment of breaking in, with fake sound effects from a video game I used to play (I got quite angry when I heard the sound effects. They were quite out of place). From there on, the movie goes into a whirling vortex of bad acting and useless special effects.What amazes me is how much they actually cross-referenced from other video games into the movie. The main character at the end of the movie (mysteriously he changes clothes in the middle of a scene) has clothes on that make him look...moronic. I'll give you a clue Squall.On top of that, the acting is terrible. Whenever a certain bad guy (baldy with flaming blue lipstick) would appear on the screen, I would cringe at the oncoming lines that would be poorly executed by him. I have never seen someone so boring in such a cool suit of armor. Then they actually had the nerve to mix in CGI with the guy..ohh...what a mess...Before watching this moronic journey of stupidity, I hadn't seen a movie so ill-conceived. I hope some day this atrocity will be avenged, and possibly a Peter Jackson-esque director will pick up the D&D title and make something good out of it.Overall grade 20% F- (For pity, and marketing effort) "}{"Title":"Unbelievably bad","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the worst movies of its time.  This stinker was so terrible that even the makers of the game now mock the movie.The acting was terrible, the dialog stilted and artificial.  Marlon Wayans so annoying, and the character he played was demeaning.  Snails was a character who deserved to die.  Jeremy Irons was obviously slumming; in interviews he openly said that he did this film for the money.  His performance was over-the-top ham at its worst.When I saw it in the theaters, people were either walking out or laughing when the movie was trying to be serious and dramatic, or staying stone quiet when it was trying to be funny.This film has an overall juvenile feel to it, and probably would have been good for children had it been less violent.  As it stands, it's a piece of garbage. "},{"Title":"Are you kidding? This film was terrible.","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't see how Dungeons & Dragons missed the list of the bottom 100 films. It was the worst film I have seen in years (or since). Truly horrible. The acting was terrible, the dialogue was terrible, the story was terrible. Marlon Wayans plays a role that embarrassed *ME*, for pete's sake; I can only imagine what Damon Wayans thought.Absolutely awful. An embarrassment to humanity. Stay calm... but run, don't walk, from this film. "},{"Title":"Utterly bland and average. Wasted potential.","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Seeing a film in the theater on Christmas Eve has been a tradition of mine since I was a kid. On Xmas Eve 2000, my theater hadn't yet gotten Cast Away or Crouching Tiger, but it did have my third choice, D&D. Well, I've never been so intricately close to D&D that I would have been labeled a sinner in the 80s, but I have ALWAYS loved medieval fantasy, and many of the D&D stories and characters. So, I had the feeling going to the film that I would have a good old popcorn munching time with one of my favorite genres. No decent movies about medieval times had come out in a while, so what better than D&D to end the drought?Well, I left the theater laughing. Not at the movie, but at myself for having such high hopes. It had potential, I'll say that. I chuckled at a joke or two, I liked some of feel, like magicians and thieves and whatnot. But in the end, it felt like a washed out, Lord of the Rings lite. And who would have known that LOTR would indeed come out a year later and absolutely blow everyone's socks off?The main problem with D&D is its basic plot. Several characters band together to retrieve a magical item and defeat the wizard. Ok, sounds fair. But the characters are so wooden and stereotypical, I just didn't care. The thieves are rebels who believe in justice and equality. The wizards are old and power hungry. The dwarf likes beer and fights. The elves are delicate and mysterious. And that's about the most we get to know anybody, although the main two characters (thieves) get more screen time and somewhat anachronistic dialogue. I admit I was surprised by a death halfway through, and surprised again at what happened / didn't happen with the dead at the end of the film. But outside of that, it's pretty stock stuff. And don't look for Jeremy Irons to save the film, he overacts here with the best of them. Although I did enjoy his last scene or two involving his magic and the dragon battle.I guess bottom line is that it's worth a see if you're a real D&D or fantasy fan, but other than that, it's not that great, and if you've seen Lord of the Rings by then you've already seen better. Just too bland. "},{"Title":"Low attempt at high fantasy","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You can tell Dungeons and Dragons is based on a game.  You have your bad guys, and you have the heros who have to defeat them.  The heros' quest is helpfully broken up into smaller tasks, introduced with lines like In order to find the magic rod, we must first get the Eye of the Dragon from the head of the Thieves' Guild.  Even the settings look like something you'd find in a standard RPG video game.The problem, of course, is that this isn't a game, it's a movie.  In a video game, you have some hand in the fate of the characters, and you can spend time figuring out just how to get past that one level.  With Dungeons and Dragons, all we can do is watch, and think about how incredibly dumb it is.Welcome to Izmier, ruled over by one of those teenage monarchs who can manage an entire kingdom at an age when most of us were having a hard enough time managing our hormones.  Empress Savina (Thora Birch, in what looks like Natalie Portman's Star Wars castoffs) wants to declare equality among her people.  That she apparently has both the authority to declare this and the power to enforce it is, of course, a sign of totaltarianism, but never mind. It's just an excuse for the evil mage Profion (Jeremey Irons) to attempt a rebellion, for which he needs a MacGuffin of a magic rod which will enable him to control red dragons.By circumstance, the map needed to find this rod is in the hands of who I fear are our heros semi-compitent thieves Ridley (Justin Whalin) and Snails (Marlon Wayans), a novice lady mage, an elf, and a dwarf.  Ridley and the mage take an instant dislike to each other, so we know they're destined to be together.  Snails provides what would be comic relief, except it gets old quickly.  By quickly, I mean right away.  The elf exists primarily to wear one of those steel push-up breastplates all female warriors wear in movies like this.  The dwarf does standard dwarf schtick--axe-swinging, alcohol-swilling, and general grumpiness.That's the plot, which mainly exists to give the characters an excuse to go through all the standard sci-fi/fantasy/adventure sequences.  Among the scenarios dutifully checked off a tavern filled with a colorful, multi-species clientele, a booby-trapped maze, the capture and rescue of the principal female character, dire warnings that the thing which everyone's looking for would best remain undiscovered, and hints that Ridley has some great destiny.  And the final battle sequence, fought by huge computer-generated dragons who breathe fire and crash into the scenery (hope Savina has a good urban renewal budget).  All of these sequences have been lifted wholesale from other sources, most notably the Star Wars and Indiana Jones movies.  And it's not just the plot that's been ripped off one of the musical motifs sounds as much like the Imperial March as possible without paying John Williams royalties.Hey, I've got nothing against ideas that have been done before--heck, this stuff wasn't exactly original when Lucas and Spielberg appropriated it. But Indiana Jones and the first Star Wars movies were done with energy and style, a sense of conviction and fun that made the material work. Dungeons and Dragons slogs from one scene to the next, often without any sense of connection between them, making it feel more like an obligation than anything interesting.  The cast is either lifeless (Whalin and Birch) or ridiculously over-the-top (Waylans and especially Irons, who snarls and bares his teeth more than his Lion King character).  There are a couple cameos designed to provide chuckles for the geeks of the audience, but they're mild thrills in a movie that has no major ones. "},{"Title":"AVOID THIS FILM AT ALL COSTS, WATCH battle field earth instead!","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is soooooooooo AFUL, the acting is so naff and the special effects are very cheesy! What was the director thinking when he decided to make this film? i think this is THE WORST film of 2001. The only aspect of this film that i enjoyed was Jeremy Irons as the villan. If this film won any awards it would probably be the golden turkey award! Alongside with Tomb raider 1 and 2 this is the worst game turned into movie ever! 1 out 5 "},{"Title":"Please help this poor film find a trash can","Date":"14 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was truly awful when it was released and this has been thrown into even greater perspective by the superb Lord of The Rings films.  Marlon Wayans comedy simply doesn't fit into the film, the script is overly corny and just plain and simply bad, and the ending is...i don't know what to say about it.  I guess if I can't say something good about it I shouldn't say anything at all! -=zip=- "},{"Title":"OK movie, bad ending","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was completely ripped apart by the critics. Poor plot, special effects of Playstation-quality and waste of talent for Jeremy Irons and Thora Birch. Tho I agree with the most of this I must say I enjoyed most of the movie. It's just not to be taken seriously, which is obvious when you watch Jeremy Irons and Marlon Wayans. And it's not an Oscar-contender either when you watch that female wizard (she's really cute tho!).What I liked was the first half of the movie, nice action, nice puns and it looked good.The ending was however disappointing with it's poor visuals. Also, they could have tried a lot harder making an interesting story. And I thought that bald guy with the lipstick wasn't really a cool villain...unless you like the muscular gay type. But you pretty much get what you signed in for, Dungeons and Dragons!I give it 6,5/10  "},{"Title":"not a bad effort.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  *minor spoilers*Based on hit the game That I played a few times before (I love the monsters designed for the game.) This movie is not that bad, but I wish that they could have had some more of the monsters from the game (there is only a dragon, beholder, and orcs.) and it is a bit over-acted, but the movie is overall worth a rent. "},{"Title":"Argh!","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jeremy Irons is a brilliant actor but a gruesome waste in this movie. I have spent my share of time playing RPG and thought this would be fun to watch. How wrong I was. The acting ranges from so-so okay to downright ugly. Fight sequences look like your average schoolyard. The costumes are idiotic and the sets unrealistic. The CGI effects are technically okay but artistically downright amateurish. Buildings are like those on the game boxes from afar but seem to be condemned warehouses close up. Sound bad? I haven't even begun to comment on the story. Why? It's simply not there. In the heydays of RPG the story was less important when good gameplay could make up for it. Those days are gone and the game producers are beginning to get to grips with that but apparently the producers of this movie have missed that. And even so, the gameplay here is an obvious lack unless you watch it on video in which case you could start fiddling with the remote control to add some action. "},{"Title":"Only the ability to show the things you have been thinking of, when you played RPGs, prevent this from being a total disaster","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is rather weird. If you like RPGs you will certainly find it a little more interesting, than if you don't. It is way to predictable however, virtually every one of the elements and sentiments are severely abused. Love does not belong in this story, but is given about two minutes anyway, leaving the impression of a rather big mistake. The scenography is fine, the music is rather regular, the special effects are a little above average and worth looking at. But apart from that the movie is very boring, since it is so predictable. Perhaps children will find it more impressive? I didn't really like it at all. Only the fact that some of the things you miss, when you play a RPG have come alive, saves this movie from being a total disaster. Jeremy Irons is a formidable actor, but has certainly been better before... "}{"Title":"Entertainingly bad... honest.","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I got the DVD from the bargain bin after hearing *so* much bad of the movie that I knew I had to see it... ...and I was *really* surprised. I actually liked the movie a lot. No, it's definitely *not* a good fantasy movie (uh, they released a lot better movie last year, all is not lost). It's definitely not a good Dungeons and Dragons movie. (Here's a tip for the Hollywood Get Bioware for consultation - they already make D&D computer games the way they should be done.) It's not even a good movie - pretty detailed but cheesy 3D graphics, five-eurocent special effects and composition, and such, cliched plot and dialogue, and lots of over-acting... ...but it was *fun*. This movie is the very definition of so bad that it's actually pretty good. Let the cliches fly! This movie is definitely not a Great Art Experience, and everyone who is looking for a good, serious, well made fantasy movie should stay FAR away from it... and let us who like to torture ourselves with bad movies to see it. And as far as torturing goes, this movie is not as annoying and unwatchable as movies that even *try* to be credible.All right, thanks a lot for this turkey. Wholeheartedly recommended for the fans of bad movies. But please do tell me, when is the *real* D&D movie coming up? "},{"Title":"Captured the essence of D&D perfectly...","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, this isn't really a very good film i admit but somehow it felt like an RPG all the way. As the fanatic PnPer I am I recognised most of the cliches. As a GM who hasn't used the thieves' guild master in the exact same way? I laughed at all the jokes that we commonly use in our playing sessions but mostly I laughed at the film itself.The acting is not very good.The special effects could be better (but I heard there were budget-problems)The story is weak but it works.But overall I enjoyed this film, because it was a BAD film it was something to laugh at with my friends. And it was an RPG. One thing to say though is that I liked Wayans the most in this film and mostly when I see him in films I hate him...Things that makes the film worth a see-The elf's breast plate woohoo )-The tavern-scene-Damodar... MUAHAHA 8^)-The Force "},{"Title":"Not a total waste of time...","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...but pretty close.Yes, it's awful, yes the script is totally hammy, yes everyone overacts, yes characters are in it for no reason, yes the dragons aren't as amazing as they could be... ...but it's fun.  It's got some cracking lines in it, and the un/intentional spoof of the Crystal Maze as Ridley (Jimmy Olsen from the New Adventures of Superman) tries to get the Dragon Eye from the smirking Richard O'Brien was breathtakingly funny.  (Probably because it was all action and no acting, which was diabolical)  You can almost hear him shout 'I can see the Crystal!'.  It was worth 100 minutes of tripe for that.The effects are very good, and the locations are excellent, but it is really let down by the script and chronic overacting.  However, as you can't really escape from the former except by muting the film, accept it and just sit back and laugh at the overacting instead.  In fact, turn the sound off and dub it yourself, your script could be no worse.Get some beers in, phone all your friends who like Conan the Barbarian or Hawk the Slayer and don't expect too much.  You'll have a great night.However, if you want a really good fantasy movie, rent Lord of the Rings, Labyrinth or The Wizard of Oz.   "},{"Title":"A Dragon Without So Much Fire","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not an enthusiast in the game, I was looking forward to the movie Dungeons & Dragons.  I wouldn't call it a complete disappointment, but it wasn't perfect either.  I enjoyed the visual effects.  And I liked the characters of Elwood the dwarf and Norda the elf.  But the story left quite a bit to be desired.  Basically, this was a B-movie script with an A-movie budget. "},{"Title":"Attention Director of Dungeons and Dragons.","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really did appreciate your film.  I thought, with more money, more time, you could have had one hell of a film.  Shoot your casting director. Jeremy Irons is a good actor but man, what was that.  Thora was meant to be typecasted as a dopey teenager, not a goth queen.  Even an added orchestral score can't save that scene where she says she would die for the kingdom or whatever.  I enjoyed the DVD commentary.  I learned alot.  You sound like a man who's got his s*** together.  To take on a film like that with little money is hard enough, the complexities are immense and I didn't expect you or anybody else to get it right in a cinematic time of no originality and surpressed creativity.  I think you bit off more than you could chew (but doesn't every great director) and compensated too much.  Why did you reshoot the ending.  My friend, a D&D fanatic liked the movie up till that end where she says don't question your gift and then they disappear into dust??????? What the hell was that????????  don't question your gift?  All and all you did a great job.  GREAT EFFORT, Ok flick.  Was coverage hard to completely get or did you cut this film down from a 3 hour film because it moves too quick.  I think it was the dolly, tracking, and trucking shots that told the momentum of the film and not the editors choice.  It seemed like the movie had a mind of it's own and set the rules as far as what was pacing.  You shot tooo many moving shots!  "},{"Title":"Am I the only one who thinks this totally ripped off Episode 1?","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok let me make my point.Darth Sidious = Jeremy Irons.Queen Amidala = Thora Birch. Jar Jar Binks = Marlon Wayans. Anakin = Justin Whalin.Darth Maul >Bruce Payne etc...The end when there is an air battle of dragons and  sword fight mirrors the last half hour of Episode 1.Anywho Thora Birchs acting is horrendous. Jeremy Irons over acts so much youd think hes trying to win an oscar.(a golden Raspberry maybe).....Also Thora did a terrible job of overdubbing her dialog. Glad they killed off Wayans' character. Bruce Payne was semi cool as the main henchmen. Effects were iffy at best but watchable if only once. "},{"Title":"Enjoyed it, only enjoyed it!","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When i sore the advert on TV for D&D i was really looking forward, to seeing it on the big screen, my expectations were extremely high for i am a D&D Roleplayer myself, But after seeing it i was not impressed, i meerly enjoyed it.As with all my comments i always talk about the acting, and for D&D words cannot describe the hardness of the D&D acting, It couldnt have been worse if it was broadcasted live to us.Example (Oh look...Its going to kill us....Oh no what are we going to do...Lets run...Good idea...lets).One thing this movie needed was more reference to the game and oh god please!!! JEREMY IRONS!!!! no way, Jeremy irons as a bad guy couldnt act his way out of a cloud!!! But the story line and everything else was quite good, the graphics were also impressive, so my ending commment is, If you have a choice between D&D and something like the Mummy Returns see the Mummy Returns or...If you have nothing else to see... go wacth D&D, its not a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"Not worth your time","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A bad cross between Star Wars Ep.1 and Dragonslayer except in Dragonslayer the Dragon looked real. The dragon in Drakken looked better than these. Acting was limited to bad (except for the cameo of Tom Baker which stands out).This movie is only for D&D fans. Everything in it has been done elsewhere and better. "},{"Title":"So Bad... it's Good","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the perfect Mystery Science Theatre 3000 movie. When Ridly goes, When was the last time you saw the river on fire? I turn to my friend and say, 'Cleveland, 1969'. And it's got Tom Baker in it to boot(a Dr Who fans dream)! Rent this movie and watch it with a bunch of loud obnoxious friends. "},{"Title":"Unrealized Potential","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Unfortunately, this film had incredible potential that was not realized. Though the sets and costumes are impressive, the story compelling and the effects dazzling, the film is a complete flop. Dungeons and Dragons lacks any substance and integrity. The acting is awful, even from veteran actor, Jeremy Irons. You do not feel anything for any of the characters. Attempts at humor are infantile. Please save money by not renting this film. "}{"Title":"Among the worst movies I have ever seen ...","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Honestly, this is among the three worst movies I have seen in my life (I cannot think of #1 and #2 at present, but I am sure there are worse movies than D&D).  I did play D&D once with some friends in college, and it was rather entertaining.  However, this movie does not do it justice.First, I've seen better acting in most high school drama pieces.Second, there were a handful of supporting cast characters that added absolutely no value to the movie.Finally, relationships between the characters were so poorly defined that the viewer really did not care less about any of them. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous graphics","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I absolutely adored this movie. It follows through well and you leave every scene exited. There are graphics in just about every single scene. I also loved how the actors weren't huge movie stars, like I heard they were going to use Mina Suvari for Marina's part. The only thing wrong with this movie that I can see is, Courtney should of used some more of the deleted scenes on the DVD. So who cares if the movie is longer. It's just more exitement. And I can't see why they would go through all the trouble of having a baby dragon hatch with computer graphics and not show it in the actual movie. Also, some of the scenes would have explained the movie better. Anyway, I think anyone from ten to one-hundred would like this movie, so go rent it.  "},{"Title":"Give it a chance","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I admit, I read the reviews when this first came out, and I didn't go to see it in the theatre.  I thought, 'no way can they do a world as vast as that of D&D any real justice in a feature-length film.'  Even as a die-hard D&D fan and even though I found myself chuckling ruefully at a few points in watching this, I really enjoyed the film.  YES, a level-two thief is not going to beat a level-10 fighter in combat (guesses here of course), and YES the boy should not have been able to fight like he did at any point in the film; BUT at least the killing of Damodar was with a trademark-thief backstab.  YES Marlon Wayans was a silly bit of slang-talking comic relief; but as an experienced thief player I can tell you he did a far better job of playing the persona of a thief than his counterpart there - thieves are supposed to be wisecracking, devil-may-care gadabouts.  And YES Jeremy Irons acted like a fading Shakespearian, but evil mages are REALLY evil.  You can't gain control of that much power without some of your traditional evil-power-hungry-megalomaniacal madness.  Somebody claimed it was too clean; I think the extended periods in the thieves' guild, dungeons, and tavern did a great job of painting both sides of the D&D world. A couple of things I didn't like, though; the heroes go through a maze, which is more of a DM contrivance than a real common occurrence in the world.  Also, technical limitations I'm sure, but the writers certainly didn't give credence to the rainbow of races in D&D.  Except for a couple (orcs?  in a human city tavern?), the non-distinctly humanoid races were not represented . . . no ogres, trolls, what-the-heck-was-the-guy-with-three-eyes-he-looked-like-he-was-from-star-tr ek, goblins, even dwarves of a realistic size. Still, really great movie.  I left feeling good about it, and I didn't expect that. "},{"Title":"Not Bad","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  D and D, was not bad in my opinion.  I don't know much about the game but as for the movie, it was okay.  The special affects could have been better and the story itself could have been better.  Jeremy Irons was pretty good in his role as the villain.  In fact, his character, I thought, is what held my interest in the film.  He did seem to over act in a few scenes but it did not seem to detract from the film.  The hero of the film seemed to lack depth and did not seem to inspire much.  This film could have been better if they had casted a different person to play the hero.  I have to admit, for anyone who likes the game of D & D, you will mostly likely like this one.  I felt this film has many good traits and scenes, it just needed a better presentation to make it come together.  If you like D & D, or mysticism that surrounded the medieval times, you will like this one.  If you don't, you will hate this one.Overall,  okay but nothing special  (5 out of 10). "},{"Title":"Lessons to be learned from an odd mix","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me just get this out of the way right now and say that D&D was an entertaining film, but nothing more than that.  Instead of making its own mark and leading the pack in this kind of a fantasy picture, the writers and director relied a little too heavily on other films to steer their own.Jeremy Irons is the baddie who wants all the power and to rule the fantasy kingdom.  Why Irons accepted this role I'll never know.  Bruce Payne aids the baddie and appears to still be in character mode from Highlander Endgame.  Payne is definitely much more fun to watch than Irons, though.  There's just something about his intensity...Some have said that the Empress is reminiscent of the one in Star Wars--The Phantom Mess, but I was reminded a bit more of The Neverending Story minus her riding a dragon in battle.  Whatever.  It's really unimportant.  I have to say that Justin Whalin makes a dashing hero and plays his part rather well.  He's a cutie and it's easy to see why Zoe McLellan stays so close to him on their quest to find some scepter that controls the red dragons...and will save their kingdom or something like that.  That plotpoint ends up taking a back seat anyway, so just enjoy the visuals.  Marlon Wayons does his best as the wimpy sidekick who screams a lot, way too much like Chris Tucker did in The Fifth Element.Beyond the cast, one would have hoped for a little bit more magic to be seen on screen from mage-in-training McLellan.  Instead, she gets to fume and scream a bit herself as well as take on a few henchmen.  Whalin gets to appear heroic by having sword fights and going through a death maze (ala Spacehunter or Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade).  There was one particular point in the middle of the film when Payne is advancing on Wayans and the music changes and I swear that I thought Darth Vader was going to make a cameo.  Still, while eye and ear-candy, it doesn't amount to a whole lot and everything the main characters do becomes somewhat pointless by the end of the film.Speaking of the end of the film, I had to listen to the commentary track on the DVD just to understand what the heck happened.  I rather liked the element of tragedy in the story only to be let during the last few seconds with the promise of a sequel (that's what the commentary said) that probably won't see the light of day.  If they do, however, I hope they take a good long look at what was bland and borrowed in this film and not repeat those mistakes in the next.I'll be watching. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I over all liked the movie.  Yet there was one thing that my friends, family and I found not fitting in the movie and that was Snails.  Marlon Wayans (Snails) was great in Scary movie yet he seamed out of place in this movie.  I own the DVD and I think more would have praised the film if the deleted scenes would have been included.  This movie is great for younger kids too for my two Daughters 4 and 3 love the movie.  My whole family is looking forward the sequel. "},{"Title":"Take a 4 out of 10","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, so it wasn't extremely horrible, but the special effects were just bad, i mean really bad. Though it had a great fantasy story with a great cast (excluding Marlon Waynes), but they could have done better with the effect, which is what the movie suffers most from. "},{"Title":"This movie isn't enough what D&D is about","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've been playing D&D since 1979, and this movie did not have enough of a D&D feel. Of course I stopped playing with the 1st Edition rules, I hoped that more monsters, character classes, armor-types, traps and spells from the D&D world would've been shown in this movie. Where were all the wonderful monsters that D&D players know fondly from the game?  I would've loved to see the onscreen representations of some of the famous monsters from the game. The filmmakers should've crammed the movie with tons of references to the actual game, so the D&D fans could pick them all out. The dungeons in the movie were extremely short. A vital part of the game is about a party working together, but in this movie - the hero Ridley went solo through most of the dungeons, while his companions waited outside -- what was the purpose of that?  The ending made little sense, except to make way for a sequel. I would've prefered and ending that reverted to our world, showing a group of gameplayers sitting around a table, finishing up the story we had just seen. The scale of the movie seemed a bit cramped and staged. No attempts were made to combine the sweeping CGI vistas with the live actors. I think they should've left the scenes inside the scroll and the Ridley's dream of the baby dragon intact. On the DVD, you can see these scenes and others under the Deleted Scenes section. I think they ran out of time with this movie, and wanted it released in time for Christmas. If they had done more post production, it may have been a much better movie. "},{"Title":"Expect little and be pleasantly surprised","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you like to snack while watching a movie this is it...its harmless entertainment thats purpose seems to be to fill the void until Episode2 or lord of the rings. Overacting that isnt out of place and a passively funny performance by mr. wayans get the job done while you sit back and think about how much you would have LOVED this if only you were still 9.  (a side note I couldn't help but notice how often this movie lifted images and ideas from the Star Wars and Indiana Jones movies, it happens so often it could be a drinking game) "},{"Title":"Easily forgotten","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is what defines nothing special. You watch it, you like some parts, some you don't, and you will never think about it once you leave the theater.As a player of the Baldurs Gate computer game, the D&D cosmos is nothing new to me. But in this movie, most of the inherent magic of this fascinating world was simply let out for poor effects and cheap character stereotypes. The female mage has nothing to do but to look nice and to scream in moments of danger. She hardly ever uses her magic abilities, and therefore is a splendid example of the poor role play adaption this movie is. She is no mage - she is simply a damsel in distress.The humor of the movie also is very simple and nothing to really laugh about. That is, if you leave out Jeremy Irons' incredibly bad acting - his bad mage routine should be added to acting books under the chapter how to overplay a character. But, to be true, those were the most funny moments of the movie, so at least Irons was good for something here...All in all a rather unspectacular start to the new wave of fantasy films which will accompany the giant blockbuster Lord of the Rings production. I pray to God that the Tolkien adaption will be far better than this mostly trashy b-movie. "}{"Title":"Not as good as it could have been.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With sound direction and ok CGI the potential for Dungeons and Dragons to be a good film was pretty high. Although it hadn't been hyped I was still looking forward to seeing it after watching the cartoon.This films downfall was the very bad script. In some instances I found the actors repeating themselves and the delivery of many lines was atrocious. I even found myself cringing at one point when Justin Whalin fell on his knees and, in a demonstration of one of the biggest clichés ever, screemed 'NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO' when his friend was stabbed.A poor film - one to avoid! "},{"Title":"Too many dungeons, not enough dragons","Date":"7 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  During the 1980s, there was always trepidation surrounding the release of board games and especially computer games based upon popular films of the time &#150; who can forget the classic that was &#145;Back to the Future'.  Almost as a kind of revenge, film-makers during the nineties have taken extremely popular games and turned them into unwatchable nonsense.  &#145;Dungeons and Dragons' was one of the most long awaited adaptations, and perhaps because of the length of its gestation period, the finished film could never live up to some of the fans expectations.  It's a pity though that it fails to live up to any expectations.Rather than keeping with the ready made plot contained in the classic D&D cartoon series, the film makers have attempted to create a status quo akin to a group of friends playing the game.  Indeed, the dialogue at times mimics the creativity of a bunch of game players during a post-pub dungeon hop.  For the first half hour of the film, it almost becomes expected that the scene would dissolve into a group of people in home made costumes gathered around a table (a feeling which returns at the film's coda).  Instead, sense of disbelief is stretched to its limit as a series of characters without pasts are dragged through the hero's journey, the wind whistling through the pages of  Joseph Campbell &#145;The Hero with a Thousand Faces' as it sits on the table next the writer's keyboard.It's a brave move to assume that the audience understands the rules of fantasy as a genre &#150; but despite first glances, it can be as sophisticated or simple as the writer wishes.  Here, too much understanding is expected of the viewer.  The importance of the staffs is never full explained and neither is how they control the dragons.  The important fact (dramatically) that a mage cannot use magic unless she has something to work with is ignored somewhere as well, so for much of the film we wonder why our friends keep getting captured.  The Arthurian abilities of Ridley also seem far fetched.  Yes, we know he's special, but could you show us how?  These are small things, but as they niggle away at us whilst we watch they draw us out of the story.  Perhaps the most likable parts of the film are in the scenes were the actors are not running around and shouting at each other.  Justin Whalin shows the charisma of a young Dennis Quaid;  Marlon Wayans is more likable here than in &#145;Scary Movie' although he could so with trying to be himself and not Eddie Murphy; Zoe McLellan is startling touching as the love interest and could do well in a none genre piece.  Richard O'Brien must have been laughed himself stupid at getting to play being keeper of maze again in a fight to the death edition of &#145;The Crystal Maze'.  And Tom.  Dear Tom Baker &#150; who despite his elfin ears managed to produce on the few truly human performances.  is said some of the actors don't do quite as well &#150; Thora Birch looks embarrassed to be their in role probably filmed before &#145;American Beauty'; Jeremy Irons decides that if you can't see the set, its best shout a lot and grimace; Kristen Wilson looks disappointed that she didn't get to be Storm in &#145;X-Men', but her role seems to have been curtailed to simple pronouncements.But what of the special effects?  In order to bring a world to life there has to be some consistency in the magic brought to bear in creating that world.  Unfortunately, there is a feeling that a number of different SFX houses were at work, and they all thought they were working on different films.  The magic effects are superb, as good as anything seem in &#145;The Matrix' and its friends.  But its in the imagery of the place, the castles, the landscapes, the dragons, that things become unstuck.  Anyone whose played the old PC classic &#145;Myst' will be familiar with the standard of rendering.  Its almost as though a game was in preparation and the graphics were used here.  In a feature film this isn't enough.  &#145;Dragonheart' proved the sophistication which can be achieved in the imagining of mythic creatures, but the effects here fall short of expectation.  We should believe in the world, not sit and marvel at how sophisticated the rendering is &#150; for that I'll go see Toy Story or Shrek.So overall, a very disappointing experience like many adaptations.  Too simplistic for fans, too irrelevant to the average punter, New Line may have made a mistake releasing the film as a curtain raiser to &#145;Lord of the Rings'.  It's a bit like Lucasfilm offering up &#145;Battlefield Earth'.  If your average cinema goer thinks that this is the best Fantasy has to offer, you can imagine the rest of that series going direct to video. ***  "},{"Title":"This film belongs in a dungeon somewhere.....or a dragon.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The D&D universe is one of epic battles, great heroes and very nasty villains.  Did this movie deliver any of this, well apart from the last 10-15 mins....NO...not in any way.  I knew it was not going to live up to my expectations or even mildy amuse me, when they introduced the Comedy Sidekick Snails.  If you ask me Ridley should have run him through when he didn't want to go along with his plan in the first 5 mins of the film, but you can't have everything.    Why does almost every film with great potential need to be ruined by the inclusion of some muppet, who is used to make the weakly cast and developed main characters look good.Overall, I was very very disappointed with this film, they had the potential to produce something great, and they fluffed it BIG TIME.  I wasn't asking for a film so painfully accurate to the D&D universe that you could see people rolling dice during battles, but I was expecting something epic and engaging...and it seems that they didn't even try to achieve that in this film.  All I found myself wishing for, was a grisly end for all of the main characters, be they good or evil.However, IF you've never played D&D or ever read any of the books, AND you like comedy sidekicks then you'll probably think this is an excellent film. However if you are a D&Dphile, my advice would be to aviod this film like the plague. "},{"Title":"What more can be said?","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThere is very little to be said about the movie adaptation of the board game Dungeons And Dragons that hasn't been said by many other critics.The one thing that stands above it all,however,is the thing that was apparent before anyone even viewed it which was that it was never going to be as good as it's source of inspiration.There's never going to be as big a thrill watching something played out before you as there is actually playing it for yourself,and so already there are problems.But it's also extremely shocking to see all those involved giving performances in the movie as if it were a Shakesperian film they were starring in,rather than a simple piece of hokum,especially Jeremy Irons as the villain Profion.The dialogue also feels cliched and protracted,which in turn rubs off on the characters concerned.It's not that anyone acting in it is giving a bad performance,they're just over doing it for what it is,being really heavy handed and over emotive.Actor Bruce Payne is getting a reputation as a screen bad guy now,having previously appeared as one in Sweepers and Passenger 57,however here,he's appearing as a henchman to a bad guy rather than the big cheese himself.His appearance with water blue lipstick slapped across his mouth isn't guaranteed not to emote giggles from certain members of the audience,and Marlon Wayans character unsmoothly transcends from being a comic relief guy to a stern and serious individual.The special effects are convincing enough,but are still obviously computer generated.The director Courteney Solomen had no real directing experience before making this,and while a pretty good go has been had at covering this up,the lines still creak through.** "},{"Title":"Spoiler...but IMHO don't think there's really much to spoil.","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear... Let's take a handful of ideas from Lucasfilm scripts (Star wars garbage chute scene, Mos Eisley cantina, Temple of doom opening artifact-hunt...) Then let's segue into the Crystal maze BTW Thats a quiz we had here in the U.K.  A team had to guide each other through a series of puzzle rooms in an effort to obtain small plastic crystals  Eerily, the show was hosted by Richard O'Brien.Okay, so the story starts getting better from that point, but (a) it seems to jerk along from one special effect to another, and (b) it's hard for it to have got worse.Throw in a Token Dwarf (was there ANY point to that character?) encourage extreme ham acting from people who really should know better (But it's a Swords & sorcery Fantasy film, so that's all right then...) and then, to prevent T.S.R. or whoever owns the D&D copyright these days (Hasbro?) from getting litigious, let's blow the rest of the budget on some mostly decent CGI graphics to try and draw attention away from the, frankly, p***poor script.Perhaps they should have let the scriptwriters at least see the game, or perhaps (horrors) play it.  D&D didn't do anything evil enough to deserve this film being tagged onto it. "},{"Title":"Could have been worse.","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When you hear the hero of the film use the words It looks like some twisted magic experiment gone wrong! as his opening line, you know to expect a camp, pantomime film. If you accept this and roll with it, you'll probably enjoy it. The script ranges from poor to dreadful, the FX from good to acceptable and the acting from abysmal(Marlon Wayans)to reasonable (Justin Whalin, Kristen Wilson). Try to ignore both Jeremy irons and Richard O'Brien, who take over-acting to new lows.The story is simple, many elements of it will strike a familiar chord with anyone who has ever played the game the film is based on - the thieves maze is particularly well observed - but a lot of potentially eye-popping scenes were reduced to mere dressing by under par FX. Props and sets also scream low budget, but at least the film stays away from the chainmail bikini style costumes.Worth a visit if you've ever played the game or love camp fantasy fare like Krull, Hawk The Slayer and the Conan films. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The Showgirls of the Fantasy Genre","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm baffled at the comments of the folks who claim this was watchable. This movie stole $1 and 2 hours of my life-- and I want them back!!!!This movie deserves comparisions with Battlefield Earth, Showgirls and Nothing but Trouble. If you like these films, well you'll love this- the sane readers out there will recognize trouble when they see it.I expected cheese but, well this was something more.The plot is a direct ripoff from Episode I- all of it. There are scenes lifted from Star Wars and Indiana Jones (badly I might add). There is a dwarf that seems too tall and frankly for most of the film has no lines of dialog- which might be good given the quality of dialog from the other actors. The film can't decide if it wants to be a dark action film (note no blood, no real action of any kind) or a light hearted romp (the spare Wayans brother's insulting Jar-Jar Binks impression). Bottom line first time director/writer (I forget actually) will hopefully never become a second time writer/director. "},{"Title":"If you actually know what Dungeons and Dragons is, stay away.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In a land where the people are split into two classes, the magic users and the peasants (everyone else), an evil wizard attempts to overthrow the Empire of Izmir using magic and political deception. Two young thieves get caught up in this tangled web of intrigue by a young wizardess, and go for a knock about romp around the fantasy world's countryside. If there was ever a movie to make Dungeon Masters throw in the towel, this was it. I heard the comment that any person who went to see the movie could write a better plot on the back of a postage stamp, and this is actually true. "},{"Title":"Where did they get these actors?","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie last night, and I would have to say that, though it was entertaining, it exhibited some of the worst acting that I have EVER seen!!First of all, Jeremy Irons was wretched.  I honestly believe that I laughed out loud at every line he uttered (or should I say screamed).  It was as though he graduated valedictorian from the William Shatner school of over-acting!!  Every line he delivered was accompanied by a painful wince, an annoying voice that I can't even describe, and a strange hand gesture that made him appear seriously arthritic.  I do believe he turned to Gargamel from the Smurfs for inspiration.  Then there was Thora Birch.  Now I know this girl can act, because she did a wonderful job in American Beauty; however, she made a miserable Empress.  She delivered each line with the feeling you might expect to find in actors from a first grade school play.  And finally, there was Just Whalin, who was okay for the most part, as long has he wasn't attempting to display emotion or pain.  I especially enjoyed the movie's emotional climax, when he fell to his knees and wailed like an injured banshee.Now, I should say that this movie wasn't terrible.  It was entertaining mainly because I enjoy being engrossed in a world of magic and dragons.  I should say that if you have two hours to spare, you aren't looking for a serious movie, you want to let go of reality, and you want to laugh at some miserable acting -- this is the movie for you!!  I saw it for a dollar -- if I had paid more, I would have been a little upset. "},{"Title":"A Dungeons & Dragons movie? I think not!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a long time AD&D player, so I was really looking forward to this movie. But, boy! was I disappointed!! It dosen't stay true to the AD&D world at all! Mages needing magical powder to cast spell? Beholers as guards alongside humans, greenskins mixed with humaniods in bars, come on! The thief characters didn't act mush like thieves, the girl who played the Elf was way too dark skinned to be an an Elf. The city didn't look like any AD&D city I've ever seen! ...and the list goes on.As a Dungeons & Dragon movie this one truly stinks. But had they not called it Dungeons & Dragon, it's would have been a ok fantasy movie, it has an ok but a little crappy storyline, some real nice sceneries and sets and a lot of nice CGI stuff. "}{"Title":"This is why gamer geeks shouldn't be allowed to direct...","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a long-time D&D player, this was thoroughly disappointing. Aside from Richard O'Brien's surprise role as the guildmaster, which was amusing and well done, the rest of the film tanked. Jeremy Irons how could you do this to us??? It can only be called ironic when the best part of a film is inner-city comic relief in a MEDIEVAL SETTING!! Poor in most ways, 3/10. "},{"Title":"Well...","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After reading a couple of the comments, I must say you all have a point in what you say. Story, characters, actors, computer effects, it all is far from being perfect. But what does it have to compete with? Is the story worse than in Conan, the actors worse than in Xena, the effects worse than in Dragonheart? I´m just glad that there is a movie from the D&D RPG at all, because it supports my fantasy. It´s pretty much the same as with Episode 1, I was really happy to see a lightsaber being used as a cutting tool instead of a weapon, because we used to do just that often when playing the Star Wars RPG. Episode 1 was bad, though, having so many ugly flaws like the speeder race or this supposed-to-be-funny character whose name I don´t wanna write down. So does D&D, and I wouldn´t really recommend spending money on it, but _I_ did enjoy watching it. One thumb up, one thumb down.  "},{"Title":"CopyCat!","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Don't know why they made this movie?!This is only a mess of copycat sequences from other BIG movies. Some scenes have been taken from Indiana Jones, others from StarWars-TPM(This in itself is a true crime).The Empress Savina thinks she's Queen Amidala from StarWars-TPM, even the council-scene is copycated.Another thing, if the movie was named Cute & Blackness(?) it would have made as much sense as Dungeons & Dragons. Because the movie doesn't bother to take the history of D&D as a fact.Lot of bad acting, lot's of bad comments and so on, and so on.Disney makes better movies then this (do they?) "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've seen in a while","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I hated this movie.  What was the point of it?  It takes the commercialism and meaninglessness of recent Hollywood movies to new heights.The movie is about a thief, a dwarf, a warrior, a mage...blah blah blah. Get the point?  I didn't care about the plot one little bit, and it's a good thing I didn't because it makes absolutely no sense.  It doesn't even work if you consider it from the context of the fantasy world of D&D (with which I AM familiar). I'll cut my diatribes short to say one thing  DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE! In fact, tell everyone you see to do the same. "},{"Title":"Nice","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't expect much from this film. This is why I enjoyed it. While other fantasy movies create their own worlds with creatures that are hardly familiar to us, this particular one brings to life images that are well known from childhood. Here you will find dragons that spit fire, spiteful wizards, dark tunnels, a brave thief and a beautiful princess.I thought the sets and computer animations were wonderful. The costumes on the other hand were ridiculous. The soldiers' uniforms looked as if made of plastic. The same applies to the rods and scepters used in the movie. I expected something more sophisticated. On the other hand the names used in the movie indicated some interesting connections. Izmir for example, the name of the empire in the movie, is the Turkish name for the ancient Greek city of Smyrna in the western coast of Asia Minor. There is also another connection between  this empire and Turkey The upper part of the Empress' palace looks like the church of Holy Wisdom in Istanbul, Turkey, typical of the Byzantine and Ottoman architectures. "},{"Title":"Tolkien must be spinning in his grave","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  (Spoilers ahead)After viewing this movie, I realize that the mass majority of people who will see this will be players or fans of the game D & D, and to all of you I say this- I WAS EDITOR OF THE SCHOOL MAGAZINE!  (just a little in-joke from Airheads).  But seriously, this is the last video game I would choose for a film and for fantasy enthusiasts, I think they might agree in that this is a disappointment.  And while I know this film constitiutes everything fantasy would have, I just can't realize why a film would have half of it in little wooded areas looking like how it does when you wander into the woods and the other half completely computerized surroundings.  It seems out of sync.  Anyway, the story has 2 thieves (Justin Wharton and Marlon Wayans) who get mixed up in fidning the dragon's eye t0o save the land they live in.  More often than not, this film is loaded to the brim with movie cliches and convention, and the only surprise in the movie (and a saddening one at that) is the death of one of the good characters.  It is overall a pretty dumbening movie where the characters are thin and Jeremy Irons makes his performances in Die Hard 3 and The Lion King evaporate like the dragon's minds.  Not really reccomendable, unless this is your bag.  D+ (for some OK visuals). "},{"Title":"This movie has been compared to Lord of the Rings....","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Usually people that have seen both films say Lord of the Rings was really good. This movie totally sucked. Lord of the Rings were made the way that fantasy films should be made. Dungeons and Dragons was made the way the fantasy usually are made. By far, the best part of the movie was when Snails gets killed. I stood up in the theater and yelled Thank you movie! I hate it when a movie kills off a beloved character but that was great! I have to cringe at the scene when a bald Bruce Payne, in black leather and blue eye liner says Give me the rod! Jeremy Irons, an Oscar winning actor was so hammy he should have had cloves stuck in is back. At least the dragons were cool though. And at least the production values were higher than a lot of the Z grade sword and sorcery films that came out in the 80's. But the ending? You friend is waiting? What was that? I guess that they brought him back to life or something but I can't really be sure. It would have been nice if the movie would have let the audience in on it. "},{"Title":"A word from a gamer","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As far as movies go, this wasn't truly good, nor incredibly bad. It was entertaining enough to watch, but not worth actually buying after the initial viewing, and the performance by Marlon Waynes was rather impressive.As far as the namesake of Dungeons and Dragons goes, this movie was absolutely terrible. It scarred the universe and its rules. It introduces a terrible unlikeness to the game to anyone not familiar with it, and potentially turned off possible gamers. I am offended that D&D could let this happen. The classes were wrong, the fundamental magic use was so hokey it made me sick, and the action sequences were rather pointless.If it were a generic fantasy movie it would be fine, but to use the name dungeons and dragons for this, its shamefull. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hardly ever do i see a movie without a single redeeming feature. But this comes very very close. And the only two redeeming features here are not really good, rather just fun. At least Jeremy Irons and Bruce Payne know how to have a good time while the ship is sinking.A young empress rules over a magic land. She looks for a wand that will help her rule the red dragons, this in turn would let her bring justice and equality to all lands. But an evil man is also looking for the scepter to use it to enforce his own tyrannical rule. Two thieves join forces with the empress and the hunt is on.Well, the above summary was taken in part from a summary here on IMDb and on the back of the DVD jewel case. Why? Well because the movie makes no sense whatsoever, so had i to look what the movie was SUPPOSED to be about! This is a jumbled mess if ever i have seen one. Everything is just so unbelievably bad here. The acting is laughable (even the otherwise talented Thora Birch manages to take a plunge), the special effects are pathetic, the story is a mess, the directing is abominable... I stated above that there are only two redeeming features here. And they are Jeremy Irons and Bruce Payne. I like Jeremy Irons, at his best he is an excellent actor. And say what you will, but he always TRIES to lift even crap like this to decent levels. All his effort was for naught though, but still he tried and that is worth something. Bruce Payne on the other hand is his usual over-acting self, and offers the only laughs available.This movie clocks in at 107 minutes, but it feels like five hours. This is a crap-marathon that offers virtually nothing in the way of entertainment. How this movie could be made is beyond me. And i actually remember some HYPE about it before it came out. If there is any justice in the world though, that hype went right down the drain along with the directors career. This is truly a 1/10. "},{"Title":"We waited all those years for this ?","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As one who's played AD&D since the early 80's, I couldn't wait for this movie to come out. This movie is a POS !!! Don't get me wrong as I love fantasy movies, books & role playing, but after waiting all those years for the big D&D movie, and they drag out this POS? WFT? I'd love to see a well made D&D film, with a good story line, good special effects, and proper casting. The wizard looks like he stepped out of a Brooks Brothers ad, a black woman playing an elf(no racist intent, but I wouldn't have Val Kilmer play Malcom X either)and a dwarf as large as the human characters, along with many other foul attempts of bringing the D&D world to life, just don't cut it. Stay away from this movie. "}{"Title":"What The?!","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know how to express how bad this movie was. I could swear and curse and it still wouldn't describe how bad it was. I'm pretty sure that the entire cast and crew have never touched the pen and paper game or ever picked up a video game version of D&D either.Acting? Terrible. I can't believe that Wayans actually used urban slang for this part, it makes absolutely no sense. The world of D&D was not portrayed properly whatsoever. Even if the Dungeons & Dragons title was not used it would still be a bad fantasy movie. The dwarf was terribly stupid as well.Bah, I could go on and on. If you're looking for mindless humor (if you even want to call it humor) with decent special effects then this is your movie. I personally couldn't even sit through the whole thing. Just to give you an idea of my opinions....I usually take movies at face value and there rarely is a movie that I don't enjoy. But this was BAAAAAAAAAAD.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Awful wouldn't be the word I'd use.","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I first saw Dungeons and Dragons in the summer or fall (don't remember which. It's been two years after all) of 2000. It was during the movie's opening week. I throughly enjoyed it. Sure, it could have used improvements, but how many movies can't?The plot is that the evil mage Profion is a power-hungry would-be tyrant who wants to control the mage-dominated country of Istar. To do this, he needs either the royal scepter or Rod of Savrill. It has the ability to control dragons. Unfortunately for him, the empress of Istar holds the former. Therefore, he sends his chief warrior, Damodar, after the Rod of Savrill while lying to the Council of mages, of which he is a member, about how the teenage empress is too young, and therefore, too inexperienced to be empress. The empress is aware of this, and sends her best tracker, the elf Norda after the Rod. Meanwhile, the empress' status is in jeopardy due to the Council believing the lies of Profion. And on top of that, two thieves, Ridley and Snails, a young mage, Marina, and a dwarf fighter, Elwood, are unwittingly involved in this.When you think about it, this storyline is actually pretty good. There's political intrigue to be found, something we don't see that often on the big screen. And although I didn't mention it earlier, we have a plot point that is the non-mages not getting many rights. This is definitely a better plot than I would've expected.All is not well in the plot, however. Too much is clearly stolen from other movies. The Star Wars knock-offs are too numerous to mention. Also, the series of traps we see Ridley go through at one point clearly rip off the Indiana Jones series. I can live with this somewhat, but it does detract from the movie nonetheless.The character development is fairly good. Ridley begins the movie as a typical thief. However, we later find that he has an apparently cynical past due to his hatred of the mages. Although he loses points due to how hard it is to not compare him to Luke Skywalker from Star Wars fame. Profion is pretty much how we would all expect an evil wizard to be. Hungry for power, hungry for land, hungry for slaves, and unwilling to stop at anything to get them. Most of the other characters don't get much room to breath, but when they do, we see a lot of personality from them. Except for Elwood. He doesn't get much to do. Although with the long cast, that's expected. We also see something of a psudo-romance between Snails and Norda. Snails is trying to put the moves on Norda. Whether she is returning or spitting on his advances is open to debate.The One bad thing about the movie is that the last 20 or 30 minutes seem rushed. Ridley is transported to Profion's castle via a magic portal used by Damodar, gold dragons are suddenly attacking Profion, and Ridley's friends are joining the battle, even though we would have assumed they were a few states away 8 minutes ago. And after Profion is killed, we find that the empress has given mages and normals equal rights. Huh? That's the sign that they were running out of money/time to make the movie.Despite this crippling flaw, Dungeons and Dragons is well worth watching. I know I enjoy it. Especially on my DVD copy. And for those of you who felt a need to give this movie a 1, let me present you with two fantasy movies Conan the Barbarian and Hercules in New York. If D&D is a 1, what the hell are those two stinkers? "},{"Title":"I think George Lucas is gonna sue somebody!","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh, Mystery Science Theater 3000, why did you have to leave us before this movie came out? When I first saw this, in the theater, I was somewhat impressed by the city sets and dragons. . .but, after seeing it on video, I saw the movie's many, many shortcomings.  The plot is minimal, the dialogue is subsubpar, there's a *Wayans* brother,and there are so many Star Wars rip-offs it's not even funny.  You've got Queen Amidala (the empress), Yoda (the elf king. . .replace magic with the force in his lines and you'll feel like you're on Dagobah) and the basic plot structure, as noted by other people.  But still, I give this movie a 3, for 3 reasons 1) Some of the sets and effects were passable, although the thief maze was an Indiana Jones rip-off 2) Zoe Mclellan is a pretty, decent actress who does an okay job 3) Even though MST3K is gone, this movie lets you bring it back to life in your own home. My friends and I thoroughly enjoyed making fun of it; for instance, I found the line Not so talented, eh, Mr Ridley? to be absolutely hilarious because I had been making the same joke for half the movie. "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable DVD - but why delete the deleted scenes?","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am surprised this film has received so much negative comment here - it is clearly intended to be exactly the type of film it is, that is to say a film with strongly typecast characters, lots of effects, predictable plot (and plenty of plot-holes) ... and when viewed in that light it is a whole lot of fun.My wife and I found it a highly entertaining Saturday night's viewing.  I should add that before seeing this film she did not know what Dungeons & Dragons was, while I used to play it a fair bit (ahem) in my misspent adolescent years.  The film managed the great feat of creating a world which was at the same time completely understandable to someone who was uninitiated and entirely familiar to someone acquainted with the principles of the game.I cannot understand the zero ratings this film has received from some reviewers.  I have fairly mainstream tastes, and in terms of plot, dialogue, lack of characterisation and so on, it is certainly no worse a film than Star Wars The Phantom Menace or one of the Die Hard films - again, not exactly high-brow films but thoroughly enjoyable nevertheless, and certainly the kind of film I like to watch to relax.Indeed, some elements in this film are outstanding the costumes, the gothic imagery, the real-life locations in Prague (dig that library!).Among the actors, we were particularly impressed by Justin Whalin, who made a fine and believable young hero, without any of the brattish qualities that a lot of actors in similar roles have had (think Mark Hamill), also by Kristen Wilson who is simply a delight for the eyes.  We had not heard of her before, (we have not seen Dr Doolittle) ...  but it seemed to us absolutely right to cast a lithe and graceful former ballerina in the role of an elf.  Or should that be a half-elf, perhaps?  It was not clear why Norda and Halvath looked significantly different from the other elves unless they were half-elves. In terms of accurate portrayal of D&D the game, I very much liked the fact that all the characters had a clearly defined class; the rivalry between different character classes; the clear alignment of characters (chaotic good, lawful evil etc); the fact that magic users needed ingredients (e.g. magic dust used by Marina Pretensa) for their spells; all the traps; the 'game balance' that is to say that there were few monsters and that most 'opponents' were humans/humanoids; the fact that Profion had a familiar.   I did not think it was accurate that a thief (Snails) should be clumsy, nor that characters who were supposed to be of low levels of experience (Pretensa, Snails and Ridley) had so many high level abilities - Ridley's excellent fighting skills, Pretensa's powerful spells.  Also I found the presence of what were apparently orcs in the tavern to be a trifle bizarre.Having watched this on DVD, one thing stands out, though, and that is that some inexplicable and, can I say, inept cuts were made in producing the final print.  Several key scenes which are absolutely necessary to understand the plot have been cut - one where Elwood Gutworthy (the dwarf) introduces himself to the rest of the party, one where Ridley and Pretensa are actually inside the scroll and given a map of how to find the Rod, one where the romantic interest between Norda and Snails is developed.  There is no apparent reason for these cuts - certainly the quality of the deleted scenes on the DVD is just as good as the rest (although of course they have not received post-production processes - you can actually see the sudden transition from polished to less-polished in the Norda/Snails scene).  If other reviewers have given the film low ratings because of these cuts, I can perhaps understand it ...And to any director/editor/studio thinking of cutting scenes as a result of test audience feedback, I have a piece of advice for you Don't.  (For a good example of why this is not a good idea, see the 'Making of' feature on Twelve Monkeys.) "},{"Title":"One of the Most Under-rated movies ever.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After reading some of the first reviews of this movie.  I thought it would be horrible, but having played the role-playing game many years ago I decided to see it anyway. I was amazed the special effects, and visual art work were some of the best I had ever seen, and from every thing I remember the characters stayed within there game play roles. This story is both interesting and compelling with several unexpected plot twists, and an unexpected ending. If this movie is a measure of movie critics I think this may be the last time I read there reviews. If I had followed their advice and save the ticket price' I would have missed a great cinema experience. "},{"Title":"I have a saying....","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It goes If you think you know so much about making movies, then convince someone to give you $100 million and do it yourself. This comment goes well in hand with the number of reviews I've seen giving this movie the boot. I own this movie. I've replaced my original VHS with the widescreen DVD. I watch it on a semi-regular basis, because it has a certain character, and some rousing music. (It also has mages, an arrogant elf, a cranky dwarf, and a huge dragon war. But I digress.) Many people say it's the worst movie they've ever seen. I say look at Battlefield Earth, which, though a nice idea, managed to do everything in the book that the characters didn't do. I say look at Napoleon Dynamite, which I cannot bring myself to watch even a first time for fear my intelligence will somehow be reduced by the mere act. No, I won't say this is the greatest movie ever, but it is one that can be enjoyable. I'm not the huge D&D fan that some of these people writing reviews are, and maybe that makes a difference. I do know that I can enjoy Final Fantasy Spirits Within, even though it has almost nothing to do with Final Fantasy ANYTHING, except for Cid and a flying ship. Sometimes a movie just needs to be taken on its own merits. For example, I recall seeing D&D at the theater (yes, the theater!) and thinking the dragon war scenes were what I'd wanted to see in Star Wars Ep. 1. Some of it is overacted, and I agree with many viewers that it could've been better. But there's no reason you can't sit back and enjoy it a bit. Besides, I really do enjoy Damodar doing that half-gainer off the tower.... "},{"Title":"A true role-playing adventure!","Date":"26 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It has caught the feeling of the roleplayinggame totally. People who don't like this movie can't ever have played the game in their youth. It's like actually watching an adventure played by thirteen-year-olds, and its wonderful.I think people take this movie for something other than it was meant to. I think it was meant to be a fun role-playing-inspired film. Nothing less, nothing more.I love the fact that everything that happens is classic and that every character is so un-original that it almost hurts.Someone wrote in their comment something about that the elf and the dwarf had nothing to do in the movie, and they're WRONG! How could you ever try to gather a party to save the world without the dwarf and the elf, I just ask. Everyone knows that they MUST be in the group.Another person wrote that he can't help but laugh at people who like this movie, and thats so darn sad. Do he laugh to hide his grief over the sad fact that he is so stuffed with criticism that he just can't relax and treat the movie as its meant with a grain of salt and a big smile, cause hey - epical fantasy humor is FUN! If you don't like the movie, buy the game, roll a D20 and create something better with your friends instead of whining like a baby. "},{"Title":"A poor fantasy that should have stayed an obsessive board game","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie was corny! It deserves a turkey! It was so low budget! Jeremy Irons was cheesy in this one. The rest of the cast was just as cheap. The special effects were lousy. Oh! I forgot the story! What type of imbecilic group of people would make such a raunchy film based off of such an unpleasant obsessive board game? One point, one the heroes named Snail gets killed. I mean that's beastly! And in the end the good guys turn into sprinkles&#151;stardust&#151;and fly away. That's stupid! This film is sooooo poor. It's sad, really! I hope that was enough clever adjectives to make you not see this off movies. But if you want to see it, well it's your life. I can't control you, but that was my advice. "},{"Title":"Pure utter crap!","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie sitting on a shelf in a video rental store so i thought i would rent it.Biggest mistake of my life. This movie is soooo bad,where do you start.How about the so-called hero's played by Justin Whalin and Marlon Wayons.They're acting is so bad it's embarrassing to watch.Then there's Damodor,a bad guy that wears blue lipstick.He looks more like drag queen reject than a feared and dreaded warrior.There's also a dwarf(whose name i forgot)who is so annoying i wish the dwarf from Lord Of The Rings would have showed up and chopped him in half for giving dwarfs out there a bad name.Then there's Jeremy Irons,WHAT THE HECK IS HE DOING IN THIS MOVIE!!!!!!He's a good actor.He must have needed the money really bad.A bunch of kids in first grade could put on a much better show than this movie.Anyone that had anything to do with this movie so be locked up in a dungeon for the rest of they're life.  "},{"Title":"Burn It!","Date":"9 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dungeons and Dragons (2000) Dir Courtney Smith / Cast Justin Whalin, Marlon Wayans, Thora Birch, Bruce Payne, Jeremy Irons Pathetic piece of junk that is so hideous that every copy in circulation should be used to start a campfire. Bruce Payne plays a henchmen villain trying to steal a scepter for his master. The blue lipstick does him little justice. Thora Birch plays the Empiress who must avoid a war. Justin Whalin and Marlon Wayans play a couple of thieves who get caught up in the scheme and are accompanied by a dwarf, a magician's apprentice, and elves. The screenplay is about third grade level with special effects that are about as festive as a bag of puke. Poor directing by Courtney Smith with horrible acting performances to back him up. Whalin and Wayans are horrible in what will never be a compliment to their abilities. Birch is laughable riding that flimsy magic carpet. This is a major downfall especially since the previous year she gave a flawless performance in American Beauty. Payne looks like a barbaric version of Divine with that blue lipstick. Even poor Jeremy Irons, an accomplished actor, somehow got suckered into being part of this garbage. This piece of junk is easily one of the worst films to be released this year. It is a total embarrassment to everyone involved. It is a foolish mess that should be tossed into a deep hole and buried. Score 0 / 10 "}{"Title":"What can I possible add?","Date":"16 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sometimes movies, based on titles alone get unjustified reviews, this clearly isn't one of them. A hackneyed script, jolted, terrible actors, who clearly didn't attempt to put a serious professional attitude to their roles. Even a fine actor Jeremy Irons, did not buy into this, it is clearly so over the top horrible, it would be fun if it wasn't supposed to be a serious attempt at a fantasy movie. How, or why this treatment was allowed to continue after a week and wasn't totally abolished and re-cast, re-director-ed, is beyond me. I originally saw this movie in the theaters, and sometimes after time, re-watching changes impressions, this clearly did not, a review after so much time, confirmed my early memories of this move. Its just terrible, it is no where even in the top ten of all time fantasy movies, even before some of the more serious recent and more modern works have come out. The one saving grace, was this early on CGI effects, did not look that horrendous, but it didn't even have that much of it. You should have a fine balance between the two, which this movie could have had, if the actors and script were not just so horrible. "},{"Title":"Alone defending fan-work against a Legion of Negative Fools!","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" With all the moaning about how bad this movie is, it seems weird to me that nobody even mentioned a single strength of it. I am a bit lengthy here, but I work to make a point. The first of, on date of writing, 3 Dungeons & Dragons movies is a powerful roleplaying work. It is really not played by supreme actors, still each actor and actress did quite a performance in their roles as characters any D&D player of the planet can recreate within the rules of the pen & paper game.The people called bad actors here should have been called pioneer roleplayers along with it, as even flawed efforts are better than the ever-moaning horde which neither funds a project, nor invests any own work in finishing one!CONTEXT A magocracy has been selfish and rigid for too long, henceforth getting separated and weak. Evil sensing it musters its champions to indulge a proverbial hostile takeover. The involuntary 'heroes & heroines' are forced to make their stands, as the story unfolds with fools lying vanquished along the wayside.Sense Motive The idea of social change is something plenty of teenagers consider powerful, necessary, and somehow their birthright. No miracle then that they waste their own energy on that plus some ever-obvious attempts to get laid and party. Within the movie we get the classic love overcoming prejudices, as the Romeo here is a Rogue from the disease-ridden underclasses & Juliet is a wizard from the establishment. BONUS The duty of the elven ranger, the duty of the evil fighter, and even the thieves guild; Are all recognized as lessons any character above level 8 MUST know. Levels 8 to 12 are the levels which, outside of badly plagiarized video games, focus mostly on building a class-suiting stronghold, and learning to operate it. While the movie certainly did not aim at it (like AD&D Birthright did), it was nice to see some decent yet practical examples of it applied properly!How anyone entitling himself or herself a roleplayer & gamer could fail to notice any of it is... Suspicious! For it looks, as if some failures tried to get a proverbial 'smear job' done.LISTED+ The movie introduces D&D storytelling to people with a minimum of background knowledge.+ The movie attempts to compromise between roleplay & acting, though it clearly fails on it here and there, too.+ All characters are authentic and within the rules, compared to video games within which dumbest ideas are forced unto us by cheat- leveled pseudo-superiors. + The movie looks like a high-school or college project done by fans, and that atmosphere is brought across without messing up the story. Even with age 42 I still remembered some teenage moments, did all others forget? ;-) Rhetorical Question. + If you prefer to look only for the bad sides you might manage to find absolutely every negative aspect mentioned by the other reviewers! + The movie succeeded in inspiring a sequel, not a bad re-narration of the same idea. "},{"Title":"bad","Date":"24 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Empire of Izmer is ruled by The Mages who oppress everyone else as Commoners. Evil mage Profion (Jeremy Irons) is plotting to depose Empress Savina (Thora Birch) who is trying to institute some equality. He's trying control the dragons. Thieves Ridley (Justin Whalin) and Snails (Marlon Wayans) try to steal from the Magic School. They are caught by inexperienced mage Marina (Zoe McLellan). They find Profion's henchman Damodar (Bruce Payne) killing the master mage while trying to find the Rod of Savrille which controls Red Dragons. Marina manages to escape with the scroll followed closely by the thieves. They encounter dwarf Elwood and elf Norda. Together they battle Damodar in the search for the Rod.This is a bad movie. It starts bad but it gets even worst. Jeremy Irons is horribly overacting. It gets worst in the climax because he is such a big part of it. Thora Birch seems lost trying act opposite his crazy performance. The clunky dialog doesn't help in the least. The climax also has a lot of CGI. The problem with that is the bad CGI. Dragons should be cool but these look cheesy.The meat of the movie is bad but not horrible. The group's quest is a series of adventures that feels manufactured like the game itself. Justin Whalin is a second rate actor doing his best. Zoe McLellan is pretty good. Marlon Wayans sometimes go overboard trying to joke around. The costumes look like Hollywood leftovers. The quest is not that bad for a B-movie, but the climatic battle is simply too horrible to watch. The blame has to be laid at director Courtney Solomon's feet. He should have told Irons to dial back a couple of levels. And somebody needs to take a course in writing. "},{"Title":"Prepare yourself for awfulness of LEGENDARY quality. I love it!","Date":"28 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" So Bad it's good Rating 5/5 Dungeons & Dragons is a perfect example of a film that's so catastrophically awful it becomes hilarious. There isn't a single element present that is good. In the fantastical empire of Izmir, ruled by a knock-off of the child-like Empress from the NeverEnding Story (Thora Birch as Empress Savina), there is trouble brewing. The evil mage Profion (Jeremy Irons, acting so insanely he gives Nicholas Cage in Wicker Man a run for his money) and his blue-lipstick-wearing crony, Damodar (Bruce Payne) decide to steal the mystical red rod of power, which will allow them to summon the red dragons and take power by force. The protagonists of the film are Ridley (justin Whalin) and Snail (Marlon Wayans, who is so embarrassing as a sidekick he falls just short of wearing Jordans and rapping) who break into the Magic School (that's what it's really called) and get roped up with a young mage/love interest named Marina (Zoe McLellan). They meet up with a dwarf and an elf, included in the film only to make it more fantasy-like, and go on a quest to defeat the bad guys do. Expect Ridley to explore what passes as dungeons and for our heroes to battle some deadly, badly animated dragons.It's laugh-out-loud hilarious and never gets old because the picture keeps throwing new stuff at you. The acting is terrible, but in a nice variety of ways for instance. Profion is way over-the-top, waving his arms around like a madman, chanting incomprehensible spells that sound like they're being made up on the spot and twisting his face in sneers and grins. The Empress on the other hand, is so wooden you get better performances out of the animated skeleton encountered towards the last third of the film, and that guy has no face! As for the main players, several of them are incredibly bland and feel totally irrelevant to the plot. You could have easily thrown out the elf and the dwarf character because they contribute nothing at all.The story is terrible and feels like a generic fantasy film with a couple of Dungeons and Dragons elements thrown in. We've got a random monster who shows up for a single scene and then disappears, just so we can have D&D players go I get that reference! but otherwise the film is filled with weird-looking humanoids that would be more at home in an episode of Star Trek than in an epic fantasy film. The sets here are so incredibly cheap it is astounding. Some scenes are clearly shot against a bad green screen and you can almost see an aura surrounding characters as they talk in front of these big, elaborate castles. Other shots are clearly inside a large library or inside a cathedral that was not built for the film. It's pretty hilarious to see the camera pan around, showing elaborate paintings that in no way fit, as if the editor mistook them for some of the special effect guys' best work and said The rest of this movie looks awful, but people have got to see this! Mostly, Dungeons and Dragons is set in unconvincing dungeons, markets or forests that were probably borrowed from a TV show that had just finished wrapping up, with a bunch of random bones or skulls thrown in to look more menacing.The most memorable and laughable elements of the film have to be the special effects. I understand that this film had a somewhat limited budget, about $40 million dollars. That's not a ton of money so I don't expect the creatures here to look as good as the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park, but this is a whole new level of bad. Someone working on this film was incredibly proud of the CG castle they built and they show it off constantly, but no matter how much you pan up and down, it still looks terrible. Even worse are the dragons. I realize that the film is called DungeonS and DragonS, but if you can barely create one CG dragon, don't include a battle where hundreds of them are flying unconvincingly, spitting fireballs at each other. One of the first scenes features a dragon being killed and the movie tells you right away it is going to be cheap, unconvincing and laughable because the dragon bleeds CG blood. Do you know how easy it is to shoot blood pooling and dripping over stone steps? You just need some corn syrup and food coloring, or at the very least some red paint! They couldn't even get that right, what hope do any of the other creatures here have? The worst offender in terms of bad costumes (most of the armor looks like spray-painted plastic) them all is the elf Norda (Kristen Wilson, looking like a Vulcan from Star Trek). Ever see one of those paintings, perhaps on the side of a van where a tough-looking barbarian chick has her arms in the air, swinging twin swords? Half the time she's wearing a breast plate that looks like it was painted onto her skin? This elf has exactly that. Literally, she's wearing a breast plate; complete with individual cups and a belly button for extra sexiness. It's impossible to miss because the camera constantly shows her from the neck down. Had we not received many shots of Damodar's epic codpiece, I'd call her boob-plate the most awesome piece of armor in the whole picture.Once in a while, you see a movie that's so bad it earns itself a place in the hall of fame. This is easily the worst fantasy film I've seen. It's a series of colossal mistakes immortalized on DVD and it's glorious. Forget your standard comedies with your Eddie Murphys, your Jim Carreys and your Adam Sandlers. You want to laugh long and hard? Check out Dungeons & Dragons. I love it! (On DVD, January 24, 2014) "},{"Title":"It's not that bad!","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you watch this film wanting it to be a film of the D&D game, you'll be upset. It's as close to the game as the Dungeons & Dragons cartoon ever was, so... Not very. If you watch it as a film, as a nice easy Sunday afternoon film, you'll like it. I actually love it. Reading the other reviews on here, I'd be put off from watching it but be your own dragon. It's got Richard O Brian in it for chuffs sake! That brings it up at least 2 stars! Don't put too much thought into the plot (sorta like a more modern Hawk The Slayer) and you'll laugh along with the comedy, get caught up in the action, boo the pantomime villain and go 'awwww' when the side kick gets killed. Give it a chance. "},{"Title":"what harsh reviews for an enjoyable film","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not a film critic but I am a film fanatic, and if I'm completely honest the reviews are a little harsh to say the least. this film is not perfection and nor is it remotely close to what so people have described as  a waste of time  I found this film a good watch and would happily watch it again. if you like fantasy then you will like this film. full stop fully intended. I rated this film 7 stars an feel this is a fair representation of the film rather than the usual one. this film has a fully thought out and cleaver plot and the biggest ending cliff hanger ever left upon a fantasy film that leaves you wondering about what happens to the characters! this film was a fun hour or so and I have convinced my closet friends to watch it themselves. give it a go, what's the worst that could happen! "},{"Title":"A Good Kind of Disappointment","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I hate to love and I love to hate this film.I liked this movie but I also found it to be a disappointment at the same time. Being a fan of Dungeons and Dragons I found the movie to be somewhat of a let down. What I disliked about the movie was the modernism aspect - that was a bit unnerving. What I was wanting from a movie about Dungeons & Dragons was a feeling of being in the middle ages or the hyborian age (maybe a cross-breed of the two). I was looking for something more of the quality of Lord of the Rings.I also wanted a feeling of being pulled into an ultimate quest - a Dungeon & Dragons adventure of the lifetime which I felt the movie lacked quite a bit. It felt to much like any other sword and sorcery movie and not enough like the Dungeons & Dragon franchise.What I liked about the movie was the idea of a movie based on D&D. I also enjoyed some of the special effects and costuming. I felt the movie was cheesy yet not all that cheesy like The Sword and The Sorcerer (which I actually like despite the cheesiness). There is a comical merit to this movie that only fans of Dungeons and Dragon could appreciate if they would give the movie another chance.Although Dungeons & Dragons (2000) received some of the worst critic reviews, I still think the movie is fairly good and unfairly rated way too low on IMDb. No the film is not all that good but it does have entertainment value.7/10 "},{"Title":"It's OK","Date":"1 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I didn't think it was too bad of a movie, although I have to agree with a few people about some roles that may as well not have been there. I think much of the venom is about this not being related to the Dungeons & Dragons series or game.Most of the main roles are played by teenagers, so this would suit as a family movie for children who aren't young enough for Disney cartoons but old enough for some live action that won't give them nightmares.Acting is overall pretty good. It doesn't feel like a budget movie, and certainly doesn't show to be a budget movie with the dragons. You really do feel that they put a good amount of effort to make everything look convincingly realistic, but what is disappointing is that half the cast don't even have a role. They'll do or say something once or twice but they hardly do or say anything else that actually contributes their character to the movie. You start to forget they're actually there as the movie is centred on the main hero, girlfriend, and protagonists.And as for the ending it was something that was slapped in a year later without thinking about how the audience is going to relate it to any part of the movie. It leaves you confused asking yourself what just happened because it didn't happen anywhere else in the movie and there's no reference anywhere to explain why it would happen. It was an effort to make it not seem as depressing but the writer should've at least have thought of adding something somewhere else in the movie to explain why it ended like it did or an explanation at the very end instead of don't question the gift you've been given. In fact it seems that there is a lot of unanswerable questions in the movie with the excuse that it's not to be questioned, and it leaves you a bit frustrated because you want answers to understand the movie, not to be left guessing why some people weren't allowed to help or why things happened the way they did. It becomes nonsensical jibber jabber that screams out badly written because the author couldn't be bothered to put in an explanation and left it to our imagination, but there's only so much our imagination can tell us and without any clues anywhere else you may as well say they can't help rescue the girl because they ate bread for breakfast. "},{"Title":"Devastating To The Viewer","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To understand the pain this movie brings, imagine slowly taking off your own finger nail, multiply it by ten and then have it last for 107 minutes. Where to start, where to start. For one, the acting is tedious. Everyone brings a hokey performance, especially Jeremy Irons (I do not blame him). The story is bland, the development almost nonexistent, and the ending is the worst. There is zero payoff by the end, it technically just slaps the viewer in the face. The side characters do not need to exist, for they bring no purpose to the plot whatsoever. There is no end to the complaints one can state about this film, from blue tongues to the overacting craziness, plus the worst CGI dragons of all time. Don't watch this unless you enjoy crappy films or want to torture one of your friends. "},{"Title":"Everyone involved needs to be put into a dungeon - 17%","Date":"26 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Forgive me, readers, for back in 2000, I had sinned and I belatedly come to you now seeking clemency. Being an avid player of D&D at the time, this was the movie I had been waiting for and seeing as the first instalment of The Lord Of The Rings was still a year away, this would be the film to sustain my enthusiasm for all things related to swords and sorcery. So, in a fit of what would later turn out to be madness, I took my money and bought a cinema ticket to see Dungeons & Dragons, full of expectation and excitement. Looking back, I'd say it was about half an hour after the title screen that hope had left the theatre forever as the rest of the patrons openly talked above the dialogue and a particularly mischievous bunch of kids several rows in front had taken to shining lasers at the screen, which was much more entertaining than anything being shown on it. Films such as this are what give the fantasy genre a bad reputation and but this goes one step further, making you question why you go to the pictures at all.The land of Izmer is divided between oppressed commoners and powerful mages who advise the headstrong Empress Savina (Thora Birch). Seeking power for himself, the evil Profion (Jeremy Irons) seeks the mystical Rod Of Savrille which has the power to control mighty red dragons and he soon dispatches his right-hand man Damodar (Bruce Payne) to find it. His only lead is the low-level mage Marina (Zoe McLellan) who has escaped from the magic school with a couple of incompetent thieves - Ridley (Justin Whalin) and Snails (Marlon Wayans). Together with the Dwarven warrior Elwood (Lee Arenberg) and the Elven tracker Norda (Kristen Wilson), our band of heroes begin their quest for the Rod with Damodar never far behind...Rather than wondering too much if you'd heard that synopsis before or whether I had made it up just now, it might be worth pondering how things went so badly wrong. With the exception of Payne and Irons, every cast member is annoying, underdeveloped and saddled with the sort of crummy dialogue you'd expect from an Asylum (the studio that brought us Sharknado) version of the story. Irons is gleefully over the top as Profion, chewing his way through the picture with a sort of manic fervour. He also has the best lines - Let their blood rain from the skies! - but he's just impossible to take seriously, as is Payne. He might well be a sinister presence but why give him lipstick that's such a bright shade of blue, I thought he might have hypothermia? Certainly, those kids with the laser painters weren't taking him seriously either, judging by how often those lips were illuminated. The plot is also ridiculous with impossible leaps in logic, handy coincidences and moronic characters behaving like idiots. This might have been forgivable if the film was loaded with impressive visuals but alas, the ball was dropped here as well. As the camera zooms around the city for unknown reasons, the few mystical creatures that normally inhabit such fantasy lands looked remarkably crude even at the time.I could go on but you get the idea. Dungeons & Dragons is one of the most badly produced, directed and performed movies of any sort and must be marked as one of the fantasy genre's lowest points. Nothing convinces you that you have been whisked away to a faraway land on an epic adventure. The brief cameos from Richard O'Brien and Tom Baker raise a flicker of interest but nothing else. The only thing you can enjoy is Irons working really, really hard to ruin his career - his performance has so much ham in it, I'm surprised PETA didn't boycott the production. Otherwise, you'd be advised to stay well away from this toxic mess of a movie. As for myself, I know now that I should have waited for Peter Jackson to complete his sublime trilogy and have faith in his vision. But comparing Dungeons & Dragons to The Lord Of The Rings is like putting Mike Tyson into a fight with Stephen Hawkings - it's cruel, degrading and barbaric. "}{"Title":"Indescribably awful","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I like the fantasy genre. I like the whole Dungeons & Dragons world. I even used the watch the cartoon as a kid in the 1980s. Although I never played the RPG, I used to be - and still am - an avid fan of the adventure gamebooks that you play with a couple of dice. So this is just the sort of film that should appeal.Unfortunately it turns out to be an absolutely appalling travesty of a movie and one of the worst ever made. Gone is any attempt to make a movie on a serious level. Instead, we have a semi-comic fantasy that contains a few recognisable elements from the genre - including a badly-animated CGI dragon - but feels like a student play in all other respects.Everything is bad about this film, and I mean EVERYTHING the writing is horrible, the direction sub-par, the characterisation is nil, the costumes are eye-wateringly ridiculous and the special effects are anything but. Literally the only enjoyment I got from the whole thing were the cameos from Tom Baker and Richard O'Brien, two British cult favourites.Actually, I lie; I did get some fun from trying to figure out who the worst actor was on-screen. It's not Bruce Payne, whose B-movie villain duties come in handy, nor is it Jeremy Irons, who delivers a pantomime performance reminiscent of Alan Rickman's in ROBIN HOOD PRINCE OF THIEVES. It's not Marlon Wayans in another lame comedy relief part, nor is it Justin Whalin, as wooden as he is. No, it's a toss-up between Kristen Wilson, who's really bad as the elf, and Thora Birch as some kind of princess. In the end, Birch wins out; her acting really is that terrible. It's cringeworthy and embarrassing every time a sentence comes out of her mouth.Thankfully, I'd seen the even cheaper DUNGEONS & DRAGONS WRATH OF THE DRAGON GOD, so I had some idea of the level of sheer awfulness I was about to witness. But forget going in to this and having a good time; it's not even so-bad-it's-good, it's just so-bad-it's-bad. "},{"Title":"A good representation of an actual game of D&D","Date":"8 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Though not a good movie as the acting is hammy, the characters somewhat stereotyped or annoying but I find this movie is a perfect example of an actual game of D&D where people are role playing, yes the script is terrible but so are most attempts at conversation between PC's and NPC's in a D&D game, yes some jokes don't work or are obvious what's going to happen, but that happens around the table, yes it blatantly rips some scenes from other movies, yet again speaking as both a game master and a player that happens all the time in D&D games and yes, the villains are ridiculous and immensely incompetent but again that happens all the time in actual D&D games. I choose to view the movie in one of two ways, either as a cheesy movie to laugh at with friends, or to view it as the minds eye of a bunch of people around a table playing dungeons and dragons. Yes it's by no means a good film, but for me it falls in the So bad it's good category with the above relations to an average d&d game as a pleasant side note. "},{"Title":"ideology equality agenda jammed in ham-fisted plastic ?","Date":"8 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lord knows how so much time energy and money can go into something and it still be awful, but thats the subtlety of film, and dungeons and dragons must be a good measure of such money ploughing into a pit. Somehow the film looks stagy as hell and TV drama quality level whatever talent was thrown in, did not Gel into a cohesive whole. I suggest that the majority of the problems must flow from the plot and the dialogue which is all to cheesy and cliché, the props look plastic the scene setting looks too - for cheap - television, you can almost feel the Styrofoam in it, the dwarf almost seems a sidekick for the sake of it, your not sure why he even bothered turning up, his character seems so inconsequential, the elven tracker tries to act elven serious aloof, but just comes across as wooden, in fact I better stop there as lets be honest none of the acting was compelling. Moments in which your supposed to feel something or have emotion - fall really flat, The plot and the script really must be major culprits in this film. The Elven sword givers, I couldn't even work out what was supposed to be going on there really. Waylans is alive at least, but sadly he just makes you feel he's in frat-house comedy mode, in the wrong time period. The whole thing is just plain awkward, very American takes on medieval alehouses abound etc, clichés, but films that don't work have to be made, so that we can get a few good films at the end of the day, people have to practice to get better. "},{"Title":"i actually saw this one in a movie theater","Date":"25 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Being acquainted, yet not a fan, of Dungeons & Dragons i saw the movie in a movie theater. Jeremy Irons as a part of the cast was a reason i gullibly expected a small movie with a strong potential. However, it quickly revealed its true face.It would take some time to mentioned all things that were not good, but they are summed up with the comment that i don't remember the story, rather the quality of acting. I can't even remember the special effects no matter how good or bad they were.Justin Whalin made a lot of effort but after this movie it is clear why the most of us never heard of him. The main attraction was, however, Marlon Wayans who showcased his sub-par acting worthy of a high school play. And the true wonder is that he built his entire career upon it. But, hey, we live in a world that is not perfect... "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"19 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This director should have the title of Today's Ed Wood There might be some who want to know why and... I'll pretty much say it throughout my review. All of this is so bad it's funny. I do kind of feel sorry for the director because he took 10 years of his life to fund... this. There is also 2 things I can guarantee about this movie for you. 1) You will be surprised at the star power this man got and 2) you will be in shock at their performances.So I'll skip the plot because it's about as interesting as watching someone read an entire book silently. I'll talk about the star power... Wow. That's the only word to sum it up - Wow. I mean they got Jeremy Irons, Thora Birch, Marlon Wayans and Richard O'Brien... Also not one gives a good performance. Marlon Wayans looks like he is channeling Chris Tucker with his role (of which if he was intended to be annoying - that would be great!), Tora Birch looked like she wanted to be somewhere else (to be fair, THAT I can understand), Richard O'Brien delivers his lines in a laughable way and Jeremy Irons... I know he can carry a bad movie but here... This is like a Saturday Morning Cartoon villain acting as an over-the-top villain - That's how over-the-top he is.Well Now I'm done with the acting now lets go on the technical side of things... I'm not one to judge effects but I've seen more realistic effects from Doom. You really have to be told this cost $45 million to make. It looks like something Syfy would release. The establishing shots are also bad... Just have a CGI artist draw a building... We don't need to spiral up the outside.Now the story side... Rule-101 We CAN'T get emotionally invested in a character that's channeling Chris Tucker through his performance... We're supposed to care for Marlon Wayans' character once he dies (I'm not kidding you have about 4 scenes where it's supposed to force this down your throat) but instead of crying when he dies, you cheer! Not to mention it's the same with Isthmir. You can't get invested in a world that confuses you all the time and has you scratch your heads.So how does this movie hold up? I'd say it's so bad it's funny. I mean I know a lot of the fans of the game were angry at the movie and I can see why loud and clear despite me never playing the game. It's just one of the movies that you just hate and like at the same time. Much like Plan 9 From Outer Space, Troll 2, The Room and your standard episode of Agents Of SHIELD it's just one of those movies that are horrible yet fun to watch. I'd suggest checking it out... unless you're a fan of the game. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and visually pleasing, but hollow and flawed","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Fantasy genre has been very popular in recent years. From shows like 'Xena, the Warrior Princess' to films like 'The Chronicles of Narnia,' there have been many projects taking viewers to new, exciting worlds. Another medium that's used the genre as a template is role playing games. The most successful of these has been Dungeons & Dragons. It was a matter of time before someone turned it into a feature film. With the advances in effects and recent success of the genre, it finally came. The bad news is that it wasn't really worth the wait.Pros Lively performances. Exciting score. Gorgeous costume and set designs. Some nice effects. A few memorable sequences. Fast paced.Cons Mediocre script. Weak characterizations. Many plot holes. Little we haven't seen before. A few dated effects.Final thoughts Fans of the popular game deserved better than this. It's visually breathtaking and never dull, but it's a hack job in terms of story and character. What could and should have been a memorable, sweeping epic, is not much different from the many made for TV and straight to video Fantasy films. Would liven up a dull or rainy afternoon, but you're better of watching the 'Lord of the Rings' films again.My rating 2.5/5 "},{"Title":"Jeremy Irons, oh my!","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is incredibly stupid, camp and just plain bad. It is also very, very entertaining, just pure comedy gold! I laughed out loud so many times while watching this. There is so much wrong with it! From the medieval lame version of Han Solo as the lead to the black buddy-cop friend and the sheer stupidity of the plot there are so many hilarious moments. But there is one performance that really stood out Jeremy Irons as the evil mage was one of the funniest, over the top performances I have seen! He is doing the whole OOOH look at me, I'm so evil! Seriously I'm evil, here watch me wave my arms and stare at the camera just to show how evil I am routine. He is like the medieval wizard equivalent of Dr Evil from Austin Powers. Sadly, there aren't enough scenes with him, instead we have to endure the stupid hero with his idiotic band of useless sidekicks. The film would have been so much better if it were more Jeremy Irons because he is just so incredibly camp and funny. "},{"Title":"Cheap and Lazy, set your expectations VERY low. And don't watch it sober.","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've never played Dungeons & Dragons and I can only vaguely recall the D&D cartoon, so my expectations were non-existent as I knew nothing about the movie. I didn't even read about the plot, and this definitely isn't a review from a fanboy geek who would trash any movie about D&D no matter how good. I just expected it to try to be a good movie, like most movies.However, I wish I had read the bad reviews first to give me amazingly low expectations, and make for a more pleasurable viewing experience.The actors seem to be having a great time, mugging for the camera and playing overwrought characters. Thora Birch seems high on drugs and struggling to remember her lines, she's having such a great time. At one point, she says that she has define the council instead of defied the council. She then pauses as if she's waiting for the director to yell cut but he doesn't so she continues. The guy with blue lipstick and CGI snakes coming out of his ears seems to think that slowly saying each word makes him seem more serious and sinister. Jeremy Irons seems to be doing his best Christopher Lloyd impression, some mix of Doc Brown and Uncle Fester and Judge Doom.It looks to be filmed at Disneyland... scratch that. That's an insult to Disneyland. It looks to be filmed at Medieval Times restaurant.The actors wear Halloween costumes, rubber masks, pointy and plastic bustiers, plastic jewels, beard wigs, etcetera. Several actors have waaay too much product in their hair, Justin Whalin. The CGI is Toy Story level, or maybe on the level of a Playstation cutscene. Isn't that the dragon from Shrek? The one who fell in love with Donkey? I know that this is supposed to be some sort of alternate universe rather than ancient England, but there are some people that just don't fit in with this environment, namely the Americans.The atmosphere was abysmal. Everything is lit up, well, like a movie studio. No matter what deep forests or dark dungeons, there's always multiple spotlights to highlight the actors. They got their money's worth with that fog machine, too.The writing meanders, lots of stuff happens, tired jokes and tired action sequences abound, people are paired off in supposed romances. Clichés like the villain trading a hostage for some item, and the hostage saying, Don't do it! As someone who didn't read the plot, there were still no surprises for me. Had the writing been goofier and winkier, this could have been a parody movie called Fantasy Movie. The actors try their best with lines like, We cannot enter. This task, they must complete alone. So hilarious is this flick that not even the death of a certain main character (and the reactions of the other characters to that death) can avoid a couple chuckles.I really want to compare this to Xena or Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers, but it's sort of like Xena gone wrong. It's a lazier Mighty Morphin Power Rangers. At least those were less than an hour long. This was like 5 hours. Wait, I just checked. This movie is only an hour and a half. But it feels like 5 hours, like this review.So time to wrap this up. In summary AVOID! "},{"Title":"Unintelligibly Unitelligent","Date":"18 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Really, where did this film come from? I mean, the acting is totally goofy, the CGI looks like it was drawn on Paint and the story is about as fluent and coherent as...well... It isn't! I found myself confused as to whether Jeremy Irons was the main villain or the comic relief, mainly because his acting is more OTT than the whole of Battlefield Earth. Not only does he yell his lines like he was having an orgasm, but he also pulls some of the strangest facial expressions I've ever seen, some I didn't think could be pulled. The CGI is obvious and uselessly rusty, making Dragons look like pixelated messes from a 1980s NES game and as for the rest, I don't care thinking about it. The story has little to no purpose and Dragon's hardly ever appear, only one at the beginning, and about 5 or 6 at the end, the rest is just a group of kids running away from Jeremy 'Overacting' Irons and his accomplice who looks like he forgot to wash his mouth after brushing his teeth. They do end up in a few dungeons I give you that, but the rest is just running, and fighting. When I say fighting, I don't mean fighting like epic sword battles from Star Wars Revenge of the Sith or Lord of the Rings, I mean just repetitive swings of the sword at each other, just continuous up/down swings that just get boring. Overall, a really really weak film that is best kept clear of. If you come home drunk one night and are in the mood for something stupid, this is your film... "},{"Title":"In My Top 10 Worst Movies of All Time","Date":"9 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Maybe even in my top 5. This is an awful B-movie that somehow got a 35 million approved big budget instead of a 2 or a 5 million budget, which is what it looks like. That may not sound like a lot but they weren't spending 100-200 million on films back when this was made. I knew people who worked on it and heard it was a train wreck and that Courtney Solomon had no idea how to make a movie, especially when it came to effects, and was pissing money into the wind, which is why you don't see any of the money in the film. In fact all you can gather from watching this film is that Courtney embezzled the money he was given or he is the biggest idiot on the planet who tried to act like a big shot and like he did know what he was doing and squandered it all on his mistakes. The only reason he got to make a movie is because he owned the rights to the name Dungeons & Dragons and someone was stupid enough to give someone with no experience a decent budget. It says the movie cost 45 million but I remember reading it in the papers and he was given 35. Either 45 is incorrect or they had to spend an extra 10 million to finish the film. Everything about this film was awful. It wasn't even like a story. It was liking watching a D&D game being played in real life, which maybe D&D gamers would enjoy that...maybe, but no one else would. Justin Whalin is the worst casting for this role and this movie pretty much killed his career. He was pretty big and well known in the '90s and you never heard a peep out of him after this awful film. He is too small and just does not look like a heroic action guy at all. The effects in this film are terrible. They look like really bad video game effects. And you can tell they are short on money because they use this same shot twice where the camera sweeps and circles around a computer generated tower. It was probably the most expensive shot in the film so they felt compelled to use it twice. They have a scene where you know they ran out of money because the actors talk about the creature that is in the distance, that looks like a speck on screen. The actors are describing it, rather than showing it, because it's clear Courtney had blown all his money at this point. Only a total idiot makes an animation company show completed animation BEFORE he gives approval. That's what pre-viz and the design team is for. It's no wonder the only thing he's worked on since then are cruddy, low budget B-movies. "}{"Title":"What were you expecting?","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some serious comic-book-guy reviews of this movie thus far.Seriously, what were you expecting? Did you have any knowledge of AD&D before you reviewed this? Do we have a frustrated bunch of dungeon masters who think their own adventures surpass this? Geez... you guys expected too much from a movie that could never deliver anywhere near your wants.It's a fun flick. Mindless action, some funny characters, and yes, some bad acting, but to see it smashed and get a 3.6 whilst Star Wars Episode One sits at 6.5 is a joke.It's hated because the other cool kids hate it. Baaaaaaaaaaa... too many sheep, and not enough shepherds.It's fun, as long as you're not expecting the next great fantasy movie. "},{"Title":"Fumbled their 'Film Making' skill check me-thinks.","Date":"5 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What can I say about this movie? Not a lot of good unfortunately. as a player of the game in pen and paper format for years I was looking forward to this when I saw it was coming out .. and Boy was I disappointed. With a WEALTH of incredibly detailed backgrounds, stories and adventures published for the game there are literally hundreds of stories they could have drawn from. Instead they came up with something completely from scratch, (Which would be fine for a game as D&D is prized for it's generic nature allowing players to play almost any fantasy setting, so using it for a film seems pointless) and there the 'fail' began. The story was clichéd at best, the acting had more ham than a pork butcher, even from the GOOD actors like Irons and Birch, The jokes were poorly executed and the not terribly funny to start with and the treatment of the source material was appalling. The Dwarf was .. well NOT a Dwarf (and I don;t just mean that he wasn't short enough), the Elves had pointy ears but that was about it for THEM and there was no mention of any other races. Other than a Cash Grab I could see NO reason to use the title as it bore less resemblance to anything D&D than most Bond Films do to THEIR novels and Even as a stand alone without the title it is a weak film, in fact the title is probably the only thing that cot it into the Cinema rather than Direct to Video/DVD that it truly deserved. "},{"Title":"Twenty years of waiting for THIS?!","Date":"15 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I cannot imagine a more incompetently executed film given its production budget and acting talent, or a bigger disappointment given the enormous goodwill and product recognition behind its name. Everything - EVERYTHING! - in this film reeks of amateurism and incompetence. The lurid 'special' effects are largely unconvincing and provide occasional unintentional laughs, while the script assembles every adventure movie cliché character it can scrape up - the cowardly thief who is actually heroic under duress, the sorcerer's apprentice who wants to use magic on her own, the orphaned kid looking for revenge against the evil lord - and dishes them out amidst some of the worst dialog in movie history. The leading actors can't give useful performances thanks to incompetent direction and star Jeremy Irons doesn't even bother to try. His turn as the evil lord basically comes down to strutting about arrogantly and yelling a lot, then picking up his paycheck. The action sequences are poorly staged and come off flat, the comedy relief doesn't provide relief from anything, and the whole affair stumbles along predictably to its obvious set piece showdown and then mercifully ends. The only part of the movie that even hints that it's supposed to be a big budget spectacular is the set design work, which is actually reasonably convincing for the desired period and only makes the viewers wish they could use the sets and shoot their own better version.It actually amazes me that with twenty years of background material and hundreds of D & D novels and game scenarios written over the years that THIS was what the producers decided to shoot. Any random writer of D & D novels, indeed any random fantasy writer at all, could have put together a more interesting story and assembled more literate dialog and more interesting characters. This was not just disappointing, it was shockingly bad. The whole project should have been aborted at the screenplay stage until a better script, better director and better cast were available. "},{"Title":"Kind of movie that gives 'Fantasy' movies a bad name...","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dungeons and Dragons is a fantasy movie, and it could have a lot more potential than this... Reason why? The script was poorly written, poor dialogues...The acting/cast was also below any standards. The special effects, are nothing special... I was expecting more from a fantasy / magic movie...Story, camera-work is just amateuristic. Music is basic, nothing special... (doesn't fit right in the movie, doesn't call any emotions...) Movie is very predictable. Disappointing plotThis is a kind of movie that gives 'Fantasy' movies a bad image... "},{"Title":"A nineties fantasy adventure flick","Date":"22 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" OK. Obviously everyone else who's watched this movie played Dungeons & Dragons. I, however, didn't. I was too young to play with my brother and his friends and none of my friends were ever interested. So when I sat down to watch the movie I got for $5, I was excited to see a fantasy action/adventure flick that would remind me of spying on my brother and his friends playing from when I was little. And that's just what I got.What you have to understand is that this movie has to take the time to explain everything for those who never played D&D. It's romantic, campy, and I absolutely loved it. It reminds me of a group of friends getting together to play a game, thinking up an adventure unlike any other. I thought the acting was good. The plot was fun. It was a nineties adventure movie through and through. "},{"Title":"Such crap but I really enjoyed it","Date":"6 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am myself a roleplayer. My first thought was how can they do this. I was astonished really. It was outrageous to make this crap in the name of roleplay. Soon I started laughing about everything instead of being disgusted. My only regret was there was not some guys and beers to watch it together with and share the laughs. I cannot remember I have ever seen worse acting. I wondered how especially Jeremy Irons acted so bad. They must have doped him. The casting was awful. The script was awful. The story did not make sense really. The costumes were maybe even worse than the acting (which means kindergarten children would have done it just as wheel). Start was terrible. Ending was terrible. I cannot say one single positive thing about this movie besides I laughed a lot about acting and costumes and ..... Don't expect Lord of The Rings. Think more about Ed Wood -) "},{"Title":"What the hell is this?!!!!!!","Date":"31 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I ask this question a lot and this was the very thing i said when I saw this film. I never saw D&D when it came out back in 2000, but in 2002 i heard about it from a school friend who had asked me if I had seen this film. I had said no so 5 years later it found it in wikipedia's list of worst films. I wanted to see the mess for myself and i wasn't disappointed. The film is just terrible! Here are some points 1 the start the start is OK but as soon as film kicks in it all goes wrong.2 too many people in 1 shot. all the shots had far too many people so the film seems to be over crowed.3 the dialogue is just trash.4 The story is confusing, overly complicated and goes nowhere.5 no one is trying to act properly and ones who try to act make this film look cheesy.6 The effects and the CGI are just terrible.7 Blue lips are not the colour of evil.8 The evil side bears a logo very similar to the Bacardi logo.9 the sets look just terrible.10 the end is confusing and is worst part of the film.11 the film is too light in tone.12 what was the point of the film, HMMMMMM! i don't know! I have never played D&D, but i have played Hero Quest a which is a similar game and the quests lasted for a long time and ended with either half of the hero getting killed or all of the hero's getting killed.The only part of the film that was any good was the thieves' guild scene and the death maze with Richard O'Brien doing a parody of his TV programme The Crystal Maze. There was only one dungeon the hero's ever went in and it was very boring and very short. Ridley simply turns a corner and falls into a big room and finds the staff. (This is not A dungeon quest.) Fantasy films are meant to be dark and interesting (e.g. The Lord of the Rings) and this is no where near dark or interesting. this film has the same effect like peter Jacksons masterpiece being remade by a group of college students. (it will never work so don't try it). This is basically like a student film but it doesn't even go into that category.the film is so bad i have made my own category for very bad films. it's called the BIN! "},{"Title":"Weakly played...weakly rolled....weakly Dungeon Mastered....","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You are faced with an excess of very unrealistic-looking CGI. The whole of the Empress' castle, not to mention the entire city, all of the dragons, most of the weapons, the fantastic landscapes, all look somewhat less beautiful and less real than the average Larry Elmore Dragon cover. You have 10 weeks and $10 million to try to make them better. What do you do? You miss, sorry, the THACO on this attack was 6 and you rolled a 4. There is a screenplay before you, filled with gaping holes in the action (why are they suddenly in an empty forest at least twice? why is the female magician unable to use magic except when it's convenient? why is our callow hero, Ridley, so special and the only one who can complete this quest, ad infinitum) and some of the worst dialogue you've ever heard Norda How old are you? Snails Twenty-three. Yeah, I know I'm a little young for you, but what if I get my hands on an aging potion, huh? I'll sacrifice a couple of years for you. Norda I'm two hundred and thirty-four. Not to mention an ending that's beyond pathetic. This one doesn't look too hard to beat, go ahead and give it a shot...oh, a swing and a miss. Sorry you rolled a 1, you only needed a 2. The actors are as miserable as the screenplay, before you are Thora Birch, a petulant child spouting modern notions of equality; Justin Whalin, dull as dishwater and less convincing than Brendan Fraser as our chosen hero; Lee Arenberg having no more conviction than most hyper 12-year olds that choose to play dwarven fighters; etc etc. Only Jeremy Irons seems to know what he's doing, and that's taking the money and running with it and having a fine time playing totally over-the-top - and totally off from everybody else. Separate attacks please -- oh, miss miss miss miss miss...but you HIT on Irons; he's actually providing a good show! How about the director? This all-seeing beholder-type monster has put his foot in almost every action sequence, directing in the most unimaginative ways possible, and paraphrasing (that's a kind word for ripping off) Indiana Jones more than once, most notably in an awful fight in the thieve's guild. This one should almost be as easy as the script to knock out... Sorry. Another 1. Although if it makes you feel better, the THACO here was 4. A bonus for you, intrepid dungeoneer. As you've persevered despite your horrible losses, I give you a bonus. It is the Marlon Wayans monster, AKA Stepin Fetchit for the D&D crowd. Whether he's whining about doing the dirty work, wailing like a stuck pig, or spouting (PG) urbanisms even more out of place than most of the rest of the dialogue in this turkey, good ol' Marlon gives one of the most solid Uncle Tom performances seen in ages. Yassuh, give him a shot. Wow. Miss again. You really don't know how to play this game, do you? Please start rolling up a new character.... "},{"Title":"D&D - Damn Disaster","Date":"3 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I realize I'm not the only one who thought this movie was atrocious. and I'm not even a D&D fan. I was hoping to watch a fantasy film with an epic story and lovable characters, what I got was any thing but. Jerremy Irons gives a ridiculous performance. I never believed this guy won an Oscar after seeing the movie. What was really upsetting me the most is the horrible props. everything just looks like a 12 year old built it in his basement. The films not really epic at all, to be based off a game about monsters, there's very few. 2 species of dragons, a harpy of some kind (resembling the one from Sinbad) and a sort of terd looking thing with eyeballs. Out of all the tings to pick in the D&D universe. There is one thing decent about his film though, and its Marlon Wayans acting. Even in the most terrible of movies, he seems to add some humor to the film. Besides his part the acting and wrighting is crap. Even the so called Epic battle scene between the two dragons at the end isn't satisfying, you see very little of what is going on and the fighting scenes even disappoint too. I was hoping the thieves maze would offer some decent entertainment but again the film fails. No D&D or anyone as a matter of fact I can picture enjoying this movie other then someone with the mind of a 5 year old. 2/10 "},{"Title":"opposite of Lord of the Rings","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To be perfectly honest I've never played the actual board game. I've heard of it, and I've played the video game D&D; Dragonshard (So far, worst RTS ever) and I remember the cartoon.The movie isn't too bad as long as you expect absolutely nothing. What surprises me is that I recall that it was a theatrical movie once, and really the movie isn't good enough to be anything more than a direct-to-video movie. Could've used; bigger budget better Orcs more female elves better special effects loose the guy with blue lipstick more creatures (Beholders, Orcs, Drow, etc) better actors to play thieves better DwarfBasically, Lord of the rings was a high-budget, believable, well-plotted trilogy. This is not Lord of the Rings. "}{"Title":"A movie lacking an interesting plot","Date":"20 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have just recently seen this movie and I had to stop watching it halfway through because it was utterly dreadful. Fantasy movies such as this HAVE to depend on an interesting story line. This story was not thought out well or detailed, not at all like LOTR. And without their detailed plot they haven't had very convincing character interactions or emotions. From the beginning of the movie when the evil mage holds the staff. You do not believe the importance of it because the story isn't convincing and the characters do not attract you to them. An awful way to begin a movie, see LOTR's beginning brings you into the world excellently. The character's themselves are childish and the jokes are childish. The story is childish. Not at all a classic movie, easily forgotten, but sad to think that this represents d&d. I give it a 4 out of 10. Depressing movie... "},{"Title":"Suffers from sappy sidekick syndrome...","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Of the many things wrong with this movie, the worst by far is Marlon Wayons as the cringe-worthy sidekick Snails. He's so awful he makes Xena's Joxer seem heroic in comparison. What makes anyone think that a sappy sidekick adds anything to a story? This seems to be a requirement for some scifi/fantasy scripts. This syndrome is almost ubiquitous on TV; sadly, it still occurs in big-budget movies like this one where you'd think they'd know better. More than a few otherwise potentially good stories have been ruined by the presence of embarrassingly bad slapstick characters like Jarjar Binks from Starwars, Russell (Randy Quaid) from Independence Day or Short Round from Temple of Doom.This could have been a good- or at least watchable- movie if more attention had been paid to the characters, script and editing. A lot of money and effort clearly went into the effects and sets. Zoe Mclellan is appealing as the apprentice mage Marina, and Justin Whalen makes a passable young hero. Sadly, Thora Birch has only a few minutes of screen time, though we see way too much of Jeremy Irons, chewing his way through the scenery whenever he's in front of the camera. "},{"Title":"the old hams are the best part","Date":"26 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have a problem with Dungeons and Dragons.  I don't mean the movie; I mean the game.  It should be wonderful, a flight of fancy that opens up infinite possibilities, but every time I've played it I've been bogged down by statistics and rules, rules, rules.  Dungeon masters - who should be master storytellers - usually exhibit the imagination of bricks, and run to their guide books every two seconds to check for a figure that comes from Table H in Appendix Y of the Compendium from Hell.Just thought I'd vent about that.So, isn't it fitting that this movie adaptation is also about as imaginative as the average brick?  It serves up cliches aplenty, including the Likable Thief Heroes (like in Conan), the Big Bad Wizard (why is the smart guy always the villain?), the Greedy Rapacious Dwarf (I hate friggin' dwarves) and the elegant, sagely Elves (why didn't the estate of Tolkien sue?).Best part?  The old hams!  Richard O'Brien is great as the Chief Thief, and Tom The Bomb Baker puts in a surprisingly dignified performance as the elven healer Halvarth.  Truth be told, I only saw this movie for Tom, since he's the best Doctor from Doctor Who (a show that proves you can do good fantasy on a low budget), but alas he's only on screen for a few moments.  Still, he out-acts the young cast without having to break a sweat.Amusingly, Tom is fond of complaining that Jeremy Irons is the Most Boring Actor in the Universe, so it's strange to actually see them in a movie together.  Irons, who perhaps took Tom's criticisms to heart, here tries to cast off his stoic reputation but chewing up the scenery so rabidly that you expect torrents of foam to spring from his mouth.  It is, quite simply, the worst performance that I've ever seen a classical actor give in a genre film; talk about miscasting!  Maybe Tom is right about him after all... "},{"Title":"This why Rifts and Vampire will never have movies....","Date":"21 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I have read through many of the other reviews for this movie, so i will try not to make it a rehash of all the other comments regard poor direction, poor writing, poor acting, non-existant plot, retarded ending, and a myriad of other reasons that the entire cast, crew, and marketing group for this movie should be ashamed and go to their beds without dinner.That being said, The disappointment (nay, disgust) I experienced when watching this film was almost overwhelming. The average drunken, tabacco-fueled gaming sessionof my youth and early adult life, usually filled with lewd comments about female characters and the occasional pointless suicide of a freinds character were filled with better story points and acting than this.For anyone that had anything ggood to say about this movie, all i can say is that i would never trust you to pick a movie for me to watch. Or what food to eat for that matter (cmon, it tastes just like chicken. ill just wipe it off......)It almost completely killed all hope for any RPG based movies in the future. Sure. Vidoe-game movies typically suck, but tomraider did well (it wasnt very good, but it sold tickets), and Resident Evil was a good movie, even without its great ancestry.But even video games are more mainstream than roleplaying games.The support for this kind of movie to be made is very low, and when one is made this bad, the support for more will probably be nonexistant. I blame it for the fact that many good movies will most likely go unmade because it set a terrible standard for it's genre.  "},{"Title":"There are indeed dungeons, and you do see dragons. But otherwise...","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Executive producer Joel Silver - whose Silver Pictures imprimatur is noticeably absent from Dungeons & Dragons - and producer Thomas Hammel last collaborated on Fair Game, which at least had Cindy Crawford and Salma Hayek. And though Cindy's gotten and continues to get stick for that movie, she has less to be ashamed of than just about everyone involved with this loser, which would have been the worst movie I saw yesterday had it not been for the even worse Down To Earth - at least D&D succeeds in being a sword-and-sorcery movie, whereas that set out to be a fantasy-comedy and neglected to have any laughs at all. But I'm getting off the subject...Unlike the cartoon of the same name (which ran for three years on CBS in the mid-80s, and is also fondly remembered by a surprising number of Brits), this movie came about fifteen years too late to really capitalize on the RPG - anyone who wants to do a movie based on the Magic The Gathering cards had better hustle - and its behind-the-wave status is the first of many hurdles this movie fails to overcome. There's the familiar premise of an evil tyrant wanting to overthrow the nice ruler of a fantasy kingdom and needing a powerful talisman to do so - in this case a device that can control dragons - and the rag-tag band of heroes thrown together by circumstance who have to stop him, and Topper Lilien and Carroll Cartwright's script is short on originality, sense and logic (even by its own terms - the portals that carry people from one part of the land to another seem to stay open for however long the plot demands).Actually, there are so many things wrong with Dungeons & Dragons it's hard to know where to start; the movie never succeeds in transporting you away to another world the way a real fantasy should, the characters aren't even developed enough to be called ciphers, Courtney Solomon's direction manages to muff every single setpiece, there's no excitement or any real emotion to be felt, and the acting... oh dear, the acting! As the princess, Thora Birch is flatter than Sandra Bullock's chest - HEY-O! - and as the villain, Jeremy Irons hams it up so much that even fans of Christmas panto would be embarrassed; Bruce Payne, on the other hand, is stiffness personified as his aide-de-camp. Zoe McLellan is pretty but unnecessary, and as for Justin Whalin and Marlon Wayans... okay, the presence of Marlon Wayans should tell you everything you need to know. Even Richard O'Brien, who otherwise provides one of the few bright spots in the movie as another thief who gets Whalin to go into a maze to get a jewel necessary to the plot (a plot point that lets him come off like he's back on The Crystal Maze), falls into the Really Bad Acting trap before he goes.Oh yeah, and have I mentioned the mostly dreadful visual effects from Digital Firepower, Flat Earth Productions, Station X Studios et al (especially the kingdom's capital city, with buildings that bring back horrible memories of Babylon 5's entirely unconvincing transfer from live-action to CGI)? And Justin Caine Burnett's terrible score? And the idiotic ending? May a whole army of orcs descend on the producers. "},{"Title":"What a whopping load of crud","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To RPGs what Comic movies were for a long time  a total shame. They could have done worse, but only if they were *trying* to openly insult Role-Playing Games and Gamers everywhere. Not only was it cast with a series of C rate actors (excepting Jeremy Irons) but the special effects and set design do the genre no justice, so where you fail in personalities, you DON'T make up for with great sights and scenes.The only saving grace this movie might have is that it uses a lot of actual D&D lingo, a treat for those who enjoy the game -- but that doesn't amount to much as the dialogue and storyline stab you repeatedly in the heart.A sequel is rumored, and we can only pray that those responsible for this flop have no hand in it. "},{"Title":"Cool dragons. Too bad the film stinks!","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The performances are all very bad - especially from the lead girl from American Beauty. Strange since we know she has talent.The two theives are somewhat humerous at times but ultimately annoying and redundant.Really, I almost chose to give 1 out of 10 but the dragons alone are cool enough to deserve an extra mark. Thus my 2 out of 10 rating. "},{"Title":"The Game","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, this movie takes a stab at being slapstick and fails.  Wayans should have been written out.  How the hell could someone as stupid clumsy as him ever even think of becoming a thief and still have both hands!  Hell, he'd be dead in modern day <name big city of your choice>.The Comic relieve that he was suppose to add, was just plain stupid. Solomon must of really liked him to continue to feature him.Too many pauses during battles, yeah, the fights would stop, the characters would look at each other intently, then at something like a sword, map, rock, etc., then the fight would continue.Over acting is the word that everyone says here.  I agree.  And WHY the blue lips?Mages fight?  I didn't know D&D or AD&D had so many fighter-mages.  A mage not casting a spell in battle is a dead mage in the game.Anyway, this movie had great potential, but fell far short.  Lack of character building, which is, in part, the script.  Which is why the script was so horrible.  All I can guess is the actors were all D&D fans that just wanted to see a movie made.  If this movie was made in the early 1960's, it would have been marvelous...sorta. "},{"Title":"I use my +9 Wand of Vanishing to make D&D go far, far away!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yeesh, where in the world do I begin? D&D is the worst fantasy film I have seen since Quest of the Delta Knights. In fact, it may be the most awful of the two, because at least Quest had Mike and the 'bots giving commentary. Okay, let's start with the really bland, mediocre story It all begins in this vague, nondescript kingdom where everyone either lives in ridiculously tall CGI towers/castles or quaint villages with thatched huts. Two 'professional' thieves, one played by a guy whose only major acting credit is the role of Jimmy on the old Louis & Clark series and the other being MARLON WAYANS (right), decide to pull their biggest job yet - they're going to rob The Magic School. Whoah, hold up there. THE MAGIC SCHOOL? Sheesh, how creatively bankrupt was the idiot screenwriter?? What it all basically boils down to story-wise is this There's this red thing that controls dragons. The bad guys want it, so the good guys must stop them before The Balance is disrupted. Yeah, The Balance. Sounds just a wee bit like The Force, don't it? Oh, and don't worry, D&D does more than its fair share of ripping off other, much better films. The bar scene reminded me of the one from the first Star Wars, and when Jimmy first found The Eye of the Dragon it was just like Indiana Jones. Watch the movie and tell me otherwise! So, what else is wrong with this thing? Well, the costumes look like they were purchased out of a novelty catalog, the sets usually appear very fake, and the acting is just plain God-awful. Do we need to mention Jeremy Irons and the way he chews up the scenery like a human black hole??? Then you get bad special effects (like that floating Medusa head), WAY too many pan shots of castles that reminded me of Harry Potter, groan-inducing dialogue, and much, much more. But wait, I haven't even gotten to the 'best' part yet THE ENDING. Sorry, but the ending makes no sense whatsoever. I will pay any person X amount of money to tell me what the heck was going on in the last five minutes. Go on, do it! I dare you to sit through this 100 MINUTE DEBACLE. No wonder this was rated one of the 100 worst movies ever made over at stinkers.com. I hated this movie, but it is a great addition to anyone's bad movie collection. Luckily my copy only cost like $4. 0/4 stars "},{"Title":"Laugh and laugh and laugh and laugh","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has become my favorite bad movie of all time.  Like the person a bit below who can't stop watching it, I have to pull it out every few months.  That's not to say I think any part of it is any good - but it's so excellently wretched as to be one of the funniest movies ever made. (actually, that's not entirely true.  This is, AFAIK, the first film to feature a full-on Pern style dragon dogfight.  And that IS cool)  Things to watch and/or drink to1)Every time that Snails (Wayans) talks like a modern person.  I don't think he has a single line which is in character for the time period.1a)Notice him mocking Damodar.  I don't think the director realized he was being serious.2)Damodar - slowest villian in history?  All together now!  I... will... KILL... you... ... ... slooowwwwlllyyyy...  By the time he says one line, everyone has time to flee.2a)and make sure to mock his blue lipstick mercilessly.3)Jeremy Irons delivering the best manically-over-the-top villian performance ever.  I don't think there's an adjective to adequately describe his style here. (Wagnerian is far too subtle and restrained)3a)And notice his eyebrows.  How did he do that?  It's like his forehead put on a completely separate, but equally rediculous, performance.4)Anything with Richard O'Brien is cool and funny.  He appears fully aware how rediculous the movie is and milks it for all he can.4a)Look at Marina's face when he gropes her.  That was NOT reheared. 5)And finally, observe a moment of silence for poor Tom (Dr Who) Baker, who actually attempts (and nearly succeeds) in bringing a moment of quiet dignity to a film that has, and indeed deserves, none. "}{"Title":"Jimmy Olsen fighting dragons?","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rated PG Runtime 107mins Release Date 2001When an evil sorcerer plans to take control of an imperial empire it's up to two bumbling thieves and a magician's young apprentice to seize their destinies and save the world.Ridley Freeborn and his buddy, Snails, were two free-wheeling thieves who never cared about anyone but themselves. However when they get the idea to rob a magician's school, they stumble upon a plot concocted by the evil sorcerer Profion, to take over the imperial throne. Asked upon by a magician's young apprentice for help, these two self-absorbed criminals become mankind's last hope at freedom. Their task, to find a powerful scepter that can control the might of the menacing Red Dragon. Of course saving the world and finding the scepter are not going to be easy, because not only will the three have to face the thieves guild and a dungeon that no one has ever been able to leave, the trio must also deal with the sorcerer's evil lackey, Damador, and his army of guards. Thus begins the classic battle of good versus evil,  after which only one side will be left standing.Based of the popular series of role-playing games and books, Dungeons and Dragons stars a grossly miscast Justin Whalin as the thief-turned-warrior, Ridley Freeborn. Although Whalin tries very hard, he just can't seem to pull of a believable hero, hence the reason he was Jimmy Olsen, and not Superman, in the television series in which he starred. Along to help him out is Marlon Wayans as Snails, the only really good character in the movie, due to his ability to add a sense of humor to this film. Showing signs that maybe it's time to give up the acting game, Jeremy Irons just hams his way through the movie as the villainous Profion. Another who shows signs it may be time to give up is Thora Birch, who, after American Beauty, should have been taught a lesson in acting, but seems to have picked up no lesson at all, and unlike Irons she just got started. Wasted is Bruce Payne as Profion's evil henchman, Damador, who gets no chance to act at all. And even though he does have great presence, the only thing menacing about Payne in this movie are his blue lips and poor dialogue.Director/producer Courtney Solomon starts this film off well with some great castle shots and imaginative scenery, but quickly loses step with some horrendous direction. As is the case in the Thieve's Maze scene, and having too many conveniences when the three break in to Profion's castle to steal a map. This is supposed to be a heavily guarded enemy castle, but there are no guards to be seen until the end of the scene. However the dragon battle sequence towards the end of the film is a redeeming quality, and does help to save this film from being a complete waste, although the very end of the film is ridiculous. Writers Topper Lilien and Caroll Cartwright pull this movie back another step with a poor Star Wars type storyline, and even worse dialogue. To make matters even worse, this movie was aimed at teenagers and just didn't take itself seriously enough. Of course most films that are targeted towards a certain age range never really work, especially when you're a decade late.Aside from the panning, this movie does have a good variety of D and D characters and is worth a watch. It was mostly a let down because with all the material they could have used as inspiration, they still manage to pull out nothing more than a poor man's Star Wars. Fans of fantasy films or of the role-playing series this movie was based off of will certainly want to give this one a watch. To anyone else I say keep this movie in your local video store's dungeon and have them protect it with dragons so you don't even have the chance to give it a viewing.Overall Rating 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Jimmy Olsen fighting dragons?","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons and DragonsRated PG Runtime 107mins Release Date 2001When an evil sorcerer plans to take control of an imperial empire it's up to two bumbling thieves and a magician's young apprentice to seize their destinies and save the world.Ridley Freeborn and his buddy, Snails, were two free-wheeling thieves who never cared about anyone but themselves. However when they get the idea to rob a magician's school, they stumble upon a plot concocted by the evil sorcerer Profion, to take over the imperial throne. Asked upon by a magician's young apprentice for help, these two self-absorbed criminals become mankind's last hope at freedom. Their task, to find a powerful scepter that can control the might of the menacing Red Dragon. Of course saving the world and finding the scepter are not going to be easy, because not only will the three have to face the thieves guild and a dungeon that no one has ever been able to leave, the trio must also deal with the sorcerer's evil lackey, Damador, and his army of guards. Thus begins the classic battle of good versus evil,  after which only one side will be left standing.Based of the popular series of role-playing games and books, Dungeons and Dragons stars a grossly miscast Justin Whalin as the thief-turned-warrior, Ridley Freeborn. Although Whalin tries very hard, he just can't seem to pull of a believable hero, hence the reason he was Jimmy Olsen, and not Superman, in the television series in which he starred. Along to help him out is Marlon Wayans as Snails, the only really good character in the movie, due to his ability to add a sense of humor to this film. Showing signs that maybe it's time to give up the acting game, Jeremy Irons just hams his way through the movie as the villainous Profion. Another who shows signs it may be time to give up is Thora Birch, who, after American Beauty, should have been taught a lesson in acting, but seems to have picked up no lesson at all, and unlike Irons she just got started. Wasted is Bruce Payne as Profion's evil henchman, Damador, who gets no chance to act at all. And even though he does have great presence, the only thing menacing about Payne in this movie are his blue lips and poor dialogue.Director/producer Courtney Solomon starts this film off well with some great castle shots and imaginative scenery, but quickly loses step with some horrendous direction. As is the case in the Thieve's Maze scene, and having too many conveniences when the three break in to Profion's castle to steal a map. This is supposed to be a heavily guarded enemy castle, but there are no guards to be seen until the end of the scene. However the dragon battle sequence towards the end of the film is a redeeming quality, and does help to save this film from being a complete waste, although the very end of the film is ridiculous. Writers Topper Lilien and Caroll Cartwright pull this movie back another step with a poor Star Wars type storyline, and even worse dialogue. To make matters even worse, this movie was aimed at teenagers and just didn't take itself seriously enough. Of course most films that are targeted towards a certain age range never really work, especially when you're a decade late.Aside from the panning, this movie does have a good variety of D and D characters and is worth a watch. It was mostly a let down because with all the material they could have used as inspiration, they still manage to pull out nothing more than a poor man's Star Wars. Fans of fantasy films or of the role-playing series this movie was based off of will certainly want to give this one a watch. To anyone else I say keep this movie in your local video store's dungeon and have them protect it with dragons so you don't even have the chance to give it a viewing.Overall Rating 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Oh, the missed opportunities. *Spoilers*","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Before I get into my comments, I need to qualify everything I say by fessing up. I play in a long running D+D campaign AND have been running my own campaign for a year. I likes me up some D+D.The first thing that comes to mind is how I don't think anyone in this cast or specifically Courtney Solomon knew the first thing about D+D, and they missed some great opportunities because of it.*SPOILERS*Thieves don't need grappling hooks to scale walls. They have a skill called climb walls that other characters like the fighter and mage do not get. This talent that allows the thief to climb walls without rope and hook. And if a pair thieves were to climb the walls of the enemy castle, they would most likely not do so IN THE MIDDLE OF THE AFTERNOON! The entire character concept for the two thieves is so flawed, one expects bad things to happen to them. Fish out of water.Akin to this, there were not enough monsters. The story didn't even get into the interesting side of dragons, like the dragons that can talk and cast spells. Then there was a city run by a magocracy but no liches? Beholders, but no bugbears? A well lit orc bar? While the movie does have the feel of a decent 1st through 4th level module, and I love the ending, the topic of this movie was not researched enough during pre-production. The end result is a movie that has Marlon Wayan mugging for the camera when *interesting* things, like character development and storyline progression could've been addressed. "},{"Title":"Great special effects... but nothing else","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only good thing about the movie the amazing special effects.This has got to be literally the worst movie I've ever seen.  You would think a title such as Dungeons & Dragons would feature a great plot... you would think that they would be able to recruit some talented actors/actresses...But no, only one good actor and several weak supporting actors/actresses. And who ever heard of a dwarf that's the size of an average human?!?  Come on... even non-D&D people caught on to THAT one!The plot was very weak as well.  With all the elaborate D&D adventures being concocted at TSR/Wizards of the Coast, why couldn't they have come up with something a bit better than a quest to retrieve a magical Rod that controls dragons??This is the only movie I have EVER walked out on in the theater. "},{"Title":"**SPOILERS**  The WORST film of 2000","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jeremy Irons was certainly in this dog for the paycheck.  I sat there unbelieving as I witnessed the worst acting, the worst script and the worst special effects I've seen since Attack of the Eye People.  However, the most annoying of all was young Marlon Wayans who stereotyped every 30s negro and whose performance was beyond merely terrible.  However, the worst, and I do mean the worst exhibition by a person under the guise of an actor was ... (the envelope, please.)Thora Birch, as the Empress Savina.  I mean, she was, well, terrible.  Alas, she needs to be taught to speak, to walk, to use her face to gain another expression besides that of having recently come out of the potty room.  The hero was unconvincing.  The only one I could believe were the bad guys and even they were terrible.  Ham is great on rye with Swiss cheese but not in a movie.  And, to believe that I actually paid to rent this.... "},{"Title":"The continuing adventures of Han and Leia","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't like fantasy movies and I don't like Dungeons and Dragons. In fact I've always held a vague annoyance with the D&D playing type.  I felt that they propagated the stereotypical and negative geek-in-their-parents-basement image that seems to be assigned to anyone with an interest with comic books, even if they never touched a D&D card in their life. That said, I'm well aware that not every D&D player falls into the stereotype the collective has earned. So what possible  reason would I have to check the Dungeons and Dragons movie?One reason Zoe McLellan.  She's been a guest star on two of my favorite television shows-Star Trek Voyager and The Invisible Man-and I wanted to see what other work she had done.  After watching the movie I think I can safely say, bias or not, that Zoe gives the best performance of anyone in the film. Why was the movie hardly wonderful? The answer may lie in the fact that it was director Courtney Solomon's first film.  The documentary on the making of the film featured on the DVD was very informative.  Solomon basically says that he skiped film school and just went out and tried to make a movie.  As someone who has an interest in film I respect and admire anyone who goes out and makes it happen for themselves, but it's not worth much if you shoot yourself in the foot on your first outing.  Perhaps film school would not have been such a waste of time after all...The film opens with a brief voice over which explains where we are and what's going on.  Director Soloman calls this the Star Wars approach and feels that it was the best way to go.  Let me tell you, the man wasn't kidding about taking a Star Wars approach.  When I first saw Ridley, Justin Whalin's character, I thought Han Solo.  His get up looked suspiciously like that of a certain rebel smuggler.  Ok, I though, maybe just a coincidence. After all, Marlon Wayans doesn't really fit the Chewbacca profile.  But my suspicions quickly returned when Ridley began to interact with Zoe McLellan's Marina.  Bickering reminiscent of that between Han and Leia.  Or an attempt at it, at least.Continuing with the Harrison Ford theme, Ridley finds himself at one point navigating a maze which is not much more than a combination of some famous obstacles once faced by a certain Indiana Jones.  Specifically, the maze involves these scenarios The first section has swinging axes that fall from the ceiling when you break a beam of light; Indy met a similar trap in the cave at the beginning of Raiders.  Secondly is a room with tiles. Step on the wrong ones, and the walls emit huge plumes of fire. Indy nearly bit the dust in The Last Crusade when he forgot how to spell Jehovah and stepped on the wrong tile.  After this, Ridley faces a room where spikes come down from above, threatening to impale him. Sound familiar? Yep, Indy and his pal Short Round were saved from a pointy death by Willie in Temple of Doom. When he successfully navigates these perils, Ridley enters the room that contains his prize sitting on a pedestal, just like the gold head statue at the beginning of Raiders.  Oh, but there's more.  At one point in the maze a spike nearly impales Ridley. His reaction?  A slant of the head and a lop-sided grin pure Harrison Ford. Ridley later retrieves another artifact that is protected by an ages old being not unlike the saint guarding the Holy Grain in The Last Crusade.  If you're wondering how this happened, Solomon gives us the answer. The maze was designed by George Gibbs, who was the mechanical effects supervisor on Temple of Doom and The Last Crusade.  It would appear that Mr. Gibbs was feeling nostalgic.The performances by the heros are not great by any means, but they do have their moments. I thought Marlon Wayans spent a lot of time sounding like Chris Tucker's character from The Fifth Element, all that high pitched screaming and squawking.  The villains however were downright pathetic.  Jeremy Irons portrays the worst evil wizard.  He's like something out of an episode of the Power Rangers.  Bruce Payne gets a demotion from main villain in Highlander Endgame to the  second in command lackey in Dungeons and Dragons.  He was ok in Highlander, but his performance here is terrible. And he wears blue lipstick. Why?  Who knows. Maybe he likes it.Dungeons and Dragons never had a chance from the word go.  A virgin director, too much so-so CGI (I'm of the opinion that if you can't afford it, don't try to use it at all), and a weak script that attempted to combine Star Wars and Indiana Jones with Dungeons and Dragons mixed in. After all, that's what the movie was supposed to be about.  Whether I like fantasy or not, and my personal opinion about D&D gamers aside, this movie had much more potential, but it falls flat on its face, largely I suspect, because of the director. "},{"Title":"Keep us down...","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I feel like... The government is trying to keep us down with movies of this quality... Me myself have been a dungeons and dragons player for 5 years or so, and I had huge expectation of this movie... But it sucks. Sorry to say, it's really bad. There's no point really and the story is too fast-forward. The only good thing about the movie was when Snails died, because he was probably the most annoying character ever in any movie. "},{"Title":"Almost tragicomic","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Are you a fan of the game? I'm sorry to say that there's not much chance you'll be a fan of the movie. It disappoints with everything from bad acting to lousy dialogue. But there are a few bright spots,  though they might be hard to find. I've tried to focus on the good parts.Jeremy Irons seem to like playing bad mage and he does it with some style. Marlon Wayans character is  not too good though, he lost a lot of the respect he earned with me from the excellent Requiem for a  dream. Mr. Saving the world himself is unstable, there are times that he reminds me of what I thought the hero in D&D would look and act like, but in some scenes he seems more like a boy scout than a hero.The visual part of the movie is ok. There are some good animating (and some less good) and moody  settings. A few times I actually felt that the scenes matched quite a lot with my impression of the  game. The people in charge of the costumes also need a pat on the shoulder, especially Irons good guy  costume was nice. For the action freaks there might be some good moments...for me there was one fighting scene that was  worth watching over again, but not more than that either.To sum things up a bit It's bad, sort of really bad, but with a few glimpses of potential for the  observant ones. In other words this is not a movie you need to see. I'm sure there are other movies  that will please you a lot more.Rating 3/10Øyvind Holen  "},{"Title":"You must be joking!","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For those who haven't seen this; save yourselves and avoid it at all cost. This has to be the most horrible film I've ever seen if one doesn't count Franco Nero's The Shark Hunter. This movie hadn't anything in it! I shiver by the mere memory of the story which was pretty lousy adaptation of a lousy story in Phantom Menace. The characters were sort of out there... Not here where they should have been and none of them was interesting. Jeremy Irons plays disgustingly badly although he is a great actor, special fx are from a computer game and it also had a great dose of infantile humour. Those who protect this movie by saying that this is supposed to be a film about a gaming session and is actually quite good should be reminded that we're reviewing movies, not gaming sessions...  "},{"Title":"this think stinks","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this stinking festering piece of manure should never have been made in such a hurry... they announced that Lord of the Rings was on the way and it´s obvious someone said let´s do D&D before LOTR comes out and beat them... but it just plain sucks, the acting sucks... they thought... let´s stick jeremy irons in there to have at least one good actor and he overacts so much it seems he´s trying to make up for all the bad acting from the other actors. I was laughing my ass off thru half the movie watching what stupid or corny thing they did next. THE CARTOON SERIES IS BETTER!!!!!I´m surprised I watched this movie thru to the end. don´t get me wrong... there ARE worse ways to waste the duration of this piece of junk, if you have no other choice in movies you might want to watch this over say... I was a teenage T-rex, but that´s about it.stay clear of it unless you either have nothing else better to do or rent, or you like D&D so much you think you´re a dwarf or something. "}{"Title":"A Beautiful Masterpiece","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has a great potential of becoming one of the worlds greatest films of all time. The story is so captivating, viewers will be thunderstruck by what happens next as the plot unfolds. Indeed, Dungeons&Dragons' horrific climax is so powerful that some critics have accused the film of being stupid or boring. Using innovative editing and creative camerawork, the director also ratchets up the tension to almost unbearable levels. Few films have captured the chaos of an urban conflagration with such fury, and audience members will leave feeling as shaken as Snails was in the fighting sequence of the year. I recommended this movie on so many levels. I give this film a big fat ZERO out of TEN for successfully making waste matter excrete from the bowels of a pig onto the big screen. "},{"Title":"+1 Movie of Wayanses","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I pity anyone, including myself, who actually paid money to see this hunk of s#!t. It is utterly horrible and a waste of anyone's money.The reason, though, that I gave this movie a 4 is because, for some reason, whenever it is on T.V, it is one of the best movies ever. If it weren't so bad it could be considered a cult classic.First off, the acting is horrible. Jeremy Irons, a terrific actor, is at his worst. He probably didn't give it his all as he could've thought that it would be a campy hoot to be in this flick. Thora Birch (yes, FRESH off of American Beauty) makes it seem like this is her first movie. Bruce Payne is constantly over-acting and never tones it down; it really might've helped the movie. Justin Whalin delivers the worst NOOOO! ever and really can't show emotions very well. Just think of him as the poor-man's Keanu Reeves. The non-human characters must think there cooler than us, and therefore think that they don't have to act, at all. Zoe McLellan is... OK, she actually fits the part. The only good acting in this movie is by Richard O'Brien (where if you streched his performance as long as others, it would probably be bad). He's only on screen for 5 minutes, but he can do no wrong. The real problem with the acting  is Marlon Wayans. If you've ever played D&D you would know that no Rogue (the class closest to thief) would be that bumbling and stupid, as any Rogue that was would die really fast. If you haven't played D&D, you would know that know human as stupid as him would survive for very long. He really drags the movie down as much as he can as some pretty bad comedic sidekick.The Script is horrible and includes so many bad things. The dialouge is some of the worst you've ever heard. The plot is explained off screen and the characters suddenly know what to do. The plot is pretty bad considering a lot of the story ideas one could find on-line.The sets are pretty lame and look like a high school stage crew put them together. The SFX are descent, for a home computer.Joel Silver really should've picked someone with experience to direct, rather that a first timer. There are several directors that have some background in fantasy, or even horror, that could've given us something descent from the script.With all of its faults, whenever it's on T.V, you know you're going to watch it, if only to wonder why it ever drained 6 bucks from your wallet.  "},{"Title":"This Dungeon Drags On!!","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" God.. Where to do I start?I used to Play D&D and AD&D as a younger soul, seeing the DVD cover in a bargain bin marked $9.95 AUD I thought hmm.. Risk it..I shouldn't have, Whist I dont rubbish alot of films and I dont have high expectations of any film, at $9.95 even I felt ripped off by this waste of film... I'd feel insulted to let my cup of instant coffee rest on the D&D DVD as a coaster!With acting from one of my favorite actors, Jeremy Irons making me wonder if he was a CGI generated model cause none of his excellent acting abilities were used in this production.Scenes were colourful, The constant shrieking of Marlon Wayans irritated me so much that when his character died in the film, I felt releif - not remorse!If movie houses put up money for stuff of this quality, and they can get actors like Jeremy Irons to perform in a movie as bad as this - maybe i should turn my hand to writing films.I certainly couldn't create anything as piss poor as this.0 out of 100 - I want my $9.95 back! "},{"Title":"What an insult this film is.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As a former roleplayer myself, well I can recall my, and my group's, dread and fear when we heard about this movie. No one appears to have mentioned it yet in these reviews, so I'll throw it out here....The Dungeons and Dragons cartoon series.Yes, this is what we feared we'd be in for with this movie, and guess what? We were very disappointed. This is much, much worse than the cartoon could ever hope to be.To a roleplayer this movie is just about as retarded as it can get. No plot, no consistency, nothing. Considering the D&D game has generated something in the region of 90,000 pages of material you'd think it would just be a case of picking a suitable scenario from the hundreds available and reworking it into a script.But, with a writing team who've done nothing of any note and a director who apparently named his production company after Elvis Presley's mother's dog I suppose we should be grateful it wasn't much worse (although how it could possibly be any worse, escapes me).The acting is dire to the point of being painful. Even the Kings of overacting, Richard O'Brien, Tom Baker and Bruce Payne look sad in this, though it was good to see Tom is still with us. As for Bruce Payne, he always, always, always plays the bad guy, and usually to good effect. But here, with his colourful lipstick, I couldn't help but laugh every time he was on screen, which kind of destroyed his supposed menace. I kept hoping one of the other actors would say Dude, what's wrong with your lips?Only Jeremy Irons seemed to be having fun. His terrible overacting was on a par with (but not nearly so good as) Alan Rickman's in Robin Hood.I note from the credits also that Dave Arneson, one of the founders of the game this trash is supposed to be based on, had a cameo role in the film which was deleted. I don't know whether to cheer or cry. On the one hand it would have been nice to see him, even for just a fleeting glimpse of the man that helped create D&D. On the other, he's probably better off out of it! And why was it deleted? His acting couldn't stink any worse than the rest of the cast.The non-human characters in the story are shamefully dealt with here, with the elves looking ridiculous and dwarfs being relegated to novelty value only. And what the hell was that three-eyed blue-headed mostrosity meant to be? Looked like it'd be more at home on Star Trek. And if I hear another pseudo-Scottish accent coming out of a dwarf....And then there's the big finale with lots of CGI dragons. Well, they look good....in the distance. But up close the big red dragon was about as convincing as the snake in Anaconda. I mean, it looked like it was lifted out of a bad video game.Sadly, another opportunity to promote D&D has slipped by. And people who have never played the game will watch this and snigger when they think of those that do, assuming that this movie defines what it's all aboutThe only bright spot comes with the demise of the Wayans character, Snails. It really is a merciful release to no longer be subjected to his awful stereotypical blackman routine. On the other hand, any real spark of energy the movie has goes down with him at the same time.What an insult this film is to all roleplayers. And if you're not a roleplayer, it's still an insult. Avoid it. "},{"Title":"WHY?!!","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I used to play D&D when I was younger. I loved it. I dreamed of the day that they would make a D&D film. Imagine my disappointment when this load of garbage came out. I was stunned. Why would they make such an obviously rotten, stupid film like this? Why? They had so much material with which to work. Just look back at all the incredible scenarios that the makers of D&D put out over the years. Utterly brilliant stuff. So why didn't they just adapt one or more of these scenarios? Why? They totally blew a great opportunity. This film could have been as good if not better than Lord of the Rings if they had the right storyline.I weep for D&D. "},{"Title":"compared to some sword and sorcery films of the 80`s this fairs somewaht better","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Difficult one this, yes as piece of cinema it comes across as cheap entertainment but compared to some of the sword and sorcery films of the 80`s it fairs somewhat better.Effects were certainly a step up from films like Krull with final dragon battle quite impressive.Jeremy Irons performance is something to behold quite remember the last time I saw ham so thickly served,Bruce Payne ( king of the B movies ) is his normal sneering self and was nice to see Tom Baker, brief though it was, making an all too rare screen appearance.All the younger actors in this film came across as quite a likeable bunch and refreshing for one of them to be killed and remain that way all too often in these films people have a funny way of reappearing in the final reel which does tend to lose some of the dramatics along the way.  "},{"Title":"Dubious heritage","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Much has been said of this film already; therefore, I have little new to add.However, I've noticed that one perception is held steadily throughout many of the reviews present on this database  The idea that the viewer who plays Dungeons & Dragons and games of its ilk will find something to enjoy in this movie.I do.And I didn't. "},{"Title":"Put this movie down - it suffers!","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was just amazed! but not the way you think. I was amazed of who would throw their money in a project as this! The story is so badly composed that you just have to wonder if the 'writer' ever did anything else than playing D&D in his life! The worst part of the story is how 'magic stuff' always just seems to pop up completely out of the blue whenever the writer painted himself in a corner.If Jeremy Irons received any guidelines at all from the director it must have been something like Now you just look real evil there, Jeremy! Just look reeeaaal evil and don't do anything else!The effects are clearly computer generated most of the time, but with poor animation. Even so they actually work most of the time, however you are never amazed.The music is as predictable as the story but at least it suits the universe. It introduces a catchy adventure theme, even though it sounds like something we have heard a million times it gave me 30 good seconds in the beginning at the movie.Then again - if you are in love with the game and under 15 years old you might enjoy this. "},{"Title":"if you like great action/fantasy/any type movies","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  then stay as far away as possible from this movie because this is'nt one.what was bad you say? well lets see justin whalen is stupid as i peer into my crystal ball i forsee many a disney and lifetime movie role for him and maybe one day he'll graduate up to an Aaron Spelling tv series!well surely jeremy irons was good uhhh no i wanted to take my shoelace off and strangle him with it!so overall this gets the golden bagel a big fat 0 but imdb doesnt allow a 0 so i have to give it a 1 which is the most depressing thing thats happened to me in awhile, but hey its still not as bad as josie and the pussycats -they are soul mates on celluloid-the real cream of the CRAP! "},{"Title":"Painfully mediocre..","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a truly pathetic attempt to create a film franchise from a successful idea. To bring a game spanning such a wide spectrum as Dungeons & Dragons to the big screen was no doubt like slaying a dragon, but this time the dragon won.The plot centers around a sinister wizard (Irons) who seeks to control the dragons, an empress (Birch) who represents the forces of good (although her facial expression remains entirely neutral throughout) and a thief (Whalen) who gets caught in the middle. Irons and Birch are absolute polar opposites in acting styles in this film. Irons is over-the-top with mindless shouting and overacting, while Birch is nearly catatonic in every scene. It's a shame that these two fine actors couldn't breathe enough life into this shameful flick. On a side note, Irons sports a neatly trimmed 20th century hairstyle which appears ridiculously out of place on a medievil sorcerer.This film, intended to be the first of a series, had the simple job of developing the characters in preparation for this would-be mega-franchise. Unfortunately, it didn't work, as I simply didn't care about any of them. They did make a fair attempt to play upon actual recognizable elements of the game, hoping to keep the interest of the D&D players as least, but even the somewhat impressive eye candy was less than captivating.Any number of films of this genre that followed the inception and ensuing popularity of the role-playing game could bear the name Dungeons & Dragons with considerable merit, including Dragonslayer and Ladyhawke. And, of course, since the game derived much of its content from the works of Tolkien, the Dungeons & Dragons movie pales in comparison to The Fellowship of the Ring. "}{"Title":"Go and do something more interesting instead!","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is garbage. If you have 100 minutes to spare you must have something more interesting to do than to watch this rubbish!I can't really comment on the dialogue since most of it is obscured by the overbearing soundtrack - you sit there having to tweak the volume to try and hear anything and get blasted by the music. "},{"Title":"Oh dear.....","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have seen LOTR, Willow, et al, and I really thought that this would be the best of all that type of genre. What a disappointment ! There was such a great potential here, but for me, the story line petered-out quickly, and the acting was dire. Perhaps the casting director shouldn't work again either ? I mean, Jeremy Irons as the bad guy - c'mon !! He's bad enough acting as a good guy, never mind trying to be the badest thing that ever was in D&D-land.The highlight for me was Zoe McLellan, brilliant acting.As an ex-dungeoneer myself, I was looking forward to the film getting the party together in some way, then getting on with battling foes through a 'dungeon' of some sort, but, to my amazement, when they did finally get together, and attempt to enter the dungeon, blow me over with a feather, only the feeble human can get in to grab the eye of the dragon ??? Pathetic !! And that was it !????I feel the film-makers missed a big chance here of great success. Obviously, many dungeoneers like me will have watched it thinking that this would bring up to date in visuals the months or years of boardRPG-ing that they endured, but no.It was sadder than a sad thing. "},{"Title":"Holy Campy Acting, Batman!","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"        I watched this movie the day after I watched Lord of the Rings Part One, and was surprised when I noted that both films came from New Line Cinema. Oh brother.       Kind of like the Saturday morning children's television version of  Rings, everything about Dungeons and Dragons just screams infantile. The director may have been trying for some kind of intentional camp, and had been deliberately making his cast act as childish as possible, but I kinda doubt it. I think it just happened. One exception is Tom Baker in a nice cameo, he knows how to play this stuff like it's for real. Otherwise, it's the 60's Batman TV show all over again. "},{"Title":"Done wrong & Drags on","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh dear, this movie had a lot of potential, but it was really poorly put together.  The acting was terrible, the substandard dialogue was shameful and the sets were just not believable.  The only redeemable feature of this entire movie was the appearance of some pretty good CGI Dragons.  More dragons, less dungeons.  Anyway where was the guy with the red horns, he would have made this movie a lot more interesting? "},{"Title":"Sad...","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie sucked big time ! I do not complain about the special effects, although I have seen better, but the scenario was crappy and I have never seen a casting going so wrong.Happily we know have Lords of the rings, which should put this Dungeon & Dragon movie to shame... "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being a fan of fantasy world, Tolkien and stuff (and also an avid RPG player) I thought that I must see this movie. Hey, it stars Jeremy Irons, a good actor - that can't be bad.Wrong. Acting is so exaggerated that you think immediately that this movie was made for 7-year old kids. Except that it's too violent for that purpose. In my opinion, only a very simple-minded person would like this movie. Besides, it's not very close to D&D rules.. eg. the mage needed some kind of powder to cast magic, and she's mostly wimpy and useless.. in reality ) the mage would have kicked some butt, but no, being a girl she's weak and needs a lousy thief to rescue her. I hated the stereotypical easy-going male hero & weak but cute girl who cannot do without the man. Dialogue was very bad too. Those who find way-too-obvious and extremely clichéd jokes funny, will enjoy this movie a lot. "},{"Title":"Poor,poor fantasy adventure","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First;I like fantasy adventure.I loved Lord of the Rings f.ex.But this piece of crap is so badly directed! Special effects are poor,acting,story,script and so on.All is poor.I think we use the word bad here.Two good actors can be found;Jeremy Irons(who unfortunately overplays fatally) and Thora Birch(which don`t fit her part).Other actors are useless,especially Wayans. I would say if you don`t like those kind of movies;move away.I you like those movies;do the same.It`s so bad you will NOT like it.One of the all time worst.Rated 0.5/10  "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The absolutly last movie ever! I watched it for 2(?) hours to behold a crappy ending that has nothing to do with the movie, there is no way a sequal is possible. The wayan brother, his fight absoluty sucked as did the thief travel through the mazes. This was a bad mix of comedy-adventure and was a disgrace to D&D. "},{"Title":"What a wasted opportunity","Date":"18 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dear oh dear oh dear oh dear....what a truly shameful waste of an opportunity.Those defending this film, a embattled minority, seem to base their defense on their knowledge of TSR's D&D (or AD&D) role playing games and the film's 'accuracy' with regard to this - what a crock! I freely admit that I played AD&D as young nipper and loved it...though cheating and demi-god like characters were a common feature at my school. So I know what could have been done with this film - AD&D appeals to kids because of the imaginative opportunities that it provides. This film woefully fails on this score. The inclusion of some cheesy West Coast slacker-speak just heightens the dreadfulness of this film. The director was given a considerable budget and it seems like carte blanche with regard to the plot - and he has squandered it on boring drivel where you just wish every person involved got toasted to a crisp by some dragonfire. Do not whatver you else you do in your life see this tripe - the director and scriptwriters should be banned by the UN for the sake of humanity from making another film. They have managed to ensure a film that could have set up a profitable franchise instead took the path of least resistance - throwing money at some kid's rework of a really lame D&D adventure his equally lame Dungeonmaster friend dreamt up having read some really really lame sub-Tolkien rip-off books by some really lame writers - Arrrggghhhhh.  "},{"Title":"Dungeouns and Dragons *1/2","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Here is a film that is so corny and bad that watching this film was like being surrounded by a group of people playing the polka.Dungeons and Dragons is one of the films that I would rank as one of the worst of 2000.This is based on a popular board game from the 1980s and unfortunately was adapted to the big screen.Everything about this film is so bad.Even the visual effects.The film made me feel that I was watching some videogame because it had the look of a videogame.Not even Jeremy Irons could have saved this dull film.Dungeouns and Dragons only succeeded in ripping me off then giving me my money's worth.The best way to watch this film is with the blindfolds on because either way,you're not missing anything. "}{"Title":"Rarely saw such a bad movie","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is total, utter, absolute CRAP. To begin with i played D&D for the best part of six years, so i was thrilled when finally i could see it on screen. Then i saw the trailers and they matched expectation. Then i read the reactions and, uh-oh, they seem a bit disappointed, well ok let's see it for myself, with lower expectations. Lower? Hah! You CAN't have lower expectations. Physically. ACTING non-existent. Was THAT Jeremy Irons??? The black guy is constantly sambo-style overacted (looked better in scary movie). Special mention for Oscar Award for Worse Character in a Supporting Role, *the dwarf*, for the Worse Raise of Eyebrow. Minor mention for the huntress (see, i try to save them not mentioning their name), cause she was a really striking beauty, with SOME, seldom, facial expression. DIALOGUES just one example you said you would have released them! ... i lied Best Original Line from a Villain. this is definitely NOT a spoiler, you see the line coming from miles far, and you hope and pray no, no, he WON't say that cold fish..., yet he does. COHERENCE the librarian girl wearing yuppie-style no-frame glasses tells all. SPECIAL EFFECTS come on, you have a computer, not crayons. MAKE-UP Best Use of Ballpen Scratches on the Neck Award. ADHERENCE TO THE GAME nil. Golden dragons are a good deal stronger than red in the game, fooling beholders takes Einstein a run for his money, dimension door requires at least five minutes for casting unless you don't want your leg stuck into a wall... Well i guess i reached my 1000 words limit. I am not saying to avoid it, i am saying, if you see it, then i TOLD you to avoid it, didn't i? "},{"Title":"Oh boy, is it bad!","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's not that the undersigned isn't into sf and fantasy. On the contrary, I've done my bit of role-playing games through the years - and like most others with that interest, I've enjoyed D&D/AD&D. But not even for an established closet-nerd like me is there anything to come after here. The story SUCKS, and the acting is, if possible, even worse; it's absolutely horrible to behold the performance of otherwise solid Jeremy Irons who is overacting to an absurd degree. But hey, he got his fat pay-check, and now he's probably trying to forget this movie, as do I.The dragons in the very end are pretty cool, but that's that. And considering the general standard of sweet-to-the eye CG effects in almost every new adventure movie these days, there isn't any logical reason to invest money in this fantasy edition of an American family sit-com.No, if you're looking for fantasy releases, go watch Willow again, wait for the DVD special edition of Legend (out 21st May 2002), and of course run around in little circles in excitement about when the LOTRFOTR special edition comes out! "},{"Title":"wasted opportunities","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a big fantasy fan and played D&D religiously as a kid, but this movie was an insult to fantasy and to D&D.  There is so much potential in a Dungeons & Dragons themed movie.  The came itself, when played well, is a story- sometimes basic (go into dungeon kill monsters, retrieve treasure), sometimes more so (go on a quest to find the source of an evil elf invasion eventually landing you in the demon pits of the Abyss to fight a spider queen)But nothing from the game was retained.  Instead a power struggle plot was concocted.  None of the great D&D battles between fighters, magic-users, clerics et. al. and fantastic beasts.  Instead, the characters fight with other humans (or humanoids) and other than a brief glimpse of CGI beholders (the floating spheres with eye stalks) there are no monsters to be found... except....The dragons.  Hundreds of them.  So small on the screen that they become like mosquitos in a pointless dragon battle  Instead of the millions spent on making all these dragons, they should have had more monsters through out the rest of the movie.  It would have retained that D&D flavor.  Instead, it's like a bad Hercules episode with an expensive but dumb climax. "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is waste of time. There is nothing good in this movie. Effects could work in games, but in this movie they look awful. There are good actors in this movie, but they act badly. Especially Jeremy Irons overacts so badly it makes me laugh every time he's on screen. There are bad characters in this movie, none of them are interesting, in fact they are so bad, that you don't care what happens to them. Thora Birch has awful role. Her character is seen in the film abut 3-5 times and every time she acts badly. She tries to evolve her character, but she doesn't have much to work with. D&D is based on game, but it doesn't make justice to the games, in fact it almost ruins the games reputation. Battlefield Earth and this are the worst films made in 2000 that I've seen. Just awful, it isn't good bad movie, it is bad bad movie.(½ star out of ***** stars , 1 out of 10) "},{"Title":"I must warn all those considering to view this movie..","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ..it really isn't that good, at all.I was never a D&D fiend, I personally was just looking for a movie to pass some time from a boring night at home.. it's ironic that I rented the movie to do just that when I would have gotten more entertainment staring at my fireplace for 2 hours.I'm going to keep this simple, because I promised myself I wouldn't jump in here and review a film just to criticize it but I feel that I have to warn others before they go out and see it.  Here are a few of the major problems I had with this film1. Acting  Jeremy Irons, Thora Birch, Bruce Payne.. One would expect at least average acting correct? Wrong, overacting.. underacting.. whatever you want to call it, everyone contributed to the bad acting of this film.2. Props/Costume Design  I'm beginning to wonder if they just drove down to their local Wally World and went to the toys section to pick up all the props/armor/costumes for this movie.. I have never seen worse props in a movie before in my life, and I've seen Feeders.. Staffs, Swords, Armor, all cheesy plastic.. look at the elf's breastplate and tell me thats not the worst of them all, (along side the dragon' staff)3. Star Wars?  I would love for someone to go through the movie beginning to end and count the Star Wars ripoffs.. Dialogue especially, but right along side some of the sets and scenes, they even threw in an Indiana Jones knock off..The only saving grace is fairly good special effects at times, most spells were done well, wide views of the locations (castles, towers), etc.. Although I feel the dragons could have been better, the effects were still somewhat impressive overall..I take one thing with me after viewing the movie, and that is the hope that the ending didn't indicate they were leaving it open for a sequel!My Rating  2 of 10 "},{"Title":"Boredom & Buffoonery","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I tried. I really did. I have a long history of playing Dungeons and Dragons. I had the best of intentions. But then... oh lord.... I cringed and cringed and cringed.Ho-hum tale that should never have been made. Corny and awkward, with ridiculous costumes, pompous acting, and a plot so transparent you wondered whether it was really there. It was aimed at the pimpled masses of D & D nerds, and while their standards may be low.... I doubt that it would have filled their expectations.When one considers more recent fantasy movies (such as Lord of the Rings or Harry Potter) or even older ones (such as the Neverending Story), one cannot help but shake one's head in wonder. Why oh why did they bother? "},{"Title":"DD but different","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've only seen DD saturday morning cartoons some 10 years ago, otherwise have no background on DD.  I suppose all my friends who are into DD play it pretty seriously, it had to be more complex then this movie )  Is it?  Regardless, if it wasn't representative of the DD world, I encourage the DD fans organize to make one that shows us what we are missing.  As for the movie itself, some okay CGI (compared to 10 years ago) but no complains - the lo-fi CGI gives it a fantasy ambience and helps us to suspend our disbelief.  Acting of all the supporting actors are good, but the main actors acts for children.  Story follows a predictable narrative, but the camera crew did a good job.  I suppose the money lenders probably were pulling strings that invariably results in an expansive broken movie. "},{"Title":"Unpleasant","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not a movie, it`s a nightmare... This is a introduction how to sell your soul to satan and even better..........the dragons are just so unreal that is is almost impossible to imagine that it really is dragons your looking at and not santa claus... Marlon Wayans funny character actually manages to NOT be funny a single time..If you laugh, your probably doped.Thanks for you time... "},{"Title":"Eeeeyuck!","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I knew before I started watching the movie that it had received jeers from audiences, but I almost turned it off within the first 5-10 minutes from the incredibly bad acting from Jeremy Irons and Thora Birch.  The director should be shot! My rating began at 1.The effects were actually pretty good...I'm not sure why there are so many other comments blasting the CGI.  Rating +1 = 2.I'm feeling pretty generous, so +1 to whoever found where Tom Baker's been hiding himself and cast him as the elven healer.  This Dr. Who fan gives +1 = 3, higher than most gave, I see.  Shame on the IMDB staff for giving this movie a 6!(spoiler alert!)Now, does anyone know wtf happened at the end?  Snails' headstone goes poof, the red gem started glowing and they just disappeared into sparklies?  No sense! "},{"Title":"Never see this movie, unless you enjoy bad movies","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was waste of time, those film reels could of been used for many things, but this? One of the most over-rated movies on the IMDB, giving a 4.3?! Maybe a 2.1, I'm being pleasent.First of all, the plot? What plot? It's so stupid, and then ending, is the WORST ENDING I have ever seen, and what was with the dialog? I mean I can write better stuff on toliet paper better then that. It sounded like a 5th grader wrote this as a school project of some sort. Give this movie the MST3K treatment or try to forget it exsists and never look at it again!! A cheesy B-Movie thats so bad, you either laugh at it or it's so bad you wonder what the people was thinking when they made this and shake your head.1.5 out of 10.......   "}{"Title":"Don't waste your time.","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a terrible movie.  Incredibly shallow and unconvincing acting made worse with a horrible script.  A ludicrous story that is completely uninspired and unoriginal, not to mention filled with cliche to be almost insulting.   Considering the amount of history and material already published for Dungeons and Dragons, there is no excuse for such a shoddy movie.  Don't watch it, don't rent it - and make the morons who made this movie LOSE money on it.P.S. DO NOT - I REPEAT - DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE *AFTER* WATCHING LORD OF THE RINGS (A REAL FANTASY MOVIE).  You may need to re-watch Lord of Rings just to get this atrocity out of your mind.P.P.S.  DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE *AT ALL* "},{"Title":"What a Travesty!!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With 30 years of material to pull from, what idiot let them make this movie this way? I think the D&D license is held by Wizards of the Coast nowadays, and I guess no one cares that this movie 'invented' fantasy elements that have NEVER EXISTED in the canon of D&D. Beholders (the big eye thingys) don't retract their eye stalks; that's a huge source of their power. Spells aren't cast using some magic powder that's the same for any and all spells (and what kind of spells were those, anyway?).  And WHAT WAS THAT sentient purple guy who looked like an evil Man-in-the-Moon from the Mickey D's commercials.These things aside, the acting was sub-standard, and the plot trite and contrived.  And Marlon Wayans couldn't make this flop funny on his best day.I gave it 2 Stars for some decent special effects, and an impressive dragon battle. "},{"Title":"Not worthy to carry this name","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons and Dragons is a wonderful and fantastic game to play. This movie was my biggest disappointment in cinema. It is a miserable attempt to reflect a possible game scenario, and it simply fails.  "},{"Title":"fun?","Date":"22 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  you know what? i'm gonna have to agree with what my friend james said shortly after the completion of this whopper of cinematic craftsmenship. this movie was terrible but i had so much fun sitting around with friends and making fun of it that it will always hold a special place in my heart. there oughtta be more movies like that. in fact they should have a rack at the video store that separates them from the films that you can even try to take seriously so you don't get confused.   honestly i can't believe that this film was intended to have storyline that made sense, it's all about having something so loose that if you catch most of it, you're okay.  and just repeat lots of phallic words like rod to give us something to play off of.  and through in an ambiguously gay blue-lipped cue ball with a lisp as a supervillain (Was he even SUPPOSED to be comic relief?).  I mean honestly, the kids that grew up playing D&D are the same people that are controlling this country right now.  they weren't all unusual, geeky, and STUPID.  a lot of them were smart cookies.  you'd think they could cook up a more intelligent, inspired, and reverent plotline to the role-playing event of the 20th century century.  i honestly don't think you were supposed to take this seriously.  I mean-  marlon wayans ....in medieval times, making a complete ass of himself in a role that could only be construed as being uncle tom-esque racist.   Welcome to Camp.  Let's have as much fun as we can at the counselors' expense.     "},{"Title":"Loads of effects, bad movie","Date":"19 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Here's the perfect example of a movie that has incredible effects but isn't worth viewing. I really like effect movies, even when acting, or the story, is not very good. But in this movie ONLY the effects were good. The story, the creatures and other elements, everything was stolen from other fantasy stories (look at the behaviour of elves and dwarves), the acting was horrible and the music, well, the music, I had actually a distinct feeling it didn't belong to the movie. "},{"Title":"Not for Dungeon & Dragon Fans","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the context of a fantasy film, this was a passable movie.  The plot was interesting, the effects were good, and the pace was kept up.  From the view point of a Dungeons and Dragons player, the film made no sense.It didn't follow the basic rules, guidelines, or descriptions from the games. But more than anything else it was over acted and poorly directed. "},{"Title":"Spare me, please.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so I hired the DVD of this primarily at the insistence of my almost seven year old daughter - but hey, I remember enjoying Krull, the first Highlander, The Princess Bride, The Neverending Story and almost Willow too, so I didn't object too much to watching it. Until it started.Words almost fail me. The cutting of the film seems to have been done by someone who was blind, drunk, or blind drunk. It makes almost no sense whatsoever. In fact, it was only when I turned in desperation to the deleted scenes that I could see that at least some minor effort, albeit extremely small, had been made to provide some logical motivation for the action. Thank God I rented this on DVD - if I'd rented it on tape or seen it in the cinema, I'd not have made head nor tail of it.I'm not going to summarise the plot. It's pap. Period. I'm not going to summarise the characters. There aren't any. Period. Okay, a little money was spent on special effects, but in this day and age, they aren't anything to make your mouth even twitch, let alone your jaw drop. I'm not going to mention the acting, either. Well, okay, Justin Whalin makes a reasonably pleasant hero, who aims to get somewhere close to Brendan Fraser, and doesn't do too badly, given the appalling vehicle he'd chosen to ride on. Bruce Payne as the bad guy with the prehensile earwax problem also deserves a mention for an honourable effort. But that's about it.Oops, no it isn't. Jeremy Irons. What the heck is he doing in this movie? Is he short of cash? What's more, his performance pushes the envelope of ham so far that he's clear into the next postal district. He'd have still been considered as overacting massively even if he'd given the exact same performance in a small town pantomime. A sheer disgrace.And as for the ending of the film... can I just say HUH??? The alternative ending as featured on the DVD extras would have been far far  less worse (I can't quite bring myself to use the word better any where in relation to this movie). Overall a big fat zero for this. It reeks of an attempt to make a fast buck out of an easily exploitable young audience. I'll leave the final comment to my soon to be seven year old daughter, who, as the final credits rolled, put down the Barbie she'd chosen to while the final hour away with, turned to me, shrugged her shoulders and said with a resigned sigh Well, that was stupid, wasn't it, Daddy?Dead right it was. She's a smart little girl, that one.  "},{"Title":"Dung and Drag on would have been a better title","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remember looking at the previews for this movie and thinking I CAN'T WAIT TO SEE IT.  Being an avid D & D player in my youth, this movie seemed like it would be a great tale of a game I used to enjoy so very much... but I was wrong.   It wasn't a great tale at all.. and in actual fact, the story sucked a whole bunch.  Well, not so much the story because I found that to be quite interesting.  The script is what sucked.  Bad lines with some equally bad acting.  That doesn't go for all the characters though.  Justin Whalin  (Ridley) did a great job in his lead role and with the fight scenes. I really enjoyed The Wayans Brother (It doesn't really matter which one does it?... okay, okay... Marlon) as Snails because he added some great comic relief to an already cheezy film.  I also liked Kristen Wilson as the Elf.. but only because she really looked like an Elf.  On the other hand, I didn't think that Thora Birch (Empress Savina) suited the role (and I personally can't believe she went from American Beauty to this... goodness) and Jeremy Irons (Profion) overacted the whole time.  I also think that one of the mages were from Brooklyn.  If you watch it, listen to his accent.The special effects were OBVIOUS computer animations and the script was bad.  Let alone that, half the actors sucked emensly.  When you get through all of that.. you have an enjoyable movie... but only if you know anything about D & D.    "},{"Title":"I guess you can't go back.","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Here we've got a very 90's Special Effects Extravaganza that has aspirations of being like the great fantasy movies of the 80s.  You know which ones I mean.  The Neverending Story, Dark Crystal, Labyrinth, and the Star Wars movies of course.Here's the thing.  All those movies from the 80s *did* have great special effects, but they also had good writing to go along with them.  Dungeons and Dragons has got the barest minimum of a plot, and I don't even think some characters were identified by name!It isn't a total loss.  The effects in this movie are quite good, and I did get chills during the final dragon battle.  I just wish there had been more to it. "},{"Title":"Jeremy Jeremy... WHY?????","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dear oh Dear. Well this is not as good as it could have been. Irons, in particular, let himself down. However I was impressed with the young hero (whose name escapes me) as he did quite well in a number of key emotional scenes. The effects are not convincing and the characters are very sketchy - even cartoony. "}{"Title":"Aesthetically a treat,shame about the acting and storyline.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As an avid role playing enthuasiast of countless years it was with some trepidation that an adequate attempt would be made to create an plausible conversion of the genre to the fullscreen.Well my worries came true with appalling script writing and linear storyline,terrible acting performances from the main characters,props and costume design which on close examination looked aesthetically cheap and inept.Although admittedly the animation and art work is excellent but it cannot distract you from the point that the film was poorly thought-out with too many pitfalls and so should be conveniently discarded into the pit of oblivion where it rightfully belongs. "},{"Title":"Play the game instead","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The acting in this awkward, leaden and soon-to-be-forgotten misfire is certainly the single worst facet in a jewel of cinematic awfulness.  Jeremy Irons is so far over the top that the viewer may begin re-evaluating any positive feelings towards his prior work.  Thora Birch, while giving Queen Amidala a run for her money in the costuming department, is certainly out of her depth in this as well.  Every line that falls from her mouth rings totally hollow.  Marlon Wayans as Snails the thief is equally out of place, the supposed humor he provides falling flat.  Zoe McLellan is intermittently watchable, but her wide-eyed intensity becomes tiresome.  Perhaps we can blame the editor and director for her performance, since they are already to blame for so many of the problems with this film.  Much of what happens in the plot is referred to in dialogue or transpires off camera.  This sort of thing points to script problems and production troubles and is symptomatic of heavy-handed editing for running-time considerations.  Perhaps scenes were shot and did not work out.  Maybe money or time constraints forced dialogue to stand in for cut sequences.  But more likely, this was just a poorly-conceived and executed waste of time with passable but by-now overly familiar swooping computer animation of fantasy cityscapes and dragons in flight. "},{"Title":"Disappointing!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For 25 years, gamers have been waiting for a D&D-movie and what they got was THAT?!The movie is not entirely bad; the story is in fact very nice - it would be an excellent D&D-adventure itself - but the nice idea is brought to life very disappointing.The directing is full of weaknesses, the terrible costumes spell 'cheap' and the dialogues are corny at least, but the main failure of the movie are the actors EVERYONE (except Tom Baker and Richard O'Brien) are playing at their very worst; especially that Wayans-jerk and Jeremy Irons and Thora Birch are delivering some of the biggest crap I've ever seen. And why does Bruce Payne has blue lips? I just don't get it.... Another weakness of the movie is, that it's painfully political correct Snails is just there because we _need_ a black in the party (a badly stereotyped one), the elves are some tree-hugging hippies and the empress (Amidala? who is Amidala?) is a fine fighter for democratism. Ugh!On the other side, there were some nice effects; the spells were quite good, I _loved_ the Beholders and the Dragons themselves, well this ain't 'Dragonheart' but they are done acceptably...if one can gulp down the fact, that those Dragons are NOTHING like the cunning, cruel, powerful, independent creatures they are in the game.It's worth renting the movie on DVD, but that's all.If only they had more money and BETTER ACTORS!!! "},{"Title":"My comments are my own opinion, if you dont agree with them then fine.","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Truly the worst film I have seen in years, and I have seen Gargantua. The Special affects are poor at best, the extras are so obviously extras they might as well be waving at the camera and shouting Hi Mum. People who enjoyed the Game or the Cartoon will not enjoy this film. People who didnt enjoy the game or the cartoon will not enjoy the film.No-one will enjoy this film. The acting is terrible by all concerned, Jeremy Irons over acting, Thora Birch what were you thinking??? A waste of time any money,DO NOT BUY THIS FILM, although the disk would make a nice drinks mat.. If you have to watch it rent it, but wait till the rental fee is at its lowest, cos otherwise it ain't worth doing.The first film revue I have ever been compelled to write.  "},{"Title":"Bring the Beer and commence MST 3k the Hell out of this","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a serious attempt at a movie, this movie blows.  If this was satirical attampt at the game (yes I've played).  This movie is funny as hell.  My friend and I on our first ever viewing, proceeded to MST 3K this movie, at it was one of the funniest things we've done while heavly intoxicated. Some the things spit out of our drunken mouths were (not quite a spoiler but close enough) Get in there you hair oaf, I don't care what you smell Idiot, in Latin, Jehovah starts with an I (not quite true to Indiana Jones  The Last Crusades but close enough. "},{"Title":"A Bad Movie","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Flat characters, uninspired acting, cheesy special-effects.  Some aspects, such as the silly ear-snakes, are irritating to remember.  Where credit is due, there is one exciting sequence in the first third of the film the maze.  But little before that is worth watching, and everything after it is not.  The cadre that rated this mishap a '10' can only be joking. "},{"Title":"The kind of movie you love to hate","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I came out of the cinema I was not really disappointed. I mean, I expected to see a financially overblown, dumbed down adaption of a pretty good scenario with bad acting and no noticable target audience. What I got was exactly that. However, all that doesn't mean that the movie is not entertaining. Alas, it was not entertaining. Or at least not as much as I hoped. The movie does have a couple of highs that make things worse because they show what the movie could have been. For example the bad-guy actor. Considering the script he had to work with he did a decent performance, even though he sometimes looked like he had to keep himself from laughing.Why I laugh to hate this movie is the same reason why I hate many comic and comic-like movies They are always much dumber than the original. This means that many who don't know otherwise and see this kind of movie will think that the comics, or in this case the roleplaying gamers, are infantile children who don't grasp the concept of logic and use stupid language.So, I don't think I completely wasted my time watching this, but only because didn't expect much to begin with. "},{"Title":"More of an apology of a film then a film.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Promising trailer, bad film. You can tell that first time director Courtney Solomon blew most of his budget on the odd bit of special effects and as such had to cut a lot of important scenes from the film. As a result what is left looks like a rather pointless adventure of one man who is accompanied by a group of rather pathetic hangers on that do nothing throughout. One character, a dwarven warrior has almost all his scenes cut leaving you wondering why they bothered with him in the first place.Some nice scenes of dragons and a passing beholder (who does nothing but float past) doesn't make up for the rest of the film. The acting is pretty terrible even from Jeremy Irons, who you would generally expect a lot better from. Instead he seemed quite uncomfortable in his role, and constantly over acted. The only people that seemed at all comfortable in their roles were Justin Whalin (Most would know from the Superman TV series) and Richard O'Brien (playing himself pretty much). A better choice for the evil mage would have been David Warner (who did the voice of Irenicus in Baldurs Gate 2, and has always been a superb bad guy in this genre of film). Also choosing an experienced fantasy film director rather then a novice would have helped. They could still have people on hand to make sure the film stayed accurate to the D&D world.I hope that in the future another better film will be produced set in the D&D universe as there is so much potential in there. Perhaps after the Lord of the rings film has been released interest will be ripe again for this genre. We can only hope. You never know, someone may even make a Baldurs Gate film!The extra material on the DVD explains a lot of what you miss (and is quite laughable for the cardboard cut out wraith, and the inflatable baby dragon...but you need to see it really to understand).In summary, if you love d&d don't bother with this film, instead buy the new 3rd edition rules and get playing instead! "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Man this movie is bad.  First off, I'm a huge D&D fan.  I had dreamed of a D&D movie for a long time, so when I heard that one was finally being made I was ecstatic.  Joy quickly turned to horror within the first few minutes of this horrendous film.  This movie's gotta have some of the worst acting I've ever seen.  The special effects, which are a huge part of a film of this nature, are ridiculously bad.  Granted, given this films budget, one shouldn't expect miracles.  The only enjoyment you might get out of this movie is to invite some friends over, have some drinks and snacks handy, and just have a grand time making fun of this abomination.  At least we have Lord of the Rings to look forward to....... "},{"Title":"A wasted effort and a waste of Jeremy Irons","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I guess Jeremy Irons must be in need of some quick cash, because I can't see any other reason that a high-class and usually-discerning actor would have worked in this movie.  The good points  Marlon Wayans.  Believe me, I am not a fan of this most-mugging member of the Wayans clan, so if I consider him to be the highlight, there's rough seas ahead.The bad points The storyline, which had no real ties to the game the movie is supposedly based on except for the use of the word mage, the phrase Thieve's Guild and the appearance of a Beholder monster in the background.  The acting, which was pretty pedantic...Jeremy Irons does little but sneer and shout and grumble facetiously.  The special effects, which were pretty tame and middle-of-the-road for a SFX blockbuster, which this was purported to be at times.If you have the choice between watching this movie or playing the game, better opt for a nap...I mean, watch the movie. "}{"Title":"Could've been great","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just watched this movie on DVD with my best friend and we loved it. Yes the story line seems like it was lifted off of Star Wars, and yes the movie does seem choppy and the story seems undeveloped, but this is a small budget film, what do you expect? For those of you who bothered to take a look at the other goodies on the DVD, you will undoubted find a delightful collection of deleted scenes. It is truly a pity that they left these scene out, because it would've made the movie so much better. All those deleted scenes could've explained so much and developed the plot and characters. The director's consistent excuse throughout the deleted scenes commentary section was, we did it for the pace, or the movie would be too long and slow. Hello? Have you ever played D&D, D&D games ARE long and slow, but things get developed. I think this movie would be great if they just added those deleted scenes and changed it to the alternate ending (not the award ceremony cheesy Star Wars one they alluded to in the commentary, but the good one they showed).My advice to Newline, fire the director, he's obviously some newbie. Get Somebody good, preferably Lucas (seeing as how it IS so similar to Star Wars). "},{"Title":"Some much potential down the drain.","Date":"6 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  D&D could have been so much better.From the opening scene I knew this movie was going to be terrible.The bad guy was heavily lacking evilness.I dont know about you,but if this guy told me to bow down and serve him I'd say Yeah right.Hey,nice haircut..The bad guy's assistant is played the worst actor ever.I dont know what his name is because I dont care.This guy exaggerates every word he says.He did it in Highlanderendgame and he does it in this movie too.So you'd think that the good guys would be cool huh? No such luck.They are played by Marlon the almost funny one wayans and some reject from the real world.I dont know how these guys got the parts they did,I mean Marlon Wayans holds the world record for most sitcoms cancelled doesnt he? And this other dude is like,I tried to be a tough guy but I just couldnt grow my damn beard in! The whole story is horrible.2 hours of septor stealing.Wow.Im telling you folks,thats the best story line ever.It doenst get any better.Braveheart,Gladiator,Matrix?They just dont compare to the septor stealing action that DnD conjures up.I cant wait until they make a sequel where the bad guy is even more laughable and the story line is even more shallow.LIke they could maybe have to find the magic hamburger from an elf in hawaii.yeah,i cant wait. "},{"Title":"For Geeks by Geeks","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I played D&D from 6th grade through high school.  Not that it matters much when you see this movie.  As a movie, it was fairly weak; I gave it a 4.  The story was simple, but enough.  The effects were passable for the small budget.  The weakest points are the acting and the directing.  Most of the time the movie feels like a high school play on the big screen.  Birch and Irons (who are usually very good) are terrible in this movie; Irons over acts and Birch under acts.  Whalin, Wayans and McLellan are just B-grade TV actors and it shows.  Bruce Payne as Damodar was probably the most interesting character and gave a Darth Maul-like passable performance.The directing never brought me into the movie.  Solomon never created a believable world; everything was too clean and looked like a movie set.  He certainly never tried to get a good performance out of his actors.I watched this movie on DVD for $1, and I do feel that I got my money's worth, but not by much.  The DVD does feature lots of deleted scenes and an alternate ending (the non-sequel ending).  The most telling scene included here is an outtake which shows just how much Jeremy Irons did NOT want to be part of this movie.  He gives his line, and then walks off the set in total disgust.If you want to see this movie, I recommend Long's Drugs on Wednesday nights when they have their 99 cent movie night. "},{"Title":"Avoid, even if you have to saw your arm off to get away","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now where to start...The special effects budget was clearly enough for about half the film, since minutes 1-20 contained lots, 80-107 contained lots, and the middle hour had NOTHING.Every scene change for the first 20 minutes was accompanied by a long drawn out camera pan over the CGI location. After using this constantly for 20minutes it was only seen once again.Almost every shot of any kind of action was so close in that you saw legs and arms just go flying past and get so utterly disorientated it was scary.And what the HECK was that bit tacked on the end after the looked like the end pan out from the tower. oh don't worry he's not really dead.As for plot.  Well it's kinda there. Somewhere. Although they could easily have cut 20 minutes off that middle hour.  And yes, the main boy / girl characters kiss. (yes I was shocked too)Although the kiss happened halfway through the film we never hear about it again and they never get close to each other again except for a hug (woah!) at the end of the film.And the dwarf.  Who is clearly there only to fill the character quotient since his participation in the actual plot is somewhere between zero and non-existent.If you're not a D and D fan you'll be screaming at it.  If you are, you'll be screaming at it.  If like me you're neutral, you'll be wondering if it really is possible to sleep in cinema seats.I avoided the mummy returns and saw this instead.  I have the awful feeling I went for the least intelligent film.  At least the mummy returns might have a special effects budget for more than 40% of the film.I feel dirty. "},{"Title":"the trailer of Lord of the Rings was more interesting","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Maybe I'm the last gamer who saw Dungeons and Dragons, and although I had my sincere doubts about the quality of the movie, most of my friends were lyrical about the movie. True the movie had a small budget and mainly young actors - but as a gamer I found the movie largely disappointing and I'm not talking about the director's view of the fantasy world of D&D! At Wizards of the Coast work many many people and I am sure that 99% of those people (even the receptionist or janitor) could provide a better script than this. The writers and director leave some major gaps in the story line, which follows largely the line of a large Xena-episode. What happens when Ridley disappears in the map? Why does the Elven-race help the humans while they are responsible for destroying the magic force of which the Elven are a part? These are some small things which could have easily been solved. And a lot of scenes looked like Star Wars?? The acting of Jeremy Irons was a little bit overdone, while this man is one of the greatest actors (He can sound a menu-card like Shakespeare). The young actors were good, and they show some hope for the future. The effects were also good, compared to the budget. As a fan of fantasy and as a gamer and thought the movie was below ability and I thought the trailer of Lord of the Rings was more interesting.......something to look out to! "},{"Title":"I can't believe this movie got made!","Date":"19 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me preface my review of the movie by saying that yes, I am a D&D player and know the universe relatively well.  Let me also state that I have no real problem with generic popcorn munching movies.  Spoilers may be revealed in the course of my review.Dungeons & Dragons is a popcorn-munching movie.  Or at least it is masquerading as one.  What this movie gets wrong that it's peers do not is that it does not really succeed at any level.  The story is unfulfilling, the acting laughable, and the world created was not terribly immersive.  No small nuggets of anything worthwhile save this movie.I will address the whole special-effects issue quickly.  For the film's modest budget, the production values are decent and I never found myself balking too much at any of the actual technical aspects of the effects. None are overly superfluous, and mostly serve the story.Unfortunately, the story is very weak and and the effects don't have much to go on.  Take the Dragons themselves for example.  It seems that the only purpose the script provides them is to pop up when demanded by mages and and fight each other.  All of the main characters in the movie are painted in broad strokes and stereotypes, which is partly expected for this genre. What usually saves stereotyped characters are quality performances.  Sadly, this movie does not provide those either.  It's as if Courtney Solomon (director) sent all the principals to an over-acting class so they could inject the appropriate amount of cheese into their performances.  The usually superb Jeremy Irons gets maniacal in every scene, not so much chewing scenery as gulping it down in obscene chunks.  Damodar, played by Bruce Payne, is almost as bad, delivering painful dialogue like just like you thieves, always taking things that don't belong to you, all the while appearing constipated.  The main heroes are a forgettable bunch of louts who look and act as if they are in a bad high school play.  Thora Birch is entirely too weak as the Empress, talking about how the kingdom of Izmer should be run as if it were a Wal-Mart.  Justin Whalin and Zoe McLellan portray the films main heroes, along with a Jar-Jar wannabe Marlon Wayans. None of them inspire much reason for us to care about them, and the motivations behind many of their actions are not clear.  One of the most ludicrous situations involves Ridley (Whalin) and Marina (McLellan) falling in love.  They spend a few extreme moments together and are suddenly in love?  What?  Why?  Oh, because he's the cute guy and she's the cute girl and the script says so.  But hey, we do have a scene with the main character falling to his knees and shouting NOOOOOOOOO! as his friend is killed. Some of the acting is decent but from characters on screen for so short a time we can hardly calculate it.  Other story and thematic inconsistencies bugged me.  Why, for example, destroy the wand that controls the Red Dragons effectively setting them free, but keep control of the Gold Dragons?  It is virtually pointless to ask these quetions, however, because the filmmakers don't seem to have cared about any of it.  Another quibble is that several scenes seem to be lifted straight out of Raiders of the Lost Ark or Star Wars.  Some call this homage, and in a good film I'd be inclined to agree. But this movie only cheapens that which it attempts to pay tribute to.  The biggest insult of the plot comes at the end with a cheesy feel-good wrap-up that betrays and cheapens any dignity the movie may have instilled.I don't deny that the creators of this movie had the best of intentions, but when translating something as fantastical as D&D to film, certain reservations need to be taken.  X-Men showed us it was possible to have a fantasy world grounded in reality.  Please, if you're going to pay homage to a time-honored institution, do more than try to make everything look cool.A few saving graces are the passable score (though a bit of a Jerry Goldsmith ripoff) and great locations mostly in and around Prague.  The props and costumes are mostly well-done, and the film has somewhat of a(albeit inconsistent)  D&D feel to it.  This however, is not enough to overcome the movie's glaring shortcomings.Dungeons & Dragons is a paltry excuse for a movie in and of itself, not to mention an extremely bad interpretation of the classic game.  One star.p.s. how can any movie take itself seriously that includes this cliched sequenceHero, pleading with villain who has his friends captured and you'll release them?Villain you have my word,Hero, after seeing that Villain has not released friends you said you'd let them go!Villain, smirking I lied  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly hollow, a waste of time.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Extremely disappointing to see how superficial this movie is, as the mythical aspects of dungeons & dragons could have made for a pretty decent picture. The story feels like a way to tie the various set-pieces together. It's like the director rushed his way through the dialogue and events just to get to the special effects, which don't always hit the mark by the way. The various characters in this movie are virtually interchangable (except for Marlon Wayans' character, whose cheap jokes really start to irritate after a while) , and this is not intentional i assure you. We never learn about motivations, backgrounds or any other detail which could be used to make us care. Which leaves the ending. Suffice it to say it is completely inexplicable, i suppose we are expected to use our own imagination to figure out just what the hell is going on here. I won't even bother to explain the contents, it would just be a waste of time, just like the entire movie. Oh, and Justin Whalin needs to return to daytime television; hold on to your dayjob Justin! "},{"Title":"One note about the back story of this film","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Waaaaay back in the heyday of the role playing game, Dungeons & Dragons/ Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, the head of the company who produced the game (Gary Gygax and TSR, respectively) went off to Hollywood to start a film office to create a Dungeons and Dragons movie. Over the course of the next several years, gamers read occasional breathless releases about how the film was going to be made any year now, but the only thing that came of it was that wretched cartoon. Meanwhile, the guys left running TSR managed to nearly bankrupt the company and Gygax managed to wreck his marriage. The end result-- TSR was left financially crippled and vulnerable to eventual takeover by Kenner/Hasbro.So.... enjoy the movie if you can. It was paid for with a lot of corporate blood. "},{"Title":"Great Expectations... sad results.","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a fan of the game in all of it's forms and sizes I had great expectations for Dungeons and Dragons. There is a great storyline that could have been used the the fullest, yet I was really disappointed with the film itself.I personally would like to blame it on the editing, at the beginning in particular I found myself unable to blink without missing a scene. They were extremely short and some were even useless... The director sets the entire plot of the movie on about 10 minutes, the rest is just there to fill in the other 97 minutes.For example, there's a scene where Marina and Ridley get trapped into a map... I left the movie theatre wodering what the hell happened when they were in there? But that's left for Courtney Solomon to know and for the audience to wonder... So to make it short... there are a LOT of plot holes.As for the actors, Zoe McLlelan and Justin Whalin give very little passion to their performances, I know them to be very good actors... What went wrong, you two?I had no great expectations for Marlon Wayans, but it was his character the one I enjoyed the most (though it was the silliest sidekick Topper Lilien could have come up with) he gave a not very good but desperatley needed comic relief.As for Jeremy Irons... I don't really want to go there. I'm very fond of his previous work and I really think that he couldn't have played a worse Profion even if he had tried.Then there's Thora Birch... who I would like to nominate as this years Jar Jar Blinks... it's difficult to think this is the same person from American BeautyThe character development is another big mess! Take for example Marina and Ridley. They exchange two or three lines and a few significant looks and then BANG! they are sharing the most passionate love story you can ever imagine. Plus Ridley (who's name is all the information we get from him) is suddenly very unaware of how gifted he is, and is choosen out of the blue to save the universe.Okay, I have been terrible to D&D so far... but the moive has it's high points, the CGI is great and the Dragon fights were amazing. The entire Mage counsel building is majestic, and the cotumes and make up are great as well.The maze scene will take you back in time to your old days of playing Dungeons and Dragons... it's really great.I give this movie a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pure unadulterated cheese.  100% Mozzarella, no preservatives.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Looking for a film that will open your eyes to the world around you, that will engulf you like nothing else?  Go watch Princess Mononoke.  Looking for a film that will show what fantasy is all about?  Go watch Time Bandits.  If, however, you are looking for a shameless, plot-hole-ridden, Jeremy-Irons-powered big ol' greasy CGI-fest of a movie, you've got it right here.  Yes friends, D&D is just as bad as you think it is, but at least it's quite entertaining.Um...isn't Jeremy Irons a good actor?  What is he smoking here?  Your guess is as good as mine, but he hams up most every scene he has with hilarious efficiency.  John Steiner (of Sinbad fame) should be proud for the homage, though I think Irons was in on the joke.  Thora Birch (the teen-angst chick from American Beauty) doesn't fare near as well, with her amazing cross-pollination of William Shatner with Queen Amidalia.  She manages to get the worst aspects of both, while still giving a completely straight delivery-I'd venture to say she's worse than Irons.  Oh, the others need some work for sure, but those two are standouts.The hero guy is passable but imminently forgettable, Marlon Wayans is...surprise, Marlon Wayans, the dwarf is there for the sole reason that he is a dwarf-a tall one at that, and the elf-lady knows entirely too much about the plot.  I guess the best actors are really the mage girl, who does a decent job with what she has, and the blue lipstick guy, who would be more credible if not for his makeup job.  It's hard to be cowering in fear from a man who looks like he just had his Mary Kay makeover...I'm guessing he's a winter.But I'm going into too much detail.  It's fun, gosh darn it!  It has big CGI dragons fighting each other!  It has overacting out the gazombus!  It has an incomprehensible ending!  It's hardly like the paper game or the books!  Get your MST3K gang together, and go to town.  Now that's entertainment. "}{"Title":"Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear.....tripe!","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Small spoiler in last sentence! I find myself still lightly stunned at the shear depths of rubbish that can be turned out by hollywood. But, in recent times this film takes the biscuit. It is an ill thought out takeoff of a 'cult' board game (cult obviously meaning for sad spotty teenagers with halitosis) which only possible saving grace was dashed when they only managed to obtain a budget which wouldn't have supported a rock video shoot. The acting is dire, the special effects poor to appalling, the script abject and the 'actors' embarrassed. We normally love anything escapist and magical, but, this isn't either. 3/10 for the sheer gall of leaving the ending open for a sequel!!!! "},{"Title":"For Those Fantasy Fan Out There","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Firstly, this movie is meant only for people who are into fantasy, so if you don't like this genre, don't bother to see this one. The setting was quite decent and the graphics was not bad. However, the plot was too ordinary. Some more twists would be helpful.Another problem was that the villain spoke too slow, which I found extremely irritating. All their actions were also too slow.Justin Whalin showed great acting talent, even though I still think that he was not that suitable for the role. Other casts were not doing well.Thora Birch was surprisingly acting quite badly. I could barely guess why. Especially after seeing her in Monkey Trouble and American Beauty (forget Alaska...)Zoe McLellan did better than her, even though she was not on a par with Justin Whalin during their quarreling scene.Jeremy Irons was too comfortable with his previous role of Scar in The Lion King that he also failed to portray the main villain Profion.Marlon Wayans tried to be funny now and then, but the scripts weren't that funny. Too bad...Other characters were not that essential and I felt that they were there for the sake of being there.It's a good effort though, coming up with this rare genre. I hope there are more to come and better. "},{"Title":"It tried, it really did.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, lets state this at the beginning I have played and am a fan of the D&D gaming universe. As such when I saw the trailer for the film with big flashy spells, dragons flying about and sword-fights I was rather looking forward to the idea. Unfortunately the film did NOT live up to expectations and to be fair how could it. The Lord of the Rings trilogy that everyone is (quite rightly) going crazy over is based on one trilogy of books and filmed as a trilogy. D&D is a complete universe with well over 100 novels in different lands and stacks of information. To try and cram all this into one movie was never going to work with the tolls they had at hand. The film was weak, with a truly awful and predictable plot. The special effects were good but not enough to submerse you in the environment (no bad guy should EVER have blue lipstick). The acting was all over the place, some played their parts well while others, notably the non humans were there only so that fans could go through the checklist of Dwarf, Elf, Wizard.The only character who came out with any sort of development was the heroes' sidekick.******SPOILER******The fact that they actually killed the character, while he was making a stand actually showed some development. Everyone could have guessed that the old mage at the beginning would die but to kill off the sidekick and comic relief in one go was quite brave and deserves mention. It also gave the hero a chance to turn a little darker at the end and this could have been picked up on more.****SPOILER END******Overall I would say that the filmmakers should have been braver. They had a great licence so why not set it up as a trilogy, start the quest, put good guys in impossibly bad situation then let them win out in the end. Alternatively why not use some of the existing novels for ideas as I'm sure many more fans would have been tempted by films of Forgotten Realms or Dragon Lance characters. Instead they were clearly testing the water for Lord of the Rings and missed out on a good opportunity, shame.  "},{"Title":"Bad - but if you like D&D, a must see","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Cheese cheese and more cheese is what we have here. A very bad movie, and a laughable choice for the movie of such a huge game as Dungeons & Dragons.There are some good moments, but they are interspersed with so many poorly scripted and ill-thought out scenes that the viewer believes that the director/writer were actually attempting to mock the game, rather than to bring it to life.Given the huge amount of possible scripts the studio/producer could have used, one must only assume that the mediocre scripts and the two better known actors, Thora Birch and Jeremy Irons, had used up all the money.Note to future producers of D&D fantasy - Baldur's Gate, Gord the Rogue, Drizzt and off course the world of Krynn in the Dragon Lance Sage would be an infinitely better idea.Having said all that, if you are a fan, go see it - only to ensure that future films (and hopefully ones with better scripts) get produced.3/10 "},{"Title":"critical overkill","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My feelings about the idea of a movie called Dungeons & Dragons (herein D&D) were somewhat mixed.  Although I think the genre of sword and sorcery movies has been greatly overlooked by the major studios, I couldn't imagine why someone would want to openly associate a film with a game known for nerds rolling dice in a basement.  On the other hand, that nerd claque goes to the movies a lot, and D&D was attracting a lot more internet hype and anticipation than the average film.  Then the movie opened and was cacophonously shelled by the critics.  The critics sank gleeful fang into virtually every aspect of the film in an orgy of film slaughter usually only reserved for the most meretricious pieces of garbage like Highlander 2. As a former card carrying member of the D&D crowd when in my teens, and still nostalgic for the game in my 30's, I decided it was worth wasting an afternoon to see if it was as bad as reviewed.It was not.  D&D is a bad movie, but there have been much more mediocre films in the past year that were much more difficult to sit through (Hollow Man comes to mind).  At no point does it ever reach Esterhaszian excess. It's simply a dumb, brightly colored and sometimes fun adventure movie with several disastrous moments and some laughable performances that marred what could have been decent lightweight entertainment.The plot, in a nutshell - the Empress of Izmer wants to share power with the commoners, but an evil sorcerer named Profion doesn't.  This leads to a race for the rod of Savrile, which controls Red Dragons.  For the good guys are a pair of thieves (Wayans and the guy who plays Ridley), a young mage (Zoe McLelland) and a dwarf who has no role or business being there (Lee Arenburg).  For the bad guys, Bruce Payne as Damodar.Mistake number one - Jeremy Irons as Profion. Among a set of undistinguished performances by the leads, far and away the worst is Jeremy Irons.  The spittle flies every time he makes a pronouncement.  Many of these pronouncements are in front of a council of mages, whom he is trying to rile into overthrowing the Empress.  The only time I have ever seen a performance of this ilk work was Kenneth Starr in front of the Republican congress.Mistake two - Bruce Payne's lipstick.  Payne's Damodar is wearing a light blue shade of lipstick throughout the film which only serves to make him look ridiculous.  Since he's the heavy, this detracts from vitually all of the conflict.Mistake three - Marlon Wayans as Snails (yes, the character is named Snails), and his death scene.  Wayans plays Snails as if Chris Tucker wouldn't sign on because the character was too over the top.  Snails is later killed in probably the most disastrous moment of the movie, a scene that is telegraphed long before it happens and is of absolutely the wrong tone.  Imagine a scene in a Brady Bunch episode where Peter Brady is tortured to death in front of the rest of the family who wail and cry as Peter dies and you get the idea.None of the rest of the cast really distinguish themselves, but at least they are distinct characters.  The dwarf character had nothing to do and hardly any lines, and could have been jettisoned.  There are a few nice scenes, particularly a scene where the Ridley character navigates a series of traps in what is laughingly called a labyrinth (there is only one way through and no turns, so how's that a labyrinth again?)  Several of the sets are quite nice, and the movie never dawdles much, so it's quite breezy.The dialogue is somewhere between pedantic and sophomoric.  Thora Birch actually looks nice in shiny gold raiment riding a dragon, and of course has that adorable face.  But there's nothing like the depth of her performance in American Beauty to make anyone notice her.  The CGI effects get a bit tiresome, and the final climactic dragon battle scene only works as wallpaper in the background.  A couple of scenes in bars also could have been omitted and the background noise of alien creatures that are not from the D&D game has been done and done better.  It's only a distraction.My feeling is that a decent movie in this genre would do business at least as good as a Star Trek movie, and then the studios would see that the genre can invest drama and draw people.  This was a bad movie and not the movie to do that.  Perhaps the upcoming Lord of the Rings films will do better.D&D Player's Notes  The movie has virtually nothing to do with the game. None of the game system's rules seem to be in force anywhere.  Magic users don't seem to have to worry about casting times, verbal, material or somatic components to spells - as long as they have some pixie dust they can do what they want.  In one scene there is a castle guarded by humans and about 20 beholders.  For non-D&D players, Beholders are about the worst monster you can run into and don't get along with people well either.  The characters just throw a rock to create a distraction and dance right by.  Wouldn't happen in my campaign - Ridley and Snails would have been magic-jarred, disintegrated, held, petrified, magic missiled and about six other things in less than a segment.The term 'Mage' in D&D refers to a magic user who has reached at least 16th level.  In the original Advanced D&D game that requires 2,250,000 experience points.  Depending on whose rules you use, that would require said mage to have killed between 25,000 and 200,000 orcs singlehanded (if all you were killing was orcs).  You would have to make about 100 trips into the 666th layer of the abyss to fight demons to accumulate the kind of experience it takes to become a Mage.  By the time you get to mage, you are dealing with the badasses of the badasses.  Yet the 'council of mages' acts like a Republican congress confronted with the horrors of oral sex.  Not only that, but the Empress is apparently being put in a position where going to war with the council is the only way to settle conflict.  You don't get to 16th level magic user without having the ability to mediate conflicts and reach compromise.  But hey, it's just a movie.  "},{"Title":"Bark! Bark!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This one is a dog.  I cannot even begin to comment on the myriad inconsistencies, useless characters (the Dwarf's point in the movie was what?), bad acting, and crappy filming.  This will undoubtedly be enjoyable only to males under the age of 12.Months from now, if somebody asks me if they should rent D&D, I will instead recommend a better movie, like, for instance, Garbage Pail Kids "},{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This fable, based on the role playing game, lacks much coherence for those not connected to the franchise and features some truly horrendous over acting from Jeremy Irons (who must have been desperate for a paycheck that week) as the evil bad guy and non acting from Thora Birch (what she was thinking is beyond me) in a Natalie Portman Phantom Menace impersonation.  Justin Whalin (best known as Jimmy Olsen on Lois & Clark) stars as a young thief who has to find some somethingorother and do somethingorother and fight some nasty baddies and rescue the cute young magic girl etc. None of this makes any sense so it's best when watching this film to simply ignore the storyline altogether  and concentrate on enjoying the somewhat light and breezy action sequences.  The fx are decent for this sort of thing and the end fight with all the dragons is fun to watch. GRADE D+  "},{"Title":"Blew yer chance","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As many others, I stepped into the theatre, expecting very little.. in hopes of being rewarded with more than expected. (which has worked for me several times in the past i.e. Starship Troopers) The only thing i was rewarded with was several Oh my Gods I spewed out as I shook my head in dismay, scene after scene. I was actually embarrassed I had suggested seeing this movie, and apologised to my two friends for having to endure this film with me. Fantasy based movies are few and very far between, and it just hurt to see such an cinematic opportunity passed by in a world that has been so fleshed out.Thinking back to the old D&D days, I had alot of fun in the Borderlands and the Isle of Dread, and was hoping this movie would bring back some of those lost memories. I was hoping this movie would do to 'Dungeons and Dragons' what Kevin Smiths direction has done to 'comics'... pull away some of the geekiness society has attached to it. If anything, it has marred those still playing the game even further! PThe movie is pieced together seemingly missing several scenes. The characters are way too melodramatic. (and I love Jeremy Irons.. but i cringe everytime the camera pans to him in this movie) Justin Whalin has good potential as Ridly, as does Zoe McLellan as Marina.. but characters can only do so much with such a spotty script. Direction? Watchable scenes tended (for me) to be the comical ones. I dreaded Wayan's character, but it ended up being my favourite, even with his urban accent. I'd of never figured a fantasy movie would need comedy to stay afloat. CGI was watchable. Nothing great, but atleast its topic was fantasy and something not seen often.Well, atleast us fantasy fans still have LoTR's to look forward too still. I have a much stronger feeling for that, but it looks like they shelled out a few more dollars for acting in it as well. Hopefully the direction and script is better. Anyway, if you can wait, watch D&D in the dollar theatre in about three weeks, which is when it should shift there (unless it misses that completely and goes straight to video). I gave it three stars, because they did have a budget, and still failed so horridly. "},{"Title":"Predictable, Predictable, Predictable","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After 30 year of D&D gaming you'd think this film would have a plot that hadn't been used more times than snow storms in Buffalo. The entire story was incredibly shallow. One impossible situation after another. And if by chance you didn't know have the film would end, the writers gave it away half way through the film. Every character was adversarial. Without Snails to lighten things up it would have been terribly oppressive. The magic had nothing to back it up - just tricks of convenience. Further, the magic was unimaginative and played no role in the film except to escape trouble. But the greatest disappointment is the dragons which are nothing more than props. Why couldn't they have been real characters. This was obviously a feeble attempt to capitalize on a popular game rather than an effort to make a memorable film.  "},{"Title":"I want my money back","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First off, if I ran an adventure like this movie was laid out...I'd have to pick a bunch of 4 sided dice out of my head for wasting the players time with crap.I hear from my fellow gamers that we should all go watch that movie again and again just to save the genre of table top gaming, but no matter how bad this movie is, it will not sink the game itself. I will not flush my money down the toilet just to give word to Hollywood that I'll keep putting money into this turkey so they make more just like it.Marlon Wayans killed the majority of the movie for me...but the rest was just that horrible dialogue. I decree that the writers and the director must wear the Hubcap of Shame for churning out this piece of garbage.  "}{"Title":"Magically atrocious","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WOW... most people have already torn up this movie. I had hoped, my expectations being so low, that this film might surprise me and it did. It was much worse than I would have ever thought. I simply do not have the time or space to go into everything that was wrong with this movie. I say to all true Gamers out there beware... these two hours could have been better spent table-side doing what we do best, Role-playing, which I am sure is 99% better than the acting done in this film. "},{"Title":"A celebration of bad","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hoo boy.  This one is bad.  However, it's the good kind of bad.  The kind that moves quickly and lets you have fun with it along the way.  The acting is bad, the script is bad, the photography is bad, the editing is bad, the FX are bad and the movie, in general, is bad.  But it's the kind of bad that invites the audience to join in on the fun.  MST3K will have a field day with this one, as our audience did.  The novelty value of having Richard O'Brien and Tom Baker in the same movie makes it worth seeing.  Just don't pay full price for this one. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as i've expected from the reviews i've read","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie was a pleasant surprise. Its not nearly as bad as the reviewers state, go watch it with an open mind and enjoy it. Remember it had a very low budget for this kind of movie, think of what it could have been with the budget of Star Wars =). I really hope they will make a sequel and that they will be able to get more money to do it.  "},{"Title":"A Summons to All Who Believe!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Please note The following comments are being written by me, but in character as my wizardly alter ego, Blackwolf --- that is, if IMDb doesn't mind too much.Now thenAs most of you may know by now, Dungeons & Dragons is currently playing in theatres --- and clearly, as I see it, this film has succeeded in its primary mandate to fulfill all the dreams of D&D fans throughout the cosmos who have always wished for the prospect of seeing their favorite fantasy role-playing game on the big screen. Sadly, having observed the words of the film critics of New York's four leading newspapers, and a few additional rants from other film critics across America, I have seen reactions that run the gamut from 'tepid extravaganza more suited to television than the big screen' to 'shamelessly banal'. In short, these reviewers have pretty much dismissed D&D and its fanbase as psychotic, mindless geeks. That, I can assure you, we are most ceertainly not.As Dr. Frank N. Furter ranted of old in The Rocky Horror Picture Show, and I quote I didn't make him for you! D&D fans, you know of the various D&D Worlds; indeed, a good many of you out there maintain your own D&D websites. Through your efforts, and by your desire to see Dungeons and Dragons The Movie, Courtney Solomon will undoubtedly have succeeded in his efforts to maintain his vision for the project a billionfold! (Huzzah!) So at this time, I would like to summon all those with a passion for Knights and their Ladies Fair, all of my Brother and Sister Mages, all of you who call yourselves Dragonlords and Dragonladies (and yes, that includes you Dragons, too!) --- you all do not need me to tell you that this movie would not have happened if it weren't for YOU. This, then, is YOUR victory --- and I, for one, will not be happy until you have seen the film for yourselves; and, by so doing, have given it the fighting chance it so richly and utterly deserves.And as far as making scapegoats out of D&D fans goes, I've warned you Mortals more times than once it's not nice to incur a Wizard's displeasure! I've more to say about this issue, but we'll save it for my next post. Until then, farewell!  "},{"Title":"A film with potential that just doesn't live up to what it could have been..","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Rating D+THE CHARACTERS The main Mage villain, Profion, is most definitely Senator alpatine/Darth Sidious that's a bit more on the acting loony side. The problem with him is he's constantly overacting his part making it come across almost comedic-like (he should have been more downplayed to fix this). He seems overindulged in his own badness that he just ends up being silly, losing that prime 'evil/badness aurra' found in many of the best starwars villains such as Darth Vader, The Emperor, Darth Maul, and Boba Fett. These villains don't have to say much in order to show the audience how cool they are in their look and feel onscreen. The 2nd main villain might have succeeded if not for a very distracting blue lipstick. Throughout most of his screentime this lipstick just looks plain ridiculous, and it was poor judgement from whoever approved it.Now onto the heroes, who faired much better than the villains. First is the Empress Savina, whose starwars counterpart is obviously Queen Amidala, or who could probably be compared to the Neverending Story's princess character. She just doesn't reflect to me as strong willed a character as Amidala, played by Natalie Portman, and maybe that works in the fashion that she looks too innocent to be put in charge of a whole empire. I guess I can accept that. The other female lead, Norda I think it is, is very much like a weaker version of Padme.The two thief heroes, one a roguish Han Soloish character, Ridley, and the second being what I like to call a nonannoyance lovable Jar Jar Binks (Snails, played by Marylon Wayans), are probably the best characters in the whole film beside the Dwarf (this film's R2-D2/Chewie/C-3PO?). The direction and story should have been better in some cases, which I believe could have helped these characters earn their way in the auidience's heart. As it is, it lacks in many areas that would allow it to be watched over and over again.THE STORY At the center of this movie they actually manage to bring together varying character classes and races, but not nearly as focused as I and I'm sure others would have hoped. Instead the adventuring has been clouded by the whole impending doom issue, a plot so much like the one found in Starwars Episode 1 that it makes me wonder if they weren't just making a D&D version remake rather than a new movie. Like I said before, if done right I have no problems with this, but D&D didn't quite live up.COOLNESS MOMENTS Replacing the podracing is this massive dragon war that should have been greatly expanded (the potential was cut short), and this is probably one of my biggest gripes. Here they had the chance to make one of the coolest battles in recent memory, and what do they do? Downplay it. This sequence could have made the movie watchable over and over again (or at least fastforwarding to it after tiring of the rest of the parts). Another gripe is the sword play supposedly substituting the lightsaber duels of starwars (lightning swords anyone?). Grrrrr.FINAL WORDS Should you go see it? Its basically Episode 1 without being nearly so childish and lacking many coolness moments that made Episode 1 watchable over and over again (podracing and saber duel). If you have a local dollar cinema, that's your best bet, if not, I'd say its worth watching at least once on the bigscreen. D&D fans might find a bit more in this, just don't expect more than what it is. I do wish this movie the best of luck in theatres because more movies like this (put in more capable hands) need to be made. "},{"Title":"So bad it was good","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only reason I did not rate this a 1 is because it was exquisitely terrible.It was SO bad that it was funny in a MST3K sort of way.I would save this for a rental, don't bother shelling out movie theater prices. "},{"Title":"Interesting....","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well this movie had potential It really did. I had my first qualms when I saw one of the wayans clan defiling the preview. Some of  the stuff was correct but I found that the dwarf was too tall, the elf was too short, and though mages are highly  ineffective in D&D the absence of casting in the vast majority of forays was quite frustrating and disappointing( the girl couldnt even cast a heakling spell).The dragons looked like I could do them on bryce 3D. I think the high point of the film was when jar jar binks uhh... I mean snails died. The queen was a blatant Amidala look alike. The elven forest or tree what ever the heckl it was suposed to be was very very similar to the Ewok scene in Star wars. This was a mockery and I am stupider for seeing this film. What ever you do dont see this movie. By the way I was very disappointed at the abscence of Dark Elves.     "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First, let me start by saying that I have been an avid fan of AD&D for the past 7-8 years.  My friends and I have been looking forward to this movie ever since we heard that it was being made.  However, once we heard that Marlon Every Character I Play is Exactly the Same Wayans was going to play a major role in it, we continued to hope for the best, but prepared for the worst.  Just like every other movie or show I have ever seen him in, he always plays the same dorky character.  Unfortunately D&D is no exception. Kudos to the individual who likened Wayans to Jar Jar Binks.  However it would be unfair to compare Ahmed Best (the person who played Jar Jar) to someone like Wayans.  You have Keenan Ivory.....talented and funny.......Damon Wayans.....likewise.....and the rest of the Wayans family. Marlon Wayans proves again that he is a black hole of talent.  No script could've saved this movie with him in it, unless he was killed by a Gelatinous Cube in the first scene.  There was only one point in the movie where my friends and I cheered.  I will admit, however, that there were some parts where we actually laughed at something he said.  But I'm sure that a chimpanzee could have done just as good, if not better, than he did.Ok, now that I've bashed Wayans enough, I digress.  The special effects were great.  The spellcasting, the dragons, etc. were absolutely enchanting (bad pun, I know).Jeremy Irons.....sigh.....I expected much more from the man who gave life to Scar in the Lion King.  Don't get me wrong, he played a semi-decent villain....even though every single line that came out of his mouth was overacted (then again, D&D villains are usually stereotypical, right?).Thora Birch......laughable as the empress.  To be fair, there were times where she seemed to have some actual conviction in her voice....unfortunately they were few and far between.Everyone else did a pretty decent job.Quick question, did anyone else notice that every time they showed the door closing (in the maze) it was higher each time they showed it?This was one of those movies where you walk out with a big red handprint on your forehead from going DOH! every couple of minutes.  Also, after the movie ended, was I the only one who was left staring at the screen with a completely puzzled look on their face? "},{"Title":"Props from Krull find new home *spoilers*","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't think Thora was nearly as bad as people keep saying, but she did seem a bit distracted.  My biggest problem with people acting in fantasy movies is that they never become part of the story they're always too exaggerated.  I guess this is their attempt to seem fantastical. The elf, the Guild thief, and the guy with the blue lips are the only ones who seem to be part of the story.  The rest seem like they're about to do an aside at any moment. It was the Ridley show without a doubt. D&D to me has always been about teamwork. This movie had one character doing all the work while the rest ran around being incompetent and clumsy.  The dragons were nothing more than beasts rather than the intelligent creatures that they are in the game. The beholders were done well, but they also were nothing more than stupid beasts; distracted by a rock being thrown. Anyone who has played this game knows how well that would have worked. The sexual tension between the two main characters was boring. One of the characters dying served only to save us from his poor performance. Jeremy Irons was like a spoiled child rather than any sort of menacing force. Why is it we're plagued with villains who are overly verbose? Keep it simple people come on. I just thank god there were no cute, cuddly creatures to tug at our heartstrings. The object of their quest, the red dragon scepter, looked like an old prop Krull. Please someone make a decent fantasy movie that isn't geared toward kids.  On one last note this movie is safe for 10 and up to watch.  "},{"Title":"Truly magnificent!","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Never before had I seen such astonishing computer animation, such intriguing concepts, such intrigue and mystery, and such solid humor worked into a concept which could've gone down in flames.  I had a wonderful time stretching my imagination! ... and then the previews for Final Fantasy The Spirits Within and Shrek ended, and the horrid spectacle that was Dungeons & Dragons began.  It had so, sooooooo many shortcomings, I can hardly begin to list them, but I'll try.A composer who thinks that rousing emotions in the audience through music should be done, not gently, but with a sledgehammer.  The music was virtually always inappropriate and blatantly manipulative.Someone needs to inform Jeremy Irons that he is not Jerry Lewis or Robin Williams' impression of Jerry Lewis.  Someone needs to inform Bruce Payne that he is not, nor will he ever be, Ray Park.  Someone needs to inform Zoe McClellan that she ain't Madonna, and should leave the anatomically correct breastplates somewhere else.  Someone needs to inform Tom Baker (the King of the Elves), Topper Lilien, and Carroll Cartwright (the scriptwriters) that they owe Yoda and George Lucas usage fees for the blatantly stolen message.  Someone needs to inform the costuming department that they could go to a Renaissance Faire or SCA event and get better costumes.  Someone needs to point Danny Braet (head of visual effects) and the rest of the special effects department towards little-known films like Dragonheart and Jurassic Park to see how reptiles are well-represented by special effects.  Someone -really- needs to get a clue as to script consistency (as in, differing effects from the same causing spell... why does the spell-passage stay open on the receiving end in one case, yet close in between arrivals in another?) and relative plausibility (if the bloody antagonist can control beholders, what the hell is he doing bothering with dragons?!?).  Finally, someone needs to track down the director, shoot him dead, dismember him, and bury the parts in widely scattered unmarked graves.On the other hand, Lee Arenberg did a solid job with the material he was given.  And it's great to MST3K pretty much the entire film.   )  At one point, the guy I went to the movie with leaned over after one of my comments and said Stop that!I wittily replied, Stop what?Stop being funnier than the movie!I'd rate it 2 out of 10, and that only because you can MST3K away to your heart's delight. "}{"Title":"Sets new levels for making fantasy unpopular in movies.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was looking forward to this movie.  I really was.  I am a long time fan of D&D and things related, and seeing the previews, was actually quite expectant.Wow was I disappointed.This movie was bad, bad, bad.  Where can one begin?The plot?  About as substantial as a sheet of toilet paper, and not quite as entertaining.  There was no backstory for any of the characters or events... though this might have spared viewers more of the horrible acting.The special effects?  Well, they were adequate for the budget. Considering everything else, however, they got old fast.The writing?  This was written by a group of guys who thought gee this would be neat and since they had investors and signed the paychecks everyone else agreed.  Bad move.  There was more garbage dialogue here than in a John Madden telethon.The acting?  Ahhh... we come to the acting.  What can one say when Marlan Wayans is the best actor in the film?  He's not that good, don't fool yourself... rather everyone else is just that bad.  The acting was on a line with poorly put together community theater.  Someone paid these people for this when they could have saved more money for better special effects raiding a local high school or SCA event.  Aweful, bad, naughty, evil acting.To sum it up... this movie I think even negated itself from having potential.  It was kind of like Twister, except without Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt to carry the acting (yes... that bad).  Save your money and let a delusional friend rent it before you watch. "},{"Title":"Courtney Solomon Needs A Nice Long Break from Directing","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I never had high expectations for this film; most filmmakers seem to believe that people who will go to see a fantasy film are of lower-than-average intelligence, and will see anything with a dragon or a scantily-clad female wizard or warrioress in it.  This film proves that Hollywood has no respect for fantasy lovers.Nor does it seem to have any respect for actors.  Jeremy Irons could have been a bright spot in an otherwise rotten film, but he was poorly directed, alternating between wooden and melodramatic overacting.  Narrative flow is lacking in this film, and scenes meant to be powerful or moving come across as dead and plodding.  One scene which I gather was supposed to be an intimate moment between two lead characters simply lead to guffaws of laughter from the audience who had come to see this film.This film struck me as something that has no respect for its audience, and no respect for its source material.  I felt, at times, like I was watching a satire of a typical Dungeons and Dragons game.  I think most of the problems lie in incompetent directing, because I know that some of the actors, like Jeremy Irons and Marlon Wayans, can actually act decently, when given good material and a good director.There is little that is good about this movie.  I had low expectations of this film, but I hadn't set them low enough.I did enjoy some of the special effects, though, particularly towards the end.  But that wasn't enough to justify this film. "},{"Title":"Tremendously enjoyable; screw the books!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to agree with ericmuss of Cleveland that hardcore D&Ders will likely as not dislike this film.  Myself, having played most systems out there, saw all of the potential.  This movie was EXACTLY LIKE a real game.  The characters didn't always get along.  The powers didn't obey exactly what the books said.But best of all was the special effects.  They weren't so spectacular that they directed the course of the movie; they did, however, leave something to the imagination, and encouraged the suspension of disbelief (which I personally think is a quality lacking in cinema these days).  The cameo appearances were fantastic; Richard O'Brien was spectacular as Xilas, Guildmaster of Thieves.  This role had some similarity to his part as Cosmo Nation in the film Shock Treatment, with the maze, and... well, I won't spoil it.  Tom Baker played the King of the Elves, and delivered a brief role which harkened MY mind back to his days as the good Doctor.Still, I thought that the ending was a little disappointing, even though it did leave the way open for a sequel. "},{"Title":"It stunk","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I give it a three for three reasons1. Great special effects. The dragon scenes were great, the magic sword fight was cool and the spells were really, really pretty.2. A crushed velvet dress, a one-horned helmet and a black vinyl jacket. The best costumes in the movie. They must have raided my closet.3. Finally, a movie where I could have wiped up the floor with Jeremy Irons. "},{"Title":"Not worth full price","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me first disagree with the previous comments.  There is no way that any sane mind could consider this nearly as good as the Princess Bride, Highlander, or Excalibur.  This movie had no plot worth speaking of, no acting skills demonstrated (even from Jeremy Irons!), and no real entertainment value.  What made me really mad was the complete lack of relevance to the game on which it was based!  I remember only two references to the classic game, which seems to be in contrast to the desires of the target audience.There are not many quality sword and sorcery movie made these days, so see it to fill your need for the genre.  However, for this type of movie there was almost no swordplay to speak of.  The only worthwhile part was the CGI dragons, and there wasn't enough of that.I honestly came out of this movie wondering if it placed in my top 10 worst movies I have ever seen.  I'm not sure, but its in the running.  I rate it a 2.5 or so out of 10. "},{"Title":"This Makes Me Sad","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It really makes me sad that the fantasy genre(a favorite of mine) has never gotten the film time it deserves. When it finally does have a spot on the charts, it is a sad film like this one. What is wrong with the people who made this movie? The potential was there to be good. I have to admit, I never played the game and never wanted to. However, I love dragons and thought this would be a good chance to see these amazing creatures brought to life on the big screen ... Wrong! The only dragons present in this movie are at the very beginning and very end. The movie should have been called Dungeons and Really Bad Acting. There is also a very disappointing absence of fairies in this movie. It could have been worse but it could have been a lot better. A lot better. What in the world was up with that ending? I was so confused. I would not go see this movie if I were you, not even for the few dragons that it did have in it. Stay home, rent A Midsummer Night's Dream ... a fantasy movie with some brains. Or Legend ... maybe not the brightest movie on the shelves but certainly more flattering to the fantasy genre than this one.   "},{"Title":"Star Wars script, Mortal Kombat looks","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's see, young man with untapped magic potential fights against overwhelming swordsman who kills his best friend. Swordsman's master has overwhelming magic. Swordsman has RED magic blade. Kid has BLUE magic blade. George Lucas should sue.As for the Mortal Kombat connection, D&D stole Reptile whole and did the same swirling-around-the-CGI-castle shots. (But D&D did them over and over and over.)Add the silly props and scenery-chewing cast, and you've got a real throwback to the era of Krull. The hero was your standard sitcom guy, bringing Wayans in from 1800Collect land was silly, Zoe McLellan looked like she was trying to get the role of Joey on Dawson's Creek, and the badguys looked like they'd seen one too many Dr. Who. Of course, he (Tom Baker) was on the set (a nice suprise), but they didn't have to pay homage through the whole thing... "},{"Title":"Pretty awful, lotsa beer and pretzels, mostly beer.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was going to write a scathing review of this movie, but it has been done so thoroughly already that I don't feel it's necessary to go into the detail I had originally intended.  There were absolutely no surprises in the movie, whatsoever.  It was completely predictable, and if I hadn't seen Jeremy Irons' fabulous acting skills in other films, I wouldn't believe anyone who told me he *was* an actor, not to mention the poor attempts by the others.To be fair, there were a couple of nice moments in the film.  Meeting the Master of Thieves is a nice moment and the cameo by The 4th Doctor, Tom Baker, was very nice indeed.  Oh, and the cg dragons were pretty good, considering the budget.  Altogether a nice, oh, 5 minutes or so.All in all, I'd put this in the late night, can't get a game going, got beer and pretzels and need a laugh genre.  But only rent it if you have a *cheap* rental store, definitely not worth what Blockbuster charges. "},{"Title":"Least bearable movie of the year","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw that a Dungeons and Dragons movie was coming out I admit I got excited.  I grew up playing D&D afterall.  But this movie not only let me down on the D&D aspect (there was a superficial resemblance, but please, a thief taking out a high-level fighter in plate?), but was also very bad as a movie.The worst actor in the whole movie (Whalin) got the most screen time.  Actually they were all pretty bad actors.  Well the bad guys did a decent job with the slop they were given for lines and characters.  Oh and Thora Birch's empress is basically exactly the same as the empress in Star WarsPhantom Menace.  Except she doesn't have an alter ego that allows her to move her face when she acts.Also why does the movie have to get all preachy?  The dragons are the source of magic.  Killing the dragons will cause the death of the world.  The elves don't manipulate magic, they are magic.  Blah blah blah.  Next time let greenpeace write the stupid script.Basically the story is that two common thieves decide to break into the Mage's tower to grab some cool stuff only to stumble upon a plot to over throw the empress.  So they run away with the map and the girl, oh and a dwarf starts following them around for comic relief.  Although he isn't that funny, and neither is Marlon Wayans (also comic relief) although he approaches funny at times.Oh did I mention the nifty computer dragons?  They were pretty good.  And they had some other computer generated baddies from the game.  So I would suggest they make a short of this.  Take out all the parts where someone tries to act, except when Jeremy Irons is doing the crazy mage thing (because crazy mages are cool) and save only the scenes where there is cool CGI stuff.2/10, one point for Jeremy Irons (he came close to getting two points) and one for the dragons and other CGI stuff, plus one because one is the lowest possible score and minus one for Whalin (boy was he terrible!). "},{"Title":"Our Intrepid Heroes' Eyebrows Come Together To Save The Day!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me just say I don't hate fantasy.  I'm not the fantaholic my wife is, but I can get into it.  What's important to me is the story.  I liked Dragonslayer, I liked Ladyhawke, and I really liked Dragonheart.I really hated Dungeons and Dragons.  I've read and analyzed screenplays for a living, and a screenplay--a believable STORY--was precisely what this thing was missing.  I don't mean realistic, I mean believable.  To get realistic they'd have to get rid of the dragons.  To get believable they'd have to replace the entire script with the words copper conducts electricity.I'll start with the dialogue  I agree with the guy from CNN.com, who said, It's so poorly executed, you start to feel like you're watching the world's most expensive script run-through.  To me, it sounded like the whole thing was originally written in the native tongue of Prague (where D&D was filmed) and then meticulously translated.  I will, I shall, Do you not see . . . The screenwriter apparently concluded that the way to affect a Mediaeval atmosphere is to drop all your consonants and talk about the plot (or lack thereof) at length.And as for that plot--what happened?  The best I could figure was that the main conflict consisted of Jeremy Irons' desire to control dragons, and by extension, the kingdom.  So he tries to make a dragon-controlling stick, but fails, so he tries to make the Empress give him her dragon-controlling stick.  In the meantime, a group of heroes go off to find their own dragon-controlling stick.  (The reason they need their own, I guess, is so that there is something to fight about at the end.) SPOILER ALERT Here are just a few of the plot holes1)  In the beginning, Jeremy Irons is working on his green-dragon-stick down in his own little dungeon under the city.  He tests it on a dragon. Question  Where did he get this dragon?  How the hullabaloo did he get it past security, and if he didn't need to get it past security because this dragon was known to exist in the sewers, then why wasn't it being guarded by the Empress?  Why, at the very least, wasn't the population living in fear that this dragon would come out and eat them someday?  (You may argue that they DID know about the dragon, but if that were true our heroes would have known why the river was burning.)2)  Nobody can read that red scroll.  It is the only clue to the whereabouts of the red-dragon-stick.  There are no other dragon-sticks.  Only our good and faithful empress has one--the gold-dragon-stick.  Question  If right now the only dragon-stick in existence is a GOOD dragon stick, why pursue a BAD one that has, up to now, been safely hidden?  If you say, Well, it's not the dragon-stick that is evil, only the person using it then tell me why Ridley couldn't just call out the dragons to save his friends?  No, no, no--he has to GIVE the stick to the bad guy because he TRUSTS him not to lie.  Right.3)  The final battle.  The Empress had the dragon-stick.  All the bad guys had was attitude.  Tell me, why didn't she just lock herself in her room, put a dragon at the door, and say, I dare you to anyone who tried to take it from her?  Then she wouldn't have to start a war.  At the very least, she could have waited for the RED dragons to start it.4)  I have NO idea what that ending meant.Finally, I always said you could judge a bad actor by how they use their eyebrows.  The hero (Ridley) in Dungeons and Dragons proved to me that you could judge a bad actor by his lips.  "}{"Title":"HORRID!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film consisted of the worst acting known to mankind! Surely this movie is simply a big joke that all the actors were in on, because it is not humanly possible to turn in performances this terrible. I ahve seen better acting in junior high performances! And the directing and script are laughably bad as well. Avoid at all costs! "},{"Title":"Just like every poor D&D game I've ever played in.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I walked into the theater thinking that this was going to be a painful experience. It ended up being open heart surgury. The previews showed some ripping magic and way groovy dragon effects, so what could it hurt. Once there I realized that millions of dollars was wasted on videogame quality scenes and panoramic shots. (How many times did we have to see the same sweep of the way cool castle) But, I thought this movie could not be worse then ZARDOS so what the heck. Boy ooh boy was I wrong. I have never seen more bad over acting, boring lead you by the nose plot, and terrible costumes in my life. With the success of Shows like XENA, I figured costumes would be worth seeing. Wrong again!! Who here thinks evil bad-ass butt kicking sword dudes should wear lipstick, raise your hand. I was glad to see very little LEATHER as thats a common trait in Hollywood. But over all it was one disappointment after another. The only redeeming quality in the film was it put many D&D rule elements into the story. BUT if you are not a gamer than you wont care about that. Could the director of this film rip off STAR WARS and Raiders of the Lost Arc more? Hell even SNAILS was JAR JAR BINKS. To everyone who hated that character, which I am not one of, watch D&D and dream of a big stupid CG effect GUNGAN. You will be happy. I stayed through the film to see the Dragons at the end. Even this was somewhat of a disappointment. There are hundreds of Dragons in the, (ho hum) epic fight, but only GOLD and RED colors? What about all the other colors in the game? Who the hell would let that worthless princess AMIDAL.. I mean what ever her name was, fly around by herself and wave a magic wand at stuff. SHEESH I know we have to suspend our disbelief but they asking too much. They tried real hard to cram as much into this movie as possible but left out one important thing, the audience. Go watch a really good movie, see UNBREAKABLE, and wait for the LORD of THE RINGS.CHIAO "},{"Title":"Forget it!","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So what is this, a joke?  This is one movie where you have to scratch your head and say, why bother?  Are they trying to capitalize on the D&D fad? If so, they're about 15 years too late.  While it was cool to actually see Beholders and other D&D regulars in person (though I would have loved to have seen the Beholders in action as opposed to just floating around like gas bags), there was no point to this dog.  The acting was horrible, the continuity was horrible, the special effects were sophomoric.  Need I go on? The only thing that would have saved it was if at the end they had dissolved to a college dorm room where the main characters were wrapping up a D&D session with Snails complaining about always getting killed.  (Why do they always kill off the black characters anyway?)  Go buy a copy of the new 3rd edition rules with the money you would have wasted on this screamer. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I've ever seen, and I *like* bad movies in general.","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've played D&D for the past 15 years and am an avid gamer in general. I also like cheesy, B grade movies. Neither my love of bad movies or experience playing D&D prepared me for this awful monstrosity of a movie. The acting was awful, the writing and scripting was awful, how the characters went around the plot was truly unique. It seems like they had cool stuff they wanted to show in the movie and just jumped from scene to scene with little logic or forethought. The worst part were scenes that looked like they had been stolen directly from the Star Wars movies... The only thing this movie has going for it is awesome special effects. For the dragon fight scene alone I would recommend people see this movie in the theater. If you're not into dragons, just move on to another film. "},{"Title":"Oh why oh why did I pay for that","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" TTHIS COULD have been such a good movie. But it wasn't! Why did they have to turn this good idea into trash? The writing was almost as bad as the acting. I've seen shows put on by 7 year old kids that was better then this. I am I fan of this type of movie,and I waited for it only to be let down. Don't go see this movie even if some one else pays!! It was soooo painful to watch. "},{"Title":"A great film to see, even if you aren't a fan of Dungeons & Dragons.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a big fan of video and computer games that are role-playing games, but I never got into playing Dungeons & Dragons.  Yet I thought that this movie has the right atmosphere to be a great movie.The basic outline for the story is an evil mage who wants to rule the kingdom.  But to do so, he has to convince the council of mages to overthrow the empress.  Then throw in two thiefs from the street, who try to break into the school for mages.  What you get is the thiefs witnessing something that gets them into trouble.  They then have to help save the world from utter destruction, with the help of some friends they make along the way.My suggestion is, even if you don't have any interest in RPG's (role-playing games) or the Dungeons & Dragons game, go to see this movie.  It is filled with adventure, fantasy, some comedy, and some really great special effects. They only thing that I thought they should change is how they did the ending.  "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Very well made. Excellent Acting. Awesome Cinematography. Whats more to say? "},{"Title":"Promise lost, fair maiden, is forever lost.","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You can do a lot with a license, and this is a license like no other.  So how come the movie is such a pile?  It's not horrendous, no...the sets are lavish, some of the writing is good, but there's not much more to laud. Irons is hammier than I've seen him, Wayans can't break his Ghetto Trash routines, and just about everyone else is simply not trying hard enough. Credit must be given to Whalin and Payne for doing their jobs very well, but beyond that, there isn't anything to appreciate.  Pat plotpoints, silly acting, and an ending that belongs in a children's piece add up to something that should be avoided.  Or at least MST3K'd. "},{"Title":"Not exactly great cinema, but refreshing, good fun","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie isn't exactly great cinema, but I don't think its makers intended it to be. It was an entertaining film, and had some pretty great special effects, and I hope they make more like it. I don't mind if they make the sequels better, but even if they're not better, I'll surely be seeing them. "},{"Title":"Not that bad","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was much better then Kull the Conqueor and almost as much fun as Time Bandits.  The only problem I see with it, was the lack of budget.  There were some cool effects and some entertaining sword fights.  What it really lacked was some poor acting or direction of acting on the part of the Bad Guys.  They were over dramaticizing every scene, which made the scenes drawn out in places.  Also there could have been more scenes with the Dwarf.  All in all not a bad movie, considering that most fantasy movies made today just plain suck. "}{"Title":"Besides the special effects, this was terrible!!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was highly dissapointed in the way that this movie was billed and eventually turned out. The trailer boasted the special effects and adventure of the movie that many people have been waiting for. Halfway through the movie, though, I found myself fighting to stay awake. My favourite parts of the movie were the special effects, namely the dragons, I did enjoy the sets as well, but there were too many lulls in the story to keep my interest.Throughout the movie, the excitement and rules of the game itself were disregarded, and the performances from Jeremy Irons and Thora Birch were just awful. I don't want to give anything away for the people who are interested in seeing this film, but don't expect much from either the story or the actors. "},{"Title":"Ummm... Not sure *what* to think!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, I do have to say that it did not meet my expectations. I am wondering, though, why some reviews said that Marlon was trying to be funny but not doing a good job at it. I found that I liked Snails the best out of all the characters.S P O I L E R SI was so mad when they killed Snails. I hated the ending of the movie. It was too confusing. I figured that when the tracker told Ridley that his friend awaits him, I figured that Ridley had used his potential and brought Snails back to life. But, no. They have to get all cryptic and say Do not question your power or something like that. And then they become little fireballs and vanish into the sunlight...If I could get my hands on the script, I would do a MAJOR overhaul and make the movie actually worth seeing.I gave this movie a 3. While it had some great humor, and a few somewhat cool fight scenes, you should not waste $5 on seeing it at the theatre and wait for it to come on TV.I don't think even the DND players will like the movie much. "},{"Title":"Well worth the wait","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hardcore D&D gaming geeks won't like this movie. They'll be thumbing through Dungeon Masters Guide, looking at the film frame-by-frame on DVD, and complaining about how this character or that shouldn't have had the ability to do one thing or another because they aren't a high enough level wizard or thief.The heck with them.After playing role playing games for over 15 years, and being the same age as the director of the film, I must say that Courtney Solomon did a fantastic job with this movie. It felt like one of my old D&D gaming sessions brought to life. It was fun, exciting and full of great adventure and action. There were even some good attempts at character development and adding some depth to the story.Before entering the theatre, I thought it would be a corny, pathetic film that had nothing to do with the original role palying game. I was wrong. It was a great time. Gary Gygax should be proud. "},{"Title":"Dungeons & Dragons & mages, oh my!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I ended up seeing this movie twice over the opening weekend.  I thought the movie was fantastic.  The effects were amazing.  From what I can remember about playing Dungeons & Dragons (it's been about a year), they stayed as true to D&D as possible.  The classes and races behaved as they should. The monsters were incredible.  And the spells, man I wish I had that talent. They were so cool to look at!This movie is not for everybody.  D&D players will be the only crowd that I can see truly enjoying the movie and understanding it.  Lovers of fantasy films in general may also like it.  It is not the greatest film ever made. But then again, I can't recall a fantasy movie that comes close to being in that category.  The film has a few flaws, but in my opinion not enough of a distraction to make me not want to finish watching it.  I highly recommend seeing this.  But only if you can keep an open mind.  Because it is just a fun movie that you can go see and have a good time and be entertained. After all, that is what movies are all about right? "},{"Title":"The movie is so bad","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have been a fan of Dungeons and Dragons the game for a long time, and generally like most fantasy movies, but this was such an awful movie. I was excited when I heard there was to be a D&D movie, even more so when I so that Jeremy Irons and Thora Birch were to star. These two actors have generally turned in solid performances and had hoped that their presence was an indication that the producers were taking this project seriously, not just another cheesy marketing movie. However, even they couldn't save this wretch. The acting in this movie was so bad and over the top that Marlon Wayans' normally spastic style fit right in with the rest of the cast. The plot is simple enough but it is told is such a confused manner that you just don't care. The only redeeming aspect of this movie is the visual effects which are stunning, but the rest is so horrid that it isn't worth the time or energy to view. "},{"Title":"This movie has ZERO charisma","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Before I make my comments, let me just say that my nine-year-old son really liked this movie.Ok. You can't make a good cake with bad eggs and the same is true with a movie.  You can't make a good movie with bad actors, costumes and a bad script.  This movie was dumb.  I think the costumes were incredibly bad and the acting sucked.  I realize that this isn't very constructive, but I had really hoped that this movie would be good.  It wasn't funny, dramatic or entertaining in any way.I guess kids will find this entertaining, but I was extremely unimpressed. "},{"Title":"Dim & Dunderheaded","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is terrible.No, wait, that's not fair.  More explanation is needed.  The first third of the movie is abysmal.  Following that, it picks up slightly until it is merely awful.  By the end, it has descended into full-bore incomprehensibility.The direction is clumsy, the script is idiotic (note to screenwriters I realize the empire of Izmir does not actually exist, but if it did, I doubt they would use terms like okay, payback, or big score), and there is not a single performance in this movie that is any good.  Not one.  Jeremy Irons chews so much scenery he needs a Heimlich; Thora Birch displays the emotional range of a drugged mannequin, and Marlon Wayans apparently  needs to be told that Stepin Fetchit stopped being funny long before he was born.  And more, and more, ad nauseum.  The only moment of pathos and genuine emotion comes courtesy of a computer-generated dragon after it is mortally wounded by a falling portcullis.Is there anything good in this movie?  Well, there is a sequence in a maze that conjures fond memories of the B-movie classic Spacehunter (ah, Molly Ringwald; what a hottie.)  That's about it.To the built-in audience, fans of the role-playing game, I can only say  Sorry guys, the ten years it took to get this movie made wasn't worth it.  Save your money and buy a new set of dice.Give the dragon a nomination.  Can the rest. "},{"Title":"nothing to write home about","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It boggles my mind why actors would volunteer to star in a movie like this. Both Thora Birch and Jeremy Irons are accomplished actors but you wouldn't know it from their performance in this movie. The special effects are impressive. The spells are neat but the acting is horrendous. Quite possibly the worse movie I have seen in the last 15 years. If I could have had a role in the pitch for a movie in the D&D world I would have made an established story into a movie. The Dragonlance Chronicles would have been a worthy challenge of the director. I going to stop there because I am just upset that I couldn't get my money back at the end of the 2 hours. Marlon Wayons learned something from this movie. Justin Whalin proved he can't act. Thora Birch... well she was so amazing in American Beauty she must have lost a bet and the loser had to do this movie. Here's hoping that this doesn't ruin her career.  "},{"Title":"What the...?","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The spirit of Ed Wood is alive and well in this adaption of the classic role-playing game.  You'll not find a funnier movie this year.The movie is, simply about an evil wizard who tries to get an powerful artifact in order to rule the world or some such story.  This wizard, Profilon, played by Jeremy Irons has mystical powers, such as the ability to craft long, overly-melodramatic speeches and overact at every turn.  Hilarious!  His sidekick, the loveable blue lipstick-wearing level 17/15 dual-classed lackey/goth, Damodar, played by Bruce Payne, runs around trying to find the heroes, the magic item, the map, and dignity, while accompanied by a thinly-veiled Imperial March.Meanwhile, a bunch of heroes also try to find the magic rod (eh...) for some reason.  There's Marina, the relatively useless mage who stands by idly while the hero, Ridley fights the bad guys.  Ridley is accompanied by the obligatory Wayans Brother and special friend, Snails.  There's also a dwarf, Elwood Blues, and an elf, Norda, both of who are along for the ride as long as they don't have to do anything useful to help Ridley.  The latter has a Star Trek communicator that allows her face to appear in a magic mirror, mirror on the wall of Thora Birch, who wields the power of golden dragons and Liberache's wardobe.  On their travels, they meet the King of Thieves, Nilus, who leads them all in a rousing rendition of Time Warp (well, maybe not), a talking skeleton in the cave on Dagobah, and an elven healer.  The Doctor is also accompanied by two creepy little Phantom of the Opera understudies who give Ridley a magical lightsaber +1 which he uses to battle his enemies while the other heroes sit on a log and take a nap.Oh, and of course this movie couldn't be called Dungeons and Dragons without dragons.  You see, dragons are mystical creatures engineered by McDonnell Douglas who shoot each other down and eat people.  They're also equipped with magical fireball missiles with which to take out surface targets.  The movie ends when everybody, hero and villain, dies.Be that as it may, my review isn't that negative.  This movie may not be good, but it's a lot of fun in the so bad it's good way.  The effects are good for the budget, especially when it comes to magic, and the dragons are pretty good for low-end CGI.  Throw in the over-blown dialogue and good clean enthusiasm from the writers and director, and the over-the-top performances (especially by the funny Jeremy Irons, inspired by the melodramatic Bond villains of yesteryear) and you've got yourself something you might enjoy, provided the movie is at a discount price and the rest of your $8 goes to liquor.  Why are you reading my review anyway?  Either you're a fanboy and are going to see it or not, so if you do go, try to have fun, because that'd what the movies are for. "},{"Title":"Could have been oh-so-much better","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, I wasn't expecting a whole lot when I plopped down US$7.50 to see this movie.  I  played the game a lot when I was young and I knew that no movie could capture the  experience of playing the game.  So yeah, we used pieces of paper and dice...what  I'm saying is that no CG effects can duplicate the imagery that we conjured in our  heads.  So my expectations weren't high.  Well, this movie pretty much blows,  which is sad because the source material (AD&D) is so rich and robust.  There's so  much wrong with this movie that I don't even want to go into it.Let me just say this If you want to see some cool dragon CG effects and some  halfway decent swordfights, go see this.  If you want to see a fantasy film that is  more in the vein of the game you played as a youngster, go rent Krull.  If you want  to see a fantasy film that is true to the D&D legacy, sit down at your wordprocessor and start writing. "}{"Title":"Great Big Ball of Cheese!","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have to say...This movie has more Mozzarella, Colby and Cheddar than a Triple-Cheese Heart Attack at Pizza Hut. I walked outta there with my cholesterol count topping 600!This movie was FUN. This movie was absolutely worth seeing, but ONLY if you don't take it too seriously. If you go into this thinking they're making a serious action-adventure film, based in the deep, involving world that is Dungeons & Dragons, you will HATE this movie with every essence of your being. However, if you decide to go have fun and laugh at a really entertaining movie, then RUN to this theater and enjoy the marvel that is D&D.First off, there's Thora Birch. Beautiful girl. Her acting, however, isn't worth a gold-piece here. This girl has the on-screen talent of a Bug-bear on Valium. Let me just say, that her costume did more acting than her. You remember in _The Princess Bride_ when Robin Wright is watching the old woman saying Boo! Boo! Boo!? Well, that scene of Robin pretty much sums up every scene in this movie that has Birch in it. I'm not _trying_ to say that Thora Birch is a bad actress, I can attribute her REALLY bad performance here to bad scripting and even worse direction....Then, I have to agree with Harry Knowles from AICN, when he states that Jar Jar Binks has an incredible role in this movie as the dim-witted sidekick. He even has the floppy ears (boots on head) and everything throughout half the movie! I'm also amazed at how the makeup crew got him to look so much like a Wayans brother. The typically un-funny Jar Jar Wayans does what any stupid sidekick should do in a movie...jumps around bumping into things and saying DAMN! (ala Martin Lawrence) waaaaaay too much. This character actually is kinda noble though, and there's a good part in D&D where I actually like what they do with the character...I think they should've done this to Jar Jar in E1...See this movie and you'll know what I mean.There's Elwood the Dwarf, who's MUCH taller than any real dwarf should be. He's alright, but needs a whole lot less lines in this movie. And why the heck is he using the BACKSIDE of the Axe!? The FRONT has the BLADE! Anyway...I digress...he's a sub-standard character...Justin Whalin. Jimmy Olsen from the Lois and Clark Superman show. He plays Indiana Jones and Han Solo in this movie. *** Little Spoiler *** There's a part in the dungeon/maze where he picks up the eye of the dragon...I'm really surprised he didn't rub his chin and pour the bag of sand out weighing it in one hand.... *** End of Spoilers *** He's actually pretty stifled in this role to what his acting talents can do...I think, given a good WB series or something, he could become the next James Van Der Beek (May God have mercy on our souls).Tom Baker, yes Dr. Who himself!!!!! He plays the Leader of the Elves....a noble role, but it totally lacked something.....hmmm...the TARDIS, K-9! That's IT! Actually, when he came onscreen, he, like another actor I'll talk about next, totally out-performed everyone else in this film. This isn't just a fan-boy talking here...Tom Baker made this movie REALLY worth watching. The two and a half minutes he's on-screen, made my poor little heart jump out of its coronary cavity and into the back of my throat. It's not only startling to see him with pointy ears (Spock anyone?), but it's more startling to see just how old he looks here without the red afro, or his scarf, which I think I saw hanging on the wall behind him, not sure, I'll have to look again...Richard O'Brien, yes, it's Rif-Raf. He plays the leader of the Thieves' Guild. Actually, like Tom Baker, he overpowers all of the other actors on the screen. He does a pretty good job here...he's limited by the script too much though.Jeremy Irons is REALLY over the top in this film. I thought he was a bit too much in Die Hard with a Vengeance, but here, he takes it a LOT farther. Oh man, I can't imagine anything more out there. He does play the role well, but he lacks a lot of dimension I was expecting with his character. Think Skeletor fused with Megatron, and you'll have - Profion.Zoe McLellan...She's hot...'nuff said. Her role should've been cast to Yasmine Bleeth, however.Bruce Payne...All I can say is GET THAT CRAP OFF YOUR LIPS! Yeesh...what were they thinking! Blue Iridescent Lipstick just doesn't look right on a certifiable badass.Okay...enough about the acting...This movie is basically crap, and it revels in it. It's not pretentious. It knows exactly what it is, and makes no effort to be otherwise. You really have to respect the writers and the producers for that.Like I said before...this movie is FUN to watch!!! GO SEE IT. Get a big bucket of $7.00 popcorn and a LARGE Mr. Pibb, and just wallow in the cheese here. This is a most definite Sunday afternoon matinee. Be sure to take a group of your favorite friends along too...not the ones that used to actually PLAY this game though...God forbid, you don't want them whining, She can't cast that spell!!! She's not level 8!!! Just remember...It's the CHEESE that counts here...it's okay to laugh at this...they do it themselves...Here's a fun game...try to count just how many movies they rip off here...it'll be fun!In my little grading scale...I give it a 6 outta 10. The plot is good, the acting is horrible, and the directing is worse...but the dragon battle is spectacular!  "},{"Title":"Potential ruined by sub-par special effects and moron comedy","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I was younger I was a very avid role-player.  AD&D was by far my favorite game.  All the while, I would think about how they could make an incredibly good movie about it, because of the imagination of so many great writers out there that have put out the concepts in rule books, modules, and magazines.  With today's special effects capabilities and advanced scientific theory, the time right.  But this is not the case in this movie offering.This movie reduces what could have been, either the Dragonlance trilogy or a Forgotten Realms story, into a mix-up of the stale stuff that we've seen in other movies.  We have the hero that doesn't know his own potential, (and we don't even understand what this so-called special potential is, either, after it is revealed.) He has a cornball friend who belongs more in a comedy from the present than he does in a period fantasy piece, and of course we have them being chased by the bad guy dressed in black.  The races in here are hardly dealt with as anything other than a cameo that looked and behaved human enough to not even warrant being shorter or pointy eared.The special effects are sub-par, with many television shows and even some of the video games I have played having more spectacular things to show for their efforts.  The dragons moved in a jerky motion, and their body parts did not move together well.  Liquids were fake looking, snakelike/tentacle things were jagged around the edges, and most things that were computer generated did not move life-like or even look very life-like.The only redeeming quality of this movie is that it shows that they are willing to make an official Dungeons & Dragons movie.  I can only hope that they decide to do something as spectacular and serious as the Dragonlance trilogy to redeem themselves instead of another one-shot of silly bickering heroes trying to thieve their way through places, bumbling around and making noise like a couple of dorks, only to get caught up in a huge mess where they have to save an entire kingdom.Please, give us heroes that deserve to be praised as heroes, because of their strength, their integrity, and their actions.  Not another story of how some hodge-podge group of supposedly different beings cling together and haplessly save the world almost on accident. "},{"Title":"Who was the movie for?","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must admit, I was reluctant to see this movie, but went anyways.  The good things about this movie a few of the battle scenes had nice choreography.  The bad things about this movie lousy acting (Jeremy Irons should be slapped), lackluster special effects, a predictable story, and a plot full of holes.  (Yes, a plot can be both predictable and illogical.  This occurs when writers go for the best dramatic event, rather than having things that make sense.)  Now, am I being hard on this film?  Perhaps.  This movie might have made a decent cartoon.  (Who cares about the acting or effects in a cartoon, right?  Except for the voices, they're drawn!  The key to good acting is body language, after all.)  The story-line and corny dialogue was obviously for kids.  But this movie was way to violent for younger kids.  (The film is rated PG-13.)  Like the movie Small Soldiers, this is a movie with a very small target audience. 11-13 year old boys might like it, but I doubt girls will since 2 of the 3 female characters in the movie only have bit parts (despite Thorah Birch's prominence in the advertising), and the female lead is pushed to the background after a promising beginning. This movie probably will not be enjoyed by most of the people who see it.   "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Back in the late 80s and early 90's I played D&D as a hobby. At the time I thought that if they ever made a movie about the game it would be really cheesy and badly acted. I guessed right. The movie looked cheap and the acting was bad from just about everyone. However, I enjoyed the film more than I thought I would. I had a great time watching it and still recommend it to others. It exeeded my expectations. It was not as bad as I imagined it to be. I liked the dwarf and Zoe Mclellan and hope to see more of her in the future. "},{"Title":"What just happened?!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons and Dragon was so bad it is now considered by me, of course, to be one of the worst movies of all times. Oh, the acting was horrendous and flat. Oh it was bad. Just flat out bad. The SGi was okay, but I think they did too much cutting and pasting. Scenery just repeated to no end. They could do SGI, and they were proud of it, and don't you forget it. Ever! Because they're going to repeat it over and over again.And the costumes... What o what can I say about the costumes?? Who made them, and why?? Why did everything look like it was glued together with electrical tape, and the costumes look like they were made by someone with little imagination (and thinks has a LOT!), and a huge budget??Please note that I haven't yet talked about the plot because there wasn't any!It was just bad... I highly recommend it only if you're a B movie buff. If you're not, don't even consider going to see it. The end of the movie turned into a Mystery Science Theater 3K marathon. bad bad bad! "},{"Title":"Exactly what it should have been... good fun.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was everything a D&D movie should have been. It has grand adventure, fighting, dungeon crawling, and romance with the fate of an empire hanging in the balance. It's a little on the cheesy, overblown, over acted side, but with tons of great eye candy. The characters were all classic D&D character archetypes and the plot resembled many a campaign adventure. Perhaps those who are not into the Hobby game will not understand. Enthusiasts of the game are sure to be amused at the number of clearly recognizable D&D elements, even if the world itself is an original one for the story to unfold in and not one of the standard game worlds. The animation on the dragons is especially fantastic. These are the best dragons ever committed to film (and the most in any film, no doubt!) "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I thought...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Going into this movie (Seen with about 30 other raving fans with my college's Alternate Realities Club), I was pretty much next to sure I was going into a steaming pile of nothing. My first thought about Waynes was that this was idiotic. Well, his perfomance was what I expected. Even a bit impressive, given that I don't think he used a curse word the entire time. Everyone else overacted as badly as he did however, and I think that the movie was generaly not well thought out and written/produced/directed by people who thought D&D players were idiots. There was no respect for the audience - and I think in the end thats the failing of this movie. The graphics were very impressive, and you get a good amount of Dragon fights at the end of the film. Now the ending seems to sugest a sequel. I hope they'll do some more consumer research with the people who will go see the film and away from toning down an over-the-top comedian. "},{"Title":"Spellbindingly Bad!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While D&D proved to be uniformly awful in regards to acting, cinematography, direction, plot, visual effects, writing, and obtrusive scoring, it truly was a cinematic delight for those who like to crack wise at the screen ala MST3K. Jeremy Irons played the most over-the-top performance I've ever seen... hammier than the Hormel factory. Some of the attempt at humor did make me laugh, but by in large it was the absurdity of the film that did it. Questions unanswered What sucker financed something with freshman director, writers and producers? Also why wait so long to make this movie? Hasn't the games' popularity ebbed a tad in the last 15 years? "},{"Title":"Well, the effects were good ...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Can't say much else good about it. Just a little better writing and a little better acting would have gone a long way. If this had any other name besides D & D it would have gone straight to video. Nothing in the movie really seems to tie it into the game, except one monster. Oh well, I guess I'll pull out my Indiana Jones videos again. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining, Just Not That Great","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you're one of the people this movie is targeted for, you are very likely to enjoy it.  As of yet, I haven't found a critic that was nice to this movie...so I went in with the worst of expectations.  About 15 minutes into the movie I stopped looking for it to be bad and sat back and enjoyed it.This movie is VERY visually pleasing.  The effects are entertaining, well done and serve a great purpose to further the fantasy world.  What you have to get past is that this movie just simply tries too hard.  This all begins with Marlon Wayans.  He is out of place from the word 'go'.  Bruce Payne (as Damodar) makes a nice bad guy, but every line he delivers sounds like he wants it to be his most dramatic line of the movie.  In doing this, he makes his character weaker because NOTHING he says has dramatic impact.  However, he does play a bad guy well.  Jeremy Irons also overacts in numerous cases, but for him it works very well.  As the head villain, an eccentric performance defines his character.The thing that makes the movie good is the solid performances from young stars Justin Whalin (Ridley) and Zoe McLellan (Marina).  While the writers and directors tried and failed to make Ridley into another Luke Skywalker, they did succeed in giving him a pretty nice personality that many fans of the paper and dice game will enjoy.  It's the kind of character you want to play...someone who shakes off his outer image and lifestyle of crime to become an unsuspecting hero.  Marina makes a good love interest for the hero, and she also plays the role of sidekick well.  Her arrogance as a high society mage is easily visible at the beginning of the movie but as she grows attached to her companions you see that slip away.  It's a really nice transition.There are some really nice battle scenes, large and small.  The melee combat between Damodar and Ridley is of high quality, while not altogether believeable.  But the movie's climax is the incredibly large battle sequence involving a countless number of dragons.  It's something no DM could ever orchestrate, but wow...it's something to see.If you're looking to find out how Thora Birch does in this movie, well, I'll just leave her out of the review.  She's in the movie for a whole of about 15 minutes and doesn't give a memorable performance.  It's not bad, it just isn't good.  It's not anything.  Her role could have been played by any of a dozen other people.  All they did was dress her up to look like Queen Amidalla, and it didn't work.  She's a bit player while being the center of the storyline.  It doesn't take away from the overall enjoyment of the movie, though.Overall, this movie is a 6 out of 10.  If you're not a player of AD&D and don't enjoy the fantasy element you will hate this movie.  For the rest of us, it's certainly worth seeing once just because it's not as bad as you might think. "}{"Title":"Disappointing Film That Degrades the Genre","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Perhaps it is because I spent so many nights of my high school years playing AD&D that made me shake my head in disbelief when I saw this film.  It was everything I hoped it wouldn't be.My greatest source of irritation was Bruce Payne's character, Damodar. His costume makes him look like a super-villain from a comic book, he plays the part of a text-book bad guy (complete with a gravelly whisper of a voice) , and he wears metallic blue lipstick throughout the film!The armor and many other elements of costuming looked very synthetic, and the magical rods looked like something stolen from an episode of the Power Rangers.I also believe the writers should have stuck with the action/thriller theme and skipped the attempts at humor altogether, which only end up slowing down the plot.On the plus side, it does have dragons galore, and even though they are a little obviously CGI, they are the best part of the film.  Many of the myriad of races from the D&D world are represented, with Kristen Wilson portraying an elven ranger very adequately (although I don't believe any ranger would be caught dead wearing pink).I realize that the target audience was probably a little younger than I am, but there are a lot of gamers out there who are well out of their teens, and this film would have done better to target that crowd.  I hope New Line wasn't counting on the profits from this film to help budget the upcoming Lord of the Rings trilogy, because if they were, they may have to go to the bank and apply for a loan.  "},{"Title":"Utterly Horrible...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being an avid D&D fan, I was looking forward to seeing this movie. Then I saw it, and couldn't believe what they had done. It was awful, from beginning to end. First of all, Jeremy Irons was terrible as the super-evil mage Profion. He mumbled so much, I couldn't understand half of what he was saying. It sounded like he had a mouth full of gum. Damedar looked like an idiot with the blue lipstick he was wearing, and Marlon Wayans was in full annoying force as the grating Snails the thief.The script was awful, the acting was pathetic, and half the scenes were rip-offs of Return of the Jedi. Even the costuming was lame. Thora Birch's empress costumes were direct copies of Queen Amidala from Star Wars Episode I, and Snails' hat made him look like Elmer Fudd. I almost expected him to say, be vewwy vewwy qwiet. I'm hunting dwagons.D&D fans are eventually going to have to see this movie just for the chance to see Orcs and Beholders on the big screen, but both fans and non-fans alike will agree it sucks. "},{"Title":"Good CGI, bad everything else","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The CGI scenes for this film are excellent. The feeling as the camera moves around the outside of the CGI castles and sewers is  amazing, as are the dragons and various spell effects. The few fight scenes are fairly well done, especially the large one at the climax of the film.The entire budget was obviously exhausted on CGI, as the plot is paper thin, and the acting very bad. Jeremy Irons gives a typical, over-acted rendition of the crazy, evil wizard. The character of Damodar played by Bruce Payne fits every conceivable stereotype, with the usual bad guy quotes from other films such as the usual give me what I want and I'll let your friends go, and the typical grunting and other monosyllabic phrases. Justin Whalin and Marlon Wayans are competent in the fight sequences, however their characters are completely flat, we learn nothing about them during the whole course of the film. Thora Birch is completely laughable as the empress, I could not take her seriously at all. Zoe McLellan, while talented, was obviously included because she is attractive and Whalan's character needed a female interest, not because the character of Marina was useful.Tom Baker's cameo was a pleasant sight, though.If you enjoy bad movies, you'll love this, if not, stay away. "},{"Title":"<speechless>","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dear All,Let me preface my review by saying that I used to play quite a bit of D&D and, frankly, have been waiting for this movie for nearly 15 years. However, I think that I can still afford a nice chunk of objectivity since I'm not as fascinated with it as much as I used to be.... er, I still love fantasy/sci-fi, but I've moved well past the game.That said, this movie blows. It's bad on top of bad. The plot (an easy target for most critics) is disjointed at best. Dialog is trite and characters are shallow. In a nutshell, all of the things that make a movie a story are missing.But true to hollywood, the fx are very decent except for a few cases that I'll overlook as petty - well, petty with respect to the movie's many other shortcomings.If you are a D&D fan, you might be able to view the film more liberally because you understand what, at least, is being attempted. However, if you are not a fan, then this flick probably drives home with thunderous finality that D&D is a dorky, has-been game played by socially averse, above-average intelligence teenagers with such unwaivering devotion to their cultish obsession that they will overlook even the most horrible transgressions against filmmaking and storytelling in general.But you don't have to take my word for it, go see the film. I just ask that you wait until it hits video (which I can assure you won't take long) so that you don't feel bad paying for the viewing.-dc "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I'd feared","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After seeing some of the previews, I was afraid this movie was going to be awful. The special effects looked like a mixed bag, and the acting in the teasers seemed terrible. I'm pleased to say that to some degree I was pleasantly surprised.The actual main cast handled their roles well. Some of the supporting cast really hammed it up, but overall I was rather pleased with the acting and the casting. The special effects were pretty good overall, especially the city scenes, though I didn't really care for the dragons themselves.The plot was utter drivel. Most D&D adventures don't have much plot to go on, but this was even weaker than you might expect. The emotional scenes seemed rather contrived. The score was awful, reminiscent of a 70s or 60s science fiction movie. The script was bad, several characters and scenes were only there to make it more D&D, and it really didn't stay terribly true to the property. Many opportunities to make this a better movie were missed. I could go on at length.Overall, it was rather mindless fun. I was entertained and enjoyed myself, but it was a guilty pleasure. My verdict 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"One awful mess of a movie.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one awful mess of a film.  The editing is extremely rough and amateur, a plot is only vaguely implied, and the characters have about as much charisma as extras pulled onto the set at the last minute.  The film flows so poorly as to almost seem like several different films edited together.I expected that this film was aimed at someone like myself a fan both of the game and of the fantasy genre, and a big Irons fan to boot.  None of the characters (and their obscure motivations) were like anything one would encounter in the D&D game or in fantasy fiction (and should probably go back to whatever MTV show they were discovered on).  There was very little swordplay, very little magic, and whilst there were a few dragons, we never find out what their role is in the film.  They just sort of appear as required props.  A very odd, hypnotically unpleasant film that wears one out like an endless trip to the grocer's, where when you finally get to the checkout, you find your cart is empty.High marks however for Zoe McLellan, who acts with grace and beauty and deserves much better roles.  And as for Jeremy Irons, once one of the greats...Die Hard and now this?  Perhaps commercials would be kinder to him...I would rather hear him talk about the new Mazda then see him end his career in travesty. "},{"Title":"A level 20 Stinker","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's almost beautiful how bad this movie was. The dwarf is just as tall is everyone else, the elf sports a breast plate that has to be seen to be believed, the evil warrior sports super-cool purple metallic lip-stick for no apparent reason, Irons uses his level 3 Scene Chewing spell to awful effect, Thora Birch seems to be reading her lines as the cue-card man scribbles them down, Marlon Wayans seems to have decided everyone needs another Jar-Jar, and the score is at times so inappropriate that I actually laughed at it. The sets looked like the crew snuck onto the Xena lot after hours. The movie stole painfully from Star Wars (new AND old) a few Indiana Jones movies, and other movies not worth stealing from. You name it, this movie did it badly. The tag-line for this movie should be And You Thought Battlefield Earth was Bad!!! Yes, it's that bad, folks. On the other hand, I highly recommend it. You'll laugh, you'll wince, you just may lose control of your last meal, but it's one hell of a ride. "},{"Title":"RPG's brought to life","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is what happens around the table on those late nights.  Solving puzzles, saving a kingdom and taking down the bad guy is what it is all about.  This movie illustrates it very well.  I would recommend it to anyone who  is confused about what D&D is all about. "},{"Title":"Terrible is such a sweet word...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With truly horrid formations of attempts at acting, with special effects, costuming and makeup that ranged from TV-Movie to I-Can-Do-That and with a plot that is the only true Dungeon involved in the film, this was a tremendous let down both to those familiar and those unfamiliar with D&D. As a familiar one, I can tell you that our 4th Grade gaming sessions displayed better improvised lines that those that came down the Hollywood gristle-mill this time. If you're unfamiliar, you could possibly just sit back and enjoy the ridiculous contortions of Jeremy Irons and Bruce Payne, who seem to be intent on screwing enormous amount of absurdity out of every hackneyed line (50% prediction rate, I guarantee you, try it). Also easily identifiable are scenes stolen from Lucas movies, of which I could identify about 7 or so. Justin Whalin does about as well as any Backstreet Boy in his attempts at heroism and thespianism. Zoe McLellan and Thora Birch are easy on the eyes, hard on the film sensibilities, and have a penchant for acquiring Renaissance Fair-yet-GAP-like outfits for inappropriate settings. What wonderful stereotypes to include in a medieval setting! Kristen Wilson, geared for battle in a push-up bra that could put an eye out, has the duty, along with every other elf character in the film, of making contradictory, ridiculous, off-hand remarks about what was meant-to-be. The fight scenes are mildly fun, and so, interestingly enough, is the work of Marlan Wayans. Episode I and this movie both sucked, but this one was so terrible you stopped trying and watched some of the offered clowning, which was, indeed, much better than Jar-Jar offered. In fact, Wayans' character could be the only one you could accuse of having a personality. Even the old rule about bad-guy being good in bad action movies is violated here; Payne and Irons seem to have trouble separating who is the smart guy and who is the tough guy. Unless, of course, the rule applies to Richard O'Brien, who pimps out a nice Thief Guildmaster into yet another film-not-as-good-as-Rocky-Horror. All-in-all, don't go unless you can enjoy being disgusted, and have a theatre full of like-minded highbrows who won't care when you shout Snails...He's My Father! during the Ewok-City ripoff scene.... "},{"Title":"I REALLY wanted it to be good.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons & Dragons (1/2 Star out of Four) WARNING This review contains SPOILERS. If in reading this, I somehow `ruin' the movie for you, you may thank me now. I just saved you the cost of admission.Dungeons & Dragons is a film based on the table-top game of the same name which revolutionized board games in the late seventies and early eighties. The game helped to bring the fantasy genre into the mainstream for a short while. During its most popular era, you could have seen Conan the Barbarian, Dragon Slayer, Ladyhawk, Willow or others make it to the big screen. In fact, the game itself is created by its own players - each one helping create an ongoing story about made-up characters and plots.So why, oh why, in the movie version do we then get THESE characters and THESE plotlines? The creators of this film have boasted that first time director Courtney Solomon is a long-time DnD'er, himself. He knows how the world ought to look. He understands the difficulty in making the fantasy genre accessible to the bulk of the movie-going audience. One way of doing this might be to write a universal theme of a struggle for power, that focuses on deep character development, relationships and the politics of a monarchy. Then later, you come in and add the pageantry, the special effects and the action sequences.Or, I suppose, another way is to shamelessly recycle other movie scenes, while cranking out page after page of painfully wooden and clichéd dialogue. Consider this scene Main good guy, Ridley (Justin Whalin), squares off against main bad guy Damodar (Bruce Payne) and his group of henchman. Ridley has just exited a dungeon with its treasure and outside the bad guys are waiting for him while holding Ridley's friends, Snails (Marlon Wayans) and Marina (Zoe McLellan), at knife point. Either hand over the loot, or your friends die. Apparently they don't show movies in the city of Sumdall, because then Ridley would know (a) bad guys don't keep their word, and (b) bad guys don't like good guys. But instead, we get this exchange, which could have been easily written by a fifth grader.Ridley (after threats) No, don't hurt them!Damodar (sneering and speaking Clint Eastwood style) Then hand it over!Marina (at knife point) No, don't do it, Ridley!Ridley Alright! Here. Now let them go.Damodar (smiles evilly)Ridley (with an actual look of surprise on his face) Wait, you said you would let them go!Damodar (overly long pause while no one does or says anything) I lied. (another long pause as no one does or says anything) Kill them all. (another pause) Slowly.Ridley (more surprise looks) No!Why didn't Damodar and his small army of men just overtake Ridley and get the treasure rather than do the Mexican standoff? Why does Ridley think that Damodar will let the good guys go after he gets the treasure? And why, for all the DnD gods' sake, do they have to use dialogue that sounds like it came from a particularly poorly written episode of the Power Rangers? Folks, this is one example in a two-hour long list of exactly these sort of scenes.And here's something else that bothered me. When the young queen in an overly done-up gown addresses a court full of people about protecting the interests of her people, you'd have to gouge out your own eyes to not see that this is a direct rip-off of Star Wars Episode I. In fact, the whole movie is full of Star Wars thefts. Ridley dresses like Han Solo, is a thief (Han was a smuggler) and eventually ends up with a headstrong girl (like Leia). When our heroes enter a bar, they might as well use John William's `Cantina' music, because as the camera pans around, we get a whole host of stupid latex monster masks in a dark smoky room. Ridley does Luke Skywalker spins during the sword fights. He eventually faces off against Damodar, before facing his more magically-inclined master, Profion. That whole scene smacks heavily of Darth Vader and the Emporer. Near the end of the movie, Marlon Wayans' character gets killed (yeah, the black guy), while Ridley looks on from afar. Ridley screams out `NO!' At the end of the film, we discover that, at least in some way, Snails is still alive to continue aiding Ridley. Can anyone say, `Obi-wan?'Does this film's director have ANY original ideas? I mean, outside of casting Marlon Wayans in a fantasy film?In the board game, you are supplied with the monsters, the cities and some very generic character ideas. Then, real players come and breathe life into the clichés, adding new and original elements to it all. They give it twists. They stray from the norm, and they avoid all the cheesy dialogue they've heard in a thousand bad movies. Courtney Solomon should have done the same. "}{"Title":"Finally a movie thats not based on a comic book or tv series","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a film student and avid Dungeons & Dragons (Role-playing) player I, for the most part, enjoyed this film. From a film standpoint the cinematography and editing were relatively good. The textbook shot composition worked well for this film. The film didn't require crazy camera angles or other visual eye-candy to keep the interest of the regular movie go'er. The final battle scene in the palace tower was cool with the CG dragons engaged in battle in the background. The hand to hand combat action scenes were edited with a textbook beat and rhythm to them. I also liked the point of view camera movement on each location's establishing shot. The camera would fly and pan around the CG structure, I.E. the palace, to give the viewer this location eye-candy effect. This was cool because most directors would choose to use a still stagnate shot of the exterior of the building to show each location change. Things I didn't care for much. The movie lacked in costume design and had a bit to be desired in story. One of the main antagonist characters (Damodar played by Bruce Payne) had the worst make-up design I have ever seen. The character had this blue lipstick thing going on during the entire movie. I couldn't take this character seriously with this lipstick theme going on. Not to mention the make-up was inconsistent on a few characters during the length of the entire film. I did expect the movie to be based on more of the Magic motif of the D&D role playing game. For example the female lower level mage (Marina played by Zoe McLellan) had this kickin magical power thing going for her at the beginning of the story, this made me think that she was going to be a more powerful wizard in the story and be more of a protagonist. Again her character had all this magical power at the beginning of the story but later lost it when she could have been supporting her comrades during the hand to hand combat sequences. I half expected her to jump into a battle with a fireball or some type of other useful spell. As a veteran player of the game for almost fifteen years (But yes I do admit I'm no expert) I was wondering why the wizards didn't follow the rules that Gary Gygax had written for the role playing game. For example Marina casted this spell at the beginning of the film to capture two thieves. The spell consisted of a magical rope-like force that wrapped around the two thieves. This is where I have a problem. First she is a low-level mage. So she wouldn't contain the knowledge and power to cast such a spell. Second, as far as I remember the closest lower level wizard spell that even come close to this spell she casted would maybe be Bind or Rope Trick or even Hold Person. This spell she casted was nothing like any of those spells. Yes, I know I'm going to extremes here, but if your going to call your movie Dungeon and Dragons you should at least keep to the rules of the role playing game and use the spells listed in the book effectively. I'm not saying that they have totally strayed from the rules of the game. There were a few things that only veteran players would have noticed about the story. For example dwarves don't care for horses they prefer ponies. And elves are slender angelic creatures. Again I know as a filmmaker and screenwriter you have the power to change and create you own themes and spells or rules. I do want to thank the writers of this film for not making it some type of reality story where a group of real-life teens get sucked into some type of game porthole to find they are playing their game characters. That would have made for a BAD film. So as a movie viewer and D&D player I would suggest to others to view this film for themselves because I liked it. "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but nothing like it could have been.","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The action sequences were pretty good. The effects were really very nice. Neat magic effects all around. Lots of things for D&D fans to pick up on, which was a lot of fun. However, this movie was plagued by bad acting. Thora Birch's stale delivery on one end of the spectrum and Jeremy Irons' over-the-top raving at the other. Yes, Iron's was playing a power-mad mage, but ...wow, still way over the top. I normally like Irons, too.I have never thought Thora Birch was anything to shout about, but I never thought I would say that _Marlon Wayans_ out-acted her. She almost spoiled the movie for entirely, she was so bad.  The plot was a little contrived, but that was expected so it did not detract much at all.**SPOILER below...54321The plot was pretty good, but what they were thinking with the ending is beyond me. It is really out there. Every surviving character form the 'adventure group' touches a gem and turns into sparkles and flies into the horizon with little more explanation than 'trust your destiny'. Everyone I went to see it with was like'...? what? What just happened? "},{"Title":"I WANT MY MONEY BACK!","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  oh. my. god.  What a DOG.  Pardon, that was mean to dogs everywhere. There was obviously no test screening of this tripe.  If D&D the game was still in it's infancy (ok, the movie would not be made yet) this movie would have killed ALL interest in it and I would not still be playing the game 20 years later.  Hell, it may *still* kill it.  Plan 9 From Outer Space at least has cult status.  *Everyone* I know plays or has played D&D and they are unanimous in that this  was a complete waste of celluloid.  The entire audience was LAUGHING in the part that was supposed to be the most serious. ARGH!  The only reason I'm expending this much energy to tell anyone else is an effort to prevent anything *worse* being shat from the bowels of Hollywood.  I have heard that a fan of the game made this film.  It was either a CEILING fan or someone with a vendetta against Wizards of the Coast.  Pardon me while I wretch again at the thought of what GOOD could have been done with the $35 million this cost, and all the poor people (like myself) that paid to see it and wasted their time and money. "},{"Title":"A lot of well-played out cheese factor mixed with good effects...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, first of all I should preface this by saying that I am an avid gamer, and that I have been playing this game ever since adolescence.  Obviously, I am going to have somewhat a biased review here )The fight scenes were really well done. They felt waaay more natural than, say, Excalibur or SW Ep I. The effects are mostly well done, but they do use the flythrough effect just a little bit too much.  The dragons are amazing, much better than DragonHeart.Any time that Tom Baker, Richard O'Brien, or Lee Arenberg are on screen they steal the show. There is a large amount of overdramatization and overacting, but I think that the element that most people miss is that it's all in good fun.  This movie tries hard not to take itself too seriously.This is a great movie to go to with little expectations, and you just want to have a good time.  The gamers will all love it because they get to see some of their favorite fantasy elements on the big screen for the first time (large aerial dragon battles, raging dwarf, good use of magic, etc...)  I have no idea how a non-gamer would appreciate this movie, I think I'll ask my sister once she sees it... "},{"Title":"The Battlefield Earth of the Fantasy Genre","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was truly horrible. I knew it was going to be horrible, so this made sitting through it only slightly more bearable. Why did I go? I'm a glutton for SciFi and Fantasy. I used to love playing RPGs. I thought the special effects might be cool. Look at me... I'm making excuses for seeing this movie.The acting was horrible. The Empress (from American Beauty) delivered a lackluster performance. She was the best they had. I could rant about how terrible the rest of the actors were, but why waste the time?The special effects were mostly unimpressive. There is a sort of cool magic scene near the beginning of the film when the magician-in-training is introduced. The other worthy two seconds of special effects were seen in the trailer where the mages put up a magic shield and launch fireballs at the dragons. Other than that - the special effects, costumes, CGI, etc were beneath the production quality of Hercules, Xena, etc.Do yourself a favor... don't waste your time. If you absolutely have to -- wait for it to come out on video. "},{"Title":"One of the year's worst","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I would advise those who want to see Dungeons & Dragons to stay away because this is one of the years worst movies. There are so many reasons why I feel people should stay away; I don't know where to begin.I should have known that Dungeons & Dragons would be a dud the first time I saw its trailer. I guess I needed to give it a chance. However, I was disappointed in the cast because they let me down. Jeremy Irons wasn't convincing as a villain and Justin Whalin is unproven as hero as well as an actor in a leading role.There was absolutely no reason for me to care about the cause of the empress or the villain. Furthermore, I was sorely disappointed with the action because it seemed artificial as well as the actors who portrayed the heroes.Dungeons & Dragons should have remained a game to be played by its enthusiasts. In a year where movies have turned out be duds, this should be locked up in the basement of a warehouse in the middle of nowhere so nobody has to go through the horror I did when I saw this film.This is the type of film that makes me question why movies like this make it to theater. My wish is for everyone to watch another movie when they go to the theaters. Dungeons & Dragons should have stayed on the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"A fun couple of hours...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Lord of the Rings it is not.However, anybody familiar with the game Dungeons and Dragons who walks into this movie will get exactly that.  Perhaps for the very first time, Elves and Dwarves appear on the screen in live action, and manage to act very lively.Dungeons and Dragons is a light piece of Tolkienian fantasy, featuring Justin Whalen as a charming rogue named Ripley, and Marlon Wayans as his friend, Snails (who struggles with Jeremy Irons, playing the evil archmage Profion, for stealing scenes).  The two break into a magic school only to become involved in something far larger, something that could save or destroy the world.It may not be the fantasy epic of the century, but it is FUN.  While the characters may be a bit flat at times, they are always lively.  The magic manages a sense of wonder, and the Dragon effects are simply amazing.  The dialogue is hokey, but once you get into it, it's all part of the fun.If you like fantasy and need a pleasant diversion for a couple of hours, this may be the movie for you.  It is a shame there isn't more to it (the film lacks subtexts), but it makes no pretenses to be of the caliber of The Lord of the Rings.Final mark 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"A complete waste of 8.00, except to make fun of...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My friends and I actually almost got kicked out of this movie for laughing too loudly during this movie. Everything about this movie was terrible. The effects were horrible and grimy, the writing was completely contrived (and badly), and the direction was simply ugly. I cannot remember when I saw a movie as bad as this in the theatre. This is the worst movie of 2000, so far... "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, despite reservations","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Finally. Ten years in the waiting. The D + D movie has premiered. And I actually enjoyed it.There are many negatives. For one thing, Thora Birch, as the Empress, seems to be lost in a performance inspired by Natalie Portman in Episode 1, only hers is more boring. Justin Whalin proves he has less acting talent than he did in Child's Play 3. Jeremy Irons, an Oscar winner, is hammy and over the top. The special effects aren't that special and the plot is almost incomprehensible.Despite the negative comments above, D + D is a lot of fun. This is a fantasy movie so expect some flaws. Highlander isn't perfect, in fact the acting was terrible, but it has become a cult classic. And, I must say, this film is more than a cut above Highlander parts 2 + 3. Speaking of Highlander, that's Endgame's Bruce Payne as the evil Profion's main henchman. He overacts tastelessly, but also chews a lot of scenery. Another enjoyable cornball performance.The action is, for the most part, well filmed. Also, unlike the game, not much here is left to your imagination. Many cheesy computer effects create low-budget Indiana Jones-like mazes and obstacles.The Bottom line Check your brain at the door. You will enjoy it. Also, there is a little creativity concerning which character dies. It may not be the obligatory choice you would expect.6/10 "},{"Title":"Okay movie, great effects ...","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The fact that they named this movie Dungeons & Dragons might have cursed it.  The 'D&D' crowd will bitch that the movie isn't 'authentic' enough.  The fantasy genre crowd will bitch because there isn't deep enough roots into an existing popular storyline.  The 'general public' will be totally mixed - the FX lovers will enjoy it, the 'drama-lovers' and cutesy Meg Ryan Tom Hanks comedy romance might as well not go.So how was the movie?  If you have been waiting for a movie with a good deal of magic and an effects budget to support it, then D&D is your flick.  If you don't mind straying from the D&D paradigm where every type of player is restricted to a strict set of rules (theives can't use swords, etc) and take this movie as fantasy with great FX - you'll very likely enjoy it.If the movie looked too slapstick to be fantasy (via the Waylon brother), don't be too hasty.  Yes, Marlon was the comic relief portion, but it comes off VERY well;  never overdone.  Marlon did a very good job.  If you thought of him as Jar Jar Binks, relax;  he's not.  You may be surprised.If you are looking to compare the movie to other movies (like others here seem to want to) leave that at home.  There isn't anything original in film anymore, so get over it.  Is the Emporess like Queen Amadala?  Let's see .. they are both young and in power... sheeze, give me a break.  If anything, the Emporess does a better job in her position of power than Amadala does.  Oh, yes, there will be other comparisons - Indiana Jones, Star Wars, etc.  Seems funny that people fall back on the it imitates too many other movies excuse when they want to complain and can't do it intelligently.In short, if you are remotely interested in this film, MAKE YOUR OWN OPINION.  If you are looking to compare it to the D&D game, other movies, etc. - don't go - you won't like it. "}{"Title":"Worst Film of the Year","Date":"9 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is utter garbage. It's hard to believe a film like this can be made, and then taken seriously by some. This movie will undoubtably fail, and cost many there jobs, but the bad part is that it may effect the Lord of the Rings which is also being produced by Miramax. Since D&D will indefinetly become a failure at the box office, and be bashed critically (for good reason) Miramax may pull back the reigns on Lord Of the Rings for fear of another box office and critical nightmare. Shame on D&D for possible singlehandedly destroying a chance for the next Star Wars in Lord of the Rings. "},{"Title":"A quarter century was not worth the wait for this game adaptation.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The grandaddy of role-playing games finally makes it to the big screen. Too bad it wasn't worth the wait. Strong CGI effects, great costumes and beautiful location photography in Eastern Europe can't save a poor script that falls prey to cutsiness, cliched dialogue (e.g. Good guyYou said you'd let them go. Bad guyI Lied.), or both (everything Wayans - the token black thief - says and does here). There are some great performances, particularly Richard O'Brien. And, everyone in the mostly young cast suffers by comparison in scenes opposite the classically trained Jeremy Irons. In the end one wishes the movie were more derivative of the game and less derivative from the Cliffs Notes of Star Wars. Some may find it perfectly entertaining, but I'd recommend staying home and enjoying a good game of Dungeons & Dragons instead. "},{"Title":"A disappointment","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie could have been incredible.  The scenery, animation, and actors were all there to set the stage.  The problem is the writers for this film were WAY off.  The cheesy lines don't stop.  They made just about every mistake a writer can make.  The Dragons were awesome to watch but the actors were forced to try and act to some of the crummiest lines I've ever heard.  While the main bad guy did a commendable job with what he had to work with, I felt sorry for the Empress.  She had absolute garbage to try and act to.  Most of the people walked out of the theater feeling like they had been let down.  This movie had incredible possibility.  They just failed horribly when they hired the writers.  Please save your money for renting it, or at least go to the matinee.  It's such a disappointing movie you'll kick yourself for paying full price.   "},{"Title":"A bit hard to follow and characters are grating","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some of the characters were painful to watch and it was a bit  of a forced performance.  It's sort of a third-rate Star Wars (which is already second-rate ;-) as far as the bad dialogue, acting, and dorky characters (e.g. Jar Jar Binks level).  If you are nostalgic for your old high-school days playing D&D there are just a few scenes that may make your old synapses struggle to connect, but that's about it.  I guess the buxom teen empress will be a fantasy for all teen D&D geeks.  The movie is kind of on the level of the Highlander series -- it's so-so entertainment and I give it a 6/10. "},{"Title":"Great action movie!!!","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I would have to say that the story wasn't the greatest ever, but man this movie makes up in special effects and pure kickass action, I recommend this movie to anyone who likes action.  The movie is very fast going in the beginning then tapers in the middle and then picks up in the end with one amazing battle sequence man oh man you haven't seen a sweet battles until you have seen DnD... "},{"Title":"Even worse than I feared","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've got to admit that I didn't expect much from this movie at all.  After seeing the no-name cast and learning of the plot (a young empress...two young thieves...stereotypical evil wizard...save the kingdom...blah blah blah) I feared the worst.  Today my fears were realized, as I wasted a few hours of my time watching it.  Why is it (that after years of development) the makers of this film basically decided to do Disney meets Dragons? What in the world possessed them to make this a children's movie?  Odds are that everyone that has much of an interest in Dungeons and Dragons is far too sophisticated to be even remotely entertained by this sham of a film. In the future I hope that movie makers will realize that the successful fantasy movies are mature movies, not children's movies.  I hope that this movie doesn't do so bad as to totally kill the idea of basing films on Dungeons and Dragons.  Perhaps next time they will base the movie on familiar characters and places.  Anyone that has read R.A. Salvatore's books (NY times bestsellers several times over) knows that they are just crying to be made into movies.  Whatever the case, let's hope that Solomon and crew aren't given the opportunity to continue this pathetic story line and its cast of cookie-cutter characters. "},{"Title":"A worthwhile effort that doesn't quite come together.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons & Dragons seems to be a film beyond its means.  The effects are too heavy handed, the landscape and setting underused.  A few more countryside shots and a few less zooming up the building shots would have saved expense and added greatly to the sense of 'being there'.  Combined with the television-inspired over-the-shoulder shots and the fact that it was shot entirely too close to portray the proper 'expansiveness' required for a fantasy epic leaves it feeling more like an episode of Hercules or Xena.  If a lighter hand had been taken with the fantasy elements, it would have been a much more engrossing film.  Oh, and what's with that blue lipstick?  God in heaven...The film isn't without its good points.  The thieves are played well, but the supporting roles don't quite rise above the over-the-top dialog they're given.  The storyline is reasonable, but there are undoubtedly scenes that were cut that would have made the movie make much more sense.I have a feeling that Lord of the Rings is going to come out next year and revitalize the fantasy genre.  Once that happens D&D will just be one of the movies 'before Lord of the Rings'.It's a pity that they didn't try and make a story-driven film instead of an effects driven film.  The lower budget wouldn't have hurt a film that didn't rely so much on its effects shots to please.  I just fear that this movie will bomb and other studios will take it as a sign that fantasy films, and indeed D&D related productions aren't worth making.The bottom line?  Not a bad movie to watch if there's nothing else on, but if you're really looking for a great fantasy epic, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Director Solomon wants us to have fun but how can we with this terrible movie?","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I went to see Dungeons and Dragons only because someone else was going to pay. Now, I feel sorry for that person. The big things about this movie are its special effects and its cast of fine actors and actresses, at least that's what they want us to believe. The special effects are downright terrible. I have seen video games with better graphics. The acting is worse. Did Thora Birch and Jeremy Irons sell their soul to the devil and this is what he made them do? I was actually astounded by the acting and I laughed for hours while I was in the theatre and when I left. Could a movie that has bad special effects, bad acting, and a bad script still be good? Well, probably no. The other things about this are the poor directing skill of Solomon in this movie. Whenever the band of heroes go somewhere we are treated to a cheesy cg flyby of the location. Where is the adventure? I remember some of the shots from other fantasy movies where they actually made us believe we were in a distant world, in Dungeons and Dragons we have none of this. Not for one second was I inspired by the special effects and photography as in other fantasy films. Courtney Solomon, the director, said in an article that he wants this to be a fun movie for people to enjoy, well, Solomon, the movie has to be good and believable to be fun. Fans of the games will be greatly disappointed with this. I guess I will have to put my money with Peter Jackson and Lord of the Rings. * out of **** Stars for this shameful movie.  "},{"Title":"Good Dumb Fun","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How to describe this film?  This is D&D - it's not Lord of the Rings, it's not Star Wars; it's more like Raiders of the Lost Ark.  A fun, pulpy ride, mostly way over the top, with lots of great little moments and a wonderful sense of fun.We have all the classic elements of a rollicking game session--a pair of thieves who, in reaching a little above themselves, get caught up in an evil wizard's mad scheme to seize control of the empire. The Empress has custody of a powerful sceptre that allows her to summon and control dragons; the bad guys tried to make one of their own but blew it, so they go looking for a replacement--and our intrepid adventurers have the map to where it is.  To defeat him, our hero and his assembled chums must obtain an item from a deadly maze, and use it to gain access to the hidden location of the Rod of Serillion, a match for the Empress' sceptre.The good news good traps, decent effects, great cameos. It pretty honestly captures the fun of the fantasy adventure. Justin's cute, Thora's hot. The fight scenes aren't bad. It's obvious that the folks who made this enjoyed it immensely. The bad news the direction is spotty at best, resulting in new heights of overacting (thanks, Mr. Irons) or lack of it (ladies and gents, the mildly raised eyebrows and vague squirming of Ms. Birch). You'll have to listen to fanboys over-analyze it and hear the phrase where are the clerics? way too often. Bottom line go to have FUN. Laugh at the way-over-the-top Jeremy Irons, enjoy Riff-Raff and Dr. Who in their cameos, have fun playing guess what spell they used. Enjoy the audacity of a film that treats 200 dragons in aerial combat as a backdrop; go with it, for cryin' out loud. This ain't Hamlet! ) "},{"Title":"Poorly directed, but fun","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was not as disappointed with Dungeons and Dragons as I thought I would be. Sure, the film is poorly acted and campy, but it was a good night out at the theatre. Everyone is so over the top in this film that you can't help but like it, for the performances hold a certain charm in their ridiculousness (except for Thora Birch, who put in a mind-numbingly awful performance).The film was fun, plain and simple. The action was well directed, the various D&D adventure components were impressive (especially the Thieves Mage) and the special effects were pretty good. The writing itself wasn't bad, but the inexperience of the director really shows. Had this movie kept the same script but hired an experienced director, it would have been much better.Anyway, I still recommend you see this film, you won't regret it. Afterall, far worse films have been released. "}{"Title":"Stunned disbelief","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a film student and an avid film lover, I have never claimed that a movie has ever wasted my time before. After watching this film, I am tempted to hunt down the filmmaker and demand the two hours that it took from my life back. I have never seen such predictable, redundant, utterly useless drivel on a screen before. I actually sat through the entire movie waiting for the punchline. And grew in utter disbelief as I realized that it wasn't a joke. Someone made this film and said, Gee, this is good enough to release. I actually felt insulted as an audience member to be treated so dumbly. Children felt insulted.You've got the evil mage (Jeremy Irons, who obviously lost a bet and got cajoled into this project) threatening the world and its young empress (Thora Birch) and it takes a small group of courageous warriors to stop him. Does it matter what happens? Absolutely not.The acting was so abhorrently bad and it had nothing to do with the actors. I blame the director, he made every actor speak their lines as if they were issuing a new commandment. The ONLY redeeming quality in this entire plague on the eyes is Marlon Wayans. Yup, Marlon Wayans. I rest my case; avoid this movie at all costs. This film made the Phantom Menace reach the artistic level of The Seven Samurai. Escape, escape while you can, do not get sucked into this debilitating film-watching experience because of the title.And for the love of god, do not let this guy turn this thing into a trilogy like he wanted... "},{"Title":"Ugh what a complete and total waste!","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Does the story of this movie sound good? Really it isn't.I like Thora Birch, but why did she choose such a poor movie after American Beauty?? From an Oscar winning movie (Best Picture, mind you) to a movie that's one of the year's worst movies...you got me. People are describing Wayans as being as annoying as Jar Jar Binks. Personally, I could agree there, but he's worse. (And another thing, I don't find Jar Jar annoying, but that's an entirely different subject) Wayans does not belong in a movie like this, he just made it worse. Irons is....well he overacts too much. Way too enthusiastic for this film. So pretty much I could say the performances for this film are nothing but wooden. The special effects....I liked some of them and some of the visuals were great to look at, but some were silly. I admit I like the maze part and the ending sequence with the dragons. I wanted them to stop focusing on the stupid story and get back to the dragons. Overall, what a waste of film. It steals so many elements from other films, and yet the execution of them are terrible. And with a talented cast, shame it had to go to waste. Only worth watching for a few good effects and a couple of mildly entertaining scenes, but avoid if you can. Now we can only look on to bigger and better things, await the film adaptation of J.R.R. Tolkien's classic Lord of the Rings  "},{"Title":"Unspeakably Bad","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  With a host of badly scripted and chosen B-grade actors, and a plot that makes little sense, it is a shame that this movie is the first to carry the Dungeons and Dragons moniker. Though the special effects are generally above par, they do little to offset the terrible movie they seek to enhance.I challenge anyone who actually plays Dungeons and Dragons to find any significant effect the gaming system had on the plot. For example, the party's mage seems unable to cast any spells except when she has her Pixie dust; and even then, she casts spells that are not identifiable within the game's mechanics.This is a fantasy movie that was given permission to use the term Dungeons and Dragons, but certainly does not treat the game's impressive legacy with any degree of fidelity or justice. "},{"Title":"Crap, Crappy, Crappity, McCrap Crap!","Date":"6 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why can't I choose 0 stars! D&D is without a doubt the worst movie I've ever seen. It's got fake special effects, terrible acting, pointless characters,pathetic dialog. The actors obviously didn't take this film seriously and didn't put any effort into their performances. Typical dialog- just like you thieves, always taking what doesn't belong to you. What, thieves steal?!?! Don't worry, there is a ginger dwarf, although his character serves NO PURPOSE in the storyline. And our main hero is obviously gay, so I don't know why the girl keeps throwing herself at him. It sucks! It's garbage! It's... CRAP! The video of my last colonoscopy was more entertaining. "},{"Title":"I say, Mr. Irons, good sir... What are you doing?","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie can be aptly summarised by a comment made by one of its makers during a DVD interview. I'm very much paraphrasing (it was a long time ago) but the sentiment was very much to the affect of, 'We wanted to create an experience like the real D&D where you can see a girl at a bar, then just decide to go up and talk to her.' I'm not entirely sure what point he was trying to make. Perhaps that, in this magical fantasy land, you have characters that dare to interact with females? Notwithstanding this tragic and depressing notion, D&D is less than spectacular. I enjoy bad films - making those little witty asides or ad libbing banter so the people sat around you (who probably haven't yet decided they dislike the film) can laugh indulgently - but this movie is heavily sullied by the fact people probably got paid handsomely to be part of it. If the poor dialogue and woefully predictable narrative flow was the result of underfunding then it might be acceptable. But, like so many franchises with an established fanbase of desperately sex-starved movie-goers, shove in an elf with tits and it'll at least make its money back.Painful. "},{"Title":"Walking Deodorant Cans and cheap Dragons","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is that movie that you get off of the five dollar bin at Wal Mart before realizing that you should have spent that money on a bag of potted chips. The ending makes no sense and the plot is ridiculous.When we watched it, my brother and I realized that the bad guy looked like a can of power stripe deodorant. He walks around in a plastic suit with a blue lip and has the color of an albino goth with snake things that come out of his ears. When the main character is in the fire room he watches the door closing from the same point six times. ALso, it seems like everything that happens is a cheap rip off of an Indiana Jones movie. It plays insanely happy music at inappropriate times. And there are creatures walking around that look worse than the aliens off of the original Star Trek. This is the kind of movie that you are ashamed to have on your DVD shelf so you use it as a clay pigeon and blow it to hell with a shotgun. If you see this movie on sale, buy the potted chips, you'll be a whole lot happier with them. If you get it as a gift, ask for the receipt and return it immediately. Because if you don't, you will find yourself smashing your head against the padded wall of the cell they throw you in once you finish watching it. "},{"Title":"Awful if you play D&D, Awful if you don't","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What can be said? About the only praise I can give this film is that it's kind of pretty to look at. Beyond that? Pfeh. It starts with an incoherent script riddled with idiot plot points and clichés. The majority of the leads are talentless hacks; I have no problems with unknowns, but unknowns who can't act are clear indication that a film is already off the rails and heading into a ditch. The name performers in the film turn in strangely sub-par performances, as well -- Thora Birch does a fine impression of a wooden plank, while Jeremy Irons chews the scenery so thoroughly one wonders if he's getting enough fiber in his diet from other sources. And the less said about Marlon Wayans' Stepin Fetchit character the better.It's worse if you know the game, because the production team certainly *didn't*. It wouldn't have been hard or expensive to get all the details right, no more so than it was to get them *wrong* -- and doing them right would at least have gotten the crew points for *trying*. But it's clear that this was not a labor of love, no matter what the director has claimed, simply a fast hack job. Perhaps it was cranked out quick and sloppy because the rights were about to expire, like the 1994 Fantastic Four movie.My final take this film isn't even worth renting -- save your money for something more worthwhile, like Plan Nine From Outer Space. "},{"Title":"Once you get Past the Bad Character Phrases and Speech, it gets Good!","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film to me gets a nine rating, which makes up for Snails cracking jokes even in serious scenes, and my dislike of the Mage Damador using SWORDS instead of spells in battle. The scenery in the background was amazing, especially the Magic School and Tavern, and I loved the mythical creature designs and effects, but the Dwarf looked a little weird. I LOVED the Dragons, Gold and Red and their designs. The tasks the heroes have to go to to get the Rod were also enjoyable.THE CHARACTERSDAMADOR- Profion's evil assistant, given slow lines, a sword, and blue lips. PROFION- An evil Wizard, overreacts when he finds something new. RIDLEY- An honourable thief, partner to Snails. SNAILS- Given a weird name and all the comic relief, the black thief Snails behaves a little bit like a joke. Partner to Ridley. MARINER- A good Mage. ELWOOD- A broad Dwarf. NORDA- An Elven tracker.THE PLOTProfion and Damador in the Mage Castle Dunegeons, find a Sceptre to control Gold Dragons. However, this does not work, so the Dragon is killed by Profion, who fails. He sends a little Imp-type creature as a spy to find out what the good Mages have in mind. They want to find a Rod which controls Red Dragons, a species even mightier than the Gold. This can be used by the Empress to overthrow Profion and the evil Mages. Ridley and Snails meanwhile, break into the castle, and encounter Mariner, a good Mage, whose master, a Wizard, is killed by Damador in the Library, looking for his scroll to find the Rod. Snails, Ridley and Mariner and chased by some knights with Damador, until they reach the edge of the village through a magic portal. They have some magic maps with them to find the rod. The meet a warrior Dwarf, Elwood, who takes them to a Tavern for a meal. Suddenly, Damador breaks in, and a riot ensures with Orcs and things. After they escape, they go to the Thieves Guild Maze to find the key to the Rod's dungeon home. The Dwarf tags with them, and Ridley goes through the maze, outwitting its puzzles, including dodging blades and swinging axes, and going through the rooms of stone eyes shooting fire. He then goes into the vault and gets the treasure. Damador invades and captures Mariner, and the party discover an Elf tracker has been following them. The Elf arrests them and takes them after Damadar and his Beholder servants in a ruined fortress. Snails tries to steal a map, and is killed by Damadar. Ridley and Mariner escape, and the Elf takes them to an Elven village, where the Elves heal them. Ridley goes to a dungeon, and a skeleton comes to life to tell him the Rod is evil. Ridley gets the Rod, but Damador takes it and goes to the city. The evil Mages use the Red Dragons, whilst the good Mages use Gold Dragons, and they dogfight over the city. The good guys win after a long fight, and Profion is eaten by a Dragon. They are all knighted and made equal. "},{"Title":"Do yourself a favour and only see if dazzling special effects are the only things that matter to you...","Date":"16 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" and even they aren't all that dazzling. As for other aspects of this movie, the script is below average, the plot is cliqued to the extent that the people who made have another reason to be put in jail. This won't matter that much to you if you are eight years old and are not amazedly critical. But if you are slightly older and have developed taste, then this is definitely not the movie for you. The performances in this film are okay. The horribly predictable lines give the actors little to work with, so they can be excused, but under the circumstances, they do quite well. I'd still not recommend it to anyone who is easily displeased. "},{"Title":"Excreable","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have heard tales of people who turned this movie into a drinking game; counting the scenes with the boom microphone clearly visible, drink! They were falling down, passing out drunk by the end of the movie. I think we counted all of 3 scenes where you couldn't see the boom! The Elf girl was so flat that you wonder Where did the Vulcan chick come from?! And the other characters were largely wasted, neither likable nor dislikable! The plot was abandoned not even half way through the movie. I wanted those 2 hours of my life back. Sad but true the D&D movies Sci-fi channel made were infinitely better than this was. "}{"Title":"Staffs, Dragons, and Thieves, oh My!","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My thoughts in a nutshell while decent, this film, frankly, just wasn't what it could have been. Mediocre production values, manageable continuity, sometimes good sometimes poor pacing, under-developed plot, unexplained plot points, questionable casting, sub-par acting, and sometimes good sometimes horrible characterization.I have to say that I had no expectations for this film right from the beginning. The director of the picture was inexperienced, the budget was ridiculously low, and a few of the casting choices were baffling. Justin Whalin and Marlon Wayans as a duo of roughneck fantasy fiction thieves? A normally proportioned man named Lee Arenberg as a dwarf, without forced perspective or scale doubles? African-American Kristen Wilson as the film's main elf character (half-elf, actually, but they never tell the audience that in the film, I had to find out through the DVD audio commentary)? On top of that, a few casting choices one would have thought would have saved the film didn't. Jeremy Irons and Bruce Payne as the film's central villains could (should, actually) have been heavenly, but weren't. The cameos by Tom Baker and Richard O'Brien were excellent, though.When all is said and done, the central problems with this film are very evident. The first being that, Courntey Solomon, the man at the helm just did not have the background as a filmmaker required to bring something of this magnitude to the big screen. While watching the film, it is apparent that he poured his heart and soul into each scene, but lacked the polished skill to truly bring it out effectively, most of the time. If anything, the director can only be blamed for being too enthusiastic and impatient about getting to be a filmmaker of an adaptation of a role-playing game he has much love for. The other problem being the matter of budget. Solomon made the film for $35 million. Now balance that between the actors, the costumes, the props, the sets, the cameras, the film, the shooting locations, the make-up, and the computer generated special effects. Listening to the audio commentaries for the film, and watching the deleted scenes (both with or without Director's Commentary) made it clear that he had much higher ambitions for the project that were just impossible for what he had to work with. Regardless, with his own inexperience and a hideously low budget working against him, he still managed to put together a decent film. I don't think I need to explain the situation again in order to tell readers that shows promise in a filmmaker, but showing promise was not enough to make this a solidly good film. Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"To all but the D & D Gamer it was lame.","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For one to truly enjoy this film, you must be an avid player of the D & D role playing games.As a long time gamer and friend to Gary Gygax, creator of Dungeons & Dragons RPG, I feel I have a pretty good beat on the comparison of the movie vs. the game. Gary has a creative genius unceasing, and between him and all of the people who have ever written material for the games, there was enough to put together a hundred films with separate plots and character types. The problem the general public may have is that they don't understand the rules, or character types, and thus did not relate to the story.I appreciate the producer's and director's attempt to incorporate D & D material and rules into the movie, but in doing so they have made the film unwatchable by all but fans of the game. For example, the scene with the Lich, Savril (The skeleton on the rack that gave Ripley the Rod of Savril). Who but players of the game would know what he was? Thus, who but players of the game could appreciate his inclusion? Or, as another example, the Beholders (those floating balls with one big eye in the middle and tentacles with eyes at the ends). Who but a player of D&D could have known what they were, and of what they were capable? A little demonstration of their powers (each eyestalk has a different magic ability, and the center eye reflects magic aimed upon it) would have been entertaining. Alas, we only see them float through a hallway.On the other hand, I must give credit to certain portrayals. The Dwarf is exactly how I picture a dwarf to be; battlehearty, loyal, vulgar, abrupt, fearless but with weaknesses (hates horses), and avaricious. Bravo! I also applaud the portrayal of Norda, the Elf Ranger. She is as stuck up as most elves are made out to be in the games.All in all, I enjoyed the film, but they could have done better with the CGI,the acting, and the storyline. They had the material to make an epic to give Lord Of The Rings a run for it's money, but instead chose the Almost-Straight-To-Video path. "},{"Title":"A good movie.","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't know why everyone beats down on this movie for all the irrelevant topics. Being to shiny and glittery for you? Go see silent hill. Anyway, if you want to see a good movie, this one is up for grabs. Good effects, okay acting, good script, considering it is made after a board game! Also i looked over and over, and did not see the cut on her neck change one bit. So, if your in the mood to see a good movie, go see this one.Oh, man this requirement for ten lines is very maddening, and the thing that makes it find all the tiny little mistakes in what I write is just as bad. "},{"Title":"The Dragon Needs a Dungeon","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Pitiful, almost amusingly bad adaptation of the Dungeons & Dragons game, this one about two thieves, a hot sorceress, a dwarf, and a black elf trying to stop an evil wizard played by Jeremy Irons, who is plotting to destroy the good natured little queen played by Thora Birch.The acting, writing and pacing is so awful you'd think this should be on Mystery Science Theatre 3000. Thora Birch appears to be sleepwalking whenever she's on screen. Jeremy Irons embarrasses himself with some very bad, very hammy acting - and he's considered one of the best in the business! I can only assume that he must have needed the money very badly, as apparently did the rest of the cast. Marlon Wayans appears to have wandered into the film by accident while Justin Whalin, much like Thora Birch, doesn't seem to know what the Hell's he doing in this mess.Zoe McLellin is slightly better than the rest, but the only thing that really redeems her here is that she appears to be a cross between Famke Janssen and Anne Hathaway. "},{"Title":"This movie makes me ashamed to be a player","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have been playing the Dungeons and Dragons role-playing game for quite some time now, and let me tell you, this movie was worse than any D&D adventure I have ever played (and trust me, I have played some bad ones). A minimum wage larper could make better costumes than the costume designer, a four-year-old playing with Legos could design better sets than all the set designers who worked on this movie combined, any half-retarded Dungeon Master could make a better plot than the one in this movie, and (it pains me to say) every Shaq movie ever created has better acting than this (but don't get me wrong, I still hate Shaq movies, a lot). I love Dungeons and Dragons, it is a great way for both youth and adults alike to express their creativity in ways that they couldn't in a real-life situation, but trust me when I say that no creativity, whatsoever, went into the making of this film. "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Personally I think this is the best movie I've seen involved with the game. Everything falls right in line with your typical campaign. The Dragons were awesome. I give mega props to the animators. Jeremy played the best Lawful Evil character I'd ever seen. I'd put him in the same class as Emporer Palpatine. The only thing I felt was wanting in this movie was the Elf and the Dwarf. The Dwarf was way too tall, but he made up for it with his hatred/fear of horses, insatiable appetite and his willingness to drain the tavern of every drop of ale. The Elf..well, she was NOT an Elf by any stretch of the imagination. Short black hair, dark skin, horrible costume, and her overacting wasn't much better. I felt she looked and acted more like a Vulcan than anything else. Marlon and Justin worked extremely well together. The chemistry between them made the characters totally believable. If you are into D&D, this is a must see. "},{"Title":"Oh spite!! Thou has defiled a grand name!!!","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is ridiculous. It is a fine example of how Hollywood is willing to grab out at a popular name with a fanbase behind it and totally deface it for the sake of a quick several million. Nothing about this film speaks quality. Inane script, dreadful acting and kindergarten programing style production values is what you can expect from this dreck. There is nothing in here that will speak true to any D&D fan. The worst and most irritating aspect of this horrible film is the stereotypical black jive talking' sidekick character. Think of him as Jar Jar Binks without any impressive animation to admire. Do not see this film, particularly if you are a D&D fan because it really is insulting to its source material. "},{"Title":"Dungeons and Dragons campaign movie - thief, sidekick, girl, bad guys.","Date":"22 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie sucks and is pretty boring. It's not so bad it's good; it's really bad. It's like a bunch of stoned nerds played D&D in high school and were so wasted they thought everything they said was brilliant, so they tape recorded their game and sent the tape to someone to transcribe as a script, and everyone at the studio was also drunk that day, so the picture was green-lighted. Justin Whalin is cute, and that girl who was on STVoyager is cute (but she has a rotten costume). If it's on TV (like it is right now), I usually watch it if I'm playing a game on the computer or doing something else interesting and just have the TV on to glance up at occasionally. Mute it when Thora Birch talks, though. Very important. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It must be the worst adventure movie ever made... and thats saying a lot!The costumes and effects look like something taken from TV-series. Not even good enough to make Xena or Hercules! Actually the acting isn't much better. All the characters are annoying, especially the good guys. Ex The dwarf. He's just as tall as everyone else, and has a red nylon beard. Why?The plot is awful! Aparantly the script was written overnight, while the writers were looking at the two words Dungeons and Dragons, and then they came up with this... Sometimes it just doesn't make any sense. Oh, I love the way the heroes help the queen to become the supreme ruler of the Empire, by crushing the council, giving her absolute power, all in the name of Freedom! Why?They should make a law, that anyone who would like to be a Hollywood producer, should watch this movie, as an example of how not to do it! I guess it is a funny movie, if you just want something to trash, but that is also the only thing its good for. "},{"Title":"This movie failed its saving throw vs. SUCK!!","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" After watching Dungeons & Dragons, I am forced to pose this question Who is Courtney Solomon, and why does he hate D&D? This movie fails on almost every level. The plot goes nowhere and the performances are truly embarrassing. Thora Birch acts as if she's medicated, and Jeremy Irons is probably still coughing up chunks of the scenery. Particularly annoying is Marlon Wayans' performance. Not even a cameo by Tom Baker could save this steaming pile of dragon-loaf. There is little to no adherence to the fantasy world developed by Gary Gygax and others. Fans and non-fans shouldn't waste their time with this travesty. Save your money and play Baldur's Gate instead. "}{"Title":"The Best way to see this film","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I thought this was going to be a movie of the popular Dungeons & Dragons cartoon! I spent the entire movie waiting for the black girl with the cool stick to appear, perhaps this is what kept me going through what many people have said is a thouroughly awful filmNow I'm not a thicky when it comes to movies but nor am I an uber intellectual film buff, but I reckon that if you have a) zero expectation from this movie b) paid no money to see it c) a fridge full of cold beer and d) want to watch a a bad film with dragon's in, then this movie should suffice.I have to say it did provide one surprise when the black comedian guy buys it. I really wasn't expecting it and caused a momentary chuckle from me as I reclined, beer in hand. Beyond a moment (or two) like this don't expect anything from this film. If you are a D&D the board-game fan though, steer clear this will only pi$$ you off. "},{"Title":"I'm without words......","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have a word to Dungeons and Dragons, BADDDDDDD!!!!!!!!!!!! I have a little and not too aggressive list 1-Bad movie!; 2-Horrible fantasy!; 3-Bad script! ;4-Bad actors!; 5-Terrible, terrible, terrible characters(the dwarf, Profion!!!,Snails,Damodar,oh well..whatever) 6-Bad special effects! ;7-Bad music!; 8-well,BAD EVERYTHING!!!!! This one of the worst film i ever seen, and the budget is not excuse!!!!!!Please give me a break,he all now that Courtney Solomon is an hideous director, and i don't know how they give him the money to do a film like this....I think this film is an insult too the world wide Dungeons and Dragons fans. "},{"Title":"To say it was tremendously bad is an understatement","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is impressive how the most successful role playing game in the world can spawn immense amounts of suck-age. Seriously, Dr. Who as a fat elf? The story is simplistic at best, and downright silly at worst. The characters are one dimensional, and I regret that this is the first movie in a while that featured Wil Wheaton. He deserved much, much better than this. And don't get me started on the funny sidekick.If you can get hold of the second movie - the Wrath of the Dragon God - then watch that instead of this regurgitated mess. Please. Seriously, I'm on my knees over here.Oh yeah, and even I can make better CG than that. OK, maybe not, but I do know someone who does. So watch the 'sequel' instead of this one. Except if you get a warm and fuzzy feeling from watching Jeremy Irons. Then go watch The Man In The Iron Mask or something. "},{"Title":"Laughably bad","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film turned up on the UK's Channel 4 a few months back, and the memory is still fresh...Dungeons and Dragons has absolutely no plot, or context. The graphics ad the effects were very badly done - every scene was done on a bluescreen. The rod looked like a cheap plastic toy out of the nearest supermarket. The only bit of relief was Snails, and he was killed off after a few scenes. Afterwards, the only other relief was the ad breaks.After watching this film, I can honestly say that I have wasted my time on it. It's absolute crap from start to finish. "},{"Title":"A Real D&D movie","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Now I know this movie has had it's share of opinions, most of it bad even from fans of the game, I believe that most of the fans of the game had expected to see their favorite world come to life on the Silver screen but in an attempt to satisfied the masses the producers choose to create their own setting and this didn't fall well with the audience (well most of it anyway) I personally like this movie and as a fan of D&D its nice to see other settings than those published by TSR and later Wizards of the Coast even though I would have like this movie to be set in the DragonLance setting this works fine with me. Many of the comments on this movie has said that it was badly instructed, badly cast and had no plot whatsoever, well as for the plot, yes it's classical and basic but this movie is also meant as an introduction to D&D and as such should be basic in its story, what it lacks is more background on the setting ( in this case the kingdom of Izmer) as there aren't any place where you can find this in the product portfolio of Wizards. The cast haven't got any 'BIG' names like Bruce Willis or Michelle Pfieffer and this would also in my opinion had been a big mistake, instead we have some well know if not blockbuster material in the likes of Jeremy Irons as the main villain and Thora Birch as the Empress, some less prolific like Bruce Payne (Full Eclipse), Marlon Wayans (Scary Movie) and Lee Arenberg (Pirates of the Caribbean) and some unknowns like Justin Whalin, Kirsten Wilson and Zoe McLellan. As far as the acting they won't win any Oscars for their performance, but most dosn't fall flat on their buttocks either except Irons and Wayans who both over acted (espessially Wayans, but when dosn't he) and Iron comes out of this even worse than he did in Die Hard 3. As for the Director is clear to see (if you have seen the Let the games begin documentary on the DVD) that he simply loves D&D and has maybe been a little blind in some places (Wayans!!)HERE BE SPOILERSI have read one comment on this site where the submitter heard cheering when one of the main characters (Snails, played by Wayans) where killed off. Now I think that the reason for the cheering isn't the fact that it's one of the main characters that are killed off but simply that Wayans is so annoying that anybody would be happy to see him out of the movie.Why do I like this movie when so many don't (I have even read in Dragon Magazine (Wizards own monthly magazine for D&D) that this movie was bad, it's almost like they're embarrassed). Well when I see a movie I look for gaming ideas for use in D&D games and while the idea in this movie is basic the setting is what attracts me and I hope that it's more fleshed out in the planned sequel. The reason that so many dosn't like this movie is, in my opinion that it's not something they can relate that much to as is the case with most other movies of this kind that have a more should we say equal review in the opinion of the masses, like Lord of the Rings which is a setting that most people are familiar with, as for the fans of the game well I think they're just grumpy that their favorite setting didn't get the part and since they can't get any info on this setting they have trouble interacting with it.On a final note while Bruce Payne does a good job of acting the role of Damodar, why did they give him Blue/Purple libs and so bloodshot ears, he look completely foolish which is kind of sad as it's a nice character (looking forward to seeing him in the sequel (wonder how they write his resurrection into the plot)).All in all I give this movie a 6 mainly because of that annoying Wayans, the foolish look of Damodar and the overplayed Profion (Irons) "},{"Title":"Good D&D movie","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hi all, this is a must for every D&D fan, despite all the negative reactions I've read over here. For people that are not acquainted with D&D, I can imagine the bad score, but like I said.... it's a must for every one who loves dwarfs, human thieves, elves, dragons, magical staffs, looted purses ... and the seeking for justice. I think the makers of the movie were well aware of the fact that it isn't a movie for the broad public, but that's the same for D&D. You must have enough fantasy to enjoy it.Do not expect a thrilling movie, but just an enjoyable 1h40m of D&D pleasure.Greets, Bart "},{"Title":"Entertainment For Everyone","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As far as films go, this one's a light hearted family adventure. Just enough action to keep you watching, a bit of comedy for kids and adults, and great special effects. It doesn't matter if you're not a dungeons and dragons fan, you can still enjoy the film and understand it easily.And even if you don't like the beginning, just keep watching for the ending. The dragons are amazing and it's an explosive finale.Don't expect great acting, amazing battle scenes or a plot that follows smoothly 100% of the time, because let's face it, it's not that sort of film. But if you've got a free evening with nothing good on T.V. and you want something to watch that's light and great fun, I can recommend this film. "},{"Title":"This is what happens when your mother owns a production company...","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Courtney Solomon will go down in the history of film making as one of the great filmmakers of his time. I hope in the future they will erect a giant statue of him, next to his peers in film-making such as Uwe Boll or whoever directed Boa vs Python. This film is as visually stunning as it is daring and believable in its story and execution. The auteur, Solomon, says in an interview that he likes to take the Star Wars approach to film-making. By the finished product we can assume this means copying scenes and theme music from Star Wars and adding his own well-cast and superbly acted characters in them. For example the garbage chute reference to the garbage chute scene from star wars, is as good as his tavern scene/cantina scene but my favourite would have to be the explanation of magic as an unifying force - pure inspirational cinema.But let us talk of characters. No clichés here, as all the characters are definitely not 1 dimensional or lacking in motivation. And the story! Such brave writing when he kills off a main character , only to satisfy the audience by bringing him back to life at the end of the film, with no explanation whatsoever! don't question the gift... PURE Brilliance!!Other memorable highlights include the brilliant scenes include the death scene of Snails, (how Justin Whalin missed out on an Oscar nomination is beyond me), Thora Birch's witty wordplay with Jeremy Irons and of course anything the Dwarf says is truly inspiring. Not to mention the dungeon scene inspired from First Knight, the senate scenes inspired from episode one/twos senate scenes. Even the brilliant costume and make-up are awesome as with the swords. You truly believe that the weapons are real.In short this film is pure brilliance. Courtney Solomon said he spent ten years on the script and IT SHOWS!! I am truly happy that he is making films in Hollywood as this film is true cinematic brilliance. I am glad he has the rights to the sequel, for i feel one day he will become the BEST DIRECTOR EVER.I'm sure if you're a fan of D&D you will feel this film does it justice and Solomon has not betrayed the millions of supporters out there. And if you're not, I'm sure you WONT find this film confusing, uninspired, visually appalling, predictable and weak. Not one bit. Not ever.Remember, this ain't no game... "},{"Title":"Just for players","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you like playing D&D,watch it. If you don't, forget about this movie, It's not LOTR or any epic loving movie. It is just that, a D&D game shown from the character's point of view.I loved the movie, and the only condition to enjoy it is having played D&D and imaging you are watching and adventure you are playing with your friends. Some low level characters trying to defeat the impossible, with a terrible super high level bad guys.Damodar? He is just talking like any DM!! Who hasn't heard that line he says  Are you sure you want to do that? in a game? And there are many other examples. Everyone wearing heavy armors in a tavern... that only happens in the real D&D around a table. So yes, watch it, but as you would watch your characters in an adventure.Enjoy.  "},{"Title":"Fun if you're not a die-hard gamer","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Fun, but not for the die-hard gamers. Every once in a while, I just want to shut the brain off and have some visual popcorn. This is the perfect movie for that purpose. In fact, I'd say this movie epitomizes the good bad movie.The sets are very Disney-esque. The script is laughably bad, yet fun. Somehow, they got very skilled actors to portray the villains, and I can only assume either that Jeremy Irons and Bruce Payne each lost a bet, needed to pay some bills, or just did this for the sheer fun of it. The magic special effects are pretty decent. Even the dragons were quite well done &#150; although they all looked suspiciously like the dragon from Dragonheart, but sounded nothing like Sean Connery! Maybe Sean was off filming another bad Highlander sequel and wasn't available for this.Every line uttered by Payne (as Damodar) comes out with this air of I'm trying VERY hard not to burst out laughing. Payne actually manages to convey a very believable, diabolically enthusiastic evil mage's thug (as believable as something like this could be, anyway) &#150; but there's that touch of tongue-in-cheek as well. Some would probably call it overacting. But why not chew the scenery a bit? That seems to be what this movie is all about! Irons snarfs his share of the curtains, too &#150; and although he hides it much better than Payne, his tongue is firmly in his cheek, too. Tom Baker's cameo as an elf was one of the high points of the movie for me, having recently gone through a 'Dr. Who' phase.Now, I'm not a die-hard gamer. In fact, I'm not even a casual gamer. I've gamed with friends a few times, but frankly, I'd rather curl up with a good book. Gaming bores the socks off of me. But having gamed enough to have a bit of a background in the general concept of mages, warriors, and thieves, so I got the general premise of the story.If you're a die-hard gamer, you probably won't like this movie. I've read lots of complaints and 'bad reviews' from people who take the game way too seriously and are really burned that it doesn't fit with how they think the movie should have been done. I'm that way with books, but from what I can tell from my limited experience gaming, it's pretty amorphous and a story line could develop just like this. I guess.  "}{"Title":"If only it wasn't called Dungeons and Dragons....","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ....I wouldn't hate this movie so much.I am a fan of fantasy movies, art, stories, and comics.  I play D&D, watch anime`, and read books about elves and wizards (other than LOTR), and frankly...I think this movie was horrible. The movie didn't have the story it needed to be called D&D (unfortunely, many great stories have been slaughtered by movie attempts i.e. Final Fantasy).  There was a good amount of action, but that was it.  There was little from the game that I saw in the movie.Perhaps a REAL D&D movie will be made, written by experienced DM's, and it will have LOTR-ish special effects to bring out the fantasy of the world. We can all hope for that movie, which would be more successful, esp. for gamers like me and my friends.This movie was made bad, not really by the acting (yes, in some cases the acting sucked), but by the lack of story and character development.  With such a poorly developed movie, its no wonder the D&D name was tarnished in some ways by it.However, I did enjoy the movie, and even though I laughed during it, I did enjoy it enough to watch it a couple of times.  I would only recommend that you forget the title of the movie when you're watching, because D&D really isn't that bad. "},{"Title":"I have been an avid player and a DM of D&D for over 10 years.","Date":"27 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After Watching this movie I decided that I had to own it. In my opinion this movie is GREAT and it really does hold true to alot of aspects of the game.For someone who has never played the game then this movie may be a little harder to understand the characters; but the characters, magicks, scene, etc... all held very well with the game i thought.The acting, I think to most people would seem low budget I guess is a way to describe it, but to those of us that have played the game, I saw the acting more as the actors were in character as if they not only were playing characters in a movie but also as a regular table top player of the game who is not in a movie but is viewing themself in the role.Overall I really appreciated the job done on the movie. The special effects were really great to being accurate of the game and I have and would definitely recommend watching this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it. "},{"Title":"Terrible script, even worse acting","Date":"11 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Until Peter Jackson made The Fellowship there have been very few sword and sorcery films of quality. Conan The Barbarian, Excalibur, The Princess Bride, and a few others I'm sure. Dungeons & Dragons The Movie is no exception showcasing all of the worst qualities that the fantasy genre has to offer  It has a cliched, inconsistant plot, poor special effects, bad editing, and the worst acting I've ever seen. Some spoilers followJeremy Irons gives his worst performance ever as evil wizard Profion, but it's Marlon Wayans as Snails who really takes the biscuit. I don't know who's idea it was for this character to act and talk like a modern day street gang member, but the result is totally incongruous with the setting, and the overall effect gives Jar Jar Binks a run for his money as the most annoying character ever to appear in a motion picture. Fortunately this character gets thrown off a cliff to his death about two thirds of the way through, an event which prompted a standing ovation from the five or so of us watching, and it's this scene that raises the movie's score to a dizzy 2/10 for me. George Lucas, take note!  "},{"Title":"Nice but no cigar","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Overal, the story could have been worked out better, only a few good scenes to balance out those where you just said, Huh? which adds up to a pretty silly movie. I will admit, some parts were very well done, like the scene in the maze and with the attack of the dragons. But the rest...even as a fantasy fan, I have to say this was a flop. "},{"Title":"This movie hurt me. A LOT.","Date":"20 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ugh. Just...ugh. I don't even know where to start.If I was twelve years old, I might've enjoyed this movie. I might not have noticed the most infantile dialogue to profane the screen in years, the props and set design not worthy of a middle-school play, the follow-the-trail-of-cliches plot and simply atrocious acting. Most of the main heroes (although really, the audience should claim that title for surviving this piece of trash) are unknowns, and deservedly so. Wayans was irritating beyond all known human comprehension as a thief who, were he to exist in the real world, would stand less chance of stealing the proverbial candy from the baby than a leper with no hands or feet. And then there's poor Thora Birch in what looks to be a role ripped straight from Amidala in Phantom Menace (and written with even less charm, if that's possible), almost as thrilling to watch as petrifying wood, and Jeremy Irons, who skips chewing and goes right to inhaling great gobs of scenery.Complete and utter garbage. What this says about Hollywood's impression of fantasy fans is thoroughly disheartening. Thank god Peter Jackson did a good job with LOTR, or otherwise this stinker would've put the genre on ice for at least a good ten years. "},{"Title":"Interesting, and not what I thought it'd be from the other comments!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I admit the first thing that came to mind when I was given the box by a friend who let me borrow it was the movie Neverending Story, and the Emporess in it.  I swear Thora looks amazingly like her, including the costumes.  The designer must have been a fan!  Thora seems a bit stilted, yes, Marlon drove me batty the whole way through and the storyline was a bit stretched and overcooked.  I won't deny those.  The CGI are gorgeous(!) though.  I found the idea of Justin Whalen as Ridley pretty good--partiality perhaps to that coloring on a man, but I liked him in the role.  He played Ridley pretty well.  Marina (Zoe) was not too bad--I've seen worse folks in worse roles, and I liked how she spent time as looking bad!  No, oh, I've fallen and been tortured and such and still maintain my flawless beauty! here.  I went into the movie knowing the name Jeremy Irons (big Disney fan in the other room---5 year old), but I have to admit, he did seem a bit over the top in places.  I went into the movie, though, not taking it seriously.  I think because of that it was very funny at parts.I'd be interested in learning what role Ridley would have had if they had continued the series on--as far as a character his is the one that brought me into the storyline the most. Dr. Who's Tom Baker was nice, and I liked his few words of wisdom.  I think, should it have been a success, the franchise would have made more of them.   You can tell this is film number one in that several issues weren't wrapped up in order to leave dangling leads for the new movies.  Alas, this shall not be.Richard O'B was a delightful surprise (as he ALWAYS is when he sneaks into a movie I'm watching whether the Spice Girls or Riff).  He portrays the weaselly type so well. )Some other reviewer mentioned the thieves having no skill.  I think it's not that they had no skills, but rather Snails had problems in skills.  I think that Ridley was good enough that he brought in enough to feed Snails and he, and perhaps relatives somewhere. If you have popcorn, a rainy day, and time to kill, this is the perfect movie to borrow from a friend and watch.  It brought back all those nice memories of Conan and Arnold, He-Man, and of course The Power Ranger Movies.Smiles.  How soon they forget.... "},{"Title":"Good fun, Good film, but with some bad acting","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this film has an amazing, and quite coincidental I'm sure, similarity to the recent Star Wars films, right down to the glowing swords. The film is really quite good, with some very good performances, including Richard O'brien as the head of the thieves guild. Unfortunately some of the acting was quit poor, the queen, sorry I mean the empress, I do get her scene in the council chamber confused with the scene in The Phantom Menace, appeared, almost, to be reading her lines from an auto-cue. "},{"Title":"Cool Movie","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was a pretty good fantasy. But, the plot itself was kind of lame. I enjoyed the way Marlon Wayans played Snails. He did the best job in the movie. I also liked the troll guy. He was cool. The skeleton guy kind of creeped me out the first time I saw this, but after he was talking for a while, I got used to it. I am really used to it now. If you liked this film, I suggest you see Harry Potter and the Socerer's Stone and Lord of the Rings Fellowship of the Ring.  "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, so this movie took a beating. The dialog is hokey, Jeremy Irons is hammier than a pig farm, the plot is dumb... but, it's good fun. Don't take it seriously. If you're a D&D fan then try and forget it's D&D. Xena and Hercules are popular Saturday no-brainer entertainment, as is this. "},{"Title":"This follows the rules of D & D and is fun","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This isn't supposed to be real or make a lot of sense but if you like the game Dungeon and Dragons, you will enjoy this.  There is a child-empress, dwarf, elf, magic, demons, and all the rest.  Good special effects, all ridiculous but following the rules of the game.  I enjoyed it by not really caring about reality.  If you don't want this, don't go but if you do - well, you're in for a treat. "}{"Title":"Dont be such downers!!","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've heard all the bad comments about this movie and I can agree with you on a number of them.  One of the biggest is the cheesy acting.  I noticed it a great deal right before the guy and girl kiss.  Again when the main mage guy talks like he always has to bear his teeth.  Another thing i can agree with is the way the movie says dungeons and dragons but really only incorporates it with dragon IN a dungeon in the beginning(and it gets killed to, poor thing!!) and in the end when we see them flying all over the place but from such a distance that they seem more like dragon flies. One thing I can say is good though is the armor.  I have read that someone thinks that they think that the costumes were bought at a Wally World.  I for one work at a Wal-mart while going to college and i could only wish that the costumes in the movie were sold there.  The dude with lipstick's arm gauntlet alone if recreated and sold at most armor places would probably cost you over a thousand dollars which would be around the right kind of cash his type of character in the movie could afford. I know I've looked(I'm kind of an armor collector). Even the GOOD leather ones will cost you a hefty amount of cash. And with the other armors such as the girl elves breast-plate, well that in itself is what armor is, anything more would be too fancy for the movie. Not everyone in the medevil times ran around with etched breast-plates with intricate designs.  So a recreation of an elf wearing this type of armor seems somewhat accurate(come on, not even a beginner on a GAME starts out with the best armor). The plot-line seems fairly good and I for one am looking forward to a sequel if they improve on the minor mistakes of the first and keep the SAME actors (Sequels always suck if you change the actors,ALWAYS!!). Because if right type directing is given to these actors they could be awesome. So dont be such downers and hope for a new and improved sequel.I give this movie a 7 out of 10.LORD OF THE RINGS ROCKS!!! "},{"Title":"Good adventure-movie, better than the Mummy","Date":"26 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A very enjoyable and fun adventure-movie. There were many nice sceneries and i loved the jokes. Good actors-word from the bold bad guy and the two heroes, but not so good acting from Jeremy Irons. Even if the stupid end-fight (but aren't end-fights in this kind of movies always a little stupid?) drags down the impression a bit, i enjoyed the movie a lot. I hope they will make many more movies of this kind, i miss the matinee-adventures movies on the cinema. 7/10 "},{"Title":"A movie for Fantasy fans","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ignore all the bad comments here ..... if you're a Fantasy fan. Now, I have never played Dungeons and Dragons, therefore I'm so lucky that I could enjoy watching this movie without having to compare it to the game.I have been a fan of Lord of The Rings for many years. I have watched the LOTR movie six times at the cinema. I have read the LOTR books four times. I'm currently reading the Wheel of Time books by Robert Jordan. As you may understand, the Fantasy genre is somehow a part of my life.This movie is funny, entertaining and it got a lot of nice locations. And it got my favorite creatures Elves, Dwarfs and Dragons. And there's magic. Many cool spells and such. And elves that can heal people! The special effects were also very good, but don't expect the same effects you saw in LOTR (remember the huge budget that LOTR had).Watch this movie if you want some eyecandy while you're waiting on Two Towers.Enjoy!If I should say something negative about this movie it is that it's a little bit too short.I give this movie 8 out of 10.   "},{"Title":"Very corney, but not that bad at all...","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, for those who have seen it, you'll know that the acting in this wasn't THE best, but, it isn't all that bad. The effects were better than most, the action sequences were well done (most noticible in the indiana jones-like scene where he has to get the red stone and at the last scene), very funny and the drama in it was pretty well done. A little over done, but good.I will admit that the Empress and some of the main charactersover-acted, and yes, the ending made no sence, but if you like sword fights, fantasy and magic this is worth a look. I actually, never played the Dungeons & Dragons game and I still liked this movie, and it (almost) made complete sense to me, so dont miss it just because you dont think you'll understand it.  "},{"Title":"Movie covers D&D basics and give entertaining story","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Based on R2 DVD 104 minutes.Take two good hearted thieves, an elf, a dwarf and a beautiful mage apprentice and send them off on a heroic quest to find a dragon controlling staff not a stick - a staff  and help the isolated young princess save the empire. As with all heroic quests there are obstacles to over come, deeds of valour and selflessness and a little gore -- very little quaffing in this movie.Jeramy Irons does a wonderful panto-usque job as the evil mage and the supporting cast is more then adequate for the job. Effects are of mixed quality but it doesn't take from the story line.Good for kids, McCafferty fans and D&D buffs, LotR or Convenent devotees might be a little disappointed but that's a different story.6/10 "},{"Title":"nothing awesome here","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons and Dragons wasnt that special of a movie. Dont get me wrong I liked this movie but the F/X really sucked. I mean the dragons looked bad and the city really looked fake. The story was good and the characters were too. Jeremy Irons sort of over acted in this movie. The music was alright. There was a lot of work that could have been done to improve this movie. But over all honestly it was OK. i mean I liked it. Of course I like movies like this. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes fantasy movies or someone who likes movies with dragons and magic. "},{"Title":"thumbs in the middle","Date":"29 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As someone who played the game from 1979 on, i was more than ready for the movie. The premise was good, but the acting was horrible! The players either overreacted throughout, or just read their lines. "},{"Title":"3.5 out of 5","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, i dont get why people hate this movie. I think its great. Come on they worked hard to do this movie, give them credit. Be open minded people. Anyway, i did not like the acting of the villain. The villain has a very bad acting, they should have got a better one. The princess was also bad and the funny character. Good thing he died at the middle of the movie cause hes going to ruin it all if hes alive through the whole thing. I think they could have make this movie by having the plot more exciting and re-write the script. But the rest of the characters are good. The special effects were great, i really like it. I just bought this movie today (also Valentine) and i never regreted it cuz i like some parts of it. P "},{"Title":"OK movie based on game","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The trailer makes it look very big budget but that soon proves to be only at the end.the acting is pretty poor the main villans are to busy talking quietly which in this kind of pantomime is not the way to play it.the fx when on screen are very impressive.but the script is very good.and the set up for a sequal is really a case of dont count your chickens. "},{"Title":"High Adventure","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   Black magic, images, sorcery, ill tempered dwarfs, firebreathing dragons, brave warriors, sexy elfs, fierce orcs,cunning thieves, thieves who's cunning other thieves, mythic landscape,  cranky madmen played by Irons & Payne  anyway what more can you ask for !!! It even got Marlon Wayans in it. I was really pleased with this, and it is a good appetizer for those who wait for THE TRIOLOGY.  "}{"Title":"Its not that bad.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK its no Star Wars (or fantasy equivalent) but its a likeable enough film If only for the performance given by the Snails character and Zoe McLellen (I for one could not believe it when I found out she was 27.) The rest of the cast do ham it up considerably (Look out for a wonderful performance by Richard O`Brian as the head of the Thieves Guild where he relives his crystal maze performances admirably, just one for all the brits out there). Yes Jeremy Irons is a bit over the top and Thora Birch is, quite frankly, about as good as the lookout on the titanic but if you ignore her, and the plot, and just enjoy yourself you can have a fun evening. "},{"Title":"Great Adventure","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wizards,mages,sorcery,dragons,elfs,ill-tempered dwarfs,cunning thiefs,brave warriors,black magic,a mythic land, sheer adventure, treacherous traps, dazzling beauty, skeletons with attitudes, orcs and other fierce creatures... what more can one ask for. This movie has everything. I gave it 9 , some of the computer-generated stuff could have been better.  "},{"Title":"Contender for worst film of the decade","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If anyone has ever seen the Sprite where a bunch of marketing hacks sit around the boardroom table debating their next dollar-spinning venture, and the boss suggests they make a film, this is prime specimen. What about a film? We got a script?. Reply, Um, we could rattle one up by Monday.Most people who look for anything from a fantasy based film are invariably disappointed, but this, I feel, was a bit ridiculous. Granted, it had some special effects that weren`t half bad, even if they didn`t look fantastically mind-boggling, but I really don`t think that was quite enough to carry the lack of plot, abysmal acting from most throughout, and all the really cheap cinematic and scripting tricks to numerous to delve into.As a kids film, I suppose it would pass muster, except for it being rated 15s, but if they`re trying to aim this at adults, its a total money-spinning sham, well, it`s that anyway. Phrases are thrown into the script from the world of D&D, maybe thought to appease afficionados of this stuff, but as a bit of light entertainment, as it would be for most, it falls flat on its face. It pulls in all directions, trying to have almost slap-stick humour through squeaky voiced black guy(Wayans), and serious drama all the way through.A particulary bad recollection is the scene when Wayans bites it, stabbed by evil stereotype deep-voiced dramatic-talking lipstick-toting mascara-wearing hired-goon. Possibly the worst scene where an actor/actress has ever done the whole NOOOOooooooo....... thing. I`m not a really a picky person when it comes to films, but I just had to say *something* about this creation.One wonders several things after this film, why Jeremy Irons would do this film - perhaps the Mafia are after him for money he owes them?? And maybe it would be better if we paid on the way *out* of the cinema, because by the time the film is over, the people who brought you said movie have long disappeared with our cash. I don`t begrudge them their millions, just as long as I feel they`ve at least tried to earn it. "},{"Title":"Was OK","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I usually only comment on those movies I really like, but I'll do something different here.There are good things going for D&D.  Special effects are actually quite good.  Costumes are colorful and creative, and the settings are very fitting.Now, that being said, this probably won't win Best Picture anytime soon.  Jeremy Irons was good but he had a tendency to over-act a bit.  Honestly, I think Xilus made a MUCH better villain.  Snails was decent as the comic relief but he got tiring (kind of like Jar Jar Binks).  Oh and was that supposed to be a dwarf?  LOL, he was almost as tall as Marina!!!I saw this on DVD so I got to watch the deleted scenes with the director and producer's commentary.  They kept saying, Well if we had the budget we wanted, we would have included this scene, but . . . and In the director's cut, this scene will probably make it in . . .  And those scenes would have made D&D a much better movie.  I want to see the director's cut now, hehe.Overall, good concept and fun to watch, but don't look too deep.   "},{"Title":"Just pure entertainment...","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As an avid sci-fi and fantasy ready along with being a veteran D&D player, my initial reaction was to analyze this movie with a fine-tooth comb when I went to see it in the theaters.  After I saw the movie, I immediately wanted the DVD.  Why?  Because it's just pure entertainment!That is not a bad thing!  Movies are supposed to entertain.  I found myself laughing at funny scenes and loving the action sequences.  There are some solid D&D references in the movie also.  Jeremy Irons was good.  He didn't OVERACT.  He played the character!  Marlon Wayans was a good thief (about this issue of his supposed buffoonery and black stereotypes... WHATEVER!  As a African-American, I find that nit-picking every role that a black person does is TIRED, POINTLESS, and a HORIZONTAL issue.  LEAVE IT ALONE!).  Sci-fi effects were good (could have been better).  Overall this is a good movie, especially if you have children (which I do).YES, I would've like to see the gritty, misty D&D atmosphere.  YES, it could've been darker, bloodier, more violent (as in the real experience).  YES, I wanted accurate D&D rules.  But this film was made to appeal to a wide audience.  And in that regard, it was a good film.  I think all D&D lovers need to remember that when watching this movie.  If I can do it, you can too!Overall, 7 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Enjoyable if not taken seriously","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Interesting attempt to bring the popular role-playing game to the big screen. This film will certainly appeal to hardened AD&D gamers and to fans of fantasy. To others, it may seem like a poorly-acted romp through silliness, plagiarising the Phantom Menace and with an over-long dragon scene at the end.However, viewers prepared to watch with tongue firmly in cheek will find this an enjoyable experience, with likeable characters (particularly Richard O'Brien's thief king Xilus resurrecting his role as referee of the Crystal Maze) and a hammishly played villain complete with English accent.Definitely not to be taken seriously but worth watching. "},{"Title":"Better than expected.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was better than I expected.  I believe that the critics were unusually harsh with this and have not given this movie a fair shake.  I greatly enjoyed the special effects which were above average, including the dragons which were very well done. "},{"Title":"Good but flawed","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is a very good movie. The story line is well written and the style is almost exactly the same as the game. The one flaw is that they didn't put much effort in preventing silly mistakes. The movie when watched in the theater kept having moments when the boom would show at the top of the screen. The DVD seems to have fixed the problem. The reason it did so bad in the theater is mainly because this style rarely does good in theaters. This one was up with the best. "},{"Title":"So much to work with, so little used.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The effects that are possible these days allowed for great creations of monsters and spell effects (even though many of the classic D&D spells weren't used).  The plot seemed rushed, not building the charcters or story lines of events that happened in the film.  Twenty times I thought they could build on a situation, provide the lore behind an item or even show the skills of a profession as they are used in the game.  Perhaps the first movie of D&D ending in an all out war between the multitudes of the most evil dragons against an equal multitude of good dragons is a little much. A smaller bite in the finale and bigger plot would have helped the movie be more successful.  I hope that this didn't ruin a chance for future movies. I gave it a six for good effects and a basic plot that could have worked with less jumping through areas that needed detail. "},{"Title":"The movie entertains at times but seems rough in parts.","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I liked the movie and enjoyed the story line.  However, certain parts seem just thrown together.  Other left you wondering Why?  I also thought Jeremy Irons performance was the worse I have ever seen.  Not that is was really bad, it just lacked the quality you would expect from him.  The special effects were adequate.  Some might be disappointed in the Dragon closeup because they do not measure up to the ones in DragonHeart. It was a real treat to see Richard O'Brien (Riff Raff of Rocky Horror fame) as the guildmaster of thieves. Overall a good movie to watch.  The awkward parts don't last long enough to ruin the show. "}{"Title":"Oh god, no!","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was dumb, stupid, terrible! WHAT WERE THEY THINKING!? I like almost every movie I see, but I didn't like this one, and I'm really into fantasy. The only redeeming point (surprisingly) was Marlon Wayan's character Snails. Please don't screw up Lord of the Rings! 2/10 "},{"Title":"beautiful, best movie of 2000 hands down","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  anyone who underrates this movie can go straight to hell. this an unforgettable, timeless epic thats puts together the best and most wonderful cast since star wars, a true work of art, even if you aren't big on the game this movie makes brilliant appeal to fans of the fantasy/adventure genre "},{"Title":"Highly entertaining escapism","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This review is detailed and *may contain* what some people perhaps consider to be *mild spoilers*.Dungeons and Dragons is a fast-paced, exhilarating, and often innovative fantasy film that certainly exceeded my expectations, even if it does contain some unfortunate, but not critical, flaws in its storyline.With regard to innovation, it is certainly refreshing to see a fantasy film that is not cloaked in a science fiction disguise, dares to contain no obvious element of direct appeal to children, and has no visual depictions at all of the modern era.  Even better, it takes fantasy to its extremes as, unlike most standard D&D adventures, there is no reluctance to depict thieves as heroes, insanely tall buildings (mainly towers - as one might expect of a city dominated by mages), heavy and frequent use of both standard D&D and new magic by experienced aristocratic wizards, very dramatic use of extremely powerful magical items and monsters, and an epic plot of empire-shattering proportions.  It is regrettable to think that this last point needed some improvement - but more on that matter later. Personally, I love escapism, and this film is the best way to achieve that state of mind as I have ever seen in visual form...surpassing the Star Wars The Phantom Menace, Willow, Dragonslayer, Dark Crystal, Neverending Story, and other similar movies in that regard.To complement all these extremes of fantasy, larger-than-life characters are presented as both antagonists and protagonists.  Jeremy Irons, in one of his most controversial roles, expertly plays the main villain Profion, the Empire's most powerful politician and wizard.  It is his self-appointed driven, megalomaniacal destiny to overthrow the current government and rule as some sort of dictator.  In both his private and public scheming, he sometimes shouts, rants, and raves...but this is credible when one considers that this is exactly how certain famous dictators have behaved in the real world.  Later, when Profion is on the verge of possibly obtaining his goal, he releases all his henceforth barely suppressed emotional fury so that the often unexplored territory of ultra-selfish, highly destructive naked lust for power is plain to see in all its triumphal ugliness.  Profion's henchman, the cold, brutal, and sadistic fighter Damodar embodies a common truth to so many tyrants in that they get others to do their truly dirty day-to-day work so they can retain at least some veneer of respectability.On the side of good, a few figures deserve special mention.  The main hero, Ridley, an extremely capable commoner with plenty of untapped potential, displays considerable complexity in his motivations throughout the film and even has a dark side that surfaces periodically.  Ridley's best friend, Snails, eventually shows that a less than heroic life can be redeemed. Their new adventuring companion Marina, slowly, but ably, bridges the gap between the mages and commoners on a micro-scale.  Empress Savina shows considerable passion and authority in both her brave words and actions, capably defying the accusations laid against her and behaving like a truly good, fair, but firm ruler.  Lastly, Elwood the Dwarf embodies the often amusing stereotype of his race while still providing assistance where it is needed.  To be sure, these characters and others are acted with passion and liveliness which might be too much for some viewers, but considering what is at stake in this fantasy world and how the movie does not take itself too seriously and tries and succeeds to be exciting and fun, this fact is perfectly understandable.All these characters, settings, and events are supported by a superb musical score...one of my all-time favourites.  The rousing score perfectly enhances the emotions of every single scene and is well worth a listen to on audio cd apart from the movie.  Composer Justin Caine Burnett is to be highly commended for his fantastic effort!Regrettably though, the storyline, as full of potential and frequently innovative and thrilling as it is, could have used some additional work. My main problem is the morality of using the evil red-dragon controlling Rod of Savrille.  I personally find it hard to accept that a good ruler would ever use such a device, especially if she already has a similar device that controls good dragons.  It's best for the viewer to assume that the Empress wants the Rod solely to keep it in her safe custody where she would never use it, but rather keep it from Profion's covetous clutches.  This way, good and evil are much better defined and some storyline ambiguities cleared up. Furthermore, it would have been appropriate to make the film at least half an hour longer as most people don't have the time or motivation to read the movie's supporting literature to get a firm grasp on the backstory and some of the more complex details concerning the development of the characters and the political situation.  I don't have any real problem with the film's various cliched scenes, as there are sufficient innovative scenes to balance them out and all cliches are presented in an exciting manner, backed with appropriate music and interesting characters.  D&D purists should realise that this movie does take some liberties with the game's rules, but these concerns can be explained away owing to the usual practice of having at least some new rules/spells/etc. for different D&D worlds, plus the usual constraints placed on movie makers by the nature of the film medium.I recommend this film to all teenagers and adults who desire escapism and/or a convincing, thrilling fantasy based action/adventure.  Personally, I cannot wait for the sequel (which is set up in this film).  Dungeons and Dragons is an impressive, even if flawed, effort from a first-time director who should improve as he continues in his profession after this promising start.My Rating?  8.5 out of 10! "},{"Title":"better than sitting in a hotel-room","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Seen this last week undubbed and found it rather funny Although the plot is not very compelling the film produces some dungeons-atmosphere at all. The actors perform rather moderate and the special effects look rather artificial, although they are nice too watch. Zoe McLellan plays the Marina Pretensa (funny name) and is in this film kinda cute. I haven't seen her before and think she made the best out of her role. With all the dirt/dust in her face, she looks kind funny. Finally she seems to have found some water and reappears cleaned.Overall I'd say that the film is OK for people with some affinity to fantasy stuff. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"average popcorn flick","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this movie was cancelled on dvd in my country (australia) which made me wonder if it was any good. i watched it and was surprised at some impressive special fx, computer images of flying dragons(similar to Dragonheart). The acting is painful at times, particulary Bruce Payne's(no pun intended) bad guy complete with bright blue lipstick. Jeremy Irons obviously knew while making this it would win no awards and it shows in his over the top performance. Wayans is comic relief but not very funny but he tries. Whalin is charasmatic as the sword weilding hero among  DUNGEONS & DRAGONS!  RATING 6/10 (only if u have an open mind and like fantasy/adventures) THORA BIRCH doesnt have much screen time but she took notes from Natalie Portman on how to play a queen and it shows. "},{"Title":"As a RPG-Player you have to see it !","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First to say,anyone who does not play Roleplaying games is surely disappointed of this Fantasy-Movie,because he does not get the point of many things happening in the movie. But as a Roleplayer who will surely find parallels to your gaming group and like it.And for those who are not Gamerswhen have you last talked so much about a movie? And to me the movie is that what I expect of cinema , entertainment not perfection! "},{"Title":"A good start to a series of RPG based films","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, the DND movie has finally reached us here in sunny SA and I'm not disappointed. I was expecting a lot worse initially but now, having view it and as a ADND player, appreciating the attention to detail on the part of the writers and producers, I can safely say the film was, if not a success, at least not a failure. While the dragons still look a little too CG'd for my liking, the rest was brilliant. The dwarf was well portrayed as the brutish guttermind, the elves aloof and haughty, the mages needing spell components, and thieves being oh so very roguelike. Well worth it for DND players and fantasy fans alike. Though not a kids film as some folks here found out. "},{"Title":"Wow!","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The title alone had me dying to see this film ( I have a mad thing about dragons, you see) and when I went to see it I cared not for anything else but seeing those beautiful lizards flying and diving through the sky. Imagine my surprise then, when I found about a hundred other things to love about the film! Justin Whalin was a revelation, displaying some leading man qualities found in Mad Max (Mel Gibson), Conan the Barbarian (Arnie), even The Mummy (Brendan Fraser). He has still a way to go before hitting the same big time as the above have, but it's a great start! Zoe McLellan has now become one of my favourite actresses. (She was great in the Star Trek Voyager and Sliders episodes I remember spotting her in) And she's gorgeous, to boot! Richard O'Brian was as weasly and grimy as he always seems to be. (Keep it up!) Alright, so Bruce Payne and Jeremy Irons were...to be frank, terrible, but to be honest, the film didn't need good acting to be good. The soundtrack still resounds in my mind as excellent (hope to hear you again, J.C Burnett!). Ignore doubts about this movie and go and see it with your brain switched off. It's GREAT! 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"not _that_ bad","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Though I can understand why many people may not be satisfied with the movie, it still isn't as bad as one might think from what most the other reviews said. Ok, the plot is more than weak and when it comes to the dwarfs axe, well... On the other hand, the acting is not bad, in many cases even good. As a long time RPG player, I have to admit that D&D wise the movie didnt care too much about the rules, but if it had (as another reviewer said before) the movie had to be rated 18+. Plus, the movie obviously was meant to be fast paced. If the mages had to rest every 5 minutes to memorize some spells, I fear that would have slowed down the whole thing too much. Lets face it, its a movie and as such simply can not include all that makes a rpg-session so much fun. Thats the same as with movies based on books. The CGIs are above average and very well used. Its not really a D&D movie, just a fantasy movie. But still, has there been anything since Conan that was anything near RPG? So although its not really great, I am happy with the movie and even it has its flaws, I can recommend it to anyone who likes fantasy movies. And, hell, like it or not, its a whole lot better than SW Episode 1 ;-) (which I hate, hate, hate! shame on you, George!) "},{"Title":"real good","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has its flaws, but it is a movie that is really entertaining, the fx are real well done, and the acting and directing are more than decent, this movie covers the expectations of those fans of fantasy movies. it is worth seeing. "}{"Title":"Awesome!!","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Strangely enough, when I'm through watching this movie, I feel like I can do anything..and have the desire to reach my full potential...to become a better person...  I think this movie was great, despite what anyone says (I have heard numerous jokes about it..and I just laugh...but I still love the movie greatly...and I am a VERY picky person when it comes to movies!!). Because Ridley; a pathetic thief in the beginning, became the only person who can save his whole Empire and keep it from falling into the wrong hands, and possibly collapse from existence...Ridley didn't know he could be someone so important...and with gifts especially(He couldn't see his importance in life).  I too, was a little disappointed at the fact the movie didn't explain itself/and left you hanging at the end...but then it still let my mind wonder to a point where there wasn't just a simple 'Happily Ever After' there was no ending...only a beginning.  It's as if the movie was saying...now you can continue this journey...And the unanswered questions left at the end...'What was Ridley's gift? Were Ridley's parents mages? Who were his parents? And where are they?..' Ridley mentions his father once and it has to do with locks and spells....but only mages can use spells....hmmmm... "},{"Title":"Quite a difficult one to rate...","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Never before have I been so torn in rating a movie. Usually I can jump right on it and say Yes I like it or No I don't like it and explain why, but not this time. This movie is so perfectly balanced with pros and cons that rating it is difficult. The bad points the acting, for the most part, is atrocious, with occassional glimmers of sincere performing (few and far between); Ridley is horribly miscast and he looks too clean-cut and honest to be a real thief; Courtney Solomon's directing is uninspired and paper-thin, making it obvious that he really didn't know what he was doing; some of the dialogue is too modern-day and sounds horribly out-of-place; and the story, while very RPG-like in its narrative, is too predictable to be considered up to par. The good points The score by Justin Caine Burnett is beautiful and fun to listen to; the special effects are extremely well-done (particularly the dragon battle at the end); the sets are marvelous and present the fantasy world in visuals that perfectly match what a fan would expect; the costumes are very well-designed and add some charm to the characters where the actors couldn't; the creatures that appear throughout are lifelike and fun to watch; and the fight scenes are just fast-paced enough to be interesting. Usually a movie with such amateur directing, lousy writing and uncontrolled acting is impossible to watch, but the movie's overall atmosphere is so well-defined (through its music, sets, costumes and effects)that it's hard to not watch. A fan of D&D should at least give the movie a try, and maybe non-fans may enjoy it too. I watched it with low expectations and thus was not terribly disappointed, but I still could not help but think of how I would have done so many things differently. I rate it 6/10. "},{"Title":"Mind-shatteringly awful","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had the misfortune to see the worst film ever put to celluloid last night, and I would save you the pain of repeating the mistake.On _NO_ account should you go to see Dungeons and Dragons (unless you are a masochist or insane). It is the most execrable piece of rubbish- no script, laughable if expensive CG effects, acting so wooden that you could build a wardrobe and a kitchen table out of it and still have material left over for a large hollow equine structure for inveigling yourself into North African walled cities, not even a wild, unbelievable, fantastic plot (just a mundane, clunky one).I could go on, but I think if I dwell on it any longer I might explode.You have been warned.'Two thumbs and all other digits down'PS Don't ask why I went to see it in the first place. Honestly, I do not know what compelled me either. Perhaps it was that feeling you get around accidents where you don't want to look but have to...  "},{"Title":"Worst film I've sat through in a long time","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, we went to see this last night. We were expecting it to be a fun switch-off-brain type fantasy movie... but nothing could have prepared us for this!The acting was apalling, the effects were (with few exceptions) sub-standard, the dialogue was atrocious and the plot holes would have insulted the intelligence of the average 3 year old.I cannot stress this enough - if you are considering seeing this... DON'T!  "},{"Title":"a really entertaining movie!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i went to see this movie with an open mind, i used to play the boardgame and was very surprised to see how close to the classic game it was. It was quite exciting for a low hype fantasy film, the actors are well chosen except for profion, who was a little cack, but all in all a great film for the younger viewer and the sort of person who likes fantasy and adventure with a bit of magic. great film. "},{"Title":"a really entertaining movie!","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i went to see this movie with an open mind, i used to play the boardgame and was very surprised to see how close to the classic game it was. It was quite exciting for a low hype fantasy film, the actors are well chosen except for profion,  but all in all a great film for the younger viewer and the sort of person who likes fantasy and adventure with a bit of magic. great film. "},{"Title":"Great SFX, not much else","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons and Dragons is the perfect movie, if all you want is eye candy. I require more to make a movie watchable. After seeing this movie you wonder, What was Jeremy Irons thinking? The plot was very predictable, the acting was terrible. Jeremy Irons over acts, possibly to compensate for the rest of the casts inability to act. It was painful to watch the attempts at humour, they were as predictable as the plot. A very uninspired effort for all concerned. The Visual effects are amazing though, the scenes with the dragons are very well done. Some very cool shots, but they do not make up for the rest of the movie. Over all, a must miss.  "},{"Title":"Best fantasy movie, ever!","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I listened to the critics, they shot it dead and I believed them. The wife and kids saw it and said it was good but I still was unsure, for how could these wise critics get it wrong. A work mate came in and said it was great. Huh! I told him about the critics but he still said he enjoyed it. That was it, damn the critics, I have to see this movie.I loved it. I nearly missed it. Did Profion over act? No, he played the part of an insane mage wonderfully. Did Empress Savina appear shaky? Yes, wouldn't you if you were young and trying to change things while nearly every mage around you opposed you. She played the part well. Did Snails scream too much? No he screamed just enough. Were the locations and special effects good? Yes, they were awesome. Was it realistic? No, it's a fantasy movie after all and it's all about imagination.Yes, I really did enjoy this movie. It's the best fantasy movie ever made and it rates as one of my all time favorites. I recommend it to everyone, but remember, sit down, forget about reality, and imagine away.On a parting note I did learn something from the critics. They were wrong. From now on I will no longer concern myself with what they have to say. "},{"Title":"Not too bad after all","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must say that I really didn't expect much of this film, but it was a film I just had to see, being a roleplayer of the AD&D setting. But it wasn't really a bad movie after all. The acting was rather impressive, the storyline was good and the effects not too bad. There was a few minor things I thought were a little odd, like the dragons and beholders who seemed to have the intelligence of beasts, while normally they should be even more intelligent than humans. Also the magic seemed very powerful, with Marina being only an apprentice and casting powerful spells like portal and chain lightning. Another thing I might mention is the rip-off scenes. There's a lot of scenes you might recognize if you've seen Star Wars. Scenes like when the dragon scene in the beginning vs the rancor scene in Jabba's palace. And in the end the good guy and the bad guy fights with a blue and a red sword which flashes every time they clash together. Hmmm where have I seen that before? "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't have to pay to see this movie, because my brother gently invited me. So I wasn't able to ask them to give me my money back when I left the theater. As far as I know, Dungeons & Dragons are a series of novels, a quite entertaining animated series and, if I'm correct, a role playing game. This movie should kill the franchise. Not only it's poorly acted, it was poorly written and poorly made. The special effects are very bad. Any Playstation game has better graphics than this movie. Justin Whalin, who used to be Jimmy Olsen on Lois & Clark, overacts all the movie (even though Jeremy Irons gets the overacting prize for his performance of the villainous Porfion). I can't say a good thing about this movie, but can say many bad things about it. I have just one question Why did they film it? "}{"Title":"Worst Film of 2000","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rate this as the worst film of 2000, only because Battlefield Earth was slightly more entertaining. I really don't understand how a movie like this is made. This has some of the worst overacting you'll ever see in a mainstream movie (with the exception of Thora Birch, who manages to make Queen Amidala look like an Oscar worthy performance). People said this movie was at least fun but I hardly even found it to be that. I can enjoy a bad movie as long as it's entertaining, but D&D managed to be bad and unentertaining. The FX were mediocre, and the ending (having much potential for a cool Mage Vs. Dragons scene) was wasted. I thought Jeremy Irons was at least a little fun to watch, only because he looked like he realized what kind of movie he was in, and decided act along as to mock the rest of the movie. Scenes of spinning scenery kept appearing reminding me very much of the Mortal Kombat movies (but probably had more than both of those combined). This movie had very much potential to bring back the medieval fantasy genre, but it looks like we have to wait for Lord of the Rings. MST3000 material. 2/10 "},{"Title":"Give me the rod! I beg your pardon?","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Well, as a fan of sci fi movies, I must say that a good special effect or two or some fun characters can always save a bad movie.I'm not saying that here.Now, there are a lot of things wrong with this movie, but there are some good things too (always look on the bright side of life).  As an MST3K fan, i've seen some bad movies, and sure this movie deserves to be on the show (were it still running), but it would definately be one of the least painful movies.  For one thing, it's not evil, and aside from the acting, isn't too painful.  It doesn't want to hurt the audience like Battlefield Earth or Armaggedon did, its just stupid and mostly harmless.  It has some neat special effects, some okay directing, and beautiful backgrounds.However, that can't save the movie from its big failings.  For one thing, the acting is absolutely horrid!  The main characters are bad and stereotyped, Marlon Wayans is lamer than Jar Jar binks (though he tries), and we have a Dwarf character who is useless and never even given a name! This doesn't go on to the bad mages, romantic interests, and Thora Birch was just unbelievably bad!  However, seeing Richard O'Brien (of Rocky Horror and Dark City fame) was nice, even though he was pretty bad as well.But special attention must be given to the worst of the bunch, Jeremy Irons. You can tell he took the role for the money, but man, couldn't he have put a little more, how should i put it...dignity into the movie?  If he had put in a better performance, it might have saved the movie (okay, that's reaching).  His overacting could scare Godzilla!  And I swear, there is one part, where the movie jump-cuts from an outside shot of the castle to Jeremy Irons, spinning around and talking to the camera, staring at him from behind two guards- I swore he was about to break into song!  It is no understatement to say he was worse than John Travolta was in Battlefield Earth!As for most of the props, they look like props Gamers would use when playing Dungeons and Dragons for real!  The dragons are cool, but are rarely seen, the sets are often pretty fake, and sweet merciful Crow and Servo is the dialogue bad!All in all, with this, Battlefield Earth, Mission Impossible 2, and the scores of other bad movies that have come out will truly keep the need for MST3K fans alive and well!But as i've said, Dungeons and Dragons is the best of the bad movies that have come out this year.  It may be stupid and badly written and acted, but at least it's not evil, and is easy to make fun of! "},{"Title":"Like playing D&D, the movie is what you make of it","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not the best movie I've seen recently. Having said that, it definitely wasn't the worst. I've been playing D&D for over two decades and went to see the movie on that basis. I was not disappointed, except for the low quality of acting especially the absolutely over-the-top melodramatic over-acting from Jeremy Irons. All of these actors have produced great work - I can only blame the director for some wooden and rudderless scenes. On the other hand - Tom Baker's cameo was just right. Well done, Doctor...I went into this movie with the same mindset as when I play D&D. Some players are good role-players, some are humorous and some are clever. None are all of these. It's up to each player (in the case of the movie - the audience) to get the most from what is presented. The movie fit that expectation nicely, as I could ignore the bits that were ham-fisted and look at what each event added to the experience. The dwarf was of no benefit to the story at all, but provided some excellent light relief. The magic was well represented with most spells recognisable (loved the effects!), and fitting well to the D&D verbal/somatic/material requirements, even though the material component was a non-specific 'pixie-dust'. But hey! this is a movie - I didn't expect the 15 minute rule debates we get in our games. Some simplification kept the story rolling along - which was necessary as some bits were reaaaaalllly slooooow.The dragon CGI was excellent, but they are supposed to be rare in D&D and the sight of so many was a little unbalancing to me.While the characters' racial and class attributes were a little under-played (possibly to keep the pace up), you could definitely see the fighter/thief checking for traps; the ranger tracking; the mage getting flattened by the first blow in combat and the dwarf getting his blood up and just hitting whatever moved.Before seeing D&D, I was a bit put off by a criticism of the maze. It most definitely IS a maze (def A network of paths designed as a puzzle), although not the traditional English hedge type.All in all, a good effort. If you go into the movie expecting it to be a great movie or a great D&D game on a screen, then you'll be disappointed. Go into Dungeons & Dragons for a fun time with a D&D flavour and that's exactly what you'll get.BTW, the ending screams 'SEQUEL!'. I, for one, will be waiting in line for it. "},{"Title":"A true Role Playing adventure","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is best seen with the knowledge of what it is like to play a real, table-top role playing game.  The movie is a perfect depiction of how characters in games interact and how they get motivated for specific adventures.  You also get a glimpes of how the Dungeon Master God of the Game can make specific things happen in the adventure to point the adventure in a specific direction.  The acting was Good, and the effects were amaizing.  Its a requirement for all Roleplayers! "},{"Title":"An Unusually BAD Movie","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a movie buff, and have found myself enjoying a great many below average films. I consider myself more than capable of overlooking the weaknesses of a movie for the sake of enjoyment. Unfortunately, I was completely incapable of overlooking the weaknesses of D&D, as I could find nothing to make me overlook them. In all honesty, had I not attended the movie with a group, I would have left halfway through. (By the way, I have NEVER walked out of a movie!)Where to start...plot? There is very little to say, other than that it could not have been any weaker and more predictable than it was! Unfortunately, the makers of fantasy movies have missed the mark for years, not understanding that good fantasy is character study. By definition, the genre has one theme good vs. evil; therefore, any attempt to make fantasy plot driven is destined to failure. It should be character driven. The characters in this movie, however, are flat. They lack depth, and the only intriguing character in the film is a dwarf, which is not surprising, as dwarves tend to be the most fun personalities in D&D.Aside from the plot, the props and makeup were ridiculous. The guy has blue lips and the magical scepter that cures all evil is PLASTIC and doesn't even look real! The dialogue is some of the worst ever written, it's crowning moment being the cheesy line Not so talented are you Mr. Ripley. Everyone in my group cringed at that one almost as much as they cringed at Why don't you pick on someone your own size?. As for the acting...hmph! This movie is what happens when you take a group of talented actors and cast them in a bad film with outrageously mediocre directing. I want to know how much they paid the guy that stood beside the set reminding the actors to speak more slowly at some attempt for suspense and drama. If they hadn't been dragging out everything they said, the movie would have been half as long, and the acting would have at least appeared to be twice as good.I don't play D&D, but everyone I know does, and I do at least know enough about it to question the fact that the hero of the movie is a fighter/thief, not a fighter, not a fighter/mage, not a mage, but a thief! He's not even a good thief, nor is he a good fighter, so explain to me how he manages to complete all quests necessary to save the empire?By the way, don't go see this movie out of hopes that the graphics with all the dragons will be good. The dragons are good, but appear in the first scene of the movie and the last. The hour and a half in between is dragonless. Perhaps instead of Dungeons and Dragons, they should have named the movie Dungeons and Really Bad Acting! "},{"Title":"pure roleplaying feeling","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  what one would expect from a D and D movie is to capture the feeling of a role playing session - and that is exactly what it does. A dwarf, an elf, a fighter/thief, a mage - what else can you want to stumble through maze and dungeon, fight evil forces and let armies of dragons clash!Put it together with fantasy classics as Conan, Legend, Willow! "},{"Title":"Ugh. Yuck.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'Dungeons and Dragons' is stupid as hell.But props must be given to the producers for clinching the services of Jeremy Irons, whose presence marks the only difference between 'D&D' and a two-hour episode of 'Sinbad'. Irons notwithstanding, this movie is drivel and an insult to the intelligence of basement-residing D&D nerds worldwide. Yes, it's a dumb, dumb movie with a worthless script that must be blamed for the fact that Irons, an Oscar-winner for 'Reversal of Fortune', is outclassed by a Wayans brother. Granted, the guy has made dumb career moves in the past.  Luckily he boasts very little screen time and is surrounded by a full complement of equally insipid performances (including Thora Birch in full 'Monkey Trouble' mode apparently reading cue cards).Indeed, roughly by the midway point of this thing - when Bruce Payne's blue-Slurpee-lipped henchman Damodar catches thief Ridley (Justin Whalin) in the act of stealing a map and snickers just like a thief, always taking things that don't belong to you - you pretty much know what you've paid for...FX.And plenty of them.'D&D' is so mired in fantastical visions of gravity-defying CG structures and backdrops, I was surprised to find that the movie was primarily filmed in England and the Czech Republic(!). The snippets of the film not created on an iMac appeared to be pure Hollywood backlot material. And while many will and have realized, 'D&D' borrows - heavily - from other movies, notably some outrageously recognizable scenes straight out of both 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' and 'Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom'.Ugh. Yuck. "},{"Title":"Fantastic fun and adventure for all!","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I loved this movie. It had everything, romance, comedy, sword fights, booby traps, and so much more!  There is nothing I did not like about this film. I could watch it again and again, and I highly recommend it to all!!! "},{"Title":"The director must have had a -3 intelligence","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I found this film to be shockingly bad. I am a long time D&D player and a long time film buff and this foolish monstrosity was terrible terrible terrible! Script = bad. Acting = worse. The complete lack of action and a staunch refusal to stick within the bounds of the game made this film one of the biggest (non-surprising) let downs of recent memory. But i suppose I knew they would ruin Dungeons and Dragons if given the chance "},{"Title":"The cheez-whiz of fantasy movies","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Wow. What a lame film.I'm not going to say that it was the worst film ever - Return to Me still occupies that slot - but it was a dog. One big, wet shaggy, smelly dog of a film.I'll save time and summarize what was wrong - the script and the acting. What was good about it? Uh, some of the costumes were kind of cool. No, wait that gets negated by the dude in the blue lipstick - I'm not even going to dignify that with an actor or character name.Actually, if the story wasn't unbelievably dumb and the script really poorly written, the bad acting and the weak cgi wouldn't have been too hard to overcome. But they were. Aaargh. I can't talk about this anymore.I want a GOOD fantasy movie!!! One that's written well, with characters that don't come off as cardboard, melodramatic, or rejects from sitcoms. I want a plot that's not plain dumb hunt the widget with a smattering of our hero finds he has hidden depths mixed with the bad guys are jerks. I want a fantasy movie that took more time to write than it takes to make a taco - unlike this one.Seeing this film made me absolutely terrified about Lord of the Rings - what if they screw it up as badly? I couldn't handle that. It won't be this bad - will it?  "}{"Title":"Ummm, not even","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, I am not a major gamer and I must admit to never playing D&D.  I was attracted to this movie for the fantasy/adventure aspect.  My mother always told me if I didn't have anything nice to say about something, to just not say anything at all.  The nicest thing I can say about D&D was that it was consistent...consistently bad!  The actors were given a raw deal with a really lacking script and non-existant plot line.  The last five minutes were the best, but that's only because of the special effects.  If you think you'll like this movie...trust me......YOU WON'T. "},{"Title":"Not even worth a cheap night at the movies....","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie is ok if you pay to rent it...that's all !!! Story is to twisted they have to do something to do something else and so on so forth....what can i say ?...bad acting, bad line, special effect are ok, but deja vu. It could have been a really good movie with another plot, cast and script, the idea was there but not the rest ! "},{"Title":"Oh, yeah, it's really bad","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  But I expected it to be bad from the get-go.  The only reason I actually found myself in a theater to watch this bomb was the insistence of my friend Michael, who somehow convinced me and, believe it or not, four of our other friends that this movie would probably be hilarious.  I can't say he was wrong.We had hoped the theater would be empty so that we could openly deride the film, and it basically was...but another group of four or five other people walked in just before the beginning of the film.  I was expecting this would leave our cynical hopes dashed, but, to my great delight, as the film started, they proved to have the same intentions as us.  I tell you with no less then ten people mocking every second of lameness in this movie, it made for many a hearty laugh.And there are quite a few lame moments in Dungeons and Dragons.  Even the tagline is lame Adventure hinges on more than just a throw of the dice.  Sounds like an advertisement for the game.What business does anyone have basing a movie on a game without plot anyway?  I will admit to having played the game before (but only with great shame, as if I were admitting to clubbing baby seals), and it's nothing more than a set of rules from which the players are supposed to create a story.  Not much meat for a film, eh?But what really astonishes me is the presence of actors I recognize in this thing.  I mean, Jeremy Irons is in this movie.  What's going on with that?  It's also got Marlon Wayans and American Beauty's Thora Birch.  I suppose that's a little less weird, but still huh?  Irons and Birch give the worst performances in a movie filled with bad performances, too.  Irons shakes his fists and grits his teeth continuously while uttering lines that our sometimes impossible to understand; it's as if he's having a seizure or something.  Birch oozes so much artificial sweetness, one expects the ending may reveal her to be a gigantic PEZ dispenser.Maybe this isn't all Birch's fault though.  I mean, all she ever does in the movie is run around yapping about how the mages and commoners should be equal (class structure is apparently based on magic).  She might start by not calling them commoners.Of course, the entire plot makes no sense, anyway.  Something to do with Irons's character wanting a magical rod that controls dragons, but only if they're red...and depicted with B-rate special effects.Like I said, watching this movie was funny because of the specific circumstances I found myself in.  Otherwise, though, I think I would have been shaking my fist at the scene with all the anger of the Irons character.  Avoid.  1/10 "},{"Title":"Goofy. Slightly stupid. Fun nonetheless.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is about what one would expect from a wacky adventure with a somewhat narrow market. The plot is more or less standard, but you forget that while you're watching it and only reflect on the slightly hackneyed script later. It's compelling enough to suck you in and politely simple enough to make it accessible to both diehard D&Ders and people with only the vaguest knowledge of high fantasy. The (non-)ending was a definite letdown, but it was really the only part that just didn't fit. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"It could have been worse.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The exterior shots and CGI were very well done, The flybys and crowd scenes certainly gave the right feel to the game. The plot is a standard D&D adventure, but it is a real shame that the two main characters are buffoons and the props look more plastic than authentic. I am also impressed that the characters who died stayed dead. That was unexpected, but I am glad they avoided bringing him back.  "},{"Title":"one more bad attempt","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Those with me that didn't know about RPG found this movie was bad. Me as a former player, found it was nothing of D&D. The only thing in this movie related to the D&D RPG are the illustrations they have taken to make their creatures. The 'hero' is a stupid bad actor, made everyone laugh in the theater, between 2 naps. The plot is so bad, I haven't (fortunately) ever played such a scenario in my RPG time fortunately. There's no coherence in this movie, you would think it has been cut everywhere. They put beholders in the film (savagely intelligent monsters), and you don't even see a combat with one. There is no group in this film, just a hero and some pet  this movie has not even the spirit of D&D. Oh a force wall, ... only you where meant to enter this dungeon ... - such a stupidity I couldn't even believe it. And the examples are endless... I'm more than disappointed, and I wasn't expecting much in the start.I pray for Lord of the Rings now... "},{"Title":"They killed it with one mighty blow...","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...the possibility of ever making a successful movie with the name Dungeons & Dragons. Once you poison your fan-base, they'll wait for all sequels to hit video, thereby greatly reducing the boxoffice profit and the likelihood of further sequels.At twenty minutes till the end of the movie I was drumming on my kneecaps waiting for it to be over. At times I felt like leaping from my seat and running from the theater. The only redeeming qualities of the whole movie were the locations and sets. The acting was bad, the stereotyping was nearly unbearable, the costumes were ala Power Rangers, and the dragons themselves lacked scales and any sense of power. The special effects budget would have been better spent on one excellent dragon, instead of scores of poor ones. Worst of all, they tried to extricate themselves from the situation with misplaced humor.Want to introduce someone to the D&D genre? Try these movies Legend (with Tom Cruise)  Classic artifact retrieval plotLadyHawke (Rutger Hauer, Michelle Pfeiffer, Matthew Broderick) Curse plotConan The Barbarian (Arnold Schwarzenegger) Classic Revenge plotDragonslayer (Can you guess the plot from the title?) )Excalibur (Patrick Stewart and many others) crusade/quest plotHawk The Slayer (Jack Palance) Haven't seen this one in a while, but remember it as being solid for its era, even though it's shabby by today's standards.If I'm not mistaken, there's an axiom in show business that runs something like this Don't give your audience what they want until you're ready for them to leave. Unfortunately D&D the movie is replete with dragons, and all the while spend their time in the service of humans. This is !!!NOT!!! what D&D is about... in fact, this movie is a perfect example of the worst of the worst 'Monty Haul' campaigns as outlined in the first edition Dungeon Master's Guide. I should go back and change my summary from 'They killed it with one mighty blow...' to 'Absolute power corrupts absolutely'. This movie sorely needed some technical advisors and a more humble sense of purpose to steer it out of it's meteoric nosedive.Sincerely,Jon R Colchagoff jr (Dungeons & Dragons player and DM since 1981) "},{"Title":"Pretty Good S&S Fantasy film","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a pretty good S&S film.  Fist a few complaints, though.  This was directed largely at a teenaged audience while those who remember D&D would be much older.  Some of the political for the people plot seemed a bit trite, but really no more than SW Episode I.  Otherwise, good film.  I don't understand why it got such bad reviews.  The plot was believable, the characters were likeable.  There was even great depth of character, an element missing in many action films.  I thought there was too much emphasis on the main characters and too little on the interesting supporting characters.  I wouldn't call it a classic tale of good verses evil but it had a good plot and interesting characters with good interaction between them.  I'm giving it a 9 out of 10 just because every one else gave it such a low rating.  It would otherwise have been an 8.  It wasn't perfect but it was a pleasing film (and I'm hard to please).  For my fellow ex-pats looking for a VCD, the one I bought was in the jewel box inside the cardboard box claiming to be a DVD rip.  This is a screen copy, the sound wasn't good in some parts but the picture is.  Better then most screen-rips. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Terrible (SPOILER ALERT)","Date":"23 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are spoilers in this so if you're the kind of person that reads past a spoiler warning and then complains when they see a spoiler by all means continue on.Not much else to say that's not in the summary.  Oh well, if you insist.In short this movie did everything wrong.  It's a slap in the face to anyone that has even a passing familiarity with the world of Dungeons & Dragons and is misleading to someone unfamiliar with D&D.  The fact that Courtney Solomon worked so hard to get this movie made and created this as a final product doesn't bode well for his future as a director.The acting was possibly the worst aspect.  The actors either atrociously overacted or came off as understudies from a high school drama club. Members of the former group included Jeremy Irons as the comical face-contorting master of the soft-shout, Profion and Justin Whalin as Ridley (for an example of how not to act, reference Ridley's reaction to Snail's death...classic).  Members of the latter group included Thora Birch's zombified Empress (is this life after American Beauty? Tragic) and of course the infamously terrible performance by Marlon Wayans as the irritatingly inept (and NOT funny) Snails.Perhaps all the blame can't be placed on the actors themselves.... look at what they had to work with.  The story and character development was all over the place in this movie.  Ridley can't decide if he's a thief, a warrior, or even a mage.... eventually he ends up being all three. Snails.... oh why even bother.  Marina is the mage of the party but you wouldn't be able to tell it considering she rarely ever casts any spells. The dwarf could have been easily erased from every scene and wouldn't have made any difference (I'm not exaggerating.... he really is that peripheral to the story).  The elf (played by a poor man's Jada Pinkett Smith) presumably is meant to add an air of mystery and intrigue to the party but eventually ends up stereotypically stony to fill the elf-slot.The basic plot of the movie is just that...basic.  Evil government official (what his place is I'm not sure it ever reveals) plots to overthrow the just current ruler (who happens to have a staff that controls gold dragons) by attempting to find (or send his cronies to find) a different staff that controls red dragons.  Enter two bumbling thieves (complaining of the unfair class system to set up a series of speeches later on) who try to pilfer valuables from the mage guild (basically the seat of government) and get caught up with a young mage librarian that is sent to find the red dragon staff before the evil government official does.  Throw in a dwarf and an elf eventually and you have a pretty sorry party by D&D standards.  The party eventually finds the red staff but is tricked into handing it over to the evil government official's cronies.  Fear not, however, for good triumphs over evil after a series of absurdities including a thief receiving a magical long sword (and wielding it), defeating the government official's best knight in one on one combat, besting the government official (a high level mage) in a test of will and topping it off by destroying an enchanted item (quite a feat for a low level thief).  Oh, and the government official gets eaten by a golden dragon ala Gennaro in Jurassic Park.  All the while the empress rides around on her golden dragons wearing a skimpy suit of armor and spouting equality by royal fiat.  Finally, we're treated to one of the most nonsensical endings ever conceived (you end up asking yourself if Ridley's power was to bring Snails back to life or to kill everyone else so they could see Snails again...either way that's not much of a gift).One could easily go into a laundry list of failings on the directing side of the movie.  Some pertinent scenes seem to have been left on the cutting room floor.  Scenes like Ridley and Marina's conversation inside the magic map (presumably Ridley's motivation for continuing the quest) and Ridley's prophetic fever dream.  Ridley also speaks of lessons he's learned from his father but this idea isn't ever developed.  One of the stupider scenes in the movie involves all the party members being held captive until Ridley relinquishes the red dragon staff to the evil knight, Damodar.  Once the staff is safely in Damodar's hands the party members easily escape from their captives following a painfully by-the-books dialogue exchange (something along the lines of 'You promised to release them!' countered with 'I lied.  Kill them.').  Damodar then crosses class lines (not out of the ordinary in this movie) and out of nowhere casts a transportation spell after acquiring the red dragon staff.  The climactic battle between the red and gold dragons is severely hampered by the cheesiness of the dragons' design.  And, of course, you know something is severely wrong when the most enjoyable (and genuinely funny) scene in the movie involves the death of one of the main characters. After Snails' death, Marina tries to comfort Ridley by saying I'm sorry about Snails.  That statement transcends mere sentimentality and is taken as an admission of guilt and contrition for putting the audience through an hour of his brain-dead antics.To make a long story short (too late) this movie is a waste of time and money.  Don't let anyone tell you it was good...they either hate you and want you to suffer or don't have any taste.  "},{"Title":"Ppbbtthh!!","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have never been subjected to such a load as this film turned out to be. I've been playing this game since 1974, and had figured that, ok, it's probably going to be a good bit of an insider's movie; ya know, where you have to be familiar with the game in order to fully appreciate the thing. No dice. The best thing I can say about this intellectual insult is that, had it been someone's game that I just started playing, I'd've walked out and put the ref on my doofus list. Do not, repeat, do NOT see this film. Run in fear from it. Run far, run fast, scream in fear at the very suggestion of seeing this tripe.Here are some pet peeves (spoilers included); 1)  Where'd the beholders go to after the idjit thief tossed a rock to distract them? Were these things from the monster reject pile? Some guards. 2)  Here we had two thieves breaking onto some sort of wizards school making all sorts of noise while climbing down the rope. Yet, once they have tumbled into a noisy pile on the floor, then the brighter of the two cautions to be silent. 3)  When Ridley derides Marina, he actually comments that she is `low level.' C'mon, people, level is an abstract in the game and not a quantity that you wear around your neck on a sign. 4)  The show culminates in some sort of dragon war that Profion and Savina get into. Well, I don't know about you, but any city subjected to that much dragon power should be nothing but rubble. Anyway, this dragon war is between Red Dragons and Gold Dragons. Taking a quick gander at my copy of D&D, I see that the Gold Dragons should have pulverized the Reds without even breaking a sweat. 5)  Thieves Guild Maze. Snort. Three room, one corridor `maze.' Need I say more? 6)  The two thief characters seemed to be taken straight from some inner city in the US. Nothing like hearing colloquial American slang in a medieval fantasy environment.Hopefully, LoTR will cure me of my fantasy film malaise. As Tolkien was the basis for D&D in the first place, I guess there's no better film idea than LoTR to be a D&D environment. "}{"Title":"Gamers don't waste the time and money!","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SPOILER WARNING! Ah, I am SOOO disappointed in Wizards of the Coast! Okay, okay, get this, WotC made this movie to attract all those 9 to 12 year-olds who are possible future customers, and did not make it for those of us who have been into D&D for a while now! No plot (to speak of), no character development, and, probably the most disappointing of a movie with the title D&D, no fight scenes to speak of. They even had a JarJar character in the movies for the kiddies! Who we all clapped for when he FINALLY died! As for the fight scenes? Contrived namby-pamby ballet with poorly designed weaponry and armour. And whoever heard of a thief who could fight better than an experienced and tried warrior, veteran and survivor of many a campaign? Come on! Oh, and for those aspiring adventurers out there, when you've got a sword, and the bad guy turns his back on you and proceeds to give The Bad Guy Speech, RUN THE BLOODY SWORD THRU HIS FRIGGIN' BACK!All in all, show the kiddies, but anyone over the age of 13 (funny, it was rated PG-13, and I saw no need for that strong of a rating) will not enjoy this flick. "},{"Title":"Good graphics, bad acting...","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had wonderful computer graphics, the computer modellers for the dragons were the same people who worked on Dragonheart and Godzilla. The CG buildings, the sets, the costumes, all of those were great.The acting, however, was horrible, especially the Empress. Watching her onscreen reminded me of being in my 10th grade drama class, in fact, I think a few of the people who were in that class were probably better than her. Jeremy Irons was not at his best ether, his heart didn't really seem to be in it.  "},{"Title":"DUNG AND DRAGONS IS MORE LIKE IT!","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe I just paid seven bucks to go see this movie.  I tried to get a free pass for another movie or something, but alas, they wouldn't let me.  I would have liked to have had a Rod of Seville or Savin, or whatever they called it in this movie to bring some dragons down and wreck havoc in the theater that sold me the ticket. This was by far the worst movie I have seen in the theater since I went and watched Muriel's Wedding about 5 years ago.  I went into this thinking this can't be that bad.  After all it has Oscar winner Jeremy Irons in it, and Thora Birch from the Oscar winning movie American Beauty.  Boy was I ever wrong.  I have never seen this much bad acting by a whole group of actors in my life.  Usually in a movie that has bad acting you have at least one person who is believable.  Not here buddy.  All I could think of while watching this was that they all, except for the exception of Thora Birch, had gone to Bill Shatner's School For OVer the Top Acting.  Thor Birch, on the other hand, 95% of the time she sounded like she was reading her lines from cue cards.  I really think that the only reason she played the angst ridden teenager so well in American Beauty, is because...MAYBE SHE IS AN ANGST RIDDEN TEENAGER!  At least after this movie she should be angst ridden at her agent. The only two good things about this movie where Marlon Wayans, who was killed about half way through, and the dragon fight at the end.  It's pretty sad when you think the best thing about a movie is Marlon Wayans.  Don't get me wrong, I think he's funny, but I have never, until now, thought he was the best thing about anything I have seen him in.   Heed my warning, DO NOT WASTE YOUR HARD EARNED MONEY ON THIS ONE!  Afterwards, I went and had a drink with my buddy I watched it with, and we were both ticked cause if we wouldn't have spent the 7 bucks on the movie, we could have had another drink.  Oh well, live and learn.  "},{"Title":"Yikes","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I admit it. I was a bit of a D&D geek back in high school. Believe me I know my way around a twenty sided dice. With that said it was pretty much inevitable that I would find my way to the theatre to watch this flick in spite of the less than favourable reviews. The good news is that I stayed until the closing credits (mainly to see who the director was so I could avoid his future work at all costs). The bad news is that this is the worst movie I've seen since Highlander 2. Why is it that the characters in every fantasy movie have to speak with bad British accents? And why are elves always represented as being emotionless and coldly intellectual. I have yet to see a fantasy movie where the elf character is more than a Vulcan with a longsword. And talk about terrible acting. Go watch Thora Birch in American Beauty and then catch her in this disaster. It's like they've got her doped up on cold medication. She enunciates each syllable in slow motion as if even she can't believe how bad her dialogue is. I won't even begin to talk about Jeremy Irons but I will say it's really hard to take his main henchman (kind of a Darth Vader without the helmet) seriously when the guy wears blue lipstick. What's up with that? I kept expecting his backup singers to show up.Story wise, the struggling Empress routine is far too similar to Phantom Menace. There's really nothing new here at all. Pick any detail of this movie and it's been done somewhere before. Any D&D nerd will tell you that the potential storylines for this genre could fill a +5 bag of holding. But in spite of that, the filmmakers settled on what amounts to a yard sale of recycled gags and cheap thrills. Even the effects, which are few and far between, are pretty weak. The dragon in Dragonheart was a lot more realistic and that movie was made like a million years ago!All in all, I've gotta respect that this is Courtney Solomon's first crack at being a director and he went to the Nine Hells and back to have it made. Unfortunately, I think this is going to set first time directors back for many years to come. Make your saving throw and avoid this movie at all costs. Spend your ten bucks on a new set of dice. "},{"Title":"Worst, Impossible.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT! Do not read if you haven't seen the movie.This movie is SO disappointing that maybe is not as bad as I think. But is BAD. OMG it is BAD. One would think that doing a movie about D&D has some inherent advantages An endless supply of ideas; there are SO many scripts, novels, adventures and books that it would be difficult NOT to find a good script for the movie. Well, they managed to find the WORST script I've ever seen in years. Stallone's movies have better scripts. Another advantage is that D&D is such a popular game that have half of the magical mood already set for it. Well, they manage to kill it. D&D is about fantasy, drama, legends, quests, characters... and they have turned it into a poor comedy, with no sense, no magic and no legend. It is VERY POORLY directed. In particular, the actors. Here we have a group of good actors that could do (and have proven it several times) a great job. But... they don't. And it can be seen that it is not their fault. They scream, smile, cry, sob and laugh at the wrong times. Some people say that Jeremy Irons overacts. NO WAY!, he acts... and by doing so, by comparison to the rest, it looks like he overacts. The problem here is that the director wasn't able to set an acting scale for the movie. Justin Whalin (Ridley) is not a bad actor, but in this movie, he smiles in dramatic moments, he seems relaxed in tense scenes, etc. Not his fault IMHO. Same with the rest, with the exception of Marlon Wayans, that just doesn't fit in this movie. (spoiler) His death instead of a dramatic moment is a relief for everybody. (EVEN MORE SPOILERS) Going back to the script and some other details, here are some random mistakes that come to my mind. - A 3 room maze? OMG! are you kidding me? Everybody in the movie can actually see what traps each room has, there are only 3 rooms and they try to convince us that no one has ever finished? Are the thieves blind or stupid?- Final scene in the maze... check the way Ridley checks for traps.- At the castle. 3-4 beholders with human patrols all over the castle? What is that about? And then, when they finally get in, suddenly all the troops disappear and only Damodar (Bruce Payne) is left to deal with the thieves.- So Ridley and Snails are thieves? What kind of thieves fall in all the traps, cannot whatsoever walk in silence, break and hit everything, etc.- The elves are soooo smart that they give Ridley a magic sword and they don't tell him what it does.- Ridley, with that sword suddenly is a match for Damodar.... and when he looses the sword and uses a log... still is a match for him! Nice...- Talking about swords... NONE of them were sharp... i mean they were OBVIOUSLY DULL. Luckily Damodar stabs Ridley in the shoulder, had he tried to slash him he would have achieved nothing but some bruises.- Axes. Please, give the Dwarf a real axe. BTW, the dwarf NEVER uses the axe in the movie... he kind of swings it around but never hits anyone. What is the dwarf actually doing in the movie? A Mystery.- The dwarf is taller than the elf.- Characters appear and disappears from the scene without any logic. Example When they get into the thieves guild, the Dwarf is taken away for no reason to later appear back again, still for no reason.- When Ridley finally gets to the cave and for no reason he is the only one allowed to get in. They build some tension and mood.... for nothing. A lame, difficult to understand conversation with a talking corpse. What kind of thief finds a treasure and only takes the wand? What about the gold and weapons around?- Yet another scene of Give me the weapon or I kill the girl. Gives the weapon, the bad guy tries to kill the girl anyway and he fails, because suddenly AFTER they gave away the weapon, EVERYBODY sets themselves free and they kick their captors booty. Topical, weak, poorly done.- Council of mages... ? or was it a council of Barbarians? One would think that Mages are highly intellectual people not easily surrendering to their passionate side.... Still the mages council looks like a Vikings meetingThese are only some of the things that come to my mind right now. There are many more but I'm extending too much.2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As someone who played D&D for over ten years, I can say they included quite a few elements that I picked up on that some of my friends didn't. However, they still enjoyed the movie, as did I.  It wasn't the best I've ever seen, but all in all it made for an enjoyable evening.  The special affects are pretty cool and worth seeing on the big screen (particularly the dragon war).  Otherwise, I'd say rent it when it comes out on video.I was a little disappointed, though... anyone who has ever played can attest to why.  When was the last time anyone played a low level character, got into a dungeon of ANY form and didn't have to fight a giant rat! ) "},{"Title":"Watch this movie, not because it is good, but to support the genre.","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have been playing D&D for about 10 years and the story told in this movie left me completly baffeled. It made very little sense. Most of the characters are completly one dimentional. It seems that the director wanted to throw in as many D&D type monsters and magic items as possible, but if you dont already know what they are then you are in dark and all you have is a pretty special effect with no meaning. The movie also tried to portray some of the D&D steriotypes; such as dwarfs. In the game, dwarfs are fearless, hard drinkers, and hate horses. The director wanted people to know this so they thew a dwarf in the movie who drank, charged into battle pointlessly and said he was scared of horses. All in all in turned out pretty lame. In general, I would say watch this movie. Not because it is good, but because if we support this genre enough, they might actually make a good fantasy movie. Besides, the special effects are good enough that it is worth seeing just for that. "},{"Title":"May Dragons Fly In Your Dreams!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons & Dragons was a movie that I was waiting for so long in my life. Although an old player of the game I was expecting this movie because it was fantasy a genre that is missing from the cinemas. Many said that this movie was made because of the LoTR movie that will be in the theaters next year. But this is absolutely wrong. D&D is the dream of a thousands players around the world come true. The passion of the director Mr. Solomon was what made this picture come to life. I thank him for that. If you are wondering if it is a good movie and if you should spend your money watching it then the answer is YES. This movie is not a STAR WARS movie and it will never be a LoTR movie but is pure D&D movie. It has all the elements that a session of good roleplayers must have. This movie is like those few movies around the world that you can watch pleasantly without too much thought. It is a sit back and enjoy movie and be sure that when you will leave the theater it would have made your day. I believe that movies like this are why cinema was made in the first play. Visualization of the dreams was always keeping people alive! Feel free to feel alive too!  "},{"Title":"one of the best movies i've seen","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  dungeons and dragons was one of the most well thought out movies I've seen in a long time.  The graphics could have been better but the story line was excellent.  The producers stuck to the rules and they made a decent movie. I would highly recommend it to just about every one but especially to people who like magic and mischief. "},{"Title":"Overhyped for the D&D fan","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, it's true.  Dungeons and Dragons was a movie that was overhyped for what it was.  What was it?  A huge spectacle attempting to shed illumination on the mystery known as Dungeons and Dragons.Even at that it failed.  The opening sequence was amazing, and had set me up for a great movie.  I distinctly remember hearing myself say wow! at the detail of the city.  The wow!'s ended there however.The choice of actors was very poor and the setting was more of an amateur D&D campaign then a campaign we would've all loved to have read about. Being a fan of the books, I much rather would have had Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman write the script and have us follow the characters we all know and love, rather than follow these characters that I loathe.The plot development is very poor.  Right from beginning you know what the antagonists want.  Through the movie the characters develop poorly and make changes that are way out of their class.  ie A thief wielding a long sword. Granted this is possible in instances, but throughout the movie he refers to himself as a thief and we get no insight into his past that would show any training as anything more.The name Dungeons and Dragons, the 3d imaging at the beginning of the movie, and the music score are the only things that brought this movie up from its rating of a 3 to a 6.  I reserve 1's and 2's only for the most craptacular (Long live PCXL!) movies. "}{"Title":"Not that bad at all","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  You know, if you come with no expectations, it's not that bad of a movie. As a long time D&D player, the writing is just as bad or as good as things I've written, the over-dramatacism is perfect for a D&D world.  There were some odd high points (and some lame points as well).  The beholders were neat to see and the dragon CGI was, well, was a dragon CGI.  Once you just sit down and think about the D&D game and how it's usually played, this movie was perfect. "},{"Title":"A movie which generates few strong feelings, good or bad","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film manages to skirt the edges of boredom for its entire length without actually falling in.  It's about 80% watchable, 10% teeth-grating PC platitudes and 10% mildly interesting. The interesting Jeremy Irons is a delight to watch.  I hope he didn't break his teeth on the scenery.  The carpet trap is good, and the fate of the odious comic relief is certainly a relief.  The feel of the film somehow manages an undefinable sense of the game.  I'm not sure how, but it does.  Perhaps a badly-played game with a very poor DM, but the game nevertheless.  The Teeth-gritting  Elves spouting envirospeak about dragons being precious things; An Empress who rules by the power of a rod of dragon control declares everyone equal,as if that was some sort of legal definition.  I can only assume she means Equal under my absolute rule. Some of the more obviously stolen scenes, and there are many, from George Lucas films.  The Primary Villain's Henchmen's makeup choices.  The rest of the movie is an assemblage of scenes edited together, often in senseless ways, which one just watches with no particular feeling except to note inconsistencies.  Gamers will note that these characters are pretty low-level and obviously useless, and there's no way they could roll well enough to make it through this game alive.  The acting, with a few exceptions, is merely adequate, but the characters portrayed are so stereotypical that it's difficult to see how they could have been better. The special effects are of the quality of a modern video game, and are poorly used.  There's very little magic in evidence in the script, so we don't get to see cool spells.  The dragons, well...they have the interest of the droid soldiers from Phantom Menace and less personality.  They're just monsters, not characters, so the relative quality of their animation is rather moot.  They really don't add anything.  You don't care if one dies, and there are far too many in evidence to focus on any one.  So, sorry--while this film is watchable, I can't see any reason to see it in theatres.  Rent the video when it comes off the new release section.I rate it a 5. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Laugh","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Expecting nothing more then some neat computer animations, thats pretty much what I got.  It was pretty amazing how many plot lines they ripped off to get this movie.  It reminded me of at least 5 other movies.  It was palatable, albeit not all together mesmerizing.  If you are into neat effects, this one can at least entertain you for its running time, however if you require good acting and a decent plot, you might want to stay home. It does help that the cast was nice to look at. "},{"Title":"Mindless Fun","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a reformed gamer and avid sci-fi/fantasy film lover, I awaited the D&D movie, expecting pretty pictures and nothing else.  I got what I expected, plus a little more.  I found it pretty engaging, with some great special effects, and some pretty good action scenes.  Of course there were flaws, and even though I haven't played the game in about 10 years, I still noticed a few things out of place, such as the thief being able to fight as well as he did, and not doing thiefly things, such as using his backstab ability. Plus the dragons didn't talk, they seemed kind of mindless.  But the good parts outweighed the bad.  For example, as is required by the screenwriters guild since last year, every fantasy/sci-fi movie must have a Jar-Jar like character, but in D&D, they kill him.   Which of course rocks, especially when this Jar-Jar happens to be the most popular actor in the film.  I also dug the hell out of the Dwarf, he had the best lines of course.Over all, I gave the film an 8, and perusing through reviews, I see that a lot of people claimed this to be the worst movie of the year.  Obviously they didn't see Battlefield Earth.  At least D&D had action, and somewhat of a plot. "},{"Title":"Better than StarWars E1 (Hey, at least D&D wasn't all hype)","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  NOTE that this review may contain what a reasonable person might construe as a content spoiler. No plot spoilers exist in my review, but be warnedYou know what?  I spent $7.00 in hopes of NOT seeing some piece of garbage fantasy movie.  Those of you who spent your $7.00 to see a great piece of cinematic art should have your head examined. . . .I think everyone on the planet knew that this movie, just as every other fantasy movie, was going to be full of hammed-up acting.  I was pleasantly shocked to notice that, to say the very least, the acting (which, by fantasy movie standards was excellent) did not deter from the movie in any way.I am reminded of such movies as Mortal Kombat,Double Dragon,Mortal Kombat II and other such movies that I had to walk out or assume the risk of becoming a slave to commercialism.This movie was better than StarWars Episode One (SWE1).  First of all, one of the main reasons I did like this movie so much was because every time I turn on the TV now, I'm not bombarded by commercials showing some little green alien thing driving a taxi cab in search of tooth-rotting cola drinks. How many times can one watch this commercial before boycotting Pepsi and George Lucas alike?!Secondly, I had no expectations about this movie with the exception of the basic rules of D&D.  What I mean is, the movie stuck to the rules very well thieves can read scrolls, mages are usually thrown to the ground and sit in a fetal position during melee, and warriors wearing plate mail Damodar cannot, and did not, run.  So my only apprehension was satisfied.  With SWE1, I was expeciting to see some GREAT movie that would change my life forever!  Instead, I waited in line and spent my $6.25 to see a 2-hour long commercial for SW video games and t-shirts.Thirdly, this movie did not contain a toddler figure for all the little babies to like.  I'm refering to those ewok things, and Jarjar Binks (or however to spell his name).  These characters are meant to milk the last of society's money out of people by appealing to an age group that really doesn't understand what the movie is about, but they wished that ewoks did exist and could conquer the imperial storm troopers.Lastly, unlike SWE1, this movie was totally new, totally uninhibited, it actually had a purpose in being made.  I watched SWE1 and basically knew everything that was going to happen.  Did you NOT know that Qui-gon Jin (or however you spell what's his face's name) was going to die when he did? Did you not know Aniken (or however. .. you get the picture) was going to win the race and, thus, win his freedom?  There were twists in D&D that I thought were great, and were very original.  Also, the D&D movie was made of course, to make money but also to introduce this genre of movies to a whole new generation; I believe it is succeeding very well (better than what I had imagined it to do).  SWE1, of course not only introduced a new generation of Star Wars, but also to the dismal science of Economics and the smoke-and-mirrors art of Marketing.In conclusion, keep in mind that it is the notoriety of D&D that ultimately made it so popular that a movie was made in its behalf.  If everyone liked D&D, it would have suffered the same fate as SWE1.  And I'm not defending my appeal for this movie simply because I used to play D&D; on the contrary, I was probably more critical than you were.  And I don't like movies simply because of content or who wrote or directed them (George Lucas and Jane Campion come to mind).Vermut  "},{"Title":"Hopefully, a good starting ground...","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For a film that can mostly be considered an independent film (Made without the backing of any major movie house)..For a film that was kicked around for 10 years before finally coming to fruition..It is a good start.Everyone comments on the overacting (Irons as Super-Evil, Payne as Super-Dramatic, Birch as Super-Whiny) it appears that once again - people have forgotten that movies are sometimes just supposed to be fun.I sat there not knowing how the outcome would go in each scene.  For the first time in a while, I was in a movie not sure if or when a protagonist was going to bite it.There were times when I felt teased - like 'The Maze' - I expected there would be just one more trap, another challenge, something truly sinister. I wanted to see more of a dragon, not more dragons.But all in all - it is a light and campy film.  Sometimes the dialogue seems a bit too slow - but I believe this is just so that kids (who are as much of a target as anyone) don't get lost in it.Ironically, the overacting of it all TRULY fits if you consider what it is - Dungeons and Dragons.  Camped around a Dungeon Master on a late Friday night... I've seen just about every aspect that they had.  The snobbish elf, the drunken (grumpy) dwarf.  The Ambitious Mage and the Newfie Mage.  The Swashbuckler and the greedy thief that rarely stops to think about just how much noise all that stuff they steal is going to make...I guess a compliment for this movie would be my desire to see this turned into a live version of the old 80's Dungeons and Dragons Cartoon - available on the Sci-Fi network or something.Either way, hopefully this movie fares well enough to pique the interests of one of the larger movie houses to continue this into a fairly decent franchise... otherwise, like the game, we'll just have to keep playing and enjoying it on our own.--Micah "},{"Title":"Great movie with much that's been missing from other films","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First off, it's been a long time since I've seen a movie or TV show with baddies who are evil to the core with no...um...likability so to speak. Dungeons and Dragons not only has one rotten apple, it has TWO! From the very first scene, it's made clear that these 2 will stop at nothing to achieve their goals, and have a lot of fun doing it. Note Do not meet Profion and Damodar(sp?) in a dark alley. Try not to meet them at all. That aside, as I said, it was a great movie. I've heard alot of people say how the acting was terrible, but I didn't see it that way. I found the characters very real, something I also haven't seen in a while. I didn't get that feeling that this was a polished and spitshine movie. Everything was raw and just like how it would happen if it weren't just a movie, and the actors/actresses stayed true to that. Not a lot is explained, but I've heard there is to be a sequel, which means everything most likely will be explored in greater detail. My advice, if you can't stand not having everything spelled out for you, then don't watch this movie. It's a rare(unfortunately) breed of movie that challenges the viewers to pay attention. And yes, I thought the special effects were good, and I plan to buy the DVD when it comes out, and see the sequel when it comes out. hehe I also plan to see it again at the theatre tomorrow. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Fantasy","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was an enjoyable film.  Jeremy Irons is always wonderful no matter what role he plays and the special effects are very well done.  Thora Birch seemed rather inexperienced in her acting abilities - but that may have been because Jeremy Irons has such a great stage presence that he oftentimes overshadows less accomplished actors.  Some comedy, some corn, but overall a nice escape into a fantasyland. "},{"Title":"It sucks, but I like it better than The Lord Of The Rings...","Date":"15 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes, I am totally serious in my summary, but only because this rather low-rent adaptation of Dungeons & Dragons does not take itself so seriously. But therein lies the biggest problem. Dungeons & Dragons is not just a novel or a video game, it is a canon unto itself with a wealth of material that gives the likes of Superman a good contest. And because of the nature of the game, every story in Dugeons & Dragons, even if it is not necessarily entertaining or compelling, has a certain depth that is absent from this film. A good example would be the Eye Of The Beholder games. Even at their worst, the story that drove the adventures was replete with twists and turns that would have made a great motion picture. Not having played the actual game myself, even though I own one of the handbooks, I did not have any specific expectations when going into this film adaptation. Other than a decent story and some passable acting, that is. So when the first five minutes of the film passed, I was dumbfounded. Utterly dumbfounded.Aside from the overly dramatic score music and poorly-written narration, the first thing you will gawk at in Dungeons & Dragons is Bruce Payne's bright blue lips. Believe me when I tell you that they are the least of the film's problems. No, the real problem becomes evident when Jeremy Irons, one of the best actors working today, walks in and overacts like he is trying to perform in the midst of a violent hypoglycaemic fit. Having had plenty of those, I am speaking from experience when I say that it is a more plausible explanation than any other offered for Irons' performance, save for director Courtney Solomon actually asking him to act this way. But it gets even worse from there. About seven minutes into the film, we get our first earful of Marlon Wayans as Snails, a Human Thief who sounds like he has been too enthusiastic with the anal probe and the helium. By the time he utters his tenth squeal, you will literally be wondering how a canon with creatures colloquially known as landsharks by the residents can suffer this kind of fool.About the only redeeming scene in the entire film comes when the aforementioned Payne throws Wayans off a high platform and thus kills Snails stone dead. This has given rise to a convention in all role-playing games where, at the death of a character one is meant to give a rat's bottom about but does not, one yells out Snails! in their highest, whiniest voice. It is for a good reason. There has never been a character in a film we have wanted to see die so badly. Even Jar Jar Binks had a redeeming moment when he helped give birth to the Empire. Unfortunately, Zoe McLellan and Justin Whalin soon follow this up with a political debate that looks more like a pair of whining children arguing about who is more entitled to the last chocolate bar. Unfortunately, this is not exactly a unique moment in the film, with Thora Birch presenting the heroic side of an argument about whether an absolute monarchy should be set aside in favour of democratic rule in a manner that really leaves her opposition without need to say a thing.There are a few reasons why I prefer this mess of a film to The Lord Of The Rings. Primary among them is that where I can draw unintentional comedy value from Dungeons & Dragons, Return Of The King so seriously believes it is high art that even its failure to notice that it reads like the result of only reading every tenth page of the novel is excruciating. I laughed at D&D. By the time LOTR finally rolled out its credits for the last time, I was crying. But comparisons to one of the worst film adaptations of a novel in history cannot save D&D from the fact that it is a stunning example that one should be careful what they wish for. For years, vocal fans of the game made it clear they wanted a film made by someone who was a fan of the game, as opposed to the suits, the accountants who really run Hollywood. Well, they got what they wanted, with director Courtney Solomon being a fan so determined to make the film according to the idea of D&D that he had in his head that even his own lack of ability as a director could not stop him.And that, in a nutshell, is what killed Dungeons & Dragons at the box office. It is one thing to take a film so seriously that no fun can be discerned from the story when it is needed. It is another entirely to treat the thing as a complete joke. Because nobody in the story is taking their part seriously, the entire deal fails to connect with the viewer on any level, which is a fatal error where fantasy stories are concerned. The traditional market for these kinds of stories has been dominated by intellects, or the kind of people who would be reading Heinlein if they were not reading these stories, so treating the genre in such a cheap fashion is not the way to engage your audience. Especially not when the material you are making a mess of has so much potential. A power struggle between the mages and everyone else in the realm is not an easy story idea to waste so utterly. One reviewer once wrote that making a film or game this bad out of nothing is an everyday event, but making a film or game so bad out of source material like this takes a special effort.Hence, Dungeons & Dragons gets a one out of ten from me. It is so bad one can watch it just to see how terrible films really get. "},{"Title":"forget D and D think Doctor Who","Date":"6 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this is what I'm talking about baby. it was awesome. screw the D and D game anyway it sucked. And the props in the film were not that bad. I'm talking about the legend himself Tom Baker making an appearance as well as Jeremy Irons best role next to Die Hard With a Vengeance. I am so sick an tired of you guys not knowing how to have fun with a cool cheesy movie at the theaters. not everything has to be Shakespeare you know. what we have here is simply a fun action fantasy film. i loved every second of this film, and would highly recommend it to Doctor Who fans. as for you Dungeons and Dragons game fans all i can say is better luck next time. "}{"Title":"Just Great","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've seen so many people complain about this movie and I just want to say that this movie was exactly everything it should have been. It was a work of absolute beauty considering the source. Really, seriously the movie was perfect in every aspect at no point have I ever seen a book, or idea or genre go to the big screen and be translated so perfectly. The movie captured d&d (and this is from a past player and someone who enjoyed the game) so well, the dorkiness, nerdiness and geekyness the absolute feeling of a gaming session and brought it straight to the big screen, anyone who disagrees takes the game way to seriously. Now that being said it should be noted that if the movie had had any other title it would have been the most horrible fantasy movie ever made, and if you watch the genre then you know that this is a terrible, very terrible thing to be said of any movie. But really I left the movie totally fulfilled and I have been tempted to buy the movie. "},{"Title":"Made Me Cry","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Possible SpoilersNo not the kind of crying which involved an excellent movie or a sad story but one which involved laughter and utter hatred toward this movie. Lets start with the acting, Marlon Wayans as a serious character and main one at that being cast made no sense, then Justin Whalin trying to act was hilarious. Him going into an about three minute scream after Snails is killed made me fall out of my seat with laughter. Next the special effects. While watching, I was just trying to figure out what was floating by with the soldiers. It kind of looked like a meatball with one eye. Next the dragons flying around above the city was about the worst visualization i've seen (I couldn't tell what was a building and what was a dragon.) Finally the story. When a movie is based off a game, 99% of the time its going to be terrible. I played the original game and it pretty much had no resemblance to this thing. Four people just running around and finding themselves in forests and caverns which don't go along with the story is(if there ever really was one.)Dungeons and Dragons. 1/2 out of 5 Stars. "},{"Title":"i loved it with pure hatred","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" SPOILER2 hours of my life wasted, i could have been doing anything, sleeping, grating cheese, even hugging trees....anything would have made more sense than watching this excuse for a movie. In a word, it was amazing. Everything about it was embarrassing to say the least, the dragons look like imaginatively coloured twiglets, and the acting seemed only rivalled by my pet hamster...my dead pet hamster. As story goes, the purpose of the red dragon seemed irrelevant compared to the purpose of the film, in contrast with today's world of equality...an excellent aspect that the writers should be commended upon. The purpose of the ginger dwarf seemed weird, as all the ginger dwarfs I know, have blonde hair...awesome.The actor Jeremy Irons whom I deeply respect, did not contribute to his career by participating in this film. His eccentric behaviour was one of the most off-putting aspects of the film, because as we all know, he is capable of much deeper performances.However, with all this in consideration, i would still go out and buy it.... but only for the comedy value, and nothing more.Overall i give this masterpiece of acting and special effects a 9/10 "},{"Title":"How Dungeons and Dragons Tried To Be The Next Star Wars.","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I love this movie. I really do. I saw it during its theatrical run and laughed so hard that I literally started crying at one point; so when it ended up on DVD, I had to own it. During the year-and-a-half that it has been in my DVD library, I've discovered an interesting fact I...can't...stop...watching it.Now, why do I enjoy this movie so much and publically p*** all over the far superior Star Wars prequels? Well, for one thing, I don't have any emotional stock in D&D. It's a terrible movie with two-dimensional characters, bad writing, horrible direction, and so many cliches that if you tried making it into a drinking game you'd surely die of alcohol poisoning. It's never more than it appears to be a potato chip movie. Sure, it'll rot the brain--but only if you take it seriously (which, I'm afraid, the creative forces behind it did, much to their undoing).Star Wars, however, DOES mean something to me...So when I see one of THOSE films and find it's riddled with two-dimensional characters, bad writing, horrible direction and a multitude of cliches, I have to wonder whether or not we even need Spaceballs anymore. Anyway, I expect more of Mr. Lucas...but NOT of Courtney Solomon.Solomon and his screenwriters sought to create a trilogy here to cash in on the Star Wars phenomenon, and because the anticipation for the first installment of LOTR was growing, a fantasy setting seemed an obvious choice. However, the allusions to LOTR are slight (probably because it had yet to roll off the block); but it's a near-perfect copy of Episode I with a few OT moments thrown in. Obviously, after the success of Phantom Menace, it seemed an easy tomb to rob. The only thing that surprises me is how few critics (or fanboys) have mentioned it.**************************************************1)THE OPENING TEXT CRAWLAnytime a fantasy/sci-fi movie opens with either a text or voice reading that sets the stage, we're reminded of Star Wars, which did it perfectly and without the pretentiousness that its imitators embraced. In D&D, Bruce Payne supplies the narrative. It's Star Wars in every way, right down to the way the last sentence trails off (But the evil mage Profion has other plans....).2)THE YOUNG QUEENNow, I don't understand why I was the only one with a problem with the concept of Queen Amidala. First of all, in a monarchy, you don't ELECT a queen; and secondly, if you do, you vote for the candidate who ISNT thirteen years old. Seriously, how do you LOSE an election like that...?D&D aped this completely. She's young. She's idealistic. She's wooden. She wears god-awful dresses and gaudy head-pieces. Hell, if you want to get REALLY nit-picky about it, you could say that Solomon cast Thora Birch because of the strategically-placed moles on her face that suggest Amidala's red dot thing.3)THE OLDER, TRUSTED ADVISOR WHO'S GONE BADInstead of Palpatine, we're treated to Profion, the worst role Jeremy Irons ever took (and his equally worst performance). Behind the scenes, Profion is plotting to overthrow the queen (referred to as the empress so as not to seem too blatant a rip-off), and is sowing seeds of discord within the council (senate) in order to overthrow her rule. His dirty work, however, is saved for his chief lieutenant...4)THE DARK WARRIORBruce Payne's character, Damodar, is equal parts Darth Vader and Darth Maul. He's a towering, sadistic, black-clad, slow-moving and unbelievably strong armour-clad warrior (Vader) who also happens to be bald-headed and painted with stupid-ass make-up (Maul, who didn't look stupid-ass at all). If this wasn't enough, listen for the thinly disguised echo of The Imperial March when he first appears at the magic school.5)LUKE/HANIn Ridley, we have a combination of the Luke and Han characters. He's a scoundrel who cares nothing for the greater good, but in the end, is willing to turn aside from his love of money (he rejects a pile of easily obtainable gold) in favour of saving the kingdom from the evil Profion. Also we learn that he has latent magical abilities, stemming from his father (this was to be expanded upon in the sequels, when Damodar tells Ridley, No--I am your father!).6)JAR-JAR REDUXMarlon Wayans. Good God, could the allusion be any more transparent. Let's see he's a tall, gangly African-American stereotype spouting catch-phrases, bungling his way in and out of trouble, and generally getting on our *beep* nerves with his not-so-fun humour. Hell, he even has a hat that resembles a pair of goofy, Gungan-like ears. The only satisfaction is that he dies painfully.7)THE SCOUNDREL AND THE GOOD GIRLLike Leia and Han before them, Ridley and Marina come from two different worlds he's an opportunistic creep and she's a member of the aristocrisy. At first they bitch at each other to work out the sexual tension; but in the end, fall in love, much to our great surprise.8)THE MIND RAPERemember when Vader interrogated Leia, using the mind probe to extract the necessary information? In this movie, he uses a pair of penises that live in his ears.9)LET'S SAVE THE GIRL FROM THE IMPENETRABLE FORTRESS!Hey--it's the only way to steal back the much-sought-after plans, right? And while we're there, let's have a main character die, allowing for our hero to scream NOOOOO! (while Milking A Giant Cow, no less).10)CITIES IN TREESAt least the elf cities in LOTR looked elegant. The one here looks shockingly similar to the Ewok village.11)THE SWORDFIGHTWhen Ridley and Damodar have their duel, the clash of their blades creates a lightning effect, rendering the bad guy's sabre red and the good guy's sabre blue. Damodar is finally defeated after Ridley does a leap, sucker-slashes his foe in the midsection, who then falls over a steep drop. It all seemed vaguely familiar...12)RESISTING THE DARK SIDERidley is momentarily seduced by dark magic during the climax; but only by turning aside and embracing the light can he persevere. No! I won't become...YOU!13)BORING POLITICS AND BAD CGI.Come on you know it's true.14)SPLIT-SECOND ESCAPE CHOICESWhen reaching a dead-end while pursued by baddies, our heroes take the smelliest possible escape route through the sewers. To reach this destination, they must dive head-first down a chute where they land in a pool of cr@p (not unlike the Death Star trash compactor, or all of Attack of the Clones).15)OTHER BLATANT RIP-OFFSNeed I mention how Ridley keeps grinning and saying, Trust me? Or how he goes through the Thieves' Maze, a series of riddles straight out of all three Indiana Jones movies? Or about the scene where Marina, belly-down on the floor, is grasping for the scroll, which during the fight, is getting kicked around like a certain diamond in The Temple of Doom? Or how Ridley is stabbed in the shoulder and can be healed only by the King of the Elves? Or that scene where.....You get the point. Watch this movie. Watch it RIGHT NOW. It might be a hodgepodge of rehashed ideas, but it's ten times more entertaining than these new Star Wars movies.By the way a sequel has been officially greenlit. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"22 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For someone who hasn't played Dungeons and Dragons, it was a good movie. The acting, specials f/x, costumes, and storyline were decent (with the exception of Jeremy Irons' overacting). I think that not enough credit it given to this film because the D&D devotees wanted some exact duplication of the game they played. IT'S A MOVIE!   "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Totally true to the game!  I loved the banter between Snails and Ridley. I believe Justin Whalin and Mark Wayans make a fantastic team in this movie! The scenery and other actors were surprisingly superb.  It works!  My whole family enjoyed it!  We need more!!!!1 "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie - complaints few and far between, AND easily fixed","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeon's and Dragons is an excellent movie. The special effects are great, the story's good and it's well executed. However, there are quite a few people that complain about plot holes and over-acting. Profion (played by Jeremy Irons) is the only one I might consider saying was over-acted, but he's supposed to be at least semi-insane, so it fits. There are a number of small plot holes and some things that need better explanations, but nearly all of them would be fixed with a better cut of the movie. They cut far too much out. It's less than two hours (110 min I think). A couple more scenes and an extension here and there to a few of them and almost every complaint is fixed. The DVD will be Director's Cut and have a lot of extra stuff on it, so that should fix most of the problems. This movie is supposed to be the first of three, but we'll have to see if this one does well enough for the other two to be made. I hope that it does. I urge you to see it. It's great fun to watch. I've seen it four times and am planning to go see it again. Awesome movie! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most would have you believe.","Date":"21 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" While not a masterpiece of any kind (the film barely exceeds mere competence) I didn't find D&D to be as bad as the negative reviews claimed. I put off watching it for so long for this reason, but it was enjoyable enough.Comparisons to the LOTR trilogy are inevitable, so I'm not going to avoid it. I didn't really like the LOTR trilogy. It just seemed to be a bunch of movies that everyone was forced to like and if you didn't then there must be something wrong with you. Yes, they are much, much better made than the rather quaint D&D, but if you want a smaller, unassuming fantasy ride then don't completely rule this movie out.The visual effects and production design of D&D are very similar to Paul Anderson's Mortal Kombat. Yes, it looks fake, but with just a little bit of suspension of disbelief you'll not even notice. I have a feeling that Courtney Solomon tried really hard to make it a good film but his talent doesn't extend as far as his enthusiasm.In terms of character and story it is all pretty bland and generic. There's nothing in this movie that you haven't seen somewhere else. The actors do their best with the tepid dialogue and almost manage to not look embarrassed. The best thing about the film is it's surprisingly ferocious (maybe a bit too OTT) sound design. And the Dragon fight at the end was impressive for a medium budget film.I was actually surprised to find Joel Silver's name on the closing credits. I will assume that without him the film would have been a REAL stinker. And what's with that ending? Either way, I am still interested in the sequel. "},{"Title":"not THAT bad.... Flawed, yet entertaining","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Having bought the DVD recently for a euro or five form a bargain bin, I realize that this isn't such a bad movie.Sure, it has some things going against it 1 Marlon Wayans, occasionally funny.but in general more annoying than Jar-Jar BINKS. 2 Bruce Paynes blue lips 3 Too many dragons, too few dungeons 4 SFX/CGI that seemed to be taken from PS(2) cut-scenes 5 A Council. A (rebelious) Princess. A princess which a dress and hairstyle to match for each scene. A very annoying sidekick. Where have I seen that before... Oh yes...Episode I.Some extra comments 3 it's called dungeons and dragons. Have you seen any dungeons? Right. Thought so. Dragons we see in abundance. But so many that you start to wonder, whether it would have been better to limit it to only a few good rendered CG dragons, instead of 100 mediocre rendered CG dragons. 4 See previous comment. Though, since it is a low-budget film, compared to e.g. Episode I, so I won't hold it against them. Flaws I can live with 1 Campy acting, somebody mentioned Xena. True that! 2 poor SFX, not everybody is called George Lucas 3 flawed script; remember episode I. II and III? My point exactly.Seeing the movie after almost 8 years, I find the movie isn't that bad. Sure, it's no Oscar material, and maybe not Cinema material, but I find it better than Eragon. For the first time I watched it without being (too) judgmental. And I must admit that I found the movie entertaining. Flawed as it is, the acting is decent, the SFX are okay and the script actually makes sense enough to seem to be a logical stream of events (note the use of the verb seem)In short it kept me busy for an evening without feeling I wasted my time. "},{"Title":"The Director should have been flogged","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was more curious then truly excited when I heard about this film, though featuring a decent budget and filmed on location in the Czech Republic, most notably the old city section of Prague, I was not expecting a masterpiece. After 'The Lord of the Rings' trilogy came out, this film would look even worse. One of the signs of doom was Shawn Wayans, 'Why Dear God Why' was he in this film, was it a vain attempt to diversify the cast a little, they could have done better, they could have also done worse, if Chris Tucker was in this film my rating would have gone down to a one. I also think Lee Arenburg to be entertaining, but him as a dwarf with no camera angles to make him look shorter, I can't buy a 5'6 dwarf, even if John Rys-Davies played him.(warning spoiler!!!)The plot while featuring elements of a typical D&D setting seemed to lack any of the more subtle conventions which could have added immensely to the film, like random monsters attacking the party or a real dungeon crawl, only one scene came close, the labyrinth under the thieves guild. If just for comic relief they had one 10'x10' room with some orcs and a chest I would have at least had a good laugh. The sequel was much better in that respect.Thora Birch's delivery is absolutely awful, she must have just phoned this one in, because she is otherwise a fine actress if she has a good director. The only pleasure brought to the screen by the cast was Jeremy Irons, who hammed it up to 'Vincent Price levels', and no hack director was going to question him either, hence me giving this film a 2, if they had some other hack in his part it would be lower.I recommend this film if you want to shock your friends on movie night, or just get them back for something, or for giving it an MS3K treatment. "}{"Title":"A true future camp comedy classic","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Lets face it most people doing movies, especially fantasy movies are morons. Conan The Barbarian is one of the few good pre 'Lord Of The Rings' fantasy films, yet most pre-LOTR fantasy films tried to ape up CtB inferior sequel 'Conan The Destroyer' and 'Red Sonja'. This is also the case with 'Dungeons And Dragons', a movie based on the famous RPG.A couple of months ago I might have gone as far as claimed, that DnD was the worst movie I've ever had pleasure to witness, but that was before I had introduced myself to the movies made by Dr. Boll. That is the level DnD manages to stay out of, yet I am not claiming this to be a good movie, quite the opposite really. It just is as bad, that it is actually quite hilarious. In every aspect, expect when it tries to be funny.The badness of the film ranges from the notable actors to the feeble script. Jeremy Irons, one of the greatest actors of our time, is hamming up the role of eeevil mage Profion just from the heck of it. His overacting is so dramatic that it is drop dead funny. Funniest character of the film is Mr. Blue Lips (Bruce Payne ), vastly overacting henchman of Profit, er, Profion.The plot is quite simple the empress Savina (Thora Birch) is like the guide book to American Democracy, trying to give equal right to commoners and mages. Profion is of course the baddie, who wants the power. So Jimmy Olsen, sorry, Ridley (Justin Whalin, who hasn't changed since 'Lois & Clark The New Adventures of Superman') and totally unfunny lines throwing Snails (Marlon Wayans), who is just a bit above Jar Jar Binks, need to get Eye of The Dragon in order to get Staff Of The Dragon, that can control dragons. Oh and they have this dwarf sidekick, who has the most laughable false beard of the movie history.The writing is simply put amateurish from the pro democracy speeches of the empress (isn't that a bit of an oxymoron really), to the badly done death scenes and hilariously bad lines thrown by Irons.CGI effect scenes would be good, if they would be sticked on a computer game, though lately more than few games have shown better graphics than DnD does.To put this all in perspective, DnD is not the worst film I've seen, it's just a bad movie. It's bad in a way it is hilarious.Real movie score 2 out of 10. I kind of liked a couple of scenes in the film.Camp movie score 8 out of 10. If this isn't a future camp classic I don't know what is. Mr. Blue lips alone is enough to rise this movie in the same league with Ed Wood's 'Plan Nine from Outer Space'. "},{"Title":"Avoid these dungeons","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dungeons & Dragons is so terrible, I can't help myself from laughing at people who say they liked this film.This is one of the worst mistakes ever made in Hollywood. I had an inkling of what the end result of this film would be; however, I wanted to give it a chance.The first problem is the lack of plot to accompany the numerous action sequences. It seems to me that the action was supposed to be the main draw. I can only assume the writer forgot that there are people who actually like to see a film with BOTH action and story when they see a film. In addition, the cause of fighting the villain is so stupid; who cares.The second problem I see was the casting of all the main players in this film. Combine an unestablished actor with little film experience and zero talent with a very talented veteran such as Jeremy Irons and you have a disastrous film called Dungeons & Dragons. Dungeons & Dragons should have stayed locked in a dungeon in a far off place so nobody has to go the suffering I did when I saw this film. Avoid these dungeons at all costs, but should you not heed my warning I feel sorry for you. "},{"Title":"Don't  let anal retention spoil your fun","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I played various role playing games during roughly 10 years, and this little B movie actually managed to remind me of a few evenings spent tossing dices around with some buddies.Let's face it  your average dungeon master is neither a novel writer nor a famed actor. His imagination is most of the time limited, he has to tap the classics to fuel the plot (Star Wars or Indiana Jones spring to mind immediately )), his descriptions are somewhat sketchy, he can barely enact a couple of characters in his scenario except by reducing them to caricatures of their alignment and so on.Well that was just the feeling this movie delivered.No plot to speak of, but half a dozen very D&Desques scenes. Take the inn brawl for instance. Here you get all the clichés of the genre, including the henchmen walking in line like a bunch of cardboard stormtroopers whit a corncob stuck where the sun does not shine, the amusing dilemma I'm sure every single RPG gamer had to face one day (will you save your friend or your girl?), and the non player characters waiting obligingly for the heroes to pull their act together. Not a trace of realism, and why bother with consistency ? It is during action scenes that the players have fun. Just pure D&D feeling ) No characters to speak of either, but a handful of surprisingly funny caricatures  the lawful evil warrior and his obsessive and pointless sadism, the chaotic evil sorcerer and his megalomaniac rantings, the extremely dense dwarf chucking lumps of meat in the general direction of his mouth while quaffing cheap ale, and so on.As for the sets, costumes and SFX, here again they go right to the point  it HAS to be flashy, brand new looking, and completely over the top. I mean, your average D&D game tells the story of true heroes in a dream world, not the twists and turns of the career of a sales accountant in a shabby suburb ).Well, to sum it up this is an extremely cheesy movie, somewhere between B and Z depending on your fondness for tongue-in-cheek caricatures, but nevertheless I had quite a lot of fun watching it. Not sure the way I enjoyed it was what the director had in mind, though. "},{"Title":"I feel guilty about giving it a 7 but MAN did it ever make me laugh!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  So in all honesty this movie is crap, it deserves all the 1's it gets. But for some reason (and I know this was not the film's intentions) I was in hysterics throughout the entire movie, I've never laughed so much at a movie that wasn't really meant to be laughed at. I've watched it twice since seeing it in the theatre and it had the same effect both times. And the director's commentary on the dvd is priceless. This is a terrible, TERRIBLE movie and I know it. But gosh it sure is amusing watching Thora Birch and Jeremy Irons struggling painfully to get their tongues around some of the lines they were blessed with! Maybe I found it so funny because I had no idea what to expect from this movie (and was dragged to it on opening night by a friend who played Dungeons and Dragons when he was a kid, needless to say he was less than impressed with my reaction). I've got to say my recommendation is if you're having a crappy, crappy day Dungeons and Dragons will cheer you up because come on people! this is a film that was SO bad it became unbelievably funny. I'm still looking to buy it USED for cheap and I'll be sure proud to own it when I do ;)  "},{"Title":"Its a tough job","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Its a tough job trying to make a movie based on something as well know as D&D. The only people you could realistically expect to want to see this movie are fanboys. That the problem. Fanboys come in with huge expectations about what their favorite RPG should look like on the big screen. As movies go D&D was average at best, as a movie based on a game it was horrible. The non-human characters looked like they were costumed by the Salvation Army, and the acting of many was deserving of a Golden Turkey. The only reason I even watched this film was to see if it was really as bad as my friends thought it was, and because I acted with Zoe in a touring company her senior year. Side note-For anyone that cares it looks like Zoe has a bit role in Mona Lisa Smile with Julia Roberts. Anyway, D&D was pretty poorly done, just as many movies are that are based on established products (LOTR being an exception). I just hope the Rifts movie turns out better than this thing did. "},{"Title":"good effect , okay directing and bad story line","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i have already seen this movie and after i saw it, i think this movie could be great but it ruined by the story line or plot. what were they think! they should review the whole thing before they make it to the movie but the damaged already been done and i hope these people will not make a same mistaken. the special effect especially the dragons are awesome and the music score quite nice. most of the cast are played a well part but the story so lame. so i give it 6/10   "},{"Title":"TOTAL crap!!","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I only watched this piece of s**t 'cause my friend, in all his ignorance, told me that I'd get a kick out of it.. how wrong he was. I can't believe some folks are actually going on about how good the effects are. WHAT? The bluescreen work is horrible and the dragons look soooo animated. If you want good effects (and a hell of a lot better movie), slip on Starship Troopers. And what the hell were they thinking casting some non-talented pretty boy Whalin and the always SO irritating Wayans. I'm not even gonna go to Irons' overacting and those absolutely ridiculous things coming out of Payne's ears. I hated this movie with all my heart. Approach with extreme caution.* / ***** "},{"Title":"Tragic - an embarrassment to the name...","Date":"6 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When this movie opened at the cinema, it got some truly awful reviews. As an avid D&D player and fan, I took great offence. I thought it was the typical case of highbrow, arty-farty movie reviewers who hate everything that isn't a foreign art film not being able to appreciate a fantasy movie. And then I saw it. Every poor review had been correct - in fact, they had been downright generous. This film was destined to be an underground cult movie for D&D fans, but instead of writing it as such, it was written to have a broader appeal. It fails on all counts. The storyline was pathetic (an episode of Hercules or Xena would have more twists and nuances), all of the characters are just plain awful - with no personality or depth whatsoever, and even the special effects are terrible. The performance of Justin Whalin as Ridley Freeborn is especially painful. Even Thora Birch (whom I adore) delivers a poor performance; but then again, she isn't given much to work with. On a more geeky level, this movie didn't even resemble D&D (the role-playing game), it was just a generic fantasy film. Nothing which makes the game unique was faithfully represented in this movie. The scenes at the tavern and the thieves guild looked more like the Cantina scene from Star Wars than a glimpse into the established fantasy realms of D&D. If it didn't bear the name Dungeons & Dragons, and was released back in the same era that spawned such campy classics as Beastmaster, Sword and the Sorceror, and Hawk the Slayer, then I might have enjoyed it as a bit of harmless fluff. But to be the end result of the long awaited movie adaptation of the role-playing game, it failed miserably. The team that inflicted this monstrosity upon us should look to movies like Willow, Dragonslayer and Lord of the Rings, and then hang their heads in shame. I can't recommend this film on any level, except possibly as a kids movie, and even then I could think of about 100 better movies to recommend for children.  "},{"Title":"Is it the worst movie ever?","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Quite possibly.  I haven't seen it since it was in the theater, but it still bothers me to this day.  I normally like anything in the fantasy genre.  I never played the game when I was a kid, but I've read some of the books that TSR has put out.  I couldn't believe how bad the movie was.  From the way she was acting, you'd think that Thora Birch had never even seen the script before filming and was reading cue cards.  I like Jeremy Irons, but he was overacting.  I have never seen or read of any dwarf as tall as the one in this movie.  I think the only character that was realistic was the elf.  The Wayans brother that was in this reminded me of the old 30s movies that portrayed blacks as inferior.  I might have enjoyed this movie when I was 10, but now it is absolutely painful to watch.  Use your money to have your car washed or something, this movie is terrible. "},{"Title":"Pathetic abortion","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Where does one begin with this utterly worthless piece of cinematic junk? The fact that it's the result of the director's decade-long effort to bring it to the big screen just makes it that much more contemptible. I mean, how much sadder could it be? What a waste of ten years of your life. All the actors are terrible, particularly Jeremy Irons whose scenery-chewing must be seen to be believed. Thora Birch sounds like she's reading her lines off a cue card. But Damon Wayans (or whichever Wayans brother it is) should be singled out for especial opprobrium. He apparently channeled Stepin Fetchit for this role. (Guess that's why he wasn't up for an Essence Award that year.) You can just hear some studio exec saying, You know what this medieval fantasy film needs? A hip, urban edge! Bring us in a jive-talking brother! For a long time Phantom Menace was on my top ten worst films of all time list, but this one tops (bottoms?) it because at least Lucas' film had decent CGI effects. The script is nothing but endless cliches, everything that makes 95% of all fantasy films simplistic garbage. In summation, utterly worthless, no redeeming qualities whatsoever. Not even good in a bad, ironic way.    "}{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, and then even worse than that","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Please do not see this movie unless you are under 15 years old, have played Dungeons & Dragons, and do not care about racial sensitivity whatsoever. It would probably help if you were male.This movie is bad.  Understand, I am a geek.  I have spent many, many fun-filled hours playing Dungeons & Dragons.  I should have liked this movie.  I did not.  And it's not because of the whole D&D purist thing. The movie's actually pretty good there.  I could identify particular spells and creatures.  Got to see a beholder; that's fun.  The main thief's sword looked a little fat to be a long sword or a short sword, more like a short broadsword, but let's not pick nits.The acting comes across as bad even from people you *know* can act (Jeremy Irons, Thora Birch).  Maybe it was the ham-fisted directing.  Maybe it was the repetitive soundtrack.  Maybe it was the horrible script and story that sounded not like they were written for 14 year old geeks but *by* 14 year old geeks.  Maybe it was the poor voiceover work done for Kristen Wilson. Who knows; but this movie stunk on ice.However by far the worst thing was Marlon Wayons's character, Snails. Snails is a textbook bumbling, prancing, skittish, cowardly, squeaking, ineffective, constantly carping, low-moraled, moon-eyed, lip-curled, African American sidekick.  I mean, you see bits of that all over the place, but I haven't seen such a broad portrayal in years.  I swear you could teach classes on this part - Demeaning Portrayals 101.  It was embarrassing.  I just kept looking at it saying, Why?  Why?  Why?  I know you're thinking that I'm just some over-sensitive whiner, but trust me.  This is bad. When Snails gets in trouble, you'll be rooting for the bad guy to put you out of your misery.Do yourself a favor, if you want swords and sorcery, rewatch _Lord of the Ring_.  Leave this stinker for the poor boobs who blow their roll on the treasure table. "},{"Title":"Review from a roleplayers","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Keep in mind that I am a D&D fan, and a Fantasy fan, and a movie fan... and this was the worst, most painful, most awfulest (I made up that word to show just HOW monumentially bad this move is) pile of cliche filled, CG-ruined, badly acted, poorly scripted piece of unmitigated crap I have ever witenessed on a screen.  And I've been forced to watch She's All That!This movie is boring, non-sensical and painful.  Nothing makes sense. Everything happens for the sake of it happening.  The characters are dull and one dimensional.  And yes (spoiler) one of them gets killed... but honestly, I was cheering because he was the most annoying person I have ever had the misfortune of paying to see.Normally, a bad movie you can have fun making fun of.  Not this one.  It is dreary, over-long, and simply PAINFUL to watch.  ARG!  I'd ask for my time and money back, but I feel that this movie taught me a lesson... when all you friends say don't go see it... it is THAT bad... listen to them. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  i have never been so bored in my life until i watched this movie. what is surprising i sat through it.  never see this movie it blows.  Marlon Wayans was horible like he is in everyone of his movies that i have seen.  Jeremy Irons should just stick to what he is good at being the voice of scar from the lion king.  overall this movie isn't worth watching "},{"Title":"not great at all","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this film, I had not really high expectations for it, but fairly high ones. So, I rented it once on the recommendation of a friend (I never took his advice again) and I was extremely dissapointed. It was not very good. It had all the points to a Razzie Award winning film (although, surprisingly it did not win or even get nominated for any.) It had horrible characters, costumes that would be great for a stage show, but terrible for a modern fantasy movie. It had bad makeup (look at Damadar's lips and other details) and the worst visual effects that I have ever seen in a fantasy movie that I have seen in a long time. The script was very bad, and there was way to much overacting (Jeremy Irons, Zoe McLellan, Jason Whalon, Bruce Payne, and at times, Marlon Wayons.) Thora Birch played a copycat of Queen Amidala, just in a different film. My point is, if you want to go see a good fantasy film, go see The Lord of the Rings The Fellowship of the Ring, or Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. "},{"Title":"If this director ever works again it is a travesty!","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a shambles.  The plot is thinner than a very thin wafer! There is no real justification for the massive fight between the dragons at the end.  Why would the Empress set a heard of dragons on the evil Jeremy Irons & the sheep like governors?  Codswallop.   "},{"Title":"Utter garbage","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is, as said above, UTTER GARBAGE. From start to finish, I didn't laugh, cry or even move from the slouched position in my seat. The SFX were laughable, my Dad went to make five cups of coffee through out, each of the trips lasting 10 minutes (I wish I could have thought of that). I know I could have left the room, I know I should have left the room, but for some reason I just didn't.Which ever girl was casted to play the Empress should ask Paul McKenna to remove the hypnosis, and Jeremy Irons should cut back on the prozac.Do not watch this! Do not! Although I guess if you are reading this you already have and are coming here to complain. Watch Willow instead which so much better, so so much better.2/10 "},{"Title":"Don't blame the actors","Date":"15 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just saw this on DVD and feel I have to come to the defense of the actors. NOBODY could read such hideous dialogue without looking bad.My D&D days are a couple decades ago, but from what I remember there was an actual creative element involved. Not so here. Characters go from point A to point B with no real motivation or purpose. Get the Eye of the Dragon. Put it in the dragon's eye (duh) to open the door. Have it somehow back in your possession to put on your friend's grave. Turn into pixie dust. Who wrote this garbage?Marlon Wayans isn't *quite* as annoying as Jar Jar Binks, but he tries. "},{"Title":"One thing saved it..","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Now look.. I love the game, and am an avid fan. However, right off the bat, I did not expect much. It lived up to my expectations and not a penny over. The movie had two things going for it, and one thing that saved it from dying. Many people had the opinion that the game was incredibly medieval. This totally gave a new perspective to the public. The only thing that kept me watching was Zoe McLellan. That girl is such a hottie, and deserves an Oscar for putting up with Marlon Wayans. Now.. What really confused me was Thora Birch. Now, I know that girl has some talent, because she did an okay job in American Beauty. However.. She must have had a horrible script writer, or something.. I mean.. she was just bad.. "},{"Title":"In all honesty, those who say they liked this movie should be checked for mental illness.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Literally the worst movie I have seen since the Flintstones.I cannot believe that people who claim to make films professionally actually produced this piece of rubbish. It must be their idea of a joke. Zoe McClellan is HORRIBLE. I haven't seen porn stars this bad. And the remaining actors are well below average -- probably because of utterly clueless directing.Most any college lit student could write a better plot, and the Dungeons and Dragons licensed is urinated upon. Not only did I waste 90 minutes watching this movie, I'm now wasting brain cells counting the ways in which they violated even the most basic rules of Dungeons of Dragons.Zoe McClellan does get credit for delivering the worst line in the history of Hollywood (You're made of magic?) without injuring herself.The CG effects are amateurish and over-used, with no attempt to mesh them in with the filmed environment. The props look like they were bought at Wal-Mart they day of filming -- an ancient artifact that looks more like The Club (TM) and a gravestone that looks like Donald Duck. "},{"Title":"Worst fantasy movie ever","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It's going to be eons before a movie this bad is released again.I was at the neighborhood Circuit City when I saw a demo for Bose speakers. The demo shows clips from this movie, and the speakers were pretty impressive.  Coincidentally, they had the movie on Encore the next night. So, I sat down and watched it.It started off bad, but just as with my stock market investments, I stuck with the movie, hoping things would eventually get better. And, much like my investments, the movie only moved faster downhill.To call the movie predictable, and the dialogue cliched would be too much praise for this piece of ignominious trash.  Thora Birch,  comes off more as a petulant delinquent, than as a powerful queen.  I hope they paid Jeremy Irons a ton of money, 'cause this movie certainly does his reputation no good.  And the movie has the brave hero, Ridley Freeborn (Justin Whalin), cowering in a corner near the climax of the movie.Fortunately, I had set aside the duration of the movie for vegging anyway. Otherwise, I would also let out a wail about the wasted time.And, oh, about my stocks, I bailed out of the market before it hit rock bottom.  I only wish I was as smart watching this movie. "}{"Title":"Worst movie ever!","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm sorry I ever bought this video. It was a total disappointment. First of all, they tried to make it funny but there was only one good joke. They could have made a parody, or then use completely different characters and plot but no... Make-up then, the ladies had visible lipstick, not such a good fantasy element. And then there was this guy with blue lipstick, what was the point, to kill everyone with laughter?! One good thing there was the backgrounds in the dragon fight scene, the sky looked just like one in some fantasy paintings. But the makers of this movie should have remembered that a film is more than a painting, it needs a good plot and interesting characters. "},{"Title":"Yikes!","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, let's face the truth Dungeons & Dragons is by far the worst Hollywood movie released in 2000. It has everything to deserve a rating at the bottom of the ladder bad acting, a boring and foreseeable script (I mean it!) and definitely the worst special effects I have seen in a long time (when I say worst I mean that the level was comparable to TV productions). I didn't expect anything when I went to see the movie with my friends, and I got even less. One of my favorites for the title Worst movie of all time. "},{"Title":"The A-Z of how NOT to make a movie","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Close your eyes. Imagine this movie never existed. Now open them. Damn, it's still here.Anyone who tries to defend this movie or says it's any good is trying vainly to defend there decision to see it. To any film students -  It's so incredibly bad it's funny. If you appreciate high budget pre-film school film-making (or should I say pre-school film-making) then you'll get plenty of laughs out of this one. Every idea you've ever thought better of, is in here. Yes it's even got the hero, holding hands aloft, screaming Nooooooo! to the heavens. Ah it doesn't get worse than that. If at all possible get the DVD that has the director's commentary and get twice the laughs as the film maker tell you how great each scene is when clearly they are all rubbish.A complete embarrassment and recommended viewing for all film students. It's an A-Z of what not to do.  "},{"Title":"Awful..Awful..Awful","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a long time player of the game (D&D) and long time fan of Fantasy and SF.  This film was awful from end to end.  I've seen 1 hour afternoon series on second string networks tower head and shoulders over this.  $35 Million dollar budget?!  They couldn't spare $5000 to hire some literature student to write a decent plot?There are few enough decent fantasy films (although, this past year 2001-2002 has been improving) put to the screen.  If you feel compelled to watch this film, stop yourself and rent a copy of Harry Potter, or wait for the release of the Fellowship of the Ring.  To this day, we see discount copies of 'Dungeons and Dragons' and my wife elbows me in the ribs and asks if we want a copy... I recognize that she's mocking my rental choice from early last year...Save yourself the embarrassment of sitting through this garbage.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie ever","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is nothing good about this movie, the storyline is ridiculous. the actors are worse than bad and the special effects are to laugh at especially at the end. I saw that movie in the theater and am ashamed of it... "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Was this movie meant as a joke? Well, they didn't catch me laughing. I have honestly never seen a movie this bad in my life, bar none. Storyline, dialogues, acting, directing, special effects, they are all bottom-of-the-barrel. Not even Jeremy Irons managed to act even remotely convincingly. I paid $1,50 to see this movie, and that was at least $5 too much, because some compensation for my suffering would have been justified. The only reason I did not walk out on this film is that my friend next to me looked so peaceful in his deep, deep sleep. Even if you are a fantasy-fan, like myself, don't waste your time and money on this horrible peace of crap! Small wonder, that the vote cast most often is one star. One too many! "},{"Title":"Watching this film was like being locked in a dungeon...","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Before watching Dungeons & Dragons, I didn't have high expectations. So I figured maybe it would be better if I didn't expect much. It turns out that Dungeons was worse than I had originally anticipated. I can't believe that any film studio would pay money to have this piece of crap made, even if it's a $35 million budget.I'll start out with the mentally retarded characters We have the two hero characters, Ridley Freeborn (Justin Whalin) and his sidekick Snails (Marlon Wayans), the villain Profion (Jeremy Irons) and his aide, Damodar (Bruce Payne), whose attire seems little more than a Halloween costume bought at Kmart (I'd bet this was Kmart's last sale), and simple makeup consisting of blue lipstick that has virtually no difference to the stuff kids wear at school these days -- some of the characters' costumes resemble trench coats, as well. In addition, we have Thora Birch as the Empress, who is a complete cliche of Star Wars's Queen Amidala. There's also a slothy dwarf, whose fake beard looks almost as cheap as boxer shorts from the Goodwill. And I feel sorry for the people who actually think these actors are actually any good.Another thing wrong with the picture is the watery script and cheap direction. Is it too much to ask to deliver a decent script, even when you're on a $35 million budget? I got bored early on in the film. Nothing is exciting about the film, and watching Justin Whalin and Marlon Wayans act is enough for me to throw up my popcorn. The casting was overall poor, as they simply hired a little (or a lot) too many unexperienced actors. And it's a shame to see a talented actor such as Jeremy Irons be wasted. It's also a shame to see characters make references to a modern or earthlike culture, which is why the script is so horrid.Lastly, and unfortunately, what really kills the film, is the overuse of crappy CG effects, even on a tight budget. I can't understand why the filmmakers couldn't go a little overbudget -- like some of the most successful films have -- and better tweak the obvious computer-generated dragons at an experienced visual effects house, such as Industrial Light & Magic, Sony Imageworks, or Digital Domain. It would have greatly improved the storytelling, though not the story itself, and we wouldn't get distracted from the overall experience. To me, good fx are why people go to see a movie. I know this because almost all of the top highest grossing films of all time relied heavily on fx. So what if the storytelling is ill and the characters are bland? Why do you think The Phantom Menace made so much money? "},{"Title":"The worst film of all times","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Everything in this film is awful. Direction, actors , story, dialogs, production, music, decoration, costumes, special effects... I'm still wondering if this film wasn't a joke. Poor Jeremy Irons, he hasn't be able to save the film, he's just as the rest of it, awful. It's outrageous for the cinema to dare make or produce such a film. "},{"Title":"What have they done?","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have absolutely no idea what they were trying to do with this film, but it was absolutely terrible. I've seen many fantasy-type films and if this was trying to compete with LOTR, I'm sorry but they've not just failed... D&D sticks two defiant fingers to any viewership with an IQ above 50 and in a paradoxical reflex, thrusts them firmly into its own eyes.They some how managed to get everything awful and put it into a film***Warning posssible Spoilers***- The racially stereotypical token-black-comedy character who dies,- The evil wizard with an english accent,- Wafer-thin story line about some magical implements with absurd- names. Afterall if Red-dragons are more powerful than Gold then why didn't evil mage Profion just get the Rod of Savrille in the first place?- Obligatory love scenes between the main male and female characters, where the relationship was also just a token romance.- Finally, I hate to sound xenophobic, but American accents in a fantasy setting never really help a film's conviction. Think Xena warrior princess and Hercules.Admittedly, these tv-series have a touch of sarchasm to their plots; unlike D&D which is so bad that I think it even surpasses 'She' with Sandahl Bergman.So you may not cringe at your assortment of many sided Dice, or the fact that you have a level-22 Elf enchantress, but as a fellow geek I urge you... never ever let anyone know you have watched this... "},{"Title":"Why, oh why?","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jeremy Irons is a great actor. Thora Birch is very talented and I loved her in American Beauty. Justin Whalin has his moments and Marlon Wayans is absolutely hilarious.  So what happened?  This movie was directed by first timer Courtney Solomon, who, in my opinion should have at least considered film school. The reason he didn't? It didn't seem necessary. I'll give you a second to let that sink in. This movie could not have been worse except that I saw the DVD. There's a little documentary with an interview of the director who was discussing costume designs. That's it.  This guy is so full of himself that he thinks he can take an absolutely wonderful game that I have played and put it in a blender. Apparently Courtney also believed that emotions could be expressed through many gestures like waving hands around a lot. Unfortunately, that only works in third grade plays. I know. I was in one.Anyway, Jeremy Irons doesn't even talk in this. He just screams incoherently and points at people. Heck, I do that for free!  Thora Birch looks like she's always reading a cue card and why is Jimmy Olsen the hero?  The one bright spot to this film is Marlon, The main character's sidekick. Obviously, he didn't listen to the director and actually acted. Go figure. No spoilers here, but he's only in the film halfway through. Now whatever movie there was before, there's nothing after him.The special effects are typical less-than-Star Wars-budget type. But I did like the dogfight between two of the dragons, so I won't totally destroy this movie.  All in all it was a very BAD movie, but if you don't want to watch paint dry, then this is a good distraction. "}{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever seen","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    At first, I was simply going to rate this movie and continue browsing, but after reading the review on the main page, I was outraged enough to give my personal opinion of this movie.  This movie sucks beyond belief.  It feels like it was written by a committee whose sole inspiration for it's plot is ripping off of every fantasy movie possible.  Nothing in this movie is original by any means, and it has all been done much, MUCH better.  I also noticed that the review on the main page admitted to Jeremy Irons' overacting; however, in reality, it pails in comparison to that of the heinously bad Justin Whalin, who, despite being the worst actor in this movie, is cast in the leading role.  Nothing I can say can describe the sheer the stupidity I felt when watching this film.  I can honestly say I was ashamed of myself for paying money to watch this in theaters, and I would consider it a sin to stand idly by and let others fall into its trap.  The only justification for seeing a movie like this is if you were going to spend that time committing a felony, but decided to suffer through this instead; and even then, only if you didn't pay for it.  This is distilled disease transformed into film; avoid it like a barrel full of anthrax. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I have ever seen","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    At first, I was simply going to rate this movie and continue browsing, but after reading the review on the main page, I was outraged enough to give my personal opinion of this movie.  This movie sucks beyond belief.  It feels like it was written by a committee whose sole inspiration for it's plot is ripping off of every fantasy movie possible.  Nothing in this movie is original by any means, and it has all been done much, MUCH better.  I also noticed that the review on the main page admitted to Jeremy Irons' overacting; however, in reality, it pails in comparison to that of the heinously bad Justin Whalin, who, despite being the worst actor in this movie, is cast in the leading role.  Nothing I can say can describe the sheer the stupidity I felt when watching this film.  I can honestly say I was ashamed of myself for paying money to watch this in theaters, and I would consider it a sin to stand idly by and let others fall into its trap.  The only justification for seeing a movie like this is if you were going to spend that time committing a felony, but decided to suffer through this instead; and even then, only if you didn't pay for it.  This is distilled disease transformed into film; avoid it like a barrel full of anthrax. "},{"Title":"A truly disgusting movie","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Bad acting, the worst screenplay (you get the feeling the director and producers just played one session of the ad&d roleplaying game and made it into a movie)and frequently satisfying special-effects. They should have spent some more money on screenplay, cinematography and - most of all - better actors. The only good appearance was made by Thora Birch as Queen Savina. Her acting glory shines even in the darkest hour of filmmaking. "},{"Title":"I felt really angry after wasting my time on that film!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I just don't understand why J.Irons took place in this production.It's a horrible film.The cast was so bad, that it was a waste of time to watch the film.And the visual effects were so cheap.Even though the story was good, the end effect was a disaster.I really tried to find something about this movie but it didn't work. "},{"Title":"This movie is great....as an alternative to Chinese water torture","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The pain. The horrible pain. Why didn't Jeremy Irons lawyers get him out of this contract? All they had to do was to argue temporary insanity or he was very, very drunk when he signed this since one of these two must be what got him into this picture in the first place. My heart goes out to this great actor as he suffers through this unintelligent portrayal of....yes, what? A definite homage to one of the world's most popular role-playing games? A magical action/comedy set in a fantasy backdrop? Trying to calm my boiling blood and regain objectivity I can't really see what the intention was here. This movie has absolutely nothing to do with the immensely vast and intricate system of rules, history, geography and beautifully told stories that is the universe of D&D. But, disregarding that, it is also one of the worst fantasy-movies, no wait....it's one of the worst movies made, ever. It actually shortens your lifespan after watching it. You know how a laugh is supposed to make your life longer....well, this is the total opposite. It is predictable beyond predictability. All the actors are snubbed in there attempts to make something out of the crap dialogue. The FX are appalling. And seeing Wayans (after finally getting to respect him after seeing Requiem for a dream) as the token-funny-black-guy who gets killed off while Mr. cracker hero gets saved by elven magic...well, lets just say that it didn't add any points. Don't ever, ever see this. Don't ever, ever buy it, unless it is to give as a gift to your worst enemy. "},{"Title":"Worst fantasy movie ever","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This thing could have made a better cartoon than live action.  The acting was either overdone (Jeremy Irons) or terrible (everyone else).  The CGI was alright, but it did not fit the rest of the movie. The story's heroes would fit better in a mall than in this movie (not surprisingly, the market scene was probably added to allow 14 year olds relate).YUCK!!!!  This one is a turkey.  I need to go torch my DVD right now. "},{"Title":"Caution - Avoid at all costs","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Almost, one does not know where to begin yet throughout it all, we knew exactly where it should end. From the first moment on, the pain of watching this movie was unbearable ridiculous costumes, wooden acting, amateurishly grotesque make-up, nonsensical screenwriting, ferocious editing all combined to make this an event not soon to be forgotten--like a train wreck, so terrible that no one can bear to look away from it. One might almost have prophesised of its doomed premiere--it will be a day long remembered if, that is, this movie didn't rip off Star Wars more frequently and more thoroughly than we could ever hope to.The actors ranged from amateurishly mediocre to outright appalling Thora Birch's acting, if it can be called that, was so lacking in spirit, imagination, and vitality that when Jeremy Irons' character said sarcastically of hers, she gives a good performance we could only agree. Irons himself is no better, of course, because he seems to think that if Birch is barely acting at all, he must do the acting for them both. So he delivers the climactic monologue of the movie in a trance-like state that looks very much like drug-induced epilepsy, a frightening moment, to be sure.The poor writing played its part too. The character of the dwarf is not only not fleshed out, he is unnamed and, for the most part, uninvolved in the dialogue. He speaks perhaps four or five lines in the movie, yet he is supposed to be a major character. What lines he does speak are molded entirely by the stereotype of what a dwarf should be Most dwarves don't like horses; I don't either or Most dwarves don't show their emotions, but I do. His motivation is painfully unclear when, lying in a pile of garbage, the other characters trip over him. He, apparently without reason, gets up and follows them into the sewers. A few scenes later (during which he has said nothing) the characters ask if he is going with them on their quest. He responds sagely, What choice do I have? We wonder the same thing.The budget must have been stretched a little too thin, as some of the pivotal scenes of the movie--the one where two of the characters encounter a wraith and he gives them their quest--are omitted from the movie and recounted later (Instead of the wraith, one is treated to a rather extended scene where the dwarf consumes greasy chicken, getting about as much of it in his beard as in his mouth). The same holds for the fabled Maze of (insert obviously made-up name here), which is comprised of a linear series of three rooms. It is neither a maze, nor particularly worthy of its fable, as the thief is able to frustrate its traps with barely any effort at all.In all, the movie was unbearable to watch and, though at the end of a bad review, one often feels compelled to note the one or two good elements--the token elements to make the review seem even-handed--this review can offer no such optimistic outlook. Make no mistake about it if you see this movie, hoping to be impressed, overjoyed, enraptured, enlightened, illumined, or even just simply pleased, you will be sadly deflated. You will only find such things if you were looking to watch a bad movie--in which case this is a profoundly impressive work! "},{"Title":"Makes the Conan films seem like filmical masterpieces","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some films are so bad they´re good but this doesnt quite qualify into that category.. the budgets too high, it makes you cry when you think about all those great films they could have made instead.I will brake down the faults into three separate categoriesThe Overacting The films villains might be slightly frightening to a 3 yearold child but quite silly anyone above that age. Jeremy Irons should be ashamed, his portrait of the evil mage Profion is something that would belong in an Ed Wood movie. His triumphant poses and mad laughter is laughable at best. Profions right hand villain is even more silly, he grunts all the time and tries to walk slowly to give the illusion of confidence but it works only as one of the silliest things in the movie, apart from his klichéed one-liners. He is wearing power ranger-esque armour and for some strange and unexplained reason he is also wearing blue lipstick?!The bad cast Shawn Wayans is in the movie, that should say a lot. Thora Birch makes a failed attempt as a profoundly more ugly Queen Amidala clone. Kristen Wilson makes possibly the films worst role as the elven tracker who, aside from being a bad actress, spits out tidbits of mysterious, klichéed elven wisdom in order to cover holes in the script.The bad script Unsurprisingly the heroes must find a magic object to save the good empire from the evil villains who seek the same object. This is not a new idea for a story and this movie makes nothing even remotely creative of it.This film is just another in a long row of bad fantasy movies, I suggest you go see something older with a lower budget instead, they are usually funnier. "},{"Title":"A universe so detailed as AD&D, corrupted, molested and wasted","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As others have said... with such talented writers, so many stories, so many places, so many things fans would recognize...and still, they don't use it in this movie...I would have loved to see Elminster, Khelben Blackstaff and (especially) Drizzt Do'Urden.. but instead we get a Wayans.. No offense to the Wayans family, but the AD&D universe is not a parody, it's not a ridiculus world. And it's definetly not a world only children take an interest in. Let us all hope that LOTR can give life to fantasy movies for people with more brains than a mustard jelly... Dungeons & Dragons definetly don't...Let's hope the creators of the movie gets hunted down by the Terrasque ;).. (for non-AD&D people, the Terrasque is sorta like Godzilla with a serious attitude)1/10.. with hope that someone makes a movie (or 2-3-4) over the Forgotten Realms world "},{"Title":"What can I say.....","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst films i've ever had the misfortune of sitting through. The acting is more wooden then the Amazon Rainforest, the writers have borrowed so many ideas from so many better films i'm surprised they wern't sued and the 1933 version of King Kong had more realistic sfx. If only i could get the two hours i wasted watching this rubbish back. Avoid! "}{"Title":"Who are these people and why did they work on this?","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  WARNING Very Mild Spoilers Ahead!Over the years, TSR (the company that owns the rights to the Dungeons & Dragons RPG, for those not in the know) has employed dozens of talented writers. People such as Tracy Hickman, Margaret Weiss, and R. A. Salvadore, for example. Even Gary Gygax, the creator of D&D, has penned novels before. For years they've entertained readers with memorable characters and engaging stories.Why, oh why, did they not have one of these authors write the script?Who are Topper Lilien and Carroll Cartwright, anyway? I've never heard of them before, and I hope to never hear of them again.This was the perfect opportunity to showcase one of the several worlds in the game's franchise Forgotten Realms, Greyhawk, Dragonlance, Ravenloft, even Birthright. Instead of a universe familiar to followers of the game, we are treated to a an overly simplified world that makes no sense and openly contradicts itself in places. Yes, there are dungeons, and there are dragons, and even a passing nod to the infamous beholder, the eye-stalked creature CGIs that are briefly seen from a distance. But the trappings of fantasy don't make up for a poor story and horrible directing, and even a cast full of stars and well-known character actors won't save it.I'm sorry, TSR, but you've been reportedly planning this movie for years and this is what you presented. If I were in your place, I would be ashamed.No stars from me.  "},{"Title":"Good graphics, shame about the story","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I admit, i thought this movie would have been alot worse than it actually was, don't get me wrong, this movie WAS bad bad bad ( but it did have its moments let me tell u now..The only thing that i believe saved this entire movie was the graphics, if it hadn't been for them then alot of people would have walked out of the room along time ago and also the fact that the story line is better suited in my opinion to a story book read out aloud at bedtime rather than on the big screen.The one thing in this movie which i thought just SUCKED was the over dramatisation of the characters and also the polarisized views and out look of the characters. One character is just good end of story, and the other is also bad again, end of story which in my opinion is better left for the story books as people are not just good or bad and also the bit when the main character dies.... I had to stuff my mouth full of popcorn just TO STOP LAUGHING!This movie isn't something that is incredible bad, it does have its moments like the end dragon fights and to be honest, thats around it! But go see this movie to waste around about 2 hours of your life, not as if you have something better to do if you want to watch this... "},{"Title":"Add This to Your NEVER SEE list","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Two thieves, Ridley and Snails, get entangled in a plot to get the magical man-made stick  to control red dragons. Along side a 'low level' mage and a dwarf they found in a pile of feces. Later an elf ranger comes into play as well. This movie has some nice CGI effects and costumes. It has a nice setting and atmosphere most of the time. Also there are a few scenes that are acted out well. (2 or 3) But the greatest part of this movie is when Snails played by Marlyne Waynes dies. Now this gives something away but with a story this god forsakenly bad I don't think anyone would mind. The acting is bad, the story is bad, the characters are bad, the props, and other small details suck. Jeremy Irons, an Oscar winner, is probably the best actor but to me his character changed too many times. My theory is that the script for the movie was so bad it didn't let the actors understand how to play their characters. The princess is so bad I couldn't resist laughing.They also didn't follow D&D's rules too much. They said that mages were looked up to while everyone else was a commoner. And they insisted on using the word mage not magic user or magician or wizard. Ridley the thief possesses some special ability but it is never known what it is; there are some really bad attempts at foreshadowing it. The elf ranger has only a few lines yet one of the reasons I came to see that movie was to see her. (She is very nice looking) The young wizard that comes with the thieves doesn't even cast any spells until she gets her hangs on some magical Tinkerbarry dust. This movie is so bad it made the group I was with laugh. The ending is so damn pathetic. Originally I would rate this movie ½ higher until I saw what happened at the end. Ridley stands around while the princess fights it out with the dark spell caster. The ending sequence has got to win some kind of award for stupidity. What were they thinking? "},{"Title":"It would be roughly as interesting to watch people sitting around a table rolling dice for an hour and fifty minutes","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It looks as though the set decorator collected background props by going to garage sales, buying every old knick-knack in sight and spray-painting some of them gold.  The council scenes appear to take place in La Scala; the forest scenes, in a municipal park (one can see a strong white glow that is probably meant to be moonlight but instead looks like it comes from mercury vapour streetlamps).  The dwarf's beard is made of finely spun polyester.  The mage appears at times to be wearing velure.  And the Rod of Red Dragon Control (+3, no doubt) was, I swear to God, made of plastic.Don't get me STARTED on the awful computer-generated effects.And don't let my harping on the art direction give you the impression that those who criticise other aspects of the film have the wrong end of the stick.  They're right, too.  Most performances are abysmal - because the script is abysmal.  The film features Jeremy Irons, and the very same same Thora Birch (though you wouldn't know it - indeed, I failed to recognise her) who was in American Beauty ... but what chance did they have?  The following are ACTUAL LINES of dialogueI'd have to cast a Feeblemind spell on myself to want to go out with you!  (Another character comments that this is funny.  I don't know who he thought he was fooling.)That's the trouble with you thieves ... always taking what doesn't belong to you.Mwah ha ha ha!The music does nothing.  During effects scenes the virtual camera moves too much.  I note that while the white thief falls in love with a white mage, the black thief falls in love with a black ELF - presumably because it's more important that your mate have the same skin colour than that she belong to the same species.  The ending is utterly, utterly, inexplicable, yet nine people out of ten didn't notice - they were too gobsmacked by the sheer badness of everything else.The film deserved to be flayed alive and instead got, by and large, mild rebukes and lukewarm pseudopraise If you like this kind of thing, this is the kind of thing you'll like.  But if you like this kind of thing this is NOT the kind of thing you'll like.  The fact that reviewers were so tolerant shows just how low their opinion of fantastic fiction is.  Would they have been as tolerant of a domestic drama this bad, or a social comedy, or a gangster film - or even, for Pete's sake, a Western?  Of course not.  Nor should they have been. "},{"Title":"This movie is no so-bad-its-good, its just bad.","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Terrible! Before renting this movie last night, I read through several of the comments posted here. I thought to myself Boy, a lot of people really hated this movie. But I'm a cool guy, and I'm sure that with my ironic sense of detachment I can have fun with  D&D. Big mistake.Almost all of the lines had a used feel, like they were copied from other films. The only original line was the most cringe-worthy, uttered by poor Jeremy Irons Not so talented now, eh, Mr. Ridley?Editing was also poorly done, and instead of simple placement shots of building exteriors, they choose to use fancy CGI sweeps around the buildings. This was done for at least four buildings, but each sweep was so fast there was no chance to identify which building was being shown. In the fight scenes, I couldn't tell what was going on half the time because most of the shots were too tight.Plot? Bad as well. As the adventure starts, two of the main characters get sucked into a map, only to return in about five minutes of audience time. Where were they? What did they see/do? Apparently, they got some information, but that is all we ever learn.The only parts of the movie I found enjoyable were seeing Tom Baker (the fourth Doctor) as the Elf guy (king? doctor? who knows?) and Richard O'Brien (Riff Raff) as the leader of the thieves guild.In short, avoid this movie. It is not good, bad in a good way, or good in a bad way. It is simply bad, or bad in a bad way. 1 out of 10. Avoid! "},{"Title":"Hesitate, should have known better.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I should have known better than to watch this movie. If you just want to watch a mindless movie that little acting and no plot/corny lines, this movie is for you. If you are expecting a movie with plot and drama, look somewhere else. For what this movie is...it isn't much, but it is something at least. I rented it in the hopes of watching a cheesey flick because I like Irons and Birch, and thought the combination would be interesting. However, it didn't mix well, and the end result was just embaressing. I am happy that I didn't see this movie in theaters, since it would have been a waste of money. The actors on their own are good, but it is just this movie that is bad. I don't think anything could have saved it, just a bad movie. Oh well, it happens. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever.","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let me say that the plot jumps from scene to scene with little or no continuity or explanation  I was left dumbfounded as to what had occurred throughout the movie.*SPOILER* Not to mention that a main character dies halfway though the movie and you are left waiting for him to return, because, why would they kill him off?! He was the only comic relief.  ARGH!Overall it's not worth the time to watch, go read a book instead. "},{"Title":"A great disappointment","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rank this movie among the worst Ive seen in my life, its place is among old Sci-fi/fantasy B movies and some other contemporary flop such as Batman 4. Unfortunalty,  I resisted the temptation to stop the tape many times and the only partial relief came when some of the good guys were killed or injured, which I mentally cheered up. It's rated 15 years old & up where I live, but you should really read 15 & down ONLY. Some easily impressionnable children with no prior fantasy/adventures culture might appreciate it, like a saturday morning cartoon or fantasy TV serie like Hercules or Xena , but no educated adult should ever rent this.The story is the same old cliched mythological archetype used by the Star Wars universe but, contrary to the ladder, very badly exploited Young poor hero gets unintentionally dragged into an adventure (Thief hero / Luke Skywalker). His nearby allies are here mostly to motivate him and provide (bad) comic relief (Wayan guy / C3PO, R2D2). Princess working for a better world (emperess / princess lea) is in danger from a dark ruler (Jeremy Irons / Emperor). The dark ruler uses a monster to enforce his domination (blue lips dude / Darth Vador). The hero makes some friends along the way that will help him, who never really challenge his hero status (dwarf, elf, mage / Han Solo, Chew Bacca). The villain plans on using a powerful weapon to rule over the world (dragons / death star). I wont bother going in more details.I didnt have much expectations when I rented this but still was very disappointed. Costumes and sets are bad, obvious, plastic and cheap, a flashback to SciFi in the 60s. Computer generated special effects are sub-standard for this type of movie and current technology. Dialogues are empty, usually serves no purpose or just hurt your ears. Acting is generally bad That Wayan guy is a painful annoyance, with a totally out of place (and very weak) humour. Jeremy Irons, as repeatedly mentioned in other posts, completly overacts like a B movie villain. What a misuse of talent. That blue lips bad guy (how cheesier can make-up be?) is a bland cliche and tiring, generic interpretation of a villain. The emperess just recites her lines.The scenario is an easy story full of loopholes with no explanations and the characters have no depth at all Why does the hero continue to help the female mage, isnt he a thief? Why only he could pass through the force field? What exactly is happening with the crew at the end when visiting snails tomb? and why? In that dialogue between the young female mage and the blue lips bad guy, why did he go from menacing to pathetic to menacing again? These questions pop constantly every 5 minutes.I pity the D&D fans because this film is a complete disrespect to them and ridicules the D&D universe. From my young teen years memories, I cant relate most magic spells/monsters/class psychology from the game I played. This should have been an easy hit, with precise rules, a universe already finely built, and a huge fan pool. It is instead a bad comedy, which isnt the nature of the D&D universe.To see movies that really respect the fans of the super heroes/fantasy genre and express the real essence of those universes, watch Batman 1-2, X-men, Highlander 1, The Matrix, Star wars, Unbreakable, Conan. This movie, like so many others, seems to be made by old people who dont give a %$#@#@ about it and are looking for a quick buck because of the pre-existing fan pool.Even if you're just looking for eye candy and have low expectations, like I was, you will STILL be terribly disappointed. "},{"Title":"Not worth 2 hours of anyones life.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Many people told me not to see this movie; told me that it was a really bad movie. I've been an avid role-player and fan of fantasy novels for almost 15 years. When Dungeons and Dragons was released in the theaters I never got a chance to see it. Recently, I noticed this movie in a friends DVD collection. Surely it was worth a free viewing! My, my, my was I completely wrong. I sat down to watch this movie with low expectations. Usually, when I do this the movie turns out to be not so bad. This was one of those rare times when the movie winds up being worse than my already low expectations. The dialogue and the story are very poor. The acting is especially bad. Marlon Wayans and Justin Whalin had this cool dude, urban vibe that made me wonder if they hadn't just stepped out of a Teen Comedy. Jeremy Irons is a fantastic actor but he overacted this part. The only redeeming performance and character is the dwarf. You must believe me when I say that I will always sit through a movie no matter how bad. However, I wanted to stop this movie many times after about the first 30 minutes. It's really difficult to put into words what a terrible movie this was. It's a shame that this money and opportunity was wasted on bad directing, writing, and acting. If you're gonna make a fantasy movie, at least read the cream of the fantasy novel crop. I think the writers simply thumbed through the D&D Players Handbook to do their research. What a shame and what a waste of 2 hours from my life. "},{"Title":"A night in a dungeon would be better entertainment!","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I took my 2 children to see this film. They thought it was OK-ish. Normally I enjoy things they like. But with this turkey I couldn't agree. Why it was given a 12 certificate I have no idea. My grand-mother's teeth were more frightening than anything here. My daughter was more disturbed by Jurassic Park 3, yet that can be seen by any age. Jeremy Irons must be hard up to have agreed to take part in this fiasco. I struggled to give this film 2 out of 10. Films like this just prove that no matter how special the special effects, bad is bad, and special effects just make them especially bad. A disappointing outing. "}{"Title":"S-U-C-K-Y","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie could have been so much more. You have everything you need. Huge background. Huge fan base. Huge money. And Limitless options when it comes to story. In the movie, a evil wizard needs a scepter that can command red dragons which are the strongest evil dragons, while the good guy queen has a scepter that can command gold dragons, the strongest creature in the world they live in. The crew spent way too much on special effects and not enough on storyline. "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly one of the worst films I had to sit through","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When this movie first came out, my mother and I were really excited to see it, but things just got busy and the opportunity never arose. But when the movie first came out on PaperView, we purchased it. Big Mistake! This movie was absolutely, forgive my Dutch, f&%$%$$ bad. First, the acting was horrible, especially the queen who made me want to puke. Her supposedly riveting speech about dying for her country was, shudder, quite distasteful. Then, Ridley and the girl, what a terrible ensemble and Wayans, although funny in other shows, was just a pain in the neck in this one. Even the usually superb Jeremy Irons couldn't pull this movie together, and even his acting was a bit over-the-board. Ugh, I just can't get over the acting. The cast was AWFUL, AWFUL, AWFUL! I can't believe I wasted two hours of my night, but at least I only wasted $3.95, which is cheaper then a rental and a lot cheaper then a movie ticket. One word of advice, don't waste your breath on this one. "},{"Title":"Wasn't at all what I expected","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought that this movie, which had a lot of potential, was, in a word, wasted. I was extremely disappointed in it and expected a lot more after watching the very promising trailer for it in the cinema.I rented it the other night and, I must admit, was looking forward to actually watching it. I am normally a huge fan of all fantasy/Sci-fi/action/adventure movies, and I honestly thought that this one would be no exception. I should have taken the hint that it wouldn't be that great of a movie when there were only six copies of the video to rent (all of which were still there) in the whole store, whereas movies like What Women Want, which was released at the same time, had about 20 copies of which only a few were still available. However, this could be because of the fact that What Women Want stars Mel Gibson and Helen Hunt, whereas Dungeons and Dragons stars less well known celebrities (except for Jeremy Irons and possibly Thora Birch).I didn't particularly like some of the supposedly funny lines, and I thought that the dwarf in the movie was a completely unecessary character. I understand the fact that this film is based on the card game, and therefore maybe it was thought that the dwarf was required to complete the game-based characters (though I have no idea if this is the case as I have never played the game, nor know anything about it)I think that if the dwarf was, in fact, thought to be a necessary character, then maybe a more developed part should have been made for him, as it seemed to me that the dwarf was just added to the film for decoration purposes. He only said something like three lines in the entire movie anyway.I will not continue to go on about the various parts of the movie that annoyed me, and I do agree that the movie seemed to revolve around a basis similar to that of Star Wars Episode 1 Phantom Menace, in the respect that a young female ruler is struggling to improve the qualities of her Empire.However, I will say that I liked the set decoration in Dungeons and Dragons, which did display some vivid imagination. Finally, I would like to say that I believe all films contain good in them, no matter what they are. Therefore, I think Dungeons and Dragons would appeal more to people who enjoy the game and to those who like simple humor and sorcery. "},{"Title":"Simply Awful","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It was definitely the worst movie I'd seen. The special effects sucked, the script was awful, and it was the worst cast ever (except Jeremy Irons, one of the greatest actors of his generation). In five words a completely waste of time.  "},{"Title":"really awful, and surprisingly so","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is so bad that the only way I could get through it was at 2-4 times speedup. The biggest problem is that the director was very inexperienced, and the people underwriting it were obviously terribly naive to hire him. The movie was made by people that love the game so much that what the did was make an elaborate version of a session. The plot doesn't make much sense -- it's as if the cast is really deciding at the moment what they are going to do next (which is one of the charms of the game, but it doesn't make for a good movie). Also, the acting is sadly on a par with that of your friends gathered in someone's living room on a Saturday night; the dialogue sounds perfunctorily expository rather than being remotely natural (even on the scale of a Star Wars movie). And what was Jeremy Irons doing in this movie? I bet he fired his agent immediately afterward.The movie might have been far better if the director were experienced and the people involved hadn't been enthusiasts of the game. They clearly felt that making a version of their own fantasies (even a cartoonish version) for the screen would be enough -- instead it's one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I'll be surprised if the director gets a second chance... "},{"Title":"A large heap of walrus dung","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was thrilled when I heard this film was being made. Unfortunately, it fell far, far short of what I was expecting, especially considering the cast. The script is terrible and full of cliches, I was sat watching knowing everything that was going to happen before it did. The props and set look as though they are all made of plastic and fibreglass, even the armour looks like it's been painted silver The acting is reasonable, but not up to the usual standards of actors like Jeremy Irons and Richard O' Brian, I got the feeling that weren't too happy with what they'd been given to say. The special effects are fairly good, some of the scenes near the end are really impressive.Overall, a very disappointing film, worth watching only once, and then only if you really like fantast films "},{"Title":"An insult to gamers","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is a scene in Dungeons & Dragons in which Ridley (the hero) has just recovered an item from a cave. Upon leaving that cave, he finds that the villain Damodar has captured his friends. If you can't predict every line that follows in that scene, then you a) haven't seen enough movies, and b) could possibly enjoy this one.I can't really say that I found Dungeons & Dragons disappointing, since I wasn't expecting much from it. I just wasn't expecting it to be so comedically bad. The main problem with it, I think, is as follows When they decided to make this movie, they knew that people who play the game would see it. But they treated those people as idiots when they made it, assuming they had never seen a fantasy movie or TV show before. The writing is just stolen from countless other sources, to the point where almost the entire movie is completely predictable, line for line in places such as the one I mentioned.People who play D&D, such as I do, will be insulted by the way the game is depicted on the screen. For example, a camp of villains uses creatures called beholders as guards. Beholders are one of the most dangerous, evil creatures in the D&D universe. A beholder won't serve as your guard, it will kill you. And it won't be distracted by a thrown rock, it will see who threw the rock, and kill him. And the whole plot point involving the ability to control dragons is ludicrous. To think that such a wonderful game will forever be connected to that image.Let's assume for the moment that you can accept the fact that the writing is horrible, and want to see Dungeons & Dragons simply as eye candy. Even that doesn't work, as the computer effects are absolutely hackish. I swear I've seen better on my Dreamcast. And the hideous acting is very distracting. Who decided to put Marlon Wayans in this movie?! Not even the wonderful Jeremy Irons can save it, despite the energy he puts into his role. He ends up just looking dumb.The only way that Dungeons & Dragons is at all enjoyable is as one of those awful movies you rent to make fun of. It works beautifully that way. But considering the fact that it was made mainly as a commercial for the just-released-at-the-time 3rd Edition of the game, and that no one would want to relive this trash, it fails miserably. It fails even more miserably if you already play the game, and expect to see an accurate and interesting representation of the adventures you've played through. If your D&D game has been anything like this movie, find yourself a new DM. "},{"Title":"bad movie","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have never played D&D before but I do know a little about it.  This movie was terrible.  The characters were never developed.  Marlon Wayans to this movie like JarJar was to Star Wars Ep. 1.  Could they say Dwarf, Mage, thief, Elf more times in one conversation?  The dragons looked fake.  The actors couldn't act.  The Mage in the beginning died way too easily.  What was up with the blue lipstick?  Why did we have boys as our heros. Especially ones who were not fighters and terrible thieves. I thought that most adventures were done in a group.  Why was 'whoever the main character was' sent off alone (in the maze, in the cave)? I thought dwarves were shorter and elves were attractive.  Not the case in this movie.  If I was someone who has played the game I would be offended.  I'm sure some of them have made up better stories when they were 10 in their living room.  As someone who has never played this was a terrible movie. Even if it had nothing to do with the game it was still a terrible movie. I'm just glad I saw it on cable and didn't spend money on it.       "},{"Title":"Well, there's some dungeons, some dragons, some bad acting and some terrible effects. Pretty much it, really.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's start with the good things about the film - the two leads look great and if Hollywood values looks above acting talent (surely not?!), they'll go a long way. As for the rest? Well...*deep breath*...'Dungeons and Dragons' could have been great. Whether you love fantasy, or believe it to be the realm of spotty-faced young men with no social life, the franchise itself is so huge (and has such an enormous fan base) and has such scope for development that the film-makers should've been frothing at the mouth with excitement. Unfortunately, the end result appears to be frothing at the mouth with no more then rabies. Firstly, it looks terrible. Half the battle with a fantasy film is convincing your audience that such a world could exist, and using cheap CGI effects are not the way to do this. Not only that, the 'Dragon Mace of Wobbly Destructiveness' (or something) worryingly resembled a plastic 'He-Man' toy. Hmmmm. The acting gets no better. Whalin and McLellan look great without achieving much, yet even a bad script cannot forgive Jeremy Irons, one of the strongest actors from these Isles, for committing such crimes against humanity. The plot, as you may have guessed, was almost non-existent in its simplicity.Only Richard O'Brien walks away with any credit, stealing the show with a gleefully malicious cameo halfway through. Yet this just isn't even to atone for the film's many sins. Die-hard fantasy maniacs may get some perverse satisfaction from the film, but the rest of us will just carry on waiting for 'Lord of the Rings'.2/10 "},{"Title":"It's awful, it ranks right up there with Star Ship Troopers","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One of the worst movies ever.  The story was pathetic, it had no real beginning, or end.  The characters have no real development time, they just happen to appear on screen and we're supposed to care about them.  Marlon Wayans was so horrific that he makes JarJar Binks look cool.  The bad guy was hysterical, with purple lipstick and no continuity of character (one minute he's confident and cool, the next he's insecure and pathetic)  Some of the special effects were excellent (Ice Wall, portals), and others hokey (rope trick, dragons).  It was not true to actual D&D rules or ideas in the least, an elder Wizard was captured without a scratch and a child with only the slightest control of magic kicked their collective butts.  As a D&D player, a Science Fiction and Fantasy fan I saw this movie as a chance to give some credibility to the creative genius that goes into D&D.  Instead it makes a mockery of it.  I'm disgusted. "}{"Title":"... (I can't say more than that)","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all... this thing sucked! The acting was just horrible, the scenery was bad. The film was totally incoherent with most of the D&D material. Why are the dwarf and the elf (which's reason to have any part in this movie at all I still do not see) of the same size as the humans.  All the characters where cliched and had not any kind of point to them.  Their actions where not ever explained or justified.Then The director spent ten years of his life getting this movie made, he couldn't have taken another week or so to get a decent script? Hell, this was Dungeons and Dragons, any thirteen year-old geek could have written him something more exciting by playing the damn game and writing down what happened!When you spend ten years of your life on a movie, you want to come out with Gandhi, Spartacus or Gone With the Wind. Ten years and all you have to show for it is a movie that makes Krull look like an academy award winner means you suck, and you need to go pump gas for a living. "},{"Title":"Well...ah.........well, it's just as bad as Blair Witch 2","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was a very hard to understand movie. I didn't get the ending? Did they die? Did the main character, oh no I forget his name!, die and be with his friend Snails, but Snails is hardly the person to spend an afterlife with unless our forgetable hero is gay or something orone went to heaven, the other hell, or they got reincarnated... SEE WHAT I MEAN!!!  IT IS UTTERLY CONFUSING!! WHY DID THEY MAKE IT!!! Poor, poor Jeremy Irons, I have lost all respect for him after this movie, as I did of Ewan McGregor in Moulin Rouge, Angelina Jolie in Girl Interupted, and Nicholas Cage in Bringing out the Dead. Yet again, Poor, poor, Jeremy Irons.... "},{"Title":"I gave 1 but that was probably too much!","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Terrible movie. One to go in my list of bad movies.  How much they paid Jeremy Irons (a good actor!) to act in this movie? Jeremy Irons look like a fool in this role. What about the plot? No imagination whatsoever Avoid if you can! "},{"Title":"So embarrassing I had to turn away on occassion","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Poor Jeremy Irons.This is quite possibly the most embarrassing movie I have ever had to watch in my life. Everything from the unbelievably bland lead character Ridley Freeborn  (Justin Whalin) to the Stepin Fetchit-esque sidekick (Marlon Wayans) to the absurd sets...it all reeks of big-budget, LOW LOW B movie.Honestly, if you want to know what this movie is like...imagine this a group of D&D nerds with a very expensive movie camera making up a fantasy movie in their back yard.  Add in some of the WORST special effects I have seen this side of a Buck Roger's tv episode, the most cringe-worthy dialogue to ever have been written, and some of the most incompetent direction I've ever witnessed.Then there is Mr. Irons. As a defense mechanism, Mr. Irons overacts and chews the scenery for all it is worth. I am still trying to discover exactly how Mr. Irons thought this was a good career move. To get an idea how disgusted he was with the entire film, go to the deleted scenes section on the DVD.  After one particularly ridiculous tirade from his character, Profion, you see Mr. Irons walking quickly off the set, shaking his head at the utter absurdity of the film that is Dungeons and Dragons.NOTE NOT WORTH THE TIME FOR LAUGHS OR SPECIAL EFFECTS (which is why I rented it) "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie In The Existence Of Cinema History!!!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is bad...so bad that it is not even funny.  Irons overacts in the extreme.  The blue lipstick man (as I like to call him) doesn't even turn in a performance. Birch is also emotionless throughout the film. However, it is the main character that delivers the worst performance.  Never have I seen a character that annoys me so much.  It is sad when one has to say that the best performance of the film came from one of the Wayan brothers...in a relatively serious role.  And what is with the dwarf?  What was his purpose in the film? However, as much as the acting in the film was dreadful, the script was even more so.  UGH!!!  The script sounded like a fantasy story I wrote when I was in elementary school.  HMM...I wonder if I could make a movie off of those stories?  It seems like anyone can make a bad movie these days and get away with it. Last and Foremost though, this movie turns my stomach because I am a player of the Dungeons and Dragons game. Odiously, this film falsely establishes the game as a shallow romp, when in fact it is a medium with the depth and range of cinema.  Ultimately, this film is a travesty to the genre of fantasy. This film could have truly been great...given a different script, director, and actors. P.S. What was the purpose of the ending?   "},{"Title":"Awful!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What do you want first, the good news or the bad news?  How about the good news.  I can come up with two things - 1)  Some of the special effects are beautiful and, 2) it doesn't waste two hours of your life because it is only an hour and forty seven minutes long.Okay, now to the bad.  It is apparent from the very first scene that this movie is going to be pitiful.  The characters are ridiculous (what is the point of the dwarf?  Did they just include him to make sure they had several different races represented?).  The acting makes William Shatner look understated.  There is no rationale for the continually changing love/hate relationship between the main characters.  The plot is weak to start with and that is before the movie begins to ooze continuity problems.  The movie bears no relation at all to the game of the same name.All in all, I'd rather watch the weather channel. "},{"Title":"Perhaps the worst movie I've ever seen","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  And I'm not exagerating. Considering the massive amount of FX used on the film, I can assume that they had a nice production crew as well as a lot of resources to make something better.Almost every character behaves completely lost, childish and unnatural. Not even Jeremy Irons show anything decent. The Marlon Wayans's character is annoying and he behaves as if he was in NY.Anyway, there are a few good thing in the movie. First and most important, Zoe Mclellan, whose character is a bit dull, but who cares. She's beautiful and has the most beautiful eyes I've ever seen.Second. The Damodar character, who manages to transmit far more evil than his master Profion. Third, the dragon battle secuence. It is perhaps the only moment in which the spectator could imagine the massive amount of power that the rods can give.And that's all I can rescue from the worst two hours I've ever spent. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have seen in years.","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes when I see a really bad movie, I wonder to myself, Do film makers watch the final product of their movies before showing them to audiences?  I first wondered this after paying $5 at a movie theater to see Buddy... but I won't get into that.  I absolutely hated this movie.  It didn't capture my interest, the special effects were horrible, the acting was laughable, the jokes were forced, the sidekick was shoved in to amuse the kids, and overall I was remind of Star Wars Episode One, and after reading the other comments here I know that I'm not the only one.  My boyfriend loved it, but I'm wondering if it's because he's been playing the game for years.  Maybe if I was familiar with the game I would have liked it, but I really don't think so.  I watched X-Men, not being at all familiar with the comic book, and while I didn't have the same appreciation as readers may, I really enjoyed the movie.  I've often heard people say that if it's only entertaining for children, it's not a good movie/book.  Well I apply the same rule here.  If it's only entertaining for D&D game players, it's not a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Why this movie is a pitiful mixture of Star Wars and JRR.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being an avid fan of fantasy/sci-fi, I eagerly rented the D&D DVD and pushed the mighty play button. What followed was a pitiful attempt to merge JRR Tolkien and Star Wars. The D&D concept has tons and tons of potential, but Courtney Solomon has turned out a compromise between the mature viewer and the mindless hordes of entertainment-deprived children.The movie starts off shakily, drags at parts and has a plot that falls apart at several places. The entire setting is reminiscent of Star Wars Episode I, complete with the council member with dark intentions, the fledgling young princess, the kingdom in danger and the speeches in front of a council. Thora Birch's acting is strained and naive, surpassed in ridiculousness only (and very surprisingly) by Jeremy Irons' performance. Overacting is too gentle a word. His comic-book growls and spell-casting seem to be aimed solely at the 7-year-old audience.Although the movie has all the components of a good fantasy film (namely, orcs, elves, mages, dragons), some basic rules seem to be circumvented to our hero's convenience. How is that Ridley (our hero, a *thief*) possesses a hand-to-hand fighting prowess enough to overcome every single burly guard he meets, and indeed, even the mighty Damodar in a sword battle in the ridiculous conclusion? Why does Damodar leave the map and the ring of black magic so unguarded that a mere boy thief and an apprentice mage can escape with it? The council scene is perhaps the most ridiculous, as Profion and the young queen take the floor to SCREAM at each other and attempt to make powerful statements - a truly pitiful attempt, especially by Jeremy Irons.Most incidents in the course of the movie seem to have no bearing on the conclusion, all of which lead to some terribly boring parts. The Star Wars resemblence is unmistakable in the end, when Ridley sword-fights with the apprentice of the dark overlord (the overlord here being Profion, and Damodar his apprentice, as opposed to the Emperor and Darth Vader in Star Wars) as the forces of good and evil clash around them.On the whole, a good entertainer for the kids. If you expect a plot from a movie, or even a movie that holds together, maybe you should watch something more credible, like The Mummy Returns. If you're a Star Wars fan, go see this one and spot the similarities. And if you're a thinking sci-fi/fantasy fan like me, spare yourself the pain... "},{"Title":"Very bad - and not in a Dude, where's my car? way.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was absolutely horrible.  Marlon Wayans was just as annoying as always.  There were some funny moments, though.  The evil mage would make up random evil-sounding words as he cast spells and his evil apprentice had evil blue lips and evil snakes coming out of his head.  But all was okay in the end when the good guys (including an elf and a dwarf that were taller than humans) overcame the evil with a magical egg/rock and turned into comets and flew away.  Blech! 2/10 "}{"Title":"Disgusting movie, this movie just sucks!","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm a big D&D fan and I hate this movie, I've talked with people who don't know a thing about D&D and did not like the film (actually they told me it was a movie made for people who play rpg, wrong). The more you know about this magic world, the lousiest you'll think the movie is, all the movie sucks, dramatic moments were poorly acted, this movie has no sense in it, the plot is simply stupid, there're acting holes everywhere, the only actor which may reach a regular level is the starring boy (I don't know his name), the last part of the movie is full of cgi effects which don't help the film in any way, they make it worse, ... there's no end.....The characters incredibly plain characters with stupid lines, and the dwarf..... looks like a giant, he sure had some vitamins, and I can hardly remember more than 4 lines of speech for the dwarf, and it's about the same for the whole party.And here it comes all of the incoherence with the D&D world, but that's another story.Did I say the characters were full of topics?? Especially the typical black comic character.Summary don't watch this movie unless you want to die. "},{"Title":"What a WASTE of a great storyline.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a person who used to play D&D back in elementary school, I was VERY MUCH offended at the HORRIBLE job the director did with this film.A REAL director could have made a GREAT FILM out of the D&D storyline, instead, Hollywood will NEVER TOUCH THE SUBJECT AGAIN... ....and unfortunately, RIGHTFULLY SO.Someone has already ECHOED my setiments about this drivel, but let me re-state them anyway.1) The film was OBVIOUSLY TOO clean... and SUNNY!  Where wasthe dark, misty, dank D&D atmosphere?  Mr. Director, you could play Diablo or Baldur's Gate to get an idea of the setting! Sheesh!!2) Jeremy Irons OBVIOUSLY did not take this film seriously.. ..and small wonder why.3) Could you PLEASE stop copying (the also not good) Phantom Menace? Why didn't they just call The Empress Amidala?4) Ummm.. Marlon Wayans?  Why?  And WHY did he have to be a cowardly buffoon?  (Sensitive area to us people of color)5) What's up with the modern CALIFORNIA accents and slang.. inthe MIDDLE AGES?!?  Could someone TRY to fake an English accent? PLEASE??!?  EVEN IRONS?!?!?All in all... if I could give a NEGATIVE 1 to this film, I would.RUN... do not WALK.. away from this INCONCEIVABLY bad film. Rent something more substantive.. like Attack of the Killer TomatoesWay to waste a storyline, guys.. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Sometimes you see a movie and are pleasantly surprised.  Other times, even when you have low expectations (not wanting to be disappointed), movies are just plain painful to watch.  This movie was one of the worst ever, a total waste of time.  This movie was worse than Willow, and that was a big steaming pile, too.  The acting was horrendous--not just Jeremy Irons, but all the cast.  The director's instructions must've been overact, and everyone who isn't talking, frown and stare confusedly at the person who IS talking.The writing was horrid... even for a fantasy movie, this movie asks the watchers to believe in a nonsensical plot and improbable situations, without explaining why the characters would act the way they do, despite the overall plot being so hackneyed, so cliched, and so stupid that you can guess it with the sound muted.Skip this movie.  Rent Conan instead. "},{"Title":"Even B movies look good!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  For those of us who have experienced the world of D&D through the pen and paper games, books or computer games, this movie scored well in its visceral appeal.  The amount of detail that went into the costumes, the weaponry, the backdrops and CGI dragons was phenomenal, pulling me into this world the way I've never been before.  Unfortunately, that's where it ends.The script of this movie is debilitating.  I couldn't believe a grown-up wrote some of the supposedly derisive barbs traded between Ridley, Snails and Damodar that were right off the schoolyard.  I felt bad for Bruce Payne, a wonderfully wicked actor, who had to suffer through bad line after bad line.  Jeremy Irons suffers the same fate, another brilliant actor plagued by extremely poor writing.We D&D fans have waited a long time for a movie in our beloved genre and I personally thank Wizards of the Coast for having the vision to bring TSR's world to the big screen.  However, it fell way short, despite the wonderful actors and deep, rich underworlds of D&D.I fear this may be the last decent effort of a movie in the D&D universe, as I look ahead to the Lord of the Rings trilogy for redemption in the medieval fantasy realm. "},{"Title":"Not worth staying conscious for!","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was dragged to see this film by my partner and his game-playing mates.  The most positive comment I can make about the experience is that I slept through most of it.  However, the bits I did see were mind-numbingly awful.  As other reviewers have stated; the plot is thin, the 'acting' abysmal and the characters one-dimensional.  We all agreed that this is one of the worst movies we have seen (or slept through) in a long time.   "},{"Title":"The absolute worst movie?(I hesitate to even call it a movie) that I have ever seen.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was the worst piece of garbage ever put on screen.  I've been a fan of D&D books since I was in elementary school.  I've been waiting for them to make a movie for a long time.  I can't tell you how much of a disappointment this was for me.  It is virtually unwatchable.  The story is downright awful.  The acting is terrible.  The look is completely generic and low budget television ala Xena or Hercules.  Let's break into the magic school.  The magic school?  Gee, that's quite an imaginative name.  I think my mother's third grade class could have come up with a better script.  I am appalled that Wizards of the Coast put their name on this and tried to sell it to fans of the game and genre.I can only hope that LOTR turns out infinitely better.   "},{"Title":"Poor advertisement for a fun game!","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I knew not to expect much from this film, but did so hope for more! It HAD potential, and somehow wasted it. I think that had the writers placed a hidden tape recorder at almost any D&D session and then transferrred this directly to the script, they would have gotten a better story! Heck, they could have even hired a few real gamers to play the characters, and would have saved some money, too. For those who do game, you can see the set-up forming... unlikely heroes thrown together for a common cause, etcetera. A good beginning, indeed! But, also, those who game can find some serious flaws not just in the context of the movie but also in the way the characters use no imagination, are cliched, and are oftentimes useless. The dwarven character seemed thrown in just to have a dwarf in the movie (and he is the most horrid stereotype imaginable), and the brief encounters with elves would leave those who do not know of them in a fantasy setting wondering more about them, but being sorely disappointed when no more information is forthcoming. So much more could have been done here to portray the melancholy, the timelessness, and the sad disdain for short-lived humans! I guess we have to wait for The Fellowship of the Ring to come out to see what elves are really like. The rogues, as main characters, are a good choice, but bumbling and more greedy than skillful. The mages, suddenly forming an elite social class, show us a glimpse of their awesome power, but could have done so much more to demonstrate WHY they are at the top of the social order.I could go on, but enough has already been written about this, and about how the SPIRIT of the game... working together, improvising, adapting, making choices, and so much more... was left out to show one main character plunging through it while his sidekicks wait behind. That should not be what happens, and saddened me. Sigh.It is far too often that I am not stirred at all by a movie, but I usually am affected by those in the beloved fantasy genre. Alas, not this! Only one character sticks with me at all, the tracker Elf Norda, who is quite beautiful and acted her part well.If this movie was intended to draw new gamers into the D&D world, then I hope that those watching understand that it is not a fair representation. Not at all! I won't even mention the special effects, the acting, or the plot. Not worth the time. This had all of the quality of a made for TV movie, which is sad because it could have been so very good.   "},{"Title":"Bad D&D","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Let's see now... under-acting from some, over-acting from others, cheap cliche-ridden dialogue, ideas freely swiped from past movies, inexplicable or irrelevant incidents, poorly thought-out backstory, and a few dumb jokes... Yup, it's just like a bad D&D session, so in that sense the movie was faithful to the game.There were times I wished they had provided captioning for Jeremy Irons -- but then I thought, Nah, never mind.I was however pleased to see Tom Baker. He didn't do too badly himself.If only they had tried to model a _good_ RPG session. "},{"Title":"I'm still reel-ing from the experience","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was among the first 'gamers' to play Dungeons and Dragons back in the 70's.  So with nostalgic thoughts and cautious hopes I went to see the long-awaited Dungeons and Dragons movie.  From the opening moments of the movie I knew I was in for a horrific experience.For starters, the movie 'borrows' (okay... out-right steals) heavily from 'Star Wars'.  It was as if I were watching a high school rewrite of Episode 1 in rustic wear.Secondly, The bad guys are over the top Bruce Payne plays a villian that inexplicably wears blue lipstick and talks in a hissing-low pitched 'bad guy' voice; Jeremey Irons' character (the main 'bad guy') is almost like snidley whiplash without a moustache-- I almost expected the thieves in this movie to wear black striped clothes and carry bags with dollar signs on them.Third, even though Courtney Solomon (the director) supposedly was a D&D player, it seems NO ONE in this movie has any concept of what Dwarves and Elves are or how they are supposed to act.Finally... there are absolutely NO characters in this film that you care about.  The dialogue was horrendous, and the story was predictable, implausible, and almost incoherent.Overall I would have to say that this movie set back any hopes of the 'Sword and Sorcerey' genre ever getting any respect.  The makers of this film should hang their head in shame. "},{"Title":"Starts well ends badly","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The special effects warrant a second look but that is as far as it goes. A week story line and an appalling ending contribute to a very poor rating of awful. Why do people waste so much money making films like this, special effects do not make a film ! "}{"Title":"lousy acting through a bad script","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Did I like the movie? I can't help but admit that I was amused. Not because it was funny, but because it was simply laughable.The acting was lousy. At first I thought it was about as bad as afternoon television. Then I realized that it was worse than that. I've zapped into about 15 secs of Power Rangers on TV once - that's about how bad the acting was.The storyline was flimsy, with lots of logical errors in it.The visuals were cheap, and you could see it. the computer graphics didn't blend into the set very well where it was blended into a real scene. Where there were computer-only shots, they looked horrible. The equipment shown was cheap - I've seen better stuff in life-action roleplay.Still, I had a good laugh. In fact, one scene - by far not the worst, I guess it was just one overdone scene too many - sent me into fits of uncontrolled laughter. I tried to stop myself from laughing out loud - but I couldn't. It was just too bad.So, the resume It's good to know that B-movies are still being produced, that hollywood it a place where, as an actor, you can get a chance, even if you don't deserve it. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Awful movie, scores high in the worst movies ever list. Bad special effects, bad acting, bad story. All the humour and romantic moments in the movie would fit right into a happy family movie.Don't see this, don't rent this, don't even think about seeing this movie on TV. It's a complete waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Wanna know how bad it was?","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I left the theater like half an hour before the movie ended. And before that, I'd spent half an hour debating whether I should leave or not. You see, I don't think I've ever done that before. Sure, I wanted to during House on Haunted Hill, but didn't out of respect for my friends. This time I was alone and after half an hour, I accepted that I had a million better things to do than waste my time with this film.It is *that* bad. The total waste of time kind of bad. Nope, not even the FX are worth it.Poor acting (I probably would have skipped this all together if I'd known Marlon Wayans was in it, anyway), an awful script (or were those the actors improvisating kewl lines?), and a story that couldn't be less interesting if they tried...Avoid this like the plague. Poor D&D fans... "},{"Title":"Appalling load of garbage.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'll keep this brief, unlike the film makers. This movie is an appalling load of words that I can't say because there could be children reading. It's a slap in the face to fantasy fans, action fans and especially devoted players of the game. Gary Gygax must be horrified! Easily the second worst movie I've ever seen... but then 'Nothing but Trouble' takes some beating. "},{"Title":"Very poorly done","Date":"29 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I considered this movie using three categories. The first, and most important, was as a movie in its own right. In this category it was bad enough. The characters were poorly crafted with little or no depth.The plot was even thinner than the character definitions and relied on us believing that a large group of intelligent and educated people (ie the Mage's council) would be so gullible as to simply take the main bad guy at his word without any supporting evidence. And it goes down hill from that point. And as for the music building tension in a cave just as the hero discovers.....a tree. I actually laughed out loud at that point.The special effects weren't bad but the costuming was terrible. The axe that the dwarf uses is the low point of the costumes and looks like its made out of styrofoam. There are a lot more examples of poor costuming, but I won't go into those.The second category is as movie based on the game Dungeons and Dragons. Now I'm not a fan of the game, but I do know that they barely even paid lip service to the rules of the game.The third category is as a movie based on role playing games in general. Its a more broad based category. One of the key elements of role playing is the social, where the characters work as a team to achieve their goals. In the movie, this never actually happened. Every time there was a challenge it was always the same character facing it on his own.All in all, a very poor movie. "},{"Title":"Pile of crap","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'll keep this one short & sweet, as an avid role-player/fantasy fan I was quite curious what they've gotten up to with this movie. The result ? The effects are horrible, the plot sucks, the actors are terrible (except for the black girl whats-er-name that plays the elvish ranger) and last but not least, it seems that this movie does nothing except for making roleplaying and fantasy in general seem for 11 year old kids. What a waste of resources, lets hope Lotr gets it better. "},{"Title":"A lost cause...","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a seasoned veteran of many an AD&D session I really was very dubious when this film was announced. As far as I know any film that dealt with AD&D would need to be 18 rated and very violent!So what have we here? Marlon Wayans playing...Marlon Wayans, a straight out of the Barber's Ridley, inept and far too young Mage, a 6 foot tall Dwarf with a very obviously plastic axe and ..oh deary me.What a stab in the back for any players. Make no mistake, this film has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with AD&D in any way. Its like a film version of the worst ever session you've ever played.The plot stinks, the script was written by an 8 year old who has no idea what a medieval setting's language should be and the acting? Oh my lord. Jeremy Irons was absolutely atrocious as Profion, the worst over the top acting I have ever seen in my life, Ridley was straightforward enough, Marlon Wayans as Snails, well, I have expected him to say 'yo homes' at some point and do a 'gangsta' spectacularly miscast there. The Dwarf was useless, a bit of scenery. The best one of the lot was Queen Amidala er.. I mean the Empress. Thora Birch. At least she was fairly OK.The effects were good, the sets were adequate but very obviously flimsy in places.A thorough waste of a good license. What they should have done is get a few gamers together to write the script, go to a gencon and film scenes at a live roleplay gig. Slap an 18 on it and it'd have sold buckets.Another thing, Clerical magic was very obviously sidestepped to avoid any problems with religions. This insults the viewer's intelligence to boot.Avoid. "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a mess.  It made no sense.  EVERYTHING sucks about this movie. I only had to see it for a friends birthday party and we all hated it. The only good thing about this movie is that its not as bad as Mortal Kombat Anihilation. "},{"Title":"Ok, I admit, it was pretty bad.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  But hey, forget about the awful script, the inane direction and the terrible acting. This film has dragons! (True, they're not very convincing, but at least you get two colour types - Gold and Red).Yes, the plot was full of holes, and yes, they somehow managed to drain the movie of any suspense, but there was a lot of raw material here that jumped out at you.You leave this movie itching to take the same material and direct your own sequel. Let's face it, you could hardly do any worse. "},{"Title":"This film belongs in a dungeon somewhere.....or a dragon.","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The D&D universe is one of epic battles, great heroes and very nasty villains.  Did this movie deliver any of this, well apart from the last 10-15 mins....NO...not in any way.  I knew it was not going to live up to my expectations or even mildy amuse me, when they introduced the Comedy Sidekick Snails.  If you ask me Ridley should have run him through when he didn't want to go along with his plan in the first 5 mins of the film, but you can't have everything.    Why does almost every film with great potential need to be ruined by the inclusion of some muppet, who is used to make the weakly cast and developed main characters look good.Overall, I was very very disappointed with this film, they had the potential to produce something great, and they fluffed it BIG TIME.  I wasn't asking for a film so painfully accurate to the D&D universe that you could see people rolling dice during battles, but I was expecting something epic and engaging...and it seems that they didn't even try to achieve that in this film.  All I found myself wishing for, was a grisly end for all of the main characters, be they good or evil.However, IF you've never played D&D or ever read any of the books, AND you like comedy sidekicks then you'll probably think this is an excellent film. However if you are a D&Dphile, my advice would be to avoid this film like the plague. "}{"Title":"A spoiler ridden diatribe. Beware.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In my humble opinion, Dungeons and Dragons is undeniably one of the worst films of its genre. The combination of an extremely shoddy plot, wince worthy acting and staid set pieces combine to reduce it to a hollow shell of the film it could have been. Considering some of the fairly weighty creative talent behind some of the Wizards of the Coast products, it is puzzling to me how they managed to botch this movie so badly. I will attempt to summarise my major bones of contention below.Acting Jeremy Irons, as Profion, overacts with such enthusiasm it is a wonder he didn't rupture something vital. His irate, fist waving, finger pointing mockery of an evil archmage is a sterling endorsement for switching to decaffeinated coffee. I can only assume he's that angry because his agent thought this film would be a good career move.The so called 'heroes' fair little better. Ridly and Snails, played respectively, if not respectably, by Justin Whalin and Marlon Wheyans, horse around like a second rate Mel Gibson and Danny Glover from the Lethal Weapon film, using all manner of 20th century colloquialisms and slang, making them seem completely out of touch with the medieval setting. The dwarf says little, and does nothing. He joins the party with no explanation and for no discernible reason. The female mage whines incessantly and wears gradually more revealing outfits to please the 14 year old male gender demographic, the elven ranger scowls in her unlikely, and frankly perverse armour and it's all a hideous mess. The teenage Empress, shameless based on a character (Queen Amidala) ripped off from Star wars episode one, whines on about equality between commoner and mage until you actually *want* Profion to kill her. But he's too inept.The story is so full of holes it resembles a celluloid swiss cheese. Two major bloopersProfion steals the royal rod of gold dragon control, only to seemingly give it back later on. Why? Granted, it doesn't work for him, but it would have caused big problems for the good guys if he had he kept it. Or perhaps not. See next point.The Empress, attempting to get rid of Profion, summons the gold dragons to ATTACK HER OWN CITY. The heroes must be psychic, because they are questing for the rod of red dragon control for seemingly no real reason, then realise they can use it against the gold dragons...resulting in more collateral damage to the city. Oops. Bet your subjects love you, Empress Savina.In several scenes, this film rips off all three Indiana Jones movies, Star Wars 1,4,5 and 6, but has little of their style or panache. A lack of effort and originality combines into the worst two hours I have spent in a cinema. I can only hope there are no plans for a sequel.A small point. At no point during the opening credits do you see a Wizards of the Coast logo. Maybe they didn't like it either. "},{"Title":"D & D - stands for Dire and Dreadful","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film was just one long cliche, everything about it was unconvincing and predictable.  I cannot comment anymore as I have just come from the cinema and I was so bored, that if I was not there with someone else relying on them for a lift home, I would have walked out. "},{"Title":"Painful experience","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was looking forward to a special effects extravaganza, and I guess I wasn't disappointed there, but the script and acting left me completely cold.If only they had used just a little subtlety somewhere in the film I would perhaps have found some redeeming features somewhere, but I was left with the feeling that the actors were all overacting and hamming it up in the extreme.  90% of the things you see are never explained, and their purpose in the more general context of the film's storyline is either so minimal as to make you wonder why they bothered, or so contrived that it makes you wince.The best thing I experienced from the moment I sat down to the moment I stood up (just as the film was drawing to a nauseatingly obvious finish) was the trailer for Lord of the Rings, which had more style to it that the entire feature presentation. "},{"Title":"Better than a kick in the teeth","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...but not by much.A truly amateur attempt at filmmaking, Dungeons and Dragons provides little substance and innovation in the already saturated  genre of swords and sorcery.  While some aspects of the film  were entertaining, such as Jeremy Irons' gutbusting performance  as the evil mage Profion, the film falls flat on its face primarily because of its unfortunate affiliation with the popular role-playing game (RPG) of the same name.There is little in this film that is in common with the game.  The adventure's mage/love interest, Marina (Zoe McLellan), who rightly should be the most powerful character in the party, is truncated down to the damsel-in-distress cliche that this genre just begs for. Furthermore, the film is not set in any of the game's worlds, which limits not only other plots (The Dragonlance series?  the Icewind Dale series, anybody?) but also severs any potential for in-jokes which would cater to the die-hard gamers that this film is obviously  trying to sell itself to.  Non-D&D types will be turned off because they'll expect two hours of nerd-talk (and rightfully so, I confess), and the rest of Humanity will walk past Dungeons and Dragons (and hopefully into Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon)when they see the often horrid visual effects that the picture boasts.  The IMDB says that this film cost $35 million to produce.  By looking at the CGI dragons, you'd think that was 35 million yen.Furthermore, the acting in Dungeons and Dragons is easily the worst out of any film this year.  Thora Birch, after giving an excellent performance in last year's American Beauty, shrivels in this picture down into a wad of pseudo-Rousseau philosophy that wouldn't be out of place in a junior-high beauty parade.  What is most suprising, however, is that the over-the-top performance of Profion by Jeremy Irons is probably the best of the lot; he does what he can with such lines as LET THE BLOOOOOOD RAIN FROM THE SKYYYYYY!!!!! and the results are truely awe-inspiring.(spoilers ahead)Screenwriters Topper Lilien and Carroll Cartwright apparently had no idea which characters would click with the audience.  After seeing the film, my friends and I agreed that that our faviourite characters were the ones that died  Profion, and the protagonist's sidekick, Snails.  Not the best way to connect emotionally with your viewers, no?(end spoilers)All of this puts Dungeons and Dragons in an awkward position.  It's not bad enough to completely write off as there are several aspects of it that are worthwhile seeing, but those are all offset by the horrid acting, atrocious visuals, and non-existent plot.  The result is that Dungeons and Dragons is just beyond the realm of MST3K  It's just good enough that there's not a whole lot to mock about it.-Nathan B. Taylor (D&D player since 1985) "},{"Title":"Surely $35 mil could be better spent...","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What a lousy film. Not only did the movie bear no resemblance to the game, but the acting, plot and script were 3rd rate at best. Special effects weren't bad, but surely the producers could have spent part of the $35 million budget to hire a better director, and better writers... "},{"Title":"All I can say is...","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" ...the film broke about 2/3 of the way through at what seemed to be the most exciting part (lots of dragons and explosions and such) and the house lights went on. The audience applauded and left. Need I say more? Marlon Wayans was offensive. He was like one of those parodied in Bamboozeled. Thora Birch was embarrassing, as was the rest of the cast. Just dreadful. Rent Flash Gordon for some good B movie fun. This is plain bad with no redeeming features whatsoever. "},{"Title":"Sheesh...","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a long time fan of the game, I was excited to find out that a Dungeons and Dragons movie was being released.  I rushed out and saw the movie...and was sorely disappointed.  With the technology the movie industry has today, there is no excuse for the poor graphics.  And the acting, I don't even want to go there.  The only person I think did a good job was Zoe (Marina), at least she put a little original effort into the script.  The plot was weak...with so many gifted fantasy authors that have published literary miracles, there is no reason why the director couldn't have had them as advisors.  Costumes and armor were horrible.  One thing they had going was the scenery...at least that was somewhat fantasy-like.  If you must see this movie, be prepared to cringe with disgust at some parts, and shake your head at others.  You were forewarned.   "},{"Title":"What was the point","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Dungeons & Dragons is so terrible I laugh at people who say they liked this film.This is the worst mistake ever made in filmmaking. I had an inkling of what the end result of this film would be; however, I wanted to give it a chance.The first problem is there is no plot to accompany the action. It seems to me that the action was supposed to be the main draw. I'm assuming the writer forgot that there people who actually like to see a film with BOTH action and story when they see a film. In addition, the cause of fighting the villain is so stupid; who cares.The second problem I see is casting. There is an unestablished actor with little film experience in the lead; the worst part of this is he is no good; furthermore, Jeremy Irons was just in the wrong film.Dungeons & Dragons should have stayed locked up in a dungeon in a far off place so nobody has to go the suffering I did when I saw this film. If you see this film, good luck.   "},{"Title":"I feel sorry for it...","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is the worst movie i have seen this year, 2 good actors who  was completely badly directed, plastic costumes and weapons was falling on my nerves, rest of the cast was awful, the queen was a bad copy of Queen Amidala with the change of costume in each appearance (horrible costume by the way) Story was also very boring, anyway a total waste of money, if anyone played the role playing (D&D) they would call this movie a bad game directed by a bad dungeons master. "},{"Title":"unwatchable (minor spoiler)","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Set aside the modern colloquial talk amongst the two main characters, the obvious Star Wars and Raiders rip-offs, the bad dialog, the confusing story, the whimsically and hastily constructed fantasy universe, the polished but uninteresting special effects. This movie has a sheen of non-quality about it, that's noticeable from the prologue title cards at the very beginning. This is an example of a script that would have benefitted from its writers following the most cliche, Syd Field-ish rules of story and character construction. When Marlon Wayan's character, Snails, meets an untimely demise, a young woman comforts his best friend by saying I'm sorry about Snails, which comes off like she's apologizing for escargot. That's a moment not meant to be funny. And it's the highlight of the movie.Honestly, I'm still not sure whether of not this movie even exists. "}{"Title":"A waste of 90 min","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I was so thankful when Snails (Marlon Wayans)was finally killed off that I finally started to enjoy this waste of time. Wayans was so annoying that I thought that Stephen Fletcher? was making a comeback. What a degrading and demeaning role for Marlon. I guess that when you are the lesser Wayans you will take any movie for the money. Thora Birch (From American Beauty) was a total mistake as the Good Empress Savina.  She was difficult to watch.  At best this is a cable item if you are really without anything to do, like watch the paint dry or look for fruit flies.   "},{"Title":"Bad acting bad plot horrible movie","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I sat down to see this movie I was rather excited the previews of the movie looked very good. After sitting there for 20 minutes I realised that they threw too much too fast. There was no time to develop characters and the plot was stupid. My friends sitting next to me were falling asleep. Thora Birch had a role with too little lines and had some really stupid looking costumes. The best thing about the movie was Marlon Wayans, noting beats some good comic relief. The worst thing is the outfits of the main character, they were just nasty looking.Save your money and don't see this movie. "},{"Title":"And then the weirdos came out of the woodwork...","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In the first five minutes, my wife looked around and noticed she was the only woman in the theatre.  A single woman need only walk into the theatre to have her selection of the aging single white males who left their parents' basement to watch this movie... and then there was this movie.The people who play D&D spend more effort designing their characters than the screenwriters spent on these folks.  It's unfortunate that Jeremy Irons was cast in this movie, the rest of the cast portrayed why they'll remain second- and third-tier actors (Wayons should keep to 1-800-Collect commercials)In the age when your home computer can render special effects better than most 80's flicks, it's not surprising to see CGI dragons and grandiose castle shots.  It's a shame that some hardware didn't generate the actors. Alas the only hardware spent on actors were the  large breastplates on a thin actress.My only recommendation is to keep your money in your pocket.  "},{"Title":"Why did I pay to see this?  Oh, I didn't.","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film explains why I no longer feel even a lingering shred of guilt about downloading usenet rips rather than waiting weeks or months for distributors let their cash cows into theatres outside the USA.  If I had waited and then *paid* to see this, I'd have gone postal for sure.A $35 million budget sounds like a lot of money to you and me, but it's now utterly inadequate for an FX led film.  This is a cheap and nasty little exploitation piece made with utter contempt for both the viewer and the source.  It's not even appealingly bad, just insultingly awful.I usually try and find something, anything, good to say about a film, but in this case, I just can't.  Everything about it is simply vile; plot, dialog, acting, lighting, sets, camera work, sound, score, action shots, CGI, *everything*.  It deserves to die a quick, quiet death and be instantly forgotten.  My advice to anyone who still holds out hope of a renaissance (pun intened) in fantasy films is to deny that this appaling travesty was ever made.Bonus anecdote A couple of years back, Tom Baker turned down an offer to do the voiceover for the CGI intro of Deathtrap Dungeon.  Mr Baker's agent told us in no uncertain terms that Mr Baker doesn't do silly little projects like that.  Well apparently he does now. "},{"Title":"Long awaited fantasy does not disapoint!","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I wanna start this off by warning each and every one of you to go into this movie as blind as you can possibly be. Avoid all spoilers that have anything to do with the actual plot, because that is a huge chunk of the fun of the film.Now that that is out of the way.. I know your dying to hear.. what does Donsimus, after spending a year of his life on covering the film, what do I have to say now that I have seen the entire thing there on the big screen, with a very good sound system. I'll try to keep this as spoiler free as possible, and because of that I'll have to be more general..than specific, but DON'T think for a minute that I'm leaving any thing out cause I don't like it. IN fact, I'm really only bringing out the things I think you will most interested in or this review could go several pages!I knew the story in advance. I already loved the story, but all through the movie I find myself wishing that I hadn't known anything.. DON'T read the novel before you see the movie. The novel actually contains scenes that for various reasons did not end up in the finished film, and when those scenes were supposed to happen, I mourned their loss, because there was such good stuff in them. I can't write an honest review with out mentioning that fact.That said, what is left over is a helluva lot of fun..looks very cool..and in some places kicks some serious ass. It's a rousing, spirited romp of an adventure story that never slacks for a second. It's really hard to pin down in terms of what other fantasy movies it best fits with. I think the world is much better realized than most any other fantasy film. It has the derring-do of Willow..combat is fast paced and often brutal, even though there's no blood thrown around, people do get stabbed, slashed, and brought down hard. My only complaint on the fight scenes is similar to X-Men, what we get is great, but they don't last long enough..and with the exception of a very satisfying climatic battle they all ended too quickly for my tastes. Combat is the bread and butter of D&D after all. It may have been because I also knew of fight scenes that were filmed but got trimmed from the film for time purposes, so again if I hadn't known about them, I wouldn't have missed them.  "},{"Title":"a decent 90 minute diversion","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" i liked this movie better than most people.it has a very low 3.7/10 user rating.i thought the movie was pretty good for the most part,though there were a few things that bothered me a bit.the biggest complaint i have is that the dragons are barely even shown in the movie,which is a shame,because i thought they looked pretty good.the other thing i didn't like was that the movie becomes muddled just over halfway through,and i could not make much sense of it.up to that point i liked it quite a bit.i also should mention that i thought some of the fighting scenes were not very good.there is lots of excitement in the movie,and i certainly didn't find it boring.i think it is well worth killing around 90 min or so.for me Dungeons and Dragons is about a 6/10 "},{"Title":"Dungeons and Dragons","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The one important thing one shouldn't forget is that Fantasy is very difficult to film. The real good Fantasy films are out there, the 'less good' ones as well. Sad, but true...That said, however, bearing in mind that 'Dungeons and Dragons'is a movie based on an RPG - of which no one story, dungeon, or plot was the direct source of inspiration - then the movie is in itself very entertaining and actually well done.The film's actors did their best and acted in the film as melodramatically 'cheesy' as some of the best D&D and AD&D players out there.Long live D&D - the game and the movie! "},{"Title":"Play the game first,  like the game and you'll love the movie, (hate it and save the rental fee)","Date":"27 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some will say this movie is not worth seeing. Remember that this came out after Hercules The Legendary Adventures and before The Lord of the Ring Trilogy. And It really is between them. While it is not intentionally campy it contain many of the fantasy genre jokes that come up when people play the game. At the same time it tries to be as serious as possible considering the budget it had to work with. Visual the movie really delivered (that is as for the expectations of the day). It is no, Lord of the Rings. It is not intended to be that kind of story. No one is dragged off to destroy the soul bearing ring of the second in command of Morgoth to save the world from hell on earth, but like most D&D games the fate of one kingdom will hang in the balance. The acting is better than Charmed, but less than an A+ (charmed fans, please don't kill me, I like the show boy, I miss Cole (I'm not gay, he was just really cool thank goodness for reruns)). The movie is full of inside jokes and references, so it's only an okay movie if you have never played the game, if you got a slow day, it would be a fine a catch on Sci-fi, WAM, or the like. If you have played the game (and the more games the better) you will find yourself repeated saying hehe, I love dwarfs, is that a drow?, dang, I did that same thing, every newbie does that first time out, Haha that is Rule Zero for you, or at least he didn't do what I did, this one time... with jovial cries.The Title holds true the spirit of the D&D game world. But much like the Hulk, outsider and persnickety viewers throw their fits. I am a Gamer I know a number of the inside jokes, but frell every time I go back I get something new. To sum up, it is not the greatest or worst movie of time. But if you have a penchant for fantasy but aren't a captious viewer, or if you are dating a gamer then it's not a bad jaunt to take, and it's one I would recommend. "},{"Title":"Good fun... if you are in the right mood for it...","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Recap Powerful mage Profion plots against the young empress, but his plan hinges on him being able to control dragons. He is very powerful, but not yet that powerful. Only the empress can control dragons with the aid of her scepter. But Profion coerces the high council to request her to give her scepter up. An old adviser informs the emperor that there is an old scroll, speaking of yet another scepter that controls dragons, if she could get her hands on that, she could give up her original scepter, pleasing the council and continuing her quest for equal rights in her empire. Profion hears of this and sends his right hand man, Damodar, captain of the guard, to dispose of the adviser. So he does, but two thieves and a novice mage, aid to the adviser, stumbles upon the murder and runs off with the old scroll. Framed for the murder they are now hunted both by Damodar and the empress, and stumbles into an adventure.Comments This is in no way a top movie. But, it got the heart in the right place, doesn't try to pretend it is something more that it is not and manages well with the resources it has. If you like the genre, and are in the mood for it, this is a very nice light-hearted adventure with some elements of action and adventure. The special effects are crucial for this movie, and although they are sufficient, they are not as beautiful as movies with bigger budgets, and unfortunately it shows. But I must say, do not think the effects are poor or ugly, it is just that I have seen better. Neither the story nor the acting will win any awards, but they are not bad either. Maybe the best part in the entire production is the casting. Iron, Payne, Whalin and Wayans, yes the entire head cast is perfect for their roles. Still, the casting does not carry the entire movie, but combined with other parts, seemingly average, they together add to become something a little more than its sums.6/10 "},{"Title":"Actually...","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Actually, I quite enjoyed this. Doesn't mean it was a good, or even great film, but I loved Richard E Grant in it (you'll know what I mean when you hear the '...what a romantic notion' line! Sheer class. Unfortunately, Thora Birch's performance, was probably one of the worst I have ever seen... ever, from anyone... ever. Jeremy Irons was solid as usual... and the guy who used to be Jimmy in Superman I thought was surprisingly good. I know there will be loads of people who disagree with me, but if you look past the formulaic dialogue and expected narrative progression, there's an average, but enjoyable film trying to get out (average is not bad despite many people's assumptions). While it's certainly no Willow beater, I don't think it deserves a low-down 3.2 ... "}{"Title":"I can understand people's apprehension to the movie.","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I personally adored the movie, enjoyed the story line and loved the characters. People who've never played the Role Playing Game Dungeons and Dragons as children and/or teenagers can probably never appreciate the underlying humor and accuracies within the storyline. It is taken for granted an understanding of what the characters represent and people who've never learned the game might never feel a connection with the characters. The Dwarf was in my opinion and excellent semblance of what that race represented in that imaginary world with good humor in a few areas. I thought what I seen definitely brought me back to those hours of enjoying the game with my many friends through my childhood in the 80's. I wished very much a continuation of a part 2 movie or mini stories and such but that will probably never be the case. "},{"Title":"Think again...","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've seen this movie back in 2001, and i must say i wasn't too impressed. Soon after that the Lord of the Rings trilogy began, and many people compared this movie to Tolkien's masterpiece... and that's not quite fair isn't it? I must admit that i thought the same way at the time but recently i watched the movie once again and it's not that bad, considering that it tries to create a whole new story, not just reproducing probably the best fantasy world ever conceived. Although the main elements (dragons, mages, elves etc.) are borrowed from Tolkien's universe there is some potential for a good sequel or something... Anyway, what i really meant to say is that i think this deserves a better vote average than 3.8 (at the time i wrote this comment). Of course i am a great fan of Dungeons and Dragons universe and my vote might be a bit exaggerated. In the end i would like to apologize for my bad English, i'm not a native speaker, and i hope i've proved my point of view! "},{"Title":"Not a terribly good film, but not as horrible as its made out to be","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Dungeons and Dragons' is not a terribly good film, but if you know this and do not expect a lot, then it can be worth a watch...if only to laugh at some of the stupid things in the plot. This film got a lot of bad rep, mostly from big fans of D&D, but I did not find it half as annoying as some of the criticism I heard - probably because I expected something horrible. I have seen worse films than this, and I will give it credit that this film was actually pretty amusing and decent in some areas. It's not terribly memorable, and it is pretty low budget, but it is Hollywood trying to get some money of us gaming fans.I wouldn't totally put this film down, but I'll tell you that it is not the best. There are some annoying Jar-Jar-like characters in it, and some of the plot is really silly, but it's not the worst film I've seen. "},{"Title":"I don't know, despite the bad reviews I thought it was OK.","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dungeons & Dragons is set in the mystical World of Izmer which is controlled by Mages, an elite group of magic users. Those without magical abilities are little more than slaves. However the young Empress Savina (Thora Birch) believes everyone should live in equality & peace which is an idea the evil sorcerer Profion (Jeremy Irons) doesn't like that much so he convinces the Mage council to force Savina to hand over a magic sceptre that controls the gold Dragons, but she refuses. Profion then decides his only hope is to obtain the magic sceptre that controls the more powerful red Dragons so he sends the Crimson Guards lead by Damodar (Bruce Payne) to steal a map which reveals it's location. Meanwhile two common or garden thieves Ridley (Justin Whalin) & Snails (Marlon Wayans) decide to rob a Mage to try & impress everyone but stumble across Damodar trying to steal the map, they mange to stop him & together with a young attractive female apprentice Mage named Marina (Zoe McLellan) they escape with the much sought-after map. It's not long before their faces are plastered everywhere, along with a dwarf named Elwood (Lee Arenberg) they decide to find the sceptre, help Empress Savina achieve her aim of fairness & equality for all & put an end to Profion's evil schemes. But this quest will not be without it's peril's, from the thief Xilus (Richard O'Brien) & his maze of deadly bobby traps to the ever lurking presence of Damodar & his men...Co-produced & directed by Courtney Solomon this American Czech Republic production is a mildly entertaining fantasy film. The first thing I should point out is that I have never played the Dungeons & Dragons board game, I have no idea how it is played & I have no idea about any of it's background story, central characters or settings if indeed there are any. I am commenting on Dungeons & Dragons as a fantasy film fan & not a role-playing board game fan, this is probably why I actually didn't think it was too bad compared to some of the other comments here. The script by Topper Lilien & Carroll Cartwright moves along at a fairly brisk pace & something is always happening. The overall story is a little confused as I'm having trouble remembering the specifics but who needs a story? One problem with Dungeons & Dragons is that the characters are rather clichéd & poorly developed, the loser hero with boyish good looks who predictably becomes romantically involved with his opposite a privileged attractive woman whom both end up falling in love with each other, the token black character of Snails is the obligatory comic relief & he is there for no other reason that I could see & the non human Dwarf & Elf are present to presumably try & please the fans as they have no purpose in the film whatsoever other than to be there & give the impression that we are in the Dungeons & Dragons universe & the bad guys are pure pantomime with Irons overacting, Payne looking ridiculous as Damodar with his blue lipstick & some creatures popping out of his ears every so often & the usual incompetent henchmen who can't shoot straight or fight properly. I didn't get that ending either with everyone turning into magical bright lights & floating off, I did get a kick out of seeing Jeremy Irons being eaten by a Dragon though & in my humble opinion I thought more people should have been eaten. With a supposed budget of about $35,000,000 technically Dungeons & Dragons varies, some of the CGI effects are excellent like the shots of Izmer as the camera glides under, around, over, through & between the various bridges, towers & buildings. While other effects like some of the Dragons look very fake & obviously computer (or Playstation maybe?) generated. Director Solomon who held onto the rights to make Dungeons & Dragons for 10 years while he found financing manages to create some decent scenes, especially Ridley conquering the maze of traps. The cinematography, editing, sets, music & production design are all of a pretty high standard. The acting is OK I suppose but nothing brilliant, Whalin was obviously cast for the teen audience & McLellan was obviously cast for her looks. Dungeons & Dragons is far from the best film I have ever seen but it is far from the worst & I found it rather entertaining in a silly childish sort of way. I have no idea how this compares to or resembles the board game but as a stand alone piece of fantasy adventure it passed 110 odd minutes painlessly enough & that's all I was really hoping for. Worth a watch if there's absolutely nothing else on but just don't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Not so bad...","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie, is much better than some may think. First of, The actors; The younger actors do a decent enough job, but what carries this movie, are the more seasoned actors, Irons and Payne in particular.The Story; Not so bad. Definitely a good movie to sneak in as part of a movie-night with some friends. Many times better than its 'predecessor' fantasy-movies from the 80's, and it doesn't take itself all-too seriously. Quite charming, but don't expect Lord Of The Ring-quality. Same goes for the effects, big plus for all the dragons though.While this movie would never have had a chance at an Oscar, its a good movie for a late Friday night with some friends. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Cheesy but enjoyable","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I will start out by saying that they could have done better on this movie but it was fairly well acted and the people that they got to play the characters were very well casted. There was a lot of stereotypical villains but how they developed the plot with them was done good. I have seen a lot worse LARPs and table sessions(tournaments). I've been doing RPGs since 1976 and standard table top strategy games(Avalon Hill) since 1969, my uncle had a hobby shop with games and models. I have seen almost every single movie that even remotely resembles sci-fi/fantasy. This movie honestly rates a 7 1/2, no matter what Toy Soldier has to say, I know everyone is entitled to their opinion. I did enjoy it enough in the theater that I bought the DVD, I did NOT find it boring. "},{"Title":"Rushed movie takes its toll","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Dungeons & Dragons, a very popular role playing adventure game played by millions of people around the world, appears in real time movie, full of special effects & jaw dropping scenery. On the whole, D&D could've been made a lot better, not by changing the actors, not by changing the entire plot line, but by decent dialogue & more time. I personally reckon that the cast was fine, pretty much all of the actors would've been great if the dialogue was right. The acting seems like they don't know what they're doing, basically because it seems like they're having to interpret the entire movie from the start. It seems like the idea of the movie began really well, but rush jobs & cut backs have turned this movie from a possible blockbuster into a straight to video shocker. I seriously reckon that given more time, a little more money & a better produced script, this movie would have turned from being dubbed one of the worst movies of the year to one of the best. Still a pretty average movie thought. Hopefully the sequel will fair better, despite a cast change. "},{"Title":"It is D&D in the original sense..","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really loved this movie because;- it is really Dungeon's & Dragon's, it is a ture adventure set in basic rules, you have aspiring rogues(looking for the big haul), mages, and even my classes using the third ed rules a human fighter-mage type character, this is why I like it so much.- it was not your usual fantasy movie, geez it had lots and lots of Dragons, OK so the dragon were not like dragonheart's beautiful dragon's, I just loved the big ending with the dragon's in the city. oh the beholders, man I love the beholders in this movie.- I was not looking for an epic graphic bound movie,I was looking for something light and easy to watch, and this movie is just that. My girlfriend fell asleep watching Pirate of the Caribbean and most of the Lord of the rings trilogy, she never fell asleep during this movie.- I look forward to the next movie....the setting has untold potential, Baldur's gate(PC game's) would be a great movie, and I look forward to the next installment.  "},{"Title":"Awesome movie!","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are so many ways that this movie rocks. But, seeings as how I don't have much space, I'll tell a few things1) This is one of the best adaptations of a book or game I've ever seen. Movies like Mortal Kombat or The Sum of All Fears are all right, but this movie takes the soul of the book and game and brings them to stunning reality!2) The acting is very believable. Jeremy Irons is more evil than I've ever seen him in any other movie. Even when he played Scar for The Lion King, he's much more evil in this movie.3) The set is very realistic. I mean, the dungeons wouldn't actually be hidden in the cities, don't you think? Plus, the castle where Snails faces Damodar looks like its been there for hundreds of years, which it might very well have. Hence, believable surroundings.Whoever sees this movie and says it's one of the worst should have their eyes examined! This movie's characters, setting, and plot make it a thrill ride for everyone! "},{"Title":"I liked this movie.","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I can't believe how many people don't like it.  I think people are taking this movie way too seriously.  Maybe too many people are comparing it to Lord of the Rings.It's not Lord of the Rings.  But it is fun.  I liked the action.  I liked the special effects.  The story was good.  And parts of it made me laugh. I don't think it was meant to be as serious as people are taking it.  Sure, some of the costumes sucked and there was a bit of overacting.  But overall, it was a fun movie to watch.There were a few deleted scenes on the dvd that would have made it even better if they were included.Oh, and like a lot of people that commented on this movie, I played the game and I wasn't disappointed.  This movie is one person's vision from playing the game.And as for a the sequel that I've heard might be in the works; I'd love to see Courtney Solomon direct it and all the same actors play the heroes. "}{"Title":"This film is a sleeper","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is a sleeper just like Road Warrior. For its budget I think it is a great movie. Justin Whalin performance is above par, his character is very likable and has an endearing support of characters to help him on his quest. Jeremy Irons is superb as the arch villain, I wouldn't be surprised if they make a sequel of this one.  "},{"Title":"In My Honest Opinion","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  My opinion does not coincide with many other's opinions, but considering that this was just a movie made to see how Lord of the Rings would sell, it was pretty good. Since I have been playing D&D 14 years, and have had and met characters quite a bit like those portrayed in the movie.. I have very high opinions of it. I think that, though the dragons were portrayed as stupid animals, the animation was beautiful. I wish that they had continued the series. "},{"Title":"More than I expected","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I rented this movie last Friday, actually just for the reason of Jeremy Irons playing a big part in it. I'm a fantasy lover, so of course I was pretty sure that the movie wouldn't be disappointing, but it turned out to be even better than I dared to expect! Okay, I agree, there's a lot of overacting in this flick, but I think it adds to the story. A really evil mage has to be a little crazy, so he has to overact. It just makes Profion more real. Thora Birch wasn't all that good, her acting was a little too much of it, if you get my point. She obviously wanted to put a lot of emotion in it, this becomes very clear when she talks with Vildian. The rest of the characters was okay, with Snails being the funny guy a movie like this can't go without.*THIS PART CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!*Something else; does Ridley have mage blood or not? I couldn't figure this one out. We get the intention that his father had something to do with mages, maybe even was one, but why don't we get this explained? Ridley can control the rod, aren't mages the only ones who got this power? Excuse me if I'm wrong, I'm not very into D&D (the original game), but I kept the feeling that I missed something after the movie was finished.I had this same feeling when watching the end. Why do the friends turn into flying balls of light? Where are they flying to anyway? It would have made more sense to me if Snails suddenly showed up behind the group or something.The end actually was a bit funny to me and my brother. After the gold dragon ate Profion, it sort of falls down. We both thought he'd died after eating Profion, because the mage was so poisonous or something! But the animal flew away. Major bummer, it would have proven Profion's evilness. To me that is.*END OF SPOILERS*Still, I very much enjoyed this movie. The special effects were great, the story was good and I never got bored along the ride. This flick is great, I'm buying it as soon as I get the chance. If you're a fantasy lover ('cause you have to be one to enjoy this), don't hesitate to check it out sometime. I can really recommend it ) "},{"Title":"Fantastic Fun","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  'There may be a couple of VERY MINOR spoilers in here, nothing revealing about the plot though.....'I must admit that when I went to see Dungeons and Dragons with some friends I was expecting something awful,  but what I got was one of the most enjoyable films I've seen in ages..If first impressions are important, D&D really delivers with an absolutely beautiful opening over Sumdall city, it made me sit up and think. 'hey this could actually be okay'.  I was expecting it to go downhill form there, but strangely it didn't. It held my attention with decent characters, a good (and for once original) plot and some great and very memorable scenes (big swinging axes ahoy!!). And it seems that everyone else in the almost full cinema agreed with me. Even the third time I went to see it (a good 5-6 weeks after it was released over here (in England)) the cinema was still almost full. And when the film had finished I heard many people (young and old) commenting on how much they enjoyed it... Indeed I haven't actually MET a person I know who has seen it who DOESN'T like it. (then again I've only talked to about 6)I've read many reviews of D&D that describe Jeremy Irons' acting as 'hammy' and, ok, I have to admit I almost cringed after his first couple of lines. But he plays Profion (the bad guy) brilliantly, and you soon get to realise what the character was intended to be like.... i.e. a complete mad man, a loon! It just goes to show that we Brits really can produce high grade bad guys! I also must complement Bruce Payne for playing Damodar so well, I don't know about anyone else but I really grew to hate him (not the actor obviously, the character he played) as the film progressed , he really does have a chilling, villainous voice on him. In fact the entire cast played their roles well. I've heard some people giving a bit of stick to Thora Birch who plays Empress Savina. However I think she's plays the character pretty well, certainly better than Princess Amidala in Episode 1 and by the end of the film she gets some real backbone to set things straight.The effects are consistently strong, from the breathtaking opening flyby over the city of Sumdall, to the amazing dragon battle. And the dragons really do look great. I've heard some say that the climactic battle is too short (it's not!!), but even if it was, who cares when it's this good! Also if you want some seriously cool effects check out the sword fight nearer the end. Throughout the film there is enough action to make sure things don't get boring. D&D has it's own unique 'feel' to it that sets it aside from other fantasy films such as Dragonheart, and while it is certainly not a childish film it never takes itself TOO seriously, basically it's spot on in my view.D&D's soundtrack also deserves a special mention. For me it shined through during the entire film. There are a number of themes which crop up, whenever Ridley (the hero) does anything heroic or whenever a fight breaks out the music really succeeds in picking up the pace. Also the villains (Profion and Damodar) have their own menacing, sometimes even frightening themes (anyone who owns the soundtrack, see Damodars Curse).As far as I can see all the criticisms aimed at D&D are unjust, it isn't TRYING to be a masterpiece, it's simply a very good and very entertaining film.....if I haven't got it across particularly well so far, I think it's excellent! There really is no reason not to like D&D. It has something there for everyone. If you have any doubt go and see it. you might be pleasantly surprised!  "},{"Title":"I was thoroughly impressed.....","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The special effects were great.  The storyline was great.  But being a D&D gamer myself, I didn't quite catch the game mechanics in how they did some of the magic spells.  Other than that the actors did an outstanding job.  I can't wait for another D&D movie to come out. "},{"Title":"This movie was surprisingly exciting and fun.","Date":"26 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  As a wife of a former D&D player, I was somewhat familiar with the lingo and contents of the game.  But, I was a little worried I wouldn't completely understand the movie.  I was very pleasantly surprised!  The acting was, at times, a little on the cheesy side, but the actors they chose to play the rolls were perfect. (Wayans had me absolutly rolling!) But the best part, in my opinion, were the effects.  I thought they did an excellent job bringing to life the fictional fantasy characters of the game.  Many of the scenes were just breathtaking.  I think it had plenty of action, just enough romance, comedy and great effects. I would definatly reccomend this movie to people just looking to watch an all around fun film. "},{"Title":"Fantasy? A Movie With Imagination!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I thought this movie was well done. Yes, it wasn't the greatest movie ever made, but it must be worth something to be compared to Star Wars or Indiana Jones! I love role playing games, and improvisation. I think to properly portray what a real game would be like, is pretty close to this. Not everyone knows what to expect or how to react. I know that most people expected a long plot with so much complication you could walk away talking about what you missed seeing the first time, or what you might have done if you had the role of the dice. I thought the plot was fun and refreshing. It made me feel as if I could be there deciding what to look for to add to the plot. I have read some of the comments from other people and it seems to me that some people really must have left the room while it was playing. I loved Jeremy Irons in this. The diabolical mad man he was portraying even made me want to smack him. I loved the fresh faces of the characters. I am tired of seeing a movie with Sandra Bullock in it and already having her type cast in the first five seconds. This movie let me see characters instead of connecting me with the last movie I saw them in. The special effects were great too! I miss seeing a movie with dragons, sorcerers, elves, and any other fantasy character you could think of. The dryness of Hollywood has really turned me off from seeing movies. I can usually predict a plot in a movie trailer, but I was pleasantly surprised with this one. I suggest before seeing this movie, make sure you can stay in the room to watch it. Other wise, unlike other Hollywood movies, you will miss the plot. As I said before, Fantasy, FINALLY a movie with Imagination! "},{"Title":"It was GREAT!!!!!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, anyone who didn't like it obviously has no imagination. this movie was a lot better than I expected, but in order to understand the movie correctly you would have had to have seen the old cartoon and you would have also had to like fantasy stuff. I thought this movie was a great movie and I would definitely recommend it to anyone with a good imagination. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Being a great fantasy lover myself, I could not help but love this movie. While others say this was not a great movie maker and a sheer disappointment, I will defend it and say that it absolutely was not.  This movie was fantastic!  I thought it was all worth while for all the actors and other crew to work on this movie because it had a great plot, special effects, actors, scenery, magical characters, and action.  I can't wait for another one! "},{"Title":"A good movie but, a little to similar to Star Wars","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Although I did enjoy this movie I found it to be waaaaaaay to similar to Star Wars.  In the first five minutes a dragon dies exactly the same way as the Rancor in Return of the Jedi.  There's a Darth Vader charater who spends the entire movie in his big black armor, a Jar Jar style comic relief and the final battle is just laughable.  In the final sword fight both characters have magical swords, one blue, one red.  Need I say more?  I did think that it was an entertaining movie though.  I play D&D and I found that it followed the rules of the game very well.  I recommend this film to anyone who liked Star Wars or any fan of Sci-Fi/Fantasy. "}{"Title":"Save money and wait until it's out in the rental stores.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you were going to this movie to admire some CGI, you wouldn't have been disappointed.  If you went for a humorous movie, you probably weren't terribly disappointed.  If you went for a completely original plot, you were in for a real disappointment.The acting was fairly solid, but coupled with the rip offs of Return of the Jedi, Raiders of the Lost Ark, ElfQuest, and more, it suffered for lack of original plotline with which to work.My recommendation  Save yourself some money and wait until it's out in the rental stores. "},{"Title":"More special effects than Star Wars","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This was an excellent movie--not just special effects, but plot, acting, and story.  I can't wait to see it again.  The sound was great, the special effects were great, and I can't wait for the sequel--it was left way open for a sequel.  Also, there were some parts that needed to be explained a little better than they were in the movie.  But, other than that, the movie was excellent. "},{"Title":"It appears Profion also seeks the rod.","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The movie was based on a popular role-playing game, but let's put that aside and judge the movie on its own terms.First, the dialogue was terrible. How these two screenwriters could also pen Where the Money Is, which Paul Newman said YES to, is beyond me. These people can't write, they CANNOT write. Any two-bit wanna-be hack who ever penned a scene for a Renaissance Fair could write dialogue at least as good as this, it's a cross between a bad romance novel and the aforementioned Ren-Fair dialogue, as written by two people who have never been to one.Second, the direction wasn't that bad. For a first timer, Courtney Solomon at least made the movie pretty to look at, giving us exciting monsters, locales, make-up, dungeons and, well, dragons. Hopefully he'll get better as he goes on.Third, the acting was MOSTLY decent, with two exceptions Lee Arenberg, playing a 5-foot dwarf, has little acting experience, and it shows. Thora Birch, who was in American Beauty, looks like a deer in headlights through the entire movie. She woke up later, apparently, as the energy in her voice is often completely contradictory to her half-asleep facial expressions.Special awards to Justin Whalin's swordplay and Jeremy Irons's eyebrows for carrying the film.With a better screenplay this could have been a great sword and sorcery adventure, but as it is, you can either hope for a Mystery Science Theater 3000 revival, or just watch it with the sound off. A terrible, terrible film. But in a good way. 7/10. "},{"Title":"The Ridleyest movie I've ever seen.","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hilariously awful. A fantasy movie that seemed fun at first, but ended up being the most overacted piece of tripe I've seen. While the movie has its high points and the plot had promise, the actors (particularily the evil characters) turned this movie to hash.Profion was the absolute worst, a cartoonish caricature of a villain. He'd have been more believable if he'd been animated with crayons.The dwarf was a disgrace to dwarfs everywhere, a drunken, bumbling sot with no use.The thieves were the best and the most human, and watching them joke around was kinda fun; at least they gave the movie some humanity.But all in all, I agree with Snails. Ridley is another word for stupid, and this is the Ridleyest movie I've ever watched.A must see, if you like Brainburn. "},{"Title":"Not THE worst movie I have ever seen, but I can't remember what is","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie had a few redeeming features about it- I got too see it at the Dollar Theater, I saw it with other fans of cheesy movies, and finally- yes some geeky girls did actually show up in chain mail bikinis (actually it was tin foil with holes punched in, but WTH).About 15 minutes through I had already had a few beers which we sneaked in, then after about 30 we were hitting on the scantily clad (or is that skankilly clad)geek chicks. 35 minutes after that we were trying to throw popcorn down their breast plates.Somewhere in there I remember seeing one of the Wayans brothers falling out of a tree dressed like a keebler elf, a fat guy with bright blue lips, and something that resembled the horrid dialog of Romeo & Juliet performed by the drama squad of the special ed department.Overall Pyramid Heffeweizen is an okay choice of beverage, though with theater popcorn it tastes a little flat. Remember to swirl the bottle to mix up the natural yeast break and round out the flavor.And don't laugh at geeky chicks before drinking at the same social event they are attending- after a few beers you may find them more appealing but they will remember your insult. "},{"Title":"You can't drive faster than the car in front of you!","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of my favorite sayings is 'you can't drive faster than the car in front of you' and it best describes this movie the script is the car in front. Every time the actors try to expand their characters the script shoots the crap out of them the plot looks like some one shot at it with an UZI and the characterization is all over the place also the rating it got was ridicules M15+. Now I have seen more violent movies with an M15+ rating Predator for one but all this movie had was the death of one of its characters and the death of a few dragons nothing more there wasn't any fowl language so why did it get such a high rating maybe the film classifiers wanted the movie to fail by dragging the younger audience away. Now the movie isn't a total loss when I first sore it I hated it after the first 5 minutes the second time I watched it it was more bearable and by the third time I could see the actors trying to work with the bad script and now I think of it as a good but bad movie the bad part being the script the good being that its bearable and a good enough watch on a slow day. "},{"Title":"Entertaining... and could have been worse...","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The one line summary pretty much explains the value of this movie.  Don't go expecting any great performances or impressive special effects.  There are decent images and scenes, but this is an inexpensive movie that is worth seeing at the matinee or second-run.  It's been a while since a decent fantasy film has been released, and this one is decent.The acting was over-the-top and the plot was redux from many other films, but that did not matter.  You should go into this movie expecting standard fantasy.  Nobody has been claiming this movie is a great dramatical work.  It's fun, entertaining, and sometimes goes out of its way to make fun of itself.The cast has several strong names, but you get the idea they are making fun of themselves and the movie they are in with their performances.  Though Marlon Wayans does turn in a good performance as Snails the bumbling thief. However, most of the cast seems to be just learning to act, which adds to the over-acting.I gave this movie a 6 out of 10 because it was worth my time and in a genre devoid of current movies, it was above average.  Is it as good as Highlander (1986), The Princess Bride (1987), Willow (1988), Excalibur (1981), or Conan the Barbarian (1982)? No, but then it is not as bad as Highlander II The Quickening (1991), Metalstorm The Destruction of Jared-Syn (1983), or Leonard Part (1987) ...some of the worst movies of all time.  To compare to a recent movie, Dungeons and Dragons (2000) was more enjoyable than Red Planet (2000). "},{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie had all the promise of being an enterprise in futile cornballery, and I went to view it with some trepidation.  I am pleased to say that it rises far above my expectations.  Better than average acting from the less-known portion of the acting ensemble, a couple of surprises, and a much better storyline than what you might expect all raise this feature above past attempts by moviemakers to capture the D&D audience.  Yes, Jeremy Irons overacts quite a bit, but it's all in context. Some of the special effects are weak, most noticeably the dragons themselves, but many of the other effects scenes are breathtaking and beautiful.  Viewers who know nothing of D&D lingo can watch without feeling left out, but long-time roleplayers will appreciate the care with which the filmmakers remained true to the rules of the game.  All in all, an admirable piece of work, given the constraints of a popcorn adventure-comedy-fantasy genre, and well worth a look if you enjoy swords and sorcery.  6.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Dungeons & Dragons","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I heard this film was a big box office flop, and the critics give it one out of five stars, so I decided to see why. Based on the popular role-playing game, this film sees bad guy wizard Profion (Jeremy Irons) wanting to control the red dragons with a powerful artifact, and overthrow young Empress Savina (American Beauty's Thora Birch). The heroes trying to stop it are thieves Ridley Freeborn (Child's Play 3's Justin Whalin) and Snails (Scary Movie's Marlon Wayans), along with apprentice wizard Marina Pretensa (Zoe McLellan), hard-drinking dwarf Elwood Gutworthy (Lee Arenberg) and mysterious dark elf ranger Norda (Kristen Wilson), who was originally trying to stop them. They are pursued by Damodar (Bruce Payne) as they get closer to recovering the magic gemstone from the maze of Xilus (The Rocky Horror Picture Show's Richard O'Brien), which will take them to the staff Profion is after. Also starring Tom Baker (best known for Doctor Who and Little Britain) as Halvarth. Well, where I start? Irons is a rubbish pantomime villains, Whalin proves again to be a lame leading actor, Wayans is alright (but killed off too soon), and Birch reminds me too much of a lame queen Natalie Portman in the Star Wars prequels. As for the film itself, the story fails, the CGI special effects look cheap, there is just nothing good to say about it. Poor! "}]