[{"Title":"Well, from an atheist perspective, it's just a bad movie","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"92 out of 129 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I picked up Left Behind for no other reason than it was in the new release section (that's Australia for you), and it looked as if it might be worth watching.In my opinion, I wasted my money. And considering that I used a free coupon to rent it, that's saying something.However, I must point out that I'm not objecting to the Biblical content. Viewed simply as a fictional text, there's nothing wrong with the Bible; this is a fictional movie, so I don't have a problem per se with the content (although IMHO it makes it more fantasy than science fiction).No, the problem with Left Behind is just that the movie totally fails to excite. The plot dawdles along at a painful pace for far too long, and even I figured out the Rapture part about ten minutes into it (I didn't initially believe that they would try and use that as the REAL explanation, but I wasn't exactly shocked when they did).The story is not internally self consistent. We're told about a world wide hunger problem, but we're never shown this (all of the cast seem well fed, for example). We're expected to believe that the population of the planet buys the idea that some mysterious form of radiation has selectively wiped out millions of people in a wide spread area with no particular pattern (they wouldn't, especially considering that some of the world's top scientists are unlikely to have been chosen). Basically, given the situation at the START of the movie we should see a very different society - one on the edge of survival, with martial law and even open warfare (and we don't; America looks pretty much the same as it always does in Hollywood). AFTER the rapture, it should be even worse - and yes, we see a few signs that things are breaking down, but it's still largely business as usual.Finally, the story doesn't have an ending. Apparently there's a sequel, but that doesn't excuse the lack of a finale in this movie. To all intents and purposes, they figure out what's going on and then ... it ends. No confrontation. No pay-off. Just the main character finally realising the truth of what the viewer noticed hours ago.I've certainly seen worse movies, of course, but if you happen to see a copy of this on the store shelves, even at weekly prices... you would do best to simply let it remain Left Behind. "},{"Title":"Fire the screenplay writers","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"69 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a Christian who generally believes in the theology taught in Left Behind. That being said, I think Left Behind is one of the worst films I've seen in some time.To have a good movie, you need to have a well-written screenplay. Left Behind fell woefully short on this. For one thing, it radically deviates from the book. Sometimes this is done to condense a 400-page novel down to a two-hour film, but in this film I saw changes that made no sense whatsoever.Another thing, there is zero character development. When characters in the story get saved (I won't say who), the book makes it clear that it's a long, soul-searching process. In the film it's quick and artificial. The book is written decently enough where people like Rayford Steele, Buck Williams and Hattie Durham seem real, but in the movie scenarios are consistently given the quick treatment without anything substantial. In another scene where one character gets angry about being left behind (again, I won't say who), it seems artificial.I realize as a Christian it's unedifying for me to say I disliked this film, but I can't in a good conscience recommend a film that I feel was horribly done. Perhaps it would've been better to make the first book into 2-3 films. Either way, Christians need to realize that to be taken seriously as filmmakers, we need to start by putting together a film in a quality way. I realize a lot of effort probably went into Left Behind, but that's the way I see it. "},{"Title":"Had to see it...have to bash it!","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"57 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's been a while since seeing this the first time, so I watched it again with the second movie in the series. While I realize there is a 3rd movie out that I haven't seen yet, I'll review under the original title...Just from the standpoint of production value, screen writing, and movie making, this movie fails on many levels, though it succeeds on a few as well. What can you expect from a low-budget, B movie? Not much, and it works from the standpoint of production. However, the writing is certainly disjointed, with little in the way of character development...exactly what I'd expect when there is an agenda to a film. I didn't have a problem with the acting...the cast is solid; however, the screenplay in both movies gives the actors little opportunity to really stretch themselves. Because the film is Christian, this is predictable, as you can't very well portray violent chaos of the end times without also breaking some of the ethics which are normally associated with Christianity. In other words, the mistake comes in making this into a G-rated film when the content, even in the most conservative of Bible interpretations, would be R-rated by any measure. So, if the purpose of the movie is to scare people into Christian faith, then the movie should be somewhat scary, right? However, you can't comment on a film adaptation from a book without commenting on the book, or in this case, series of books. There are certainly plenty of Christian materials worthy enough to be made into movies...but not the Left Behind series...and these movies ultimately fail because, while being best-sellers, they are poorly written novels based on bad theology.As a Southern Baptist minister, I confess that the books were a guilty pleasure for me, though I have yet to finish the last two books of the series. I have described them as decent fiction, and if the books would take the point of view that this is one possibility or interpretation of the subject of biblical eschatology (study of the end times), then I could live with that. However, this series is divisive in Christian circles because it promotes the literalist interpretation of all Scripture above a more proper hermeneutic. Inevitably, this leads to the pre-trib, pre-millenial dispensation point of view, which confines an all-powerful God far too by humanity's world. In other words, as I've always said, God shouldn't need our helicopters and bombs to do his ultimate work. But because many people, particularly unstudied Christians, can't think beyond their own world-views, we are left with a pro-conservative, fundamentalist stance with regard to Bible interpretation, and attempts to push it through as the only interpretation.Thus, the books carry with them an agenda, not so much to get the lost to understand their need for Christ, but to state that the fundamentalist point of view is the only valid way to understand the Bible. I recall very clearly reading (several years ago) in the second novel a scene where the characters reference a person who was left behind BECAUSE of his non-adherence to this point of view; as if real christians worthy to be raptured couldn't possibly hold to another eschatology. This is disturbing for several reasons, the least of which is because a rapture is only briefly mentioned in Scripture and it's connection to real, end-time prophecy is tenuous at best.But the real issue with these books is comes in the way they divide the Christian community and how they portray true Christian behavior. Ultimately, I feel they harden more people to an otherwise legitimate faith/religion instead of win people towards it. It turns all Christians into caricatures, equally disdained and laughed at by the world despite the fact that there is theological room for a wide diversity of believes within Christian thought and practice. As a Christian body, on the whole, we've done enough of that kind of damage to society over 2000 years of history...and we certainly don't need to promote it by film to thousands, maybe millions of others.Thus, the Left Behind movies fail because the Left Behind books aren't worthy to be interpreted into movies. "},{"Title":"SPOON FEEDING the audience","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"58 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am a Christian... and I feel this movie is awful.Nobody but hard-core, Bible-belt Christians are going to like this movie. The message is just too in your face. If you want to touch a wider audience, you have to be way more subtle. You can't have the dad waving the bible around and carrying it with him in EVERY scene. RIDICULOUS! Poor direction. The reveal of people missing should have been terrifying, but it was laughable. They leave their clothes on the ground? It reminded me of old Ed Wood movies Oh my God! People are missing! That scene in the plane is just stupid. Think about it if you found your relative's clothes next to you, you wouldn't just scream oh my god. they disappeared! they're missing! and start crying and yelling. You would first be in denial... you just wouldn't jump to that conclusion. Watch Jodie Foster in FLIGHTPLAN. My favorite shot is the dog sitting out on the lawn with a pile of clothes and boots sitting next to him. I about fell off the couch I was laughing so hard.The music was so bad and so distracting. It was as if the composer was in his own world scoring his own movies. here's my chance to do a thriller, here's my chance to do action! STOP TELLING ME HOW TO FEEL JAMES COVELL! A good score supports what's happening on the screen... this movie needed more of an UNDER score, but instead it was as much in your face as the message was.The writing was bland. So was Captain Christian Kirk Cameron. Chelsea was the worse you don't understand! People are missing!. Brad Johnson was laughable. The two stand out performances came from the Anti-Christ and the older guy (sorry, can't remember their names) In watching the making of (to answer my question of what were they thinking???), the producers and filmmakers and actors are just deluding themselves... saying we're gonna reach wide audiences and brad Johnson is amazing and this is just like a Hollywood movie. I came to the conclusion that they just don't know what the heck they are doing.I commend the effort. Getting the message to a wide audience is a fantastic idea. Film is the best medium possible to do that. Look at movies like WIDE AWAKE, SIGNS, CONTACT, PASSION OF Christ, even O'BROTHER, WHERE ART THOU? The bottom line is that the film needed to be made by people who have talent and vision. Unfortunately, it was not. "},{"Title":"The End is Near...and there are no Kennels in Heaven","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"36 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, now, I know there are millions of Americans who believe in The Rapture that moment when all people born again in Christ will be raptured up to meet God and all the rest of humanity will be left on earth to perish in plagues and fire and the heartbreak of psoriasis as the Antichrist battles it out with Jesus (in an uncharacteristically warlike mode). And I know the books were best sellers. . .among believers, anyway. And I mean no disrespect to all that.But I have to say, they stuffed this movie into a sack and beat it with the Suck Stick.I'm sure the books are much better. Really.The plot needs no reprising. If you've watched this movie, chances are you read the book. I may be one of the only people on earth who actually watched this just for the sheer bad-moving-making experience, and I wasn't disappointed. Especially not by Kirk Cameron, the creepy little Growing Pains gremlin, who came of age on that show, found Christ, and decided that the SHOW should reflect his Christian values. Well, Kirk, your career has gone to the dogs, but now you can be happy that you're spreading the word of God in movies so bad, they never even make it to theatrical release. Well, that's not strictly true I guess this was the only movie ever made that went to DVD FIRST, with a voucher for a free viewing of the movie when it was briefly released in theaters! I still have the voucher! How many people do you suppose showed up? I don't know about you, but it never came to my town. Of course, I live in NYC, where we Godless liberals sit around tearing pages out of the bible and use them to roll joints. So there you go. In fact, I'll bet out of three million people on Manhattan Island, not one would be raptured.Check out the supplementary materials on the DVD, where you'll learn the creepy behind the scenes details of these movies. . .the CAST and CREW all must be of the same religious mindset. They don't come right out and say this, but listen closely to what the filmmakers say. It's like a bunch of Pod People got together to make a Pod movie. How creepazoid is that? Honestly, this stuff just preaches to the converted, doesn't it? Can you imagine anyone who DOESN'T subscribe to the whole apocalypse thing watching this, slapping his forehead and saying, HOLY HOOVER DAM! I better get saved PRONTO! Anyhow, I'm hooked. I gotta see the rest of these Christian fiasco movies, especially the one with Gary Busey, which I think is TRIBULATIONS. At least Busey has an excuse for taking the part.. . .he cracked his head on some pavement when he crashed his motorcycle.Oy.Oh, and one more thing. What's with all the shots of poor,innocent dogs whimpering, their leashes dragging uselessly along the ground, because their owners have been called to heaven? What's up with that? Are we supposed to feel badly for the dogs, and if we do, what are we to make of God? Doesn't it IRK people that there's no room in heaven for man's best friend? Foo.This is one more reason I'm agnostic. Good night and good luck. "},{"Title":"view it as a social/cultural document","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"38 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are wondering where many of the conspiracy theories and paranoid ideas about the the UN, Israel, and international affairs come from, look no further.This isn't a supernatural Hollywood film loosely based on some biblical passage.  Instead, this movie was made by a company (Cloud Ten Pictures) with a political and religious agenda.  As a movie, the end result at times more looks like clips out of a televangelism program (complete with family prayers and light breaking through church windows while harps are playing).For mainstream viewers, it may be hard to believe, but many people believe in this stuff literally, as presented in the movie.  And that, perhaps, makes the movie important.  You probably won't find a more concise exposition of the bizarre views of a significant number of your fellow citizens.  So, if you view it, view it as a social/cultural document.  If you are at all media savvy, you don't need to be warned about the unsubtle attempts at propaganda and manipulation in the movie. "},{"Title":"Overall, not bad","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  even though I liked the books better.  I saw the movie a second time and liked it better than I did the first time.I hope anyone who sees it who doesn't 'get it' or who feels that only fundamentalist christians can really understand it will just open their bibles.  I had friends who saw X-Men and got me to read some of the comics saying I'd enjoy the movie more if I did.  They were right.  So why is it so terrible to say crack open your bible and check out the stuff? Sometimes it really makes me laugh.  If you wanted to become a lawyer you'd learn contract law, study the constitution and various cases before taking the bar.  You wouldn't attempt to pass the bar exam by talking to friends about their opinions and watching The Practice.  But people who believe in God don't read His book.  And admitting that you've studied the bible, which, in the long run, will also make you more literate, is akin to saying you have a communicable disease; people stare at you and back away. Open it up.  Not only does it give guidelines on how to live, it gives you promises for what comes after. And if nothing else, it will give you a clue what this movie is all about.  "},{"Title":"A sermon you can skip","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" (Possible spoilers). Borrowing a line from Roger Ebert, I hated, hated, hated this movie. I have seen over 2000 movies in my life and I think I may rank this one dead last. No matter what category you choose, this movie is an inferior product. The acting is below the quality of most TV dramas. Never once did I believe in the characters as people rather than as actors being put through their paces. There is one scene where a young woman hugs her father with the same emotion as if she were hugging a telephone pole. The acting is so wooden that one is inclined to avert his eyes. The special effects were primitive, even by 1950 standards. I was hoping to be entertained by the science fiction aspects of this movie, but being disappointed understates my reaction. The main event of the story is the rapture - where all the good people are simultaneously taken to heaven by Jesus. In fact the good people do disappear about a quarter of the way into the film, but not once do we get to see an actual disappearance. We just see clothes left behind. I always thought the idea was that people's souls ascended to heaven while the body was left behind. But in this movie it appears that Jesus wants naked bodies in heaven. Big opportunities were missed by not allowing us to see the immediate effects of people being yanked off the planet - cars crashing, planes going down, dishes clattering to the floor, surgeries stopped in mid-stream, nuclear power plants going unmanned, dogs unleashed on their walks, and so forth. We see none of this actually happening. At best we get shots of the aftermath, like a multi-car accident, or passengers in a plane trying to figure out what happened. All the interesting stuff is left out and all we see is some obviously staged after effect shots. The only reasons I can think of for this are either a lack of imagination or a limited budget. The music is unremarkable - some generic rock music (a transparent attempt to appeal to a younger audience) and a few swelling crescendos to accompany the experiencing the awe of God scenes. But the worst thing about this movie is the horrendous screenplay. The script could have been written in a way to engage us in honest thought as to what constitutes a good life - the ultimate moral question. But, judging from the people who are taken in the rapture in this movie, it seems that the only good people are the devout Christians and children. This does not seem to me to be realistic. For one thing, based on my recollections of childhood, I recall an amazing number of acts of undisguised meanness. Should all children be given a free pass to heaven? And most of the people left behind seemed like pretty decent sorts to me - I would liked to have had more information as to just why they were left behind. We are given no first-hand knowledge of the people who were taken, so it is hard to compare their qualifications for being taken with those who are left behind. And one has to question the beneficence of a God who would, through an act of supposed kindness, cause such chaos and grief on earth - a loving mother ripped from her family, children taken, planes crashing, cars crashing, communication broken down, and so forth. The ultimate message seems to be turn to the Bible, family, and God. Is this message something we have never heard before? It is hard to know who this movie is aimed at. I guess for Christians the sermon delivered here is an affirmation of their faith, but for non-Christians this is a sermon they have endured ad nauseam. Give your money to your favorite charity, don't give it in support of such worthless nonsense as Left Behind. If this commentary can save one person from seeing this movie, then the time I have spent writing it will not have been spent in vain. "},{"Title":"a couple of hours will never get back!","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" *review may contain spoilers*predictable, campy, bad special effects. it has a TV-movie feeling to it. the idea of the UN as being taken over by Satan is an interesting twist to the end of the world according to the bible. the premise is interesting, but its excution falls waaaay short. if you want to convert people to Christianity with a film like this, at least make it a quality one! i was seriously checking my watch while watching this piece of dreck. can't say much else about this film since i saw it over a year ago, and there isn't really much to say about this film other than.....skip it! "},{"Title":"a Disappointment, considering the book series","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great concept, fantastic book series, the movie could have been a LOT better.Now, I realize that when a movie attempts to capture the essence of a book, there have to be some sacrifices as far as details.  I have read the book several times, and the movie somehow does not capture much of what the book conveys.  Maybe it is time constraints that come with making a movie within, say, 90 minutes to 2 hours.  But this movie seems rushed somehow.  It did not let certain plotlines develop.  In the book, Rayford only lusted after the stewardess, where in the movie, it seemed like it went a bit beyond that.  Also, early in the movie, it seemed that Buck Williams already had a relationship with the Steele Family before the Rapture where it did not germinate until towards the end of the Left Behind book.Maybe it was because of the low budget and time constraints.  I remember when Kirk Cameron was fired up about doing the movie after reading the book.  The funny thing is that this movie was produced without paying any attention to the details that made this book such a best seller.  The basic idea behind the novel held true to the movie, but many key elements in the book were ignored.My advice  Read the novel series, see the movie if you must for comparison's sake, not as a viable substitute to the novel. "}{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"21 June 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I don't know why so many people thought this was a bad movie. Some of the Christians who have reviewed it seem to dislike the Christian imagery present in many of the scenes (but given the movie's subject, is anyone really surprised at how ubiquitous it is?), and such prominence may lead non-Christians to view the film in a light of detached skepticism, which diminishes any film's audience appeal. The characters' conversions to Christianity had the proper emotional impact, and while some might tire of basically hearing God is the answer, to nearly every question the characters have post-rapture, you have to keep in mind that Christians really do believe that God can help you out of any problem.The movie is very true to the book. While leaving out minor details, it includes many of the prominent aspects of the book's apocalyptic nature, giving it an air of realism. I encourage anyone who wants to see the movie to read the series to find the whole story. So yes, you may have to come off your high horse of being above such a fundamentalist interpretation of the Bible's apocalyptic prophecies to enjoy this movie. But in the end, your experience will depend on whether or not you are able to put any anti-Christian inhibitions behind you. "},{"Title":"Great attempt!","Date":"24 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For a first time shot at making a Christian film... these guys made a great attempt.  Not the best quality acting but definitely a solid storyline and plot culmination.  I read the books and the movie didn't live up to my expectations but.. considering the budgeting they had for this film I think they got what they paid for.We'll see how the next one is! "},{"Title":"A Movie with a Message","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Bravo! Finally a film that reveals clearly what we Christians call the Rapture. This event is one of the most misunderstood, scoffed at, rejected, and scorned of Bible prophecies. The Rapture refers to a snatching away of ALL believers in Jesus Christ as described in the Bible.This film is not really meant to be entertaining. The movie was made with an urgent message that no one on earth should dare ignore or reject. It is eternal suicide to reject Jesus Christ's death on the cross to pay for our sin debt. Just ask Him for forgiveness (He loves you more than you know) and you will NEVER, NEVER regret it. Believe in Jesus Christ and make the Rapture. Don't believe and you will be sorry.For the Lord himself will come down from heaven, with a loud command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet call of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first.  After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air.  And so we will be with the Lord forever. 1 Thessalonians 416-17  "},{"Title":"Very Inspiring Film","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I would like to say that I am a Christian, and I thought the movie was very much inspiring. My brother who is not a Christian,  was touched. The thing is this movie is revealing what is going to happen. It is Biblical, and regardless of the acting or scripts, the concept of the movie is warning people about the inevitable. The movie is showing what could happen any time now. I would give the movie 8/10. It brought tears to my eyes for all the people left behind. It made myself look closely again at my Christianity, and It made my brother look more closely at his life. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a big film buff, but very critical of most of the films out there today.I went to see this movie expecting the typical cheese that we see in Christian films. But I was suprised!The beginning was a little slow, but when the plot got going, I was really into the film. Now a lot of moviegoers may not like the film because they are used to big budgets, big names, and big effects. The budget for the film seemed to have been small, but they did well for what little they did have. Kirk Cameron to me was a pleasant suprise, but the whole movie belonged to the actor playing Nicholi. Wow!This was released in video first, but I recommend it on the big screen. There are some nice lighting effects that would be lost on video.The one thing I did not like about the film is no different from any film based on a novel, there is too much information to put into too little time. Not to mention this is based on the first book in a series, so you're left hanging at the end and therefore the last scene is a little lame.Go see it. Enjoy it. It's a breath of fresh air from a lot of the big budget films that are out there now. "},{"Title":"It Should Be","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Leaving the sub-par acting and middling directing aside, this adaptation of the first book of an extremely interesting series, leaves me amazed at just how low you can go. First of all, continuity and credibility should be enforced no matter how low the budget. Second, this roommate who has yet to read the book, was shocked and appalled at the sheer idiocy displayed in this movie. The roommate who has read the books was on the floor groaning from pain induced by watching a book she enjoyed immensely, be transformed into the equivalent of a C class movie. Thirdly, if you are going to adapt a book into a screenplay, you should at least attempt to get the details right. Finally, if you can't even convey the message of the book, without it coming across as cheesy and tactless, then perhaps it should just be left in print. "},{"Title":"terribly sad","Date":"2 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There is a worldwide food crisis. GNN TV reporter Buck Williams (Kirk Cameron) interviews scientist Chaim Rosenzweig in Israel about a surprising Eden-like harvest. Without warning, the country is attacked by an overwhelming enemy air force. The planes are destroyed by an invisible force. Rayford Steele leaves his family behind in Chicago to fly a plane from New York City to London on short notice. He's having an affair with flight attendant Hattie Durham. Back in NYC, Buck is contacted by his source Dirk Burton who warns him about a coming global currency, a crisis and a conspiracy by humanitarians Stonagal and Cothran. Buck takes the flight where people starts disappearing leaving behind their clothing.This starts off badly with some pretty awful CGI. Not only does it look cheap. It looks really silly. Other problems continue throughout the movie. The writing, the acting and everything else are all pretty bad. People act in unrealistic ways. It is so unnatural that it becomes incredibly awkward. Obviously there is a apocalyptic conspiracy that is central to some believers. I try not to judge it unless it's done poorly. This is done very poorly with very simplistic unreal world politics. This is a movie that relies on the words faith-based. One must have faith to believe in the logic of this movie. There is more unreality here than the most ridiculous zombie TV show. "},{"Title":"A mixed bag, with more sours than sweets","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was a bit disappointed with the movie after having read the book.  While it is not unusual for a book to be better than the movie, my expectations going into this movie were pretty low.  So it's an indication of the movie's poor quality that I was not impressed despite expecting very little.My biggest complaint had to do with the acting.  Brad Johnson was simply awful, and as the second biggest name in the movie, I expected better. Both women - his daughter and the stewardess Hattie - were also poor and unmemorable.  I thought everyone else acted pretty well.  Kirk Cameron was miscast - he was too young and lightweight to carry off the reputation his character was supposed to have.The special effects were better than I had expected, though my expectations were low.  The plot condensing, which is always a necessity when converting books to movies, was disappointing because it hurt the creditability of how certain characters moved into their new work positions in the post-Apocalypse.  That is important because this is the bedrock of the plot and characters.  If you don't believe that aspect of the movie, it's hard to take what happens to the characters seriously from then on.In summary, I felt this was a missed opportunity.  The book was very much a page-turner and the plot was facinating. It's a shame the producers were unable to transfer it to the screen better.  I really wanted to like this movie and I wound up being disappointed. I give it 3 stars out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Growing Pains meets the Apocalypse","Date":"3 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" You know how there are movies that are simply so bad that they become classics based purely upon the fact that they are bad. Well, this movie is not one of those movies. This movie is simply so bad that it will even fail to reach the cult status of Plan 9 From Outer Space. Mind you, the books in and of themselves were pretty shocking, but this movie takes it to a whole new level.While I have, in the past, found the whole pre-millenialism theology to be interesting, and for a while even believed it, I would like to think that I have grown out of that stage of my life and returned to the amillenialism traditions of my parents, and though while people are entitled to believe what they believe, I find this whole fear mongering over the identity of the anti-Christ and the conspiratory theories behind the creation of the European Union to be just a little overboard. Oh, and on that point, the fact that we are seeing a possible break up of the Euro-zone goes to show that these so called prophecies of the end times that were made in the nineties have turned out to be little more than bunk. Also, I found making the anti-Christ Eastern European was also a little disrespectful to, well, Eastern Europeans, but then I guess we could not have made him American, could have we.As for theology, well, even ignoring the rather pathetic conversions, we here no mention of Jesus in this film, nor of his saving act, nor his death or resurrection. In fact, it seems as if Jesus does not exist and that what this movie is actually promoting is the American Civil Religion of God and the Bible (though the civil religion does have Jesus in it). For a movie that is supposed to be heavily Christian, I am somewhat surprised that the original authors even allow this movie to be made. "},{"Title":"The Book was WAY better...","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Not a bad attempt for a Christian movie. Sad that there are different expectations vs. hollywood but as a DVD it was watchable and fairly consistent with the book. Kirk Cameron probably would not have been my first choice for the role of Buck Cameron, however his performance was more than passable. The DVD included some behind the scene extras that were interesting. Still the book was MUCH better. "}{"Title":"If you've never read the book, you'll love it...","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind was an incredible movie, I must say that first.  I watched it shortly after it was released to video.  I was browsing through the new releases and saw it.  I loved Kirk Cameron in Growing Pains and to see him in an apocolyptic drama surprised me.  I'd always been obsessed and fasinated with the Book of Revelations.  I loved the way it ran and how shockingly true it was.  Some people don't realize that what takes place in this movie will actually happen.  I'm not hear to preach so I'll stop now.  I watched Left Behind and I loved it.  The movie was powerful and it was true to the Bible.  I'd never known that there was a series of books until one day I was in school and I saw the second book.  I read it and everyone after it.  That was a total of eight books at the time.  I'd never read the first one.  I'd assumed that it was close to the movie.  My curiosity got the best of me eventually and I read the first book.  Afterwards, I hated the movie.  It followed the same basic story and plot but it lacked certain characters and scenes that were crucial to the book.  They changed certain characters jobs and even made mistakes in casting.  I would recommend this movie to someone who has never read the book but if you're a die hard fan like myself, you'll hate it. "},{"Title":"The single worst movie in history.","Date":"6 March 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie proves beyond any rational doubt two simple facts Kirk Cameron's career is over, and Bored Again Christians are the looniest pack of religious fanatics on the face of the earth. Every movie has a purpose. But what is this stupifying piece of film excrement's purpose? To show that Jesus is the single biggest sadistic psychopath who ever lived? Even porno movies have a definitive, satisfying purpose... at the end you get to jerk off and experience a moment of Nirvana right in front of your computer. But what is the message of this pile of crap? I'd rather enjoy life with Ron Jeremy than be dragged through the sick remnants of the Spanish Inquisition by watching this monumental loser. Certainly, the experience was just as painful. Can you just picture a compassionate Jesus ripping little children from the arms of their loving parents as he wreaks havoc on the entire world, destroying innocent people's life in one, sick, twisted stroke of his loving arms? I can only surmise that this piece of trash was somehow created with the intention of bringing people to Jesus. But anyone masochistic enough to watch this ham-fisted waste of time will only be motivated to run AWAY from Him, not TO Him. The overwrought, mislead, brain dead producers of this cinematic peon to fear mongering and holier than thou sociopathy should be reminded that quitting their Prosac too abruptly can bring on hallucinations of the most terrifying kind. "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, excruciating execution","Date":"11 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I like end-of-days movies. I like B-movies. I was hoping I would like this movie.I could ignore the poor effects, the often atrocious music, the cringe-inducing lines. I could ignore the unexplained events, and the fact that the movie constantly relies on deus ex machina is excusable, given the subject matter. I could ignore the fact that the people who fight hunger and try to reach world peace are the bad guys. None of these things kill the movie. What kills this movie is that it's just plain and simple boring. Nothing actually happens; almost all scenes in the movie are designed to push the movie creators' morals on the viewers, at the cost of actually having a coherent story, or any kind of suspense.If you're looking for an entertaining B-movie, look elsewhere. This movie is just boring. "},{"Title":"Content better than Quality","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I give Left Behind 9/10 due to the CG. I love this movie, as well as Tribulation Force, but I found the opening shots of the tanks moving through the desert and the planes flying overhead a bit low-quality.Left Behind, the novel, is a wonderful read. Jenkins is a wonderful fiction writer, and LaHaye's theology is astounding. I had not read the series until after I viewed the movies back-to-back (and became a believer having viewed them), so I did not know how the movies differed from the novels. When I first saw Left Behind and Tribulation Force, it didn't matter that Buck Williams was a TV reporter rather than a print journalist. It didn't matter that the ethnicity of the pastor was different than in the books. None of these differences mattered to me.The Left Behind movies in return helped me visualize the characters and settings of the novels much better. I recommend anyone who has seen the movies to also read the books and vice-versa. May God bless you. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed it.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really enjoyed the movie. I didn't think that I would like a movie about religion and I was surprised. It made you think. It made me want to go read the books and look for the other movies. Rent the movies and read the books and see if it doesn't enlighten you too. I would give it 8 stars out of 10. "},{"Title":"I like it, but it's no where near the quality of the book (or the sequel)","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Before seeing the movie, read the book.  The movie alone leaves so much unsaid that is not explained and thus some transitions are really really strange and just seem bad.  The next movie (Tribulation Force) actually is a LOT better than this movie.The writers of the book did a wonderful job with the story, which tells a fictionalized account of the only part of scripture that has yet to be fulfilled.  This movie takes the viewpoint of the Pre-tribulation Rapture of the church, but viewers/readers, please try to just watch it regardless of whether your viewpoint is pre-trib, mid-trib, post-trib, or amillenniumism, or whether you have no clue what I'm talking about; these elements are not fundimental to salvation but issues that can be debated on each side with scriptural basis, so as far as that goes we'll just have to wait & see. It is an entertaining movie, though...like I said, try the book.  You won't regret it. "},{"Title":"better than I expected","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I haven't seen the APOCALYPSE series by the Lalonde brothers, but I imagine that would be slightly lower in quality than this. LEFT BEHIND is COMPLETELY superior to much other Christian efforts to dramatize the Futurist view of Revelation.  Most of the acting is so-so but Gordon Currie is marvelously understated as humanitarian-turned-AntiChrist Nicolae Carpathia.better than The Omen series, not as good as Stephen King's The Stand, and far inferior to Michael Tolkin's THE RAPTURE with Mimi Rogers & David Duchovnyas an interesting curiosity, compare this to the 1970's-early '80's series THIEF IN THE NIGHT, A DISTANT THUNDER, IMAGE OF THE BEAST, and PRODIGAL PLANETdon't bother with a cheap piece of junk called YEARS OF THE BEAST "},{"Title":"A very personal experience...every opinion will differ","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I hate to compare films to their literary counterparts. It's difficult, even unfair sometimes but it's awfully hard not to especially if the books are phenomenal successes or classics or even just a book that is one of your personal favorites. For me...the Left Behind Series of books (12 of them in total) were drop dead amazing. I was riveted for the year it took me to read them. I am now a huge fan of the series and I couldn't help but see the films. I had a lot to go on being such a fan of the books but I also know that the books AND the films are not for everyone!!! First of all..non Christians are going to be overtly critical, especially if they go into it expected a science fiction, End Of Days type movie event. This film is based on something that millions BELIEVE is truth so you have to take that into consideration. First of all for me personally I was blown away by Left Behind.Director Vic Sarin is no stranger to film making. He has worked in films for the last 4 decades at least. He has done pretty much everything so he is definitely a veteran film maker. I don't know if he had any contact with the original book by Jerry Jenkins and Tim LaHaye but his casting choices were dead on for the most part and I stand by that. Kirk Cameron is the exception but I won't say he's bad. In fact he's quite good in the lead role of Cameron Buck Williams. Granted he's not quite as gritty, or street smart as his book counterpart but he's decent and considering that Cameron is more than directly responsible for the creation of this film at all. Relative newcomer Janaya Stephens plays a strong headed and take charge Chloe Steele and does a good job. The real brilliant casting is in the role of leading man Captain Rayford Steele who was such a huge hero in the book. Brad Johnson puts a face to that role and does a great job doing that. I don't even credit his acting necessarily but his look nails Rayford's personality and his acting is alright too. The other person is the anti-Christ himself Nicolae Carpathia played by Gordon Currie, a character actor who's been around for a long time. He is brilliant as both the charismatic caring leader and the dark, evil being he is to become.The story is very closely linked to the book and they did a good job of transferring book to screen and leaving the most important details in tact and only changing small details. I have heard complaints about this not being an original concept with typical government conspiracy and hit men and yadda yadda yadda well...first off NEWSFLASH nothing is an original concept anymore, it doesn't stop people from seeing it. In fact it seems that more than half the films released now are not only not original but direct rehashes of original films or series. I happen to think Left Behind The Movie puts a new spin on the Christian theory and does it excellently. The budget is low but still managed to pull off some intense action scenes, there are definite moments when the acting borderlines on campy but they are all not mainstream big actors and actresses and they do their best to make it real. The plot is actually quite complex and intriguing when you really watch. The whole concept of the anti-Christ killing his parents which was brought up in films like The Omen and End Of Days is changed completely to have Carpathia murdering his parent figures, the men who created him politically. The final scene in the film is disturbing and memorable with a powerful performance by both Cameron and Currie.The average person I can understand giving this a poor score...I could even understand someone being bored with it. It has it's moments. I think for me it's just a personal thing that I loved it and I loved the books and I hope they continue making the films. What I don't like is people nit picking it and saying how crappy it is simply because of it's basis in Christian faith. Grow up!! and open your mind, even if you don't believe it, you might be entertained. It's worth seeing and I know it's a cult classic so I'm not the the only one!! 8.5/10 (For most probably a 5/10 but I still encourage reading the book and watching the movie...it's got a lot to offer) "},{"Title":"God Awful Movie Based On A God Awful Book about a God Awful God","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Left behind is based on the first book of the popular bestselling series about the end of the world as told in the bible. When I first heard the words apocalypse, end times, good vs. evil and Anti-Christ my first thought were of books and films like the Omen or The stand by Steven King. What I got in the book was badly written fundamentalist fear based propaganda. The film is not much different from my experiences with the book.The story stars Kirk Cameron (The kid from growing pains) as tough guy reporter Buck Williams and Brand Johnson as polite Rayford Steel who cheating on his overly Christian wife. It begins with Kirk reporting in Israel as the nation is about to be attacked by the Russians. The Russians? Some one's trapped in the cold war days. Anyway there reasons for waging war is for fertilizer. You read that right. They risk world war 3 for Fertilizer. Doom seem to be unavoidable as badly done CGI planes fly over the holy land but at the last seconded a strange force destroys all the planes. Killing all those men who dared anger God by joining the Russian air force. Then we moves into the to the true holy land. America! Ware we meet Brad Johnson character. His wife has become a born again Christian which seems to have caused trouble in the family. In the film they betray it as the family is having a hard time accepting what she has to preach (Believe me, there will be preaching in this film) but in real life it would more likely be along the lines that people cant stand having some one ells trying to enforce religion down our Throats.She throwing there son a Christian themed birthday party, Poor kid, but that no good sinning non-believing father of there has to go to work and fly a plane. As he dose this he is having a little romance with the flight attendant. Non-right winged Christian Characters go on to be betrayed like this in the books and the films. The true believers in Christianity are betrayed as happy, good and moral. Those who do not are portrayed as immoral, unhappy, angry, or even naive.He flys his plane that happens to have Kirk on it when half the passengers disappear only leaving behind there cloths. In one night all born again evangelical Christian who believed the bible is the literal truth and Jesus is the only way to heaven disappear along with all children under 12 years old. Planes with out pilots crash, cars with no drivers pile up on the streets causing a massive death toll to rise and parents mourn for the lost of there missing children. You think a loving God who cares for humanity would at least take people when they were not driving or flying anything that could get people killed! So thousands of people are killed in cars and plane crashs then sent to hell forever because they did not accept the God who just got them killed in the first place. As the story moves on our heroes discover that people were rapture in to heaven and now it's up to those who were left behind to convert the rest of the world to Christianity and battle the Anti-Christ.Okay. One thing I usually cant stand in movies is when I am being preached at and Left behind the most preachy film I have ever seen in my life. Get prepared for endless lectures from the Characters about how great God and Jesus are, How the bible the only truth and that it some how not God's fault that people are going to the hell he made for not being Christian. All the born again Christian characters are uninteresting and charters who were more complexes become uninteresting the moment they convert to Jesus.The acting and casting is just bad. I can't really get myself to believe that Kick Cameron is a big tough reporter. The guys still looks like the kid from Growing Pains. The movie is just the beginning of films that are all motivated to promote fear and some bigotry to those who don't buy into this particular brand of Christianity. Ideas promoted in left behind are the reason why we have problems in place like the mid-east to begin with. The simply message of love all as you love your self that Jesus taught is replace with a message that benefit mega churches and politicians.To top it all off we can't even have decent acting, realistic characters and good special effects. Leave it to fundamentalist Christians to screw up there own end of the world movie.That why I give this holy message a 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Beyond Offensive / Contains Spoilers","Date":"6 January 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Warning, this post contains spoilers. And, given the subject matter of the movie, that means that this post will tell you exactly how the world will end. Only keep reading if you are ready for that information.The anti-Christ is a diabolical, inscrutable Slav -- named Carpathia, for bigotry's sake!  Carpathia being the name of a region chock full of Slavs & where, before the Holocaust, many Jews lived -- and evil Carpathia is in cahoots with crafty Jews.  Together they are gonna take over the world.And no doubt many viewers are convinced that the Bible predicts all this.A Jewish guy is shown with his seeds that make wheat grow in the desert.  These seeds will give Nicolae Carpathia (major spoiler here), the anti-Christ, power over the world.In the next scene, hundreds of warplanes are shown screaming out of Iraq toward Israel; similarly, hundreds of tanks are coursing across the Syrian border toward Israel.  The World War Three we've all learned to fear is beginning.  I found these scenes genuinely scary and depressing.Then, of course, the Rapture.  Millions of people (all believing Christians) disappear, and their befuddled survivors are left behind to cope as best they can.The movie's exploitation of our fears about the Middle East as a flashpoint offended me.  The movie is not saying, Christianity is a satisfying and uplifting experience, that, in its own right, is worth taking up.  No.  The movie is delivering the same message as the six o'clock news<<The world is a scary place.  You can't do anything that will change the world for the better -- cause this was all set down in the Bible thousands of years ago, right?And anyone who speaks of world peace, feeding the poor, disarmement and the brotherhood of humanity, that is, human solutions to human problems, as Nicolae Carpathia does, (and, as Communists / Leftists / Socialists did) is in league with Satan. And anyone who does not accept Christ, as the Jewish character does not, supports Satan.Your only option to avoid all these terrors is to literally absent yoruself from the rest of humanity, and join up with us.Others -- those not like us -- are deluded tools at best, and satanic, at worst. Don't trust them.  >>Especially given many Christians' murder of Jews over the years, the exploitation of images of Jews as agency-less tools of Tim La Haye's end of the world scenario is just beyond offensive.And, no, I'm not Jewish; I'm Catholic. One of those folks who believe this stuff think are going to hell.  Well, at least I'll be with the other Slavic people and Jews. Probably more interesting than being with Tim La Haye for all eternity.  "}{"Title":"Blasphemous","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It is easy to take potshots at this. It is absolutely horrible technically in every respect. And it is easy to imagine that the childish earnestness of those involved blinded them from critical vision -- or perhaps that no great art can come from a fundamentalist world. Who knows?But there are other vapid movies out there too. What makes this (and 'Omega Code') so fascinating is that they were not intended to entertain, even to enlighten, but to proselytize. And some day soon this crowd will cease to be so amateurish -- down the street from me is Pat Roberstson's film 'university' with a virtual endowment of billions and the intent of being professionally slick. What then?It is an interesting question. As it stands now, we have films that are made for profit. Most of these pander in some way. Then we have films that are made as art. Some of these pander as well. And we have propaganda films of various sorts whose purpose is purely to convince/convert/affirm. Of these, the latter are the only truly pornographic. I think that as religious films become better and more common (they will), they become fair game for satire. Imagine a Scream about the apocalypse cults. Then instead of massive protests against a respectful film like 'Last Temptation' (shots were fired here!) what will we get? Imagine class war.The film and the books behind it aren't very biblically accurate in any case. The rapture metaphor comes from Darius, who incidentally rebuilt the temple the first time, and invented modern Judaism as an experiment. Currency has been unified since then, 2500 years with only the names kept nationally. That's what is referenced in the B. Darius also revived Zoroastrianism which mixed with later Judaism to produce the essenism of John which Jesus adopted.This in fact is not a film with Christian theology at all. They even fumbled that. "},{"Title":"1st 15 minutes great!  Last 15 minutes great!  The inbetween too slow moving.","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"26 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It was an entertaining movie, well worth viewing. The Biblical parts didn't exactly correspond with my Bible, but the movie does make one think about the end of time. I enjoyed the first 15 minutes and the last 15 minutes. The inbetween stuff just didn't cut it movie-wise. I'm hard on all movies. The anti-christ character (actor) at the end was riveting. Kirk Cameron did a great job of acting. He was a believable character. The end of the movie was not an end. I like movies to have a finish. This one didn't. It leaves a lot to be imagined, but the directors should have ended it better. Seems they were doing or planning the sequel. I wish they would have told me that before I invested my time. All in all, a good movie.  "},{"Title":"Effective low-budget rendition of the popular book","Date":"19 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Released in 2000, Left Behind chronicles events when masses of people all over the earth disappear, leaving only their accouterments behind. Kirk Cameron stars as journalist Buck Williams, a passenger on a plane when the mysterious disappearances occur. Brad Johnson plays the pilot, Janaya Stephens his daughter and Chelsea Noble (Kirk's wife) as a hot flight attendant. Gordon Currie co-stars as an up-and-coming world leader, Daniel Pilon as a wealthy banker and Clarence Gilyard Jr. as a left-behind minister. TD Jakes has a good cameo.Most readers know this, but the story is based on prophetic accounts of end-time events from the Bible. I have studied eschatology (end-times prophecies) and do advocate the pre-Tribulation Rapture based on scriptures like 1 Thessalonians 413-18 and Luke 1724,34-35, which doesn't mean, of course, that I agree with every jot and tittle of the theology featured in the movie. It doesn't matter, however, because it's a fictional story. In any case, you don't have to believe in the Bible whatsoever to enter into the story of the characters and enjoy the movie for what it is &#x96; a What if the Rapture really happened mystery/thriller. I don't believe in powerful androids that time-travel from the future, but that doesn't prevent me from enjoying the Terminator flicks.The more-mainstream 2014 version with Nicolas Cage severely truncated the story, focusing only on the first three chapters of the book, which involve the airplane coming back home after the vanishings, plus cutting-&-pasting the romance of Buck & Chloe from later in the book to the beginning of the movie. This didn't make it bad, although uber-fans of the book likely object to the smaller focus. Regardless, the 2014 version worked for me simply as a survival/mystery story. By focusing on one family and one airplane & two passengers, it drives its point home without being convoluted and awkwardly preachy. The two strong male protagonists and two female co-stars are a plus. Furthermore, the plot is amazing because how else would you describe a situation where millions of people, including all children, suddenly vanish with only their clothes left behind? It would be an incredible experience, to say the least, not to mention a serious wake-up call for those remaining. So the 2014 movie is effective as a What if? survival/mystery and set-up for sequels (which will never happen because it failed at the box office).This 2000 version with Kirk Cameron is much more ambitious even though it cost significantly less and is 15-minutes shorter. Incredibly, the screenwriters were able to cut out the fat and cram most of the book into 95 minutes without seeming overly convoluted, although much of the first act might be a little complicated to people who haven't read the book. The CGI effects appear near the beginning with an air-attack over Israel and they're noticeably weak (the aircrafts look like blurs in the sky). But the score is quite good and the story is compelling with believable characters and well-done prayer/ministry sequences, which aren't easy to pull-off. Lastly, they didn't do too bad with the Antichrist element.The film was shot in Israel, Missouri, Chicago and Toronto.GRADE B "},{"Title":"It's Best to Approach This As A Work Of Fiction","Date":"13 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I've been a Christian for nearly fifty years, and as I do not happen to believe in the pre-tribulation Rapture, approaching this movie as a work of fiction seemed wise. And as it turned out, I enjoyed it more than I thought I would.As storytelling goes, it isn't half bad, and the acting is serviceable and even touches the heart or chills the bones at times. By now even those who have never seen it (and wouldn't if you paid them) probably know the basic plot the Rapture, which is basically the sudden disappearance from the face of the earth of everyone who was right with God (meaning of course the sort of Christian who reads the Bible as if it were a Dick and Jane reading primer), leaving behind friends and loved ones to muddle about in confusion until they figure it out for themselves.The principle players are reporter Buck Williams (Kirk Cameron), airline pilot Rayford Steele (Brad Johnson), Steele's daughter Chloe (Janaya Stephens), and the Reverend Bruce Barnes (Clarence Gilyard), the obligatory minister who finds himself left behind and thus forced to face up to his inadequacies as a man of God.There's nothing inspired in the casting; the characters are stock and the actors inhabit them surprisingly well, Johnson especially (his grief when he comes home and discovers that his wife and son are among those taken is one of the more genuine moments in the whole picture).Since this is taken from the novel by Tim LaHaye, a proponent of the pre-tribulation Rapture, we all know what comes next the tribulation and the rise of the Antichrist. It's all muddled up with a man in Israel attempting to combat world hunger and the move towards a single world currency (which is never explained; Christians who follow this theology have this particular theory about money but how it ties in to the return of Christ they can never really satisfactorily say). In addition, the nations of the world are declaring peace, which is a good thing, right? Not on your life. It takes a while to find it out but what this world peace really means is that there is no God so no need for any of the religions of the world.The United Nations takes a real beating in this movie; it is painfully obvious that the people who wrote this thing suffer from a xenophobia so deeply ingrained that anyone who does not look, speak, walk, or think as they do is at the very least suspicious and probably headed for the lake of fire.As for the Antichrist, this is where the movie slips, and slips badly. He arrives in the form of Nicolae Carpathia (Gordon Currie), a rather blank-faced man with a pronounced Russian accent. (Well of COURSE it would be Russian; remember those damn Commies??) The scenes in which Currie appears are the silliest ones in the film and frankly he comes across as comic relief most of the time.The film doesn't really end; the credits just roll. Two more films followed this one and they're all fun to watch if you do not take them too seriously.Haven't seen the remake yet (Good God, Nicolas Cage must have been desperate for money), but I'll review it when I do. "},{"Title":"All the Talent Must Have Gone to Heaven Leaving Us With This","Date":"1 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Left Behind (2000)* (out of 4) Reporter Buck Williams (Kirk Cameron) and pilot Rayford Steele (Brad Johnson) are shocked with several passengers from the plane go missing with only their clothes left behind. Once back on land their shocks continue as millions are people are missing including Steele's wife and son who he always made fun of for their religious beliefs. Soon the reporter confirms their worse fear.I haven't read the novels that this film is based on so I can't compare the two and I understand that many religious people hold them and this movie in high regard. I'm not here to bash religion or anyone's beliefs but this movie was pretty darn horrible from the start up until the very last frame. I'm sure many will say everything in this movie is true and a warning for us but Cecil B. DeMille made some of the greatest and most entertaining religious pictures out there but he wasn't afraid to change things in order to make them more entertaining.I think the biggest problem with this movie is that it was made on such a low-budget and it contains so many bad things that it just never stood a chance. I mean, take a look at the horrid CGI at the start of the film as various planes fall from the sky. Things don't get any better once the story sets in because the performances and the direction are so awful. There are countless scenes where family members are crying because they realize that their loved ones are gone. Do these scenes make the viewer cry with them? No, we're actually laughing at them because of how poorly acted and staged they are. I mean, the scenes with the clothes just laying there like someone had set them out for work the next day was laughable enough but throw in actors who can't cry right and the scenes are even worse.Obviously this movie is meant for Christians but not for a second do I believe you have to be one in order to enjoy a movie like this. No matter what your religious beliefs are you should be able to find a movie entertaining. LEFT BEHIND is awful in every way imaginable. In fact, I'm really shocked at how big of a following this movie has because of how poorly made it is. Even if you believe the message it's giving, it's hard to get past the bad acting and various other issues. Is there anything good here? I'd say it's badness is so incredibly awful that the film remains entertaining throughout simply at how many laughs it gives you. Unintentional laughs certainly isn't what the filmmakers were going for but that's the only thing they were able to deliver. "},{"Title":"A Fairly Decent Film","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen this movie 5 times and get more out of it each time. I am addicted to the Left Behind series-I'll be honest. This film was generally based on Book 1 pretty well, unlike the 2014 reboot which only covered one section of the book to start the new franchise. This movie features a strong willed independent atheistic Chloe Steele, and that is how the book depicts her. However, the book says she is blonde haired, here the movie goofed up. Ray Steele is well played, and the Antichrist role was spot on from the books. The attack on Israel by Russia and her allies is pretty well depicted. However, some things are narrowed down to quicker lengths, and Buck did not know the charter pilot until later in the book. 6 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Good but then end...","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I enjoyed the movie more and more as it went on but the ending falls short. There could be a whole sequel movie to cover what the results of the situation is. There was mystery and build up in seeing why people were disappearing but once that was all settled it was like, and then what? But I guess the point was that they can't stop it. 1 thing I couldn't understand was why the minster friend didn't disappear. Maybe the ending would have been better if all the main characters had disappeared. Once someone believes or figures something out in a movie, you expect there to be a climax afterward and taking action and the problem being solved. But this was like, OK he believes, the end. However, the only thing I can really complain about is the ending but I've seen worst endings than that. Overall, I think it's a fairly goo, enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Far From Being A Christian Movie","Date":"19 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Left Behind is a Christian movie based on the novel of the same title by Reverend Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins.This apocalyptic thriller stars Kirk Cameron, Brad Johnson, Gordon Currie and Clarence Gilyard. This film directed by Vic Sarin is the first of the Left Behind trilogy that was followed by Left Behind II Tribulation Force and Left Behind World at War.Rayford Steele is an airline pilot whose marriage is on the rocks after her wife has decided to spend most of her time in the church.This resulted in an affair with a fellow stewardess,Hattie.In their flight towards London,a number of their passengers disappear for no apparent reason and a number of chaotic events happen in the world.We also meet other characters along the way such as Buck Williams, a television journalist, is pondering the rash of sudden disappearances as he works on a report about Dr. Chaim Rosenzweig, an Israeli scientist who has devised a formula that would make any soil on earth easy to cultivate. Too bad that this movie resulted into becoming a poor one.Instead of trying to send the message of the coming apocalyptic events such as the end of the world,its poor writing and performances resulted into unintended ridiculous film-making due to poor writing,dialogues between characters and performances from the actors.Too bad that a Christian movie like this imparts messages that is far from what Jesus thought his follower and the Biblical scripture-based events that would happen as stated in the Book of Revelations turned out to become an unintended action thriller.A better remake was tried last year but it only resulted to worse film instead of a better film adaptation. "},{"Title":"Should Have Left This Movie Behind At The Flea Market.","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is truly one of the worst I have ever seen.There was only good part in the entire movie, when the dad throws the Bible at the mirror and then reads it. Everything else? Terrible.I'm not very religious, and that has nothing to do with my disdain of the movie. Even though I'm not religious, a decent movie about the rapture is possible.But this film is far too boring to be decent. Along with being boring and slow, the acting is horrible, the music is horrible, and the cinematography reeks of having a low budget.Also, they have title cards at literally every other scene. We get it movie, you don't have to establish where we are every 5 seconds. Not to mention, it's that generic typing kind of font, and it looks AWFUL, I could make better title cards than that in Windows Movie Maker.When the rapture it happens, it's laughable. You feel nothing. You also feel absolutely no urgency, the panic doesn't feel real. And it's the frigging' rapture. It takes some talent to make your audience feel nothing at the fact that 142 million people just vanished without a trace.2/10. Horrible. "},{"Title":"Crapture!!!","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Lord, I haven't read the Tim LaHaye & Jerry B. Jenkins novel, but I have suffered through the movie, and it is abysmal! Left Behind concerns the Rapture, or when Christians are called to Heaven by God. Amateurish tripe at best, this risible, one-dimensional, religious saga strictly preaches to the choir, with performances as lackluster as the subject matter is bland. You'd think that an epic about Biblical prophecy dealing with Armegeddon would pack more punch, but it barely registers. Kirk Cameron of Growing Pains fame toplines a forgettable cast as a globe-trotting journalist with GNN (Global News Network)who starts out covering a miracle in the Israeli desert where crops are growing. Suddenly, the Iraqi Air Force launches the surprise attack on the Israelis, only to endure abject defeat. Brad Johnson is the one actor here who seems to know what he is doing, but this is far and away one of his least memorable turns. The rapture scene itself is hilarious nonsense. During a jet-ride on a 747, a mature lady asks our stalwart hero Buck Williams (Kirk Cameron)to check the lavatory to see if her husband is in there. Next to her on the seat once occupied by her spouse is a crumpled suit and tie without a body to fill it up. Johnson is cast as a philandering pilot who wishes that he had paid more attention to his wife when she took up church-going. Meantime, Buck and two girls--one of whom puffs away on a coffin nail, track down a conspiracy with the villainous Nicolae Carpathia (Gordon Currie) out to control the world. Partition  director Vil Sarin generates little momentum in this sluggish tale and none of the leads conjure up an ounce of charisma. This low-budget release appeared initially as a straight-to-video movie with little to recommend it. Ironically, even some Christians have blasted it for the nonsense that it is. Left Behind has no conviction. "}{"Title":"Watched half of it in fast forward, still didn't see anything interesting","Date":"13 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I first watched this movie after seeing an amarican dad episode that I thought was parodying this movie. Boy was I wrong... The first 5 minutes almost leads you to believe that this is isn't going to be completely devoid of any action and some things will genuinely amuse you. After watching 45 minutes of this film I noticed that it was almost entirely composed of people sitting at home and doing nothing... literally nothing. I had enough of watching basically nothing and so I hit fast forward and being a VHS tape I could basically see everything that was going on. after countless scenes of people still sitting at home doing nothing and occasionally looking at bibles or going to church or doing other boring things, I finally got to something that was sort of interesting and started watching. I had almost entirely forgotten how bad the acting was. It seemed whenever they tried to make a scene dramatic or intense they would drag it on forever until it just kind of became boring and meaningless. before I knew it I was glancing anxiously at the fast forward button until I couldn't take it any more. Literally the moment I reached for it though, the credits started rolling and despite being completely unfulfilled by the story, I felt entirely satisfied that it was over. I don't want to keep this movie on the shelf anymore for fear that someone might think I have the kind of taste in movies that would make this film bearable... maybe masochist or something. "},{"Title":"Are you getting it? Armageddon it!","Date":"29 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Intrepid journalist Buck Williams (Kirk Cameron) is on board a flight when several of the passengers just disappear, leaving their clothes behind. Looks like the Rapture is upon us and all true believers have been taken to Heaven, leaving the sinners behind with the Anti-Christ (Gordon Currie with a laughable accent).Obviously a movie that will alienate some based on its concept. I have no dog in the hunt one way or the other. Objectively, this is about the level of quality one would expect from a low-budget film that attempts to tackle the apocalypse. That is to say it fails more than it succeeds. The acting is limited and the direction inept. Do I even need to bother with the script? The only halfway decent acting is from Brad Johnson. The rest is strictly amateur hour. "},{"Title":"A Film About Biblical Prophecy","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A television news correspondent by the name of Buck Williams (Kirk Cameron) just happens to be outside of Jerusalem when some neighboring countries launch a surprise air attack on Israel. Just when it looks like Israel is doomed as a nation the attacking jets mysteriously explode in mid-air. And as luck would have it Buck is able to get the whole thing on film. Not long afterward he boards an airplane and during the course of the flight passengers suddenly disappear off of it. It soon becomes apparent that this is not an isolated occurrence as millions of people all over the world have also disappeared without a trace. Now, what has just transpired is an event dubbed by certain fundamentalist Christians as the Rapture. What soon follows is a hell-on-earth scenario called the Tribulation. At least that is what some Christians believe is going to happen. Anyway, as far as movies pertaining to this specific subject I believe that this is one of the best. What I liked about it was that it did more than just adhere to the book&#x97;it put life into it. In that regard, the people in casting did an incredible job of assigning the right actors to play certain characters. Specifically, Brad Johnson (as the pilot Rayford Steele), Gordon Currie (as Nicolae Carpathia), Chelsea Noble (Hattie Durham), Janaya Stephens (Chloe Steele) and of course the afore-mentioned Kirk Cameron. You probably have to have read the book to fully understand how perfect these actors fit their roles. Now, that is not to say that the acting was all that great because it clearly wasn't. Likewise, those who don't agree with or understand the views of this specific sect of Christianity probably won't fully appreciate the nuances of this film either. Personally, I don't necessarily agree with some of these interpretations. Additionally, although I read the book I didn't think it was well-written at all. If anything I thought the characters in the book were rather dull and hollow. And that's the reason I thought the actors in this film invigorated it so much. But that's probably just me. In any case, this film is not about science-fiction. It's a film about Biblical prophecy which was intended for a certain segment of Christianity and doubles as an evangelical message to everyone else. That being the case, I think to fully appreciate this movie a person has to have a little understanding of what it's all about. Above average. "},{"Title":"Could have been a lot better, but still decent","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is obviously a movie in which those involved invested a great deal of effort, but even so it is in some ways a disappointing film. The film, based upon the phenomenally successful book (and series) of the same name, had a lot to work with, but clearly the budget wasn't up to the challenge of adapting the source novel with complete success. It's obvious from the battle scenes at the outset that special effects aren't going to be the movie's strength, and as the film goes on other weaknesses appear the script is uneven, clearly struggling with regards to which elements from the novel to bring to the table, and moreover the acting, though quite good from some quarters, is of highly variable quality. The soundtrack is annoying to boot, often veering wildly off into bad pop confections that do nothing but distract from the drama.Despite its undeniable weaknesses, I think that overall Left Behind is a respectable film that is worth a watch, especially for fans of the original book. Kirk Cameron is solid in the lead, and does a lot to carry the picture through its rough patches. The script may not be well balanced, but the underlying message of the Gospel is still there. The romantic element between Buck and Chloe is surprisingly effective, though subtle, and in the end the evil embodied in the antichrist and the awful reality of the fate to which he is steering the whole planet is conveyed with a certain amount of malevolent resonance.There is no question it would have been nice to see a superior film version of the extremely popular Left Behind novel, but in reality this is not quite the cinematic disaster it could have been. Indeed, in balance, Left Behind the movie successfully overcomes many--not all, but many--of its inherent flaws. "},{"Title":"For a planet going to hell in a hand-basket, it sure doesn't look all that bad.","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I shall attempt to be Christian in my review of this opus. I understand the religious message that is trying to be conveyed and how this production has been made for a particular audience. That said, it's just plain bad as a movie. Most End-of-time films tend to be big budget,lots of CGI disaster epics that help the audience endure the all-too-often feeble script and plot. Not here. Moreover, we hear of these massive disappearances around the entire planet. No word that the traditional hierarchical churches have been affected. One would think that the sudden disappearance of the clergy of the Orothodox, Catholic and Anglican churches might tip people off, if even atheists. Or perhaps this is a Fundamentalist production and all those organizations are evil and damned. Be it far from me to judge... Anyway, the acting is rather bland (Mr. Cameron does not really project the depth of panic that end times should naturally invoke in even the staunchest unbeliever), and the various plot holes make no sense. Spoiler ALERT  for example, we have the Israeli biologist who has created a new strain of wheat which shall alleviate world hunger; as a reward the AntiChrist character Nikolai Carpathia shows him a plan for the rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem. When it is pointed out that the Arabs will never allow it, he calmly states that when their children start dying from hunger they will allow it. Only problem is ALL children worldwide have been raptured by this time. There are no kids left anywhere. Apparently there are several more installations to this series, but I will not be forfeiting any more time on them. A shame, too, because with a subject as big as the rise of the Antichrist one would have wanted it to hold you more. Sigh. Back to the Omen series... "},{"Title":"While I admire the effort. . .","Date":"20 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" . . .of attempting to create a story of an apocalyptic scenario based on Biblical prophesy (not many movie makers go into that too much), the result is somewhat bland and one dimensional for different reasons. Anyone who has read the Book of Revelation (And I wouldn't advise it. It's very dark and depressing), it contains a vision of the world at it's very worst. It describes events as being a nightmare of war, pestilence, disease, human rights abuses, economic collapse, famine, natural and man-made catastrophe on a global scale--suffering that there is no escape for anyone from. It even speaks of people having to indulge in cannibalism to survive. While some of these kinds of events are taking place now and have happened in the past, the Book of Revelation speaks of a world where just about every aspect or system of society and civilization just breaks down all at once. It's a world no one could really imagine as they are events that have never occurred that way, all at once, in human history. There's no common frame of reference to compare it to. Sorry, I'm not trying to make everyone depressed or anything. It's just that this series of movies (and there are a couple other religious produced end of world type movies that have the same kinds of flaws as Left Behind) fails to touch the level of pain and despair that just about everyone would be experiencing in a real Biblical Apocalypse. Everyone in the movie just seems to be so much in control and pretty well behaved. They aren't confused, in despair or spiritually lost or suffering in a real, deep or profound way. They basically make the right decisions and pretty much remain on the right road. Their choices are between right and wrong where I feel that many choices in those circumstances would be between wrong and less wrong. It also doesn't depict the various ways in which society has fallen apart, the series of tragedies happening to people around the world, the riots, war, disease, etc. that would be happening. It doesn't depict the horror and terror. I suppose making a movie that could grasp the events in the Book of Revelation may just be an impossibility but there are alternative movies that may not be based on Biblical prophesy but are able to grasp the kind of pain people would be in much better. Movies like The Road, Blindess or Contagion come closer. Even shows like The Walking Dead do a much better job at touching on how people truly behave and what their experience would be in a more real believable way. Left Behind also has it's own born-again Christian agenda which I don't mind too much but it gets heavy handed, arrogant, self-righteous and preachy in spots. I would never say to someone, 'Don't bother watching this movie.', just don't expect too much from it unless you are looking for a false sense of security. "},{"Title":"Thought-provoking - if you watch in the right mind set","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Your mileage may vary.  Left Behind is not a $300 million movie, and it shows.  Don't expect Pearl Harbor or anything remotely close.  Don't expect the best acting you've seen, either.  But you will see something, that, if you're willing to watch through the film, might give you pause.The movie gets off to a slow start, but it gets better.  It opens with several disjoint stories and knits them together towards the end, so you'll want to pay attention to the different plot lines as they go along.The move doesn't proselytize as I feared it might.  Instead, it presents the post-rapture scene as interpreted by writers and directors rather matter-of-factly.  You choose to believe the movie or write it off as hooey - or anything in between.I enjoyed the movie as a vehicle for bringing about discussion on religious topics and as food for thought.  It wasn't sheer entertainment, but it wasn't meant to be.  It's a movie with a message - and if you're willing to think about it and forgive some of the constraints brought on by a low budget, it's a decent film. "},{"Title":"A heart-warming film","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Seeing movies out now,are a bore,for all.This-on the other hand-is a movie that seems to reach everybody.It has very adventurous,and drama like-qualities,and has some biblical references,and leaves the question in your head,What is going to happen at the end of time,and when will it happen?This was one of the few movies that seemed to strike a chord in me,in times of other movies,I fall asleep in.I haven't read the books,I'm sure there much more entertaining,though,but this is a really good movie.I'd recommend it to anyone! "},{"Title":"An entertaining, but flawed, movie","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie had a lot of flaws that have been identified by many other viewers but it was very interesting to watch. I finished reading the book four days ago so I was able to determine how closely the movie follwed the book. In all important details it followed very well. It was interesting to note that in the movie Buck was a TV reporter rather than a magazine writer. Not enough detail was given about Nicholae's rise to power and it wasn't mentioned that he was president of Romania. The acting wasn't great but it didn't interfere with the story-telling. In sequels I would recommend that Nicolae's accent be toned down. I recommend the movie and would like to see it have a theatrical release. "},{"Title":"What are you talking about ~ by the user's brother","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sorry, I had to use my sisters account, anyway It was a powerful movie, I could hardly notice the bad acting, because IT WAS A GOOD MOVIE! I don't care what you say the Movie Was great and the book series was awesome! "}{"Title":"Prepare Yourselves!","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A very accurate potryal of things to come! Kirk Cameron's performance makes this film even better. Even if the Bible never existed, I would  consider this a great Sci-Fi film. Because it is real, I truly recommend this movie to Believers, non-believers, and searchers! I give this film 9-Stars. "},{"Title":"Intriguing Movie","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I bought this movie with intention to lend it to friends who don't believe in Jesus Christ as our only Savior and don't believe in the Judgment Day.The movie is good although except for Kirk Cameron, his wife Chelsea Noble and Brad Johnson, the acting seems to be amateur sometimes. But the purpose of the movie can be easily achieved.Congratulations to the cast and crew. I'm waiting anxiously for The Tribulation Force. "},{"Title":"Captivating","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I only wish the movie had been longer. Three hours would probably not be enough for me! The book has so much more that I entreat anyone who has seen the movie to go out and get the book, and subsequent ones that come after. Amazing. I understand that this fall, a new one will hit the book stands. I can't wait. "},{"Title":"I was impressed.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I read this book and was very disturbed by the description of the  chaos that will follow the rapture.  I was wondering how the movie would capture the idea and I was impressed with the way they did it.  The film was quite moving! "},{"Title":"Awesome! But.......","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie totally AWESOME! It's sends a disturbing yet totally realistic message, without being way to preachy. It was some what of a low budget film (have pity on us Canadians), but that's nothing. Your missing alot if you don't see this amazing film. Only one problem.... Even if you saw this film, you'd still be missing alot. About seven years of material, literally! They stop the movie in what seems to be the very beginning. I hope there is a Left Behind 2 within the next1-2 years. I'm telling you, even non-christians (unlike myself) will enjoy this film. One more thing Can somebody tell me why it's rated PG-13??  "},{"Title":"Can't anyone be unbiased about this?","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Christians give it a 10 and Christian haters give it a 0.  Surprise, surprise!  Can't we all just get along?  Seriously, why can't anyone think any way other than I'm a Christian and it is about Christ so it gets a 10 or I don't like Christians so I have to give it a 0?The effects aren't great.  They are on par with a USA original movie or a lower budget TV movie.  But hey, Star Trek (Original) is much better than Next Generation so effects don't really matter unless all you want is eye candy (i.e. people that would never ever read a book).  My wife read the books and begged me to watch the movie. I was raised a Christian but I am not really sure what I believe now, and I thought it was an ok movie.  At least a 5 or 6.  All of you Christians and Christian haters are no different.  You are both prejudice against the other group.  Grow up!  I thought the story was a little better than average (6.5) and the acting & producing was average (4.5).  I feel the story is the most important thing so I gave the movie a 6.0. "},{"Title":"book is better","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I understand that a lot of new Christians are watching this movie to get a better understanding of what's going on, but my opinion is that the book is a lot better. Even though it's hard to show what people are thinking on-screen, I think the producers and script writers could have done a much better job. If you're going to watch the movie, I suggest you read the book, too. "},{"Title":"The Title Should Have Been 'Left Open'...","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...for a sequel, that is. This is a good, involving story with respectable acting. Kirk Cameron is a bit too young to be playing an experienced TV newsman, especially with his Doogie Howser voice and looks, but you can tell he believes what his character is about. His performance is earnest without being preachy. And in this story, that says a lot. And if there are sequels, he can mature slowly into the role without outgrowing it. His boyish looks may mean a steady paycheck in this series.The special effects and the subtitling looked a little on the cheap side but once the story grabbed me, I didn't care. This is a nice parable about what may happen at the time of earth's impending Rapture (or Judgment Day). Those left behind after God takes his children home have either forsaken Him or are pure evil. The idea is to convert those on screen and us in the audience before the next arrival by the Almighty.All in all, it reminded me of one of those cartoon comic-style pamphlets you get handed to you at the airport by a well-meaning Christian. You can read it if you want, and take what you will from its message. To each his own. Make everyone a critic of his own destiny, I say. "},{"Title":"I don't know what to say...","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really had high hopes for this film, (maybe too high) and I thought after seeing it I would be here defending it.  Unfortunately, I really can't.  I found the story to be shallow, for example the conversions of the father and daughter weren't believable, they just happened to quickly and easily.  Considering the dramatic circumstances (2 of their family members were taken to heaven, and they know it) it shouldn't have been that hard to make their decisions to turn to Christ convincing.  Really, the refusal of the wife in Thief in the Night to comply with Unite was much more convincing, probably because we saw more details of her life before the rapture.I'm guessing that due to the rush to get this to the theaters and the understandable zeal at sharing the gospel message, the time and care weren't taken to craft a compelling, believable story.  I think Left Behind represents a step backward from both Revelation and the Omega Code.  I hope and pray for better sequels. "},{"Title":"Avoid this movie AVOID AVOID AVOID","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this movie, thinking it might make for an interesting science fiction movie.Where to start?  The worst script I have ever heard, completely unbelievable characters, no special effects to speak of (well, the air attack at the beginning was half-way good), on and on.  This movie had absolutely no quality of any sort.  I made it half way through and tore the movie out of my VCR.  Terrible script, terrible dialogue, mediocre filming, horrible acting.It was like a movie made by aliens, made by someone who had no actual experience of real life.  Like watching a parody of real life, or something.  Awful.If you want to make a contribution to the cause of religion or something, send a donation to your local church.  Don't see this movie.  Charity does not necessarily involve self-torture.  "}{"Title":"not that good","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  not as thought provoking as i had heard.  it was just preachy.  if you are going to try to get a 'non-believer' thinking, this is not the tool.  the acting was at best, mediocre.   the only thoughts that were provoked were those pertaining to the bad acting and effects.though most 'believers' would call it blasphemous or obscene, i would recommend 'the rapture' with mimi rogers and david duchovny.  that movie actually made me ponder faith and the consequences of what we do during our time on earth.   "},{"Title":"Supremely Dumb","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I got suckered into seeing this movie by a friend. Gads, I was dying for Wing Commander II or the Special Edition of Battlefield Earth halfway through.I could care less about the Christian hammering in the movie. On a purely cinematic level this movie is just pathetic hack work. Lame special effects, plot holes the size of the Almighty, horrible acting. It makes anything Joe Esterhas wrote look ingenious. Kirk Cameron? Give me a break. This dork couldn't act his way out of a paper bag filled with deranged mice. Christians are pounding everybody to see this movie. Honestly, if you want to know about God, spend your $7.00 on a copy of the Bible, Torah, Koran, or the ICHING and skip Left Behind.  "},{"Title":"Compelling movie from the first book in the Left Behind series","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind is the first novel in a series of extremely interesting page turners that leave the reader begging for more. They portray what it might be like to live through the rapture predicted in the Bible, and how those left behind struggle to cope with world wide chaos and personal tragedy. This first movie is an introduction to the characters and their experience after hundreds of thousands of people disappear in an instant.  Although the plot elements of the book are simplified for the big screen, the compelling story and characters make it worth the watch.  My 15 year old step-son has not read the book, but he left the theater with many questions and a genuine interest in finding out more about the subject.  I believe that's the goal of the project.  Both the book and the movie are effective in achieving it.  "},{"Title":"Thank you Cloud Ten....","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       Thank you Cloud Ten Pictures, thank you for giving us this movie.  Presenting the reality of the book of Revelation on film makes understanding things and sharing them much easier.  Hollywood is ALWAYS twisting the truth when taking on the prophecies of the Bible. (Ex The Seventh Sign, The Omen, & End of Days)      Finally, the truth is told, and with such realism, action, & suspense without compromise.  All I can say is THANK YOU Cloud Ten Pictures, I appreciate your hard work and commitment to quality film making.  Please, keep it up. "},{"Title":"Had to be the worst acting and location shoots I have seen. My wife said the books were great though. )","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When the movie started we could tell right off that the quality expected in even an old classic movie was not there. Wife says two thumbs up on the books.. Wife says go get us a refund, where watching Castway instead!  "},{"Title":"Graven Image is Next","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As an indie producer, I see many movies, usually before release, as was true in this case.  I wanted very badly to see Left Behind because of a draft copy of a book I read several years ago here in LA, that was left behind at a gala-bash Beverly Hills wedding.  The book was Graven Image by RF Hawthorne, whom I have not met.I hadn't paid any attention to this sort of story -- stories that tie in current events with ancient prophecy concerning end times -- until I read this draft copy of Hawthorne's novel.Left Behind provides some answers as to what may be expected if millions of people are lifted up or transfigured off the face of the planet, prior to prophetic-pending mortal catastrophe on earth.  Graven Image, and the reason for my piqued interest, gives the actual details as to how that is going to occur -- based on actual historic and biblical research, which incidently is not touched on in the movie, that is, details as to how graven images play in end times events and modern-day bio-medical developments, because those details had not yet  emerged -- until Hawthorne's book.Anyone who watches Left Behind must take it that one step further and read Hawthorne's piece, who incidently has a website by his author name, which I would certainly encourage readers to check out.As for me, Ladymoontv is very interested in developing the screenplay to Hawthorne's work for indie development in the future.  If all these things are happening for a reason, we all have reason for concern, in the world we live.  There's entertainment -- my life's work.  Then there's the reality of what is to occur very shortly, causing me to wonder  What if Left Behind and Graven Image are trying to send us all a warning message!  Go see this movie! "},{"Title":"Pushes the point","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I looked forward to seeing this movie.  As I watched, I caught myself going huh?? and What??  To add to this disaster, I waited for the Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints to come popping up at any minute.  A Billy Graham special has fewer references to the Bible then this movie did.It was a shame because it had real potential.  There was a good plot, but it was pretty bad.  My fiancee said that he thought this movie ruined Kirk Cameron's career, but like I pointed out to him....what career?  What has he done since Growing Pains.  If the fate of the world at its final days is in Kirk's hands, kill me off now.  All in all, this movie was a huge let down.  When it is released in theatres, don't be suprised if you hear nothing about it. "},{"Title":"Very good movie.","Date":"30 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind is a very cool christian movie. My mom was reading the books, and I got to watch the movie. I liked it so much, I just started reading the book. I think their little film project is a good idea. I think the movie should be a box office hit!My rating A+ "},{"Title":"Very, Very enlightening","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A must see movie, and not just for religious freaks.  If you believe the Bible you will find this accurately describes what you already believe. If you don't believe the Bible you will enjoy the story line and it will help you understand your friends who do believe the Bible.  Prophecy is difficult subject and this handles it excellently. "},{"Title":"The movie makes you think, Christian or not!","Date":"19 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I think it is an excellent movie. I have read all the bad comments, that the books are better than the movie etc. I haven't read the books yet, but I think the movie is excellent, the message gets through and it makes you think and reflect, otherwise there would not be 37 pages with long comments, either bad or good.And about the comparison of the movies with the books, the movies cannot reflect all events in those books, otherwise each movie would be about 6 hours long. What would be more attractive you think, a movie about 1 to 2 hrs or a 6 hr movie. I mean I have read all the books of the LOTR trilogy, in those books there are a lot of accounts that are not in reflected in the movies as well but those are still very good movies.You see, some people have to write those bad reviews in order to hide from the biblical truth. I have searched the biblical passages in my English bible (english is not my native language) mentioned in the movie and they are accurate.And I admire Kirk Cameron and his wife for responding to the call of God instead of the call of fame and riches of this world. Go Kirk and Chelsea! And I give Cloud ten productions a 10! "}{"Title":"Behold a Pale Horse","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" On an overseas flight to London, journalist 'Buck' Williams (Kirk Cameron) and pilot Rayford Steele (Brad Johnson) are caught in the middle of the most incredible event in history. Suddenly, without warning, dozens of passengers simply vanish into thin air. But it doesn't stop there. It soon becomes clear that millions of people are missing from around the world. As chaos and anarchy engulf the world, both men set out on vastly different paths in a desperate search for answers, according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis.Like Mr. Cameron says, There's no denying The Truth. If you were deaf and blind, you would, still, find that this movie stinks to high heaven. Anyone but a true believer in the theological perspective presented has a right to be offended. So, it's better to seek redeeming qualities in other ways. The performances, as a whole, aren't inspired - but, they are, at least, serviceable. It's nice to see Colin Fox at work, and Gordon Currie makes a good impression. Left Behind cannot be saved, however.For what it's worth, the story could be engaging - but, as soon as it gets moderately interesting, it's over. How can a Christian God terrorize these non-believers? How is it that neither He nor the Anti-Christ are able to detect Kirk Cameron's goodness? Perhaps, God doesn't save Cameron after his epiphany in the toilet because He has a plan for Cameron? Perhaps, the Anti-Christ is keeping knowledge regarding Cameron's true feelings secret? Perhaps, a sequel in in the offering? Pass it over.** Left Behind (1/26/01) Vic Sarin ~ Kirk Cameron, Brad Johnson, Gordon Currie, Janaya Stephens "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good Christ-sploitation!","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I read the first book and was disappointed by it. It's a talky book that reads like a cross between a young adult adventure novel and a bad romance novel. I had hoped for a ten cent potboiler, but I wanted something more racy and exciting--something motivated by real lunatic zeal. The guiding purpose of the authors instead seemed to be to make the book as long (and implausible) as possible.But all of those gripes are gone with Left Behind The Movie! The screenwriters brutally streamlined the story, and even went so far as to give every action a motivation. They also heavily modernize the story--a flaw that had only been apparent to me in the book by the 1930s serial-style character names (Rayford Steele, Bruce Barnes). On seeing the movie, I realize now how ridiculous it was for the main character, Buck Williams, to be a world famous PRINT journalist. In the movie, he's a cable TV anchor, and it makes a lot more sense.The speeches of the Antichrist were also rewritten for the screen, which makes his appearances much more plausible and dramatic.This movie turns out to be everything I wished Left Behind was. It's just good exploitation trash with lots of pay-off. MULTIPLE characters get turned on to Christ, in much the same way as characters in other exploitation films get turned onto reefer or lesbianism. There's even a moderately high body count. "},{"Title":"The Fantastic Four of Revelations","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Let me say that I'm not talking about the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse in the title. I'm talking about four people, Kirk Cameron, Brad Johnson, Clarence Gilyard, and Janaya Stephens who apparently out of all the people left on earth after the Rapture has occurred, have figured out who the anti-Christ is and what his intentions are.There's a whole lot of theological debate out there as to whether the Rapture will even occur. But what that's supposed to be is at a given point all the true believing Christians and most of the children on this planet will all of a sudden vanish. What's happened is that God's taken them into heaven so they will avoid the coming events of the very last days on the planet.For some reason these four have been Left Behind, but they've figured out what's going on. And the anti-Christ is none other than the Secretary-General of the United Nations. A guy named Karpathy who has a mittel-Europa accent popular in Hollywood films in the Thirties. The actor who plays him, Gordon Currie, does the best job in the film.Brad Johnson and Janaya Stephens are father and daughter. His wife and son are among the raptured. Daughter is a rebellious college kid and Brad's been having an affair with stewardess Chelsea Noble. Brad's a pilot and he's heroic in a Jack Armstrong kind of way. Why a believing pastor like Clarence Gilyard's been left behind is a mystery to me, it surely isn't explained in the film. And Kirk Cameron just does not cut it as a cynical investigative reporter. Maybe I'm unfair, but I still see him as the kid from Growing Pains.There's a problem with these kind of films as I see it besides the obvious one of that this is only one interpretation of what the last days will be like. Internationalism of any kind has always been an enemy to fundamentalism. The North American continent has NAFTA the European nations bind closer together from the Common Market up to the creation of the Euro Dollar, things like that are seen as evil.Maybe I don't get it, but I always think that the more people talk the less likely they will fight. That's a good thing in my book. But if you think your belief system is the only true one in the world, you resist all forms of dialog. That's the logic behind this film and it's also the logic Al Queda operates with for their faith. I've always thought that the Bible story that is the most insidious is the Tower of Babel. All people speaking a common language, working on a common goal even if it is to build a gigantic stratospheric tower. So God messes up languages to keep mankind forever apart. And as they come together, evil is supposed to happen.I think the planet as a whole as more to fear from those left out as opposed to those left behind. "},{"Title":"Leading to Salvation","Date":"4 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Matthew 7.1-5 Judge not, that you be not judged. For with the judgment that you pronounce you will be judged, and the measure you give will be the measure you get. Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, Let me take the speck out of your eye, when there is the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.In my opinion this wasn't an Oscar winning performance however it did serve it's purpose. While God is Love he is also fair and righteous.So if a stern warning is what this movie portrayed then so be it. Stern warnings are given all through the book of Daniel, Revelation, etc.As Christians we should be less judge-mental and more supportive to what the film makers are trying to do. -Spread the word of Truth.-J "},{"Title":"Another aweful Christian movie!","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  O my gosh! This was bad. Every aspect of this movie was terrible, the acting, the music, the special affects. I am so sorry I watched this, especially after I watched Omega Code. I will again ask the question, Why can't Christians make a good movie, why, oh why? Omega Code was an absolute joke, but this almost passes Omega Code up. Left Behind is another Christian stinker on the long list of Christian stinkers. I will once again be generous and give it 2/10. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I've ever seen...","Date":"26 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this thinking it sounded like a good story. I expected something similar to Stephen King's epic The Stand. But, what is it??? A dogmatic bible thumping movie with a bad story, bad acting, bad direction, BAD EVERYTHING!!!!!!!I really dislike movies such as this that portray an elite religious view that every human must believe in or be an outcast. That is just wrong, this is a main reason why there are so many conflicts and wars today (and increasing) because of different Religious extreme views.If Jesus Christ was alive he'd even hate this movie! I wish to God i would have heard that this was based on a lame book that's sold at Wal-Mart before i saw the movie. The box is completely misleading about what the film is truly about.An interesting note, i met one of the authors of the book(s) Left Behind in a restaurant. He was a complete arrogant jerk (and no i didn't even mention the movie or book to him). Then again, most religious zealots usually are. They're making sequels to this garbage??? ... Oh the Humanity!!! "},{"Title":"Too one sided!","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I love the film Left behind, and I believed it had a strong biblical message on the rapture. The one thing I didn't like was the pentecostal/charismatic line up of actors(such as Jack & Rexella Van Impe, TD Jakes just to name a few).  I think left behind was written from a charismatic point of view, which is often exaggerated.  I think that any one who is interested in the rapture should pick up a bible and read for themselves, because this film has a one-sided view. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been reading the books by Tim Lahaye and Jerry Jenkins and was glad to see this come to the big screen. This movie was very good and shared a very important message to all. We are definately living our last days and seeing Revelations interpreted has been a great way to help spread an important message. Great job to all involved in this movie and the books! "},{"Title":"Great Christian Movie (Based from the Bible)","Date":"28 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is very brilliant religous outbreaking spiritual disaster that Jesus the mighty savior of heaven has sent his people vanished from earth. But, left everyone on earth trying to get ahold of themselves with their lust and sins before, they confess christ in their hearts. They know it's a day that Christ has come to earth seeking man's love by defeating Satan's power.  "},{"Title":"B Movie B for Brainwash","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Fundamentalists aren't good at a lot of things. Things like stage-diving. Homebrewing. Dancing. Now we know to add moviemaking to that list.SPOILER ALERT! This movie is supposed to be about the rapture that Fundy Christians believe will happen before Jesus Christ comes back to fight Satan in a cosmic battle-royal that will free mankind form the clutches of sin. Or something. During the Rapture, millions of Bible-believing folks will be sucked up into heaven by a divine vacuum cleaner of some sort, leaving all we cynics and skeptics here on Earth to suffer under the regime of Satan's earthly representative, the Anti-Christ. In the movie, Kirk Cameron plays a reporter named Buck, who travels around investigating the sudden disappearance of millions of people. You can guess the rest. He learns that it was indeed God and Jesus that did it, and becomes converted himself.I've seen lots of so-called Christian films The Rapture, The Prodigal Planet, etc. and they're all awful and cheesy. This movie has MUCH higher production values than those others, with decent lighting, special effects and explosions, etc., yet it is still awful and cheesy. Why? Because it's so darn EARNEST. You can tell that everyone involved took this movie FAR too seriously, believing that people would view it, buy the ridiculous premise and convert to dispensational Christianity. As if a MOVIE--and a forgettable one at that--would save the viewers' souls. The arrogance shines through in the movie, especially in light of the mediocre acting, dialogue and direction.D +. Recommended only if it comes on for free and you're drunk and in the mood to snicker. "}{"Title":"Terrible movie.  No justice done.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is perhaps the worst adaptation of a book that I've ever seen.  This film does absolutely no justice to the text one which it is based.  I implore those of you who have seen this horrible excuse for a film, to take the time to read the book that it is based on.The problems I have with this adaptation are many.  First and foremost, is the theme of the book is lost.  While I understand that it is next to impossible to condense so much into an hour and a half, the depth of the original texts are barely even noticeable in this movie.  Characters are introduced to each other way too quickly.  For example, the relationship between Rayford Steele, and Buck Williams is way too premature.  It is much more powerful, and meaningful the way the book puts it.The addition of characters that were not even in the book, Ivy, and whoever that black girl was, and the omition of important characters, Steve Plank, Buck Williams' boss, makes the film even more atrocious.I don't know what else more to say than to you, the consumer, do not see this movie.  It is slow and does the book absolutely no justice.  And, to you, the filmmaker, I know you've already completed the second movie of the series, so I'm begging you.  Stop!Kirk Cameron, time to get to work on that Growing Pains reunion. "},{"Title":"Stay Tune After the Movie!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Cloud Ten Productions proudly presents a powerful low budget film about the beginning of the last 7 years of life on Earth! Whether good or bad, the film is successful in being made and getting out to the public. Kirk Cameron does a very wonderful job in leading a film as a serious actor and not a comedic performer looking for laughs. Instead, we get strong acting by actors who feel strongly about their beliefs. The end result, a powerful film made to inform the public as well as entertaining them. This movie was all fine and good until I stayed after to watch the after credit section where Kirk Cameron talked to the audience about what they wanted to do with the video version of the movie. Coming across as somewhat of a friendly salesman and the anti-Christ, Kirk Cameron treated the film as a giant platform to get the movie Left Behind scene in the movie theaters nationwide. While everyone will have their own opinion about the quality of Left Behind and its overall messages, it is far from a great movie. It is, like much of Cloud Ten Productions, a meaningful film that falls very short of a blockbuster as an amazing film.  In my own words, I feel that they should send movies like Citizen Kane or the Deer Hunter back in the movie theaters before they give Left Behind a chance.  "},{"Title":"A good made for TV movie!","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoiler!!! Reading all the different opinions got me into renting this film.  The IMDB reviews sounded like the Jerry Springer show!  I did not find this movie's message heavy handed, and started to wonder why all the tirades.  It has a Christian message in it, I could not understand why some of the reviewers rented it unless they wanted to rant.  It's not heavy handed and conveys the message slowly.  I grew up Catholic and heard a lot of hell and damnation from others, and found other  non Christian religions condemning of non-believers also!  The movie starts out before the Rapture and people disappear as it begins.  I believe not all Christians will be taken up like in the film, but the film is fiction guessing on what might happen. It is interesting, but a bit long this part because I believe they spent most the their budget at the beginning of the film with the air attack.  I guess this would disturb some, because the Bible is not PC, it condemns, has opinions and if I remember rightly the wide road to hell is taken by the majority, and less traveled path to heaven is taken by few. This reporter goes through this mystery which winds up in the conclusion.  I like the portrayal of evil by the anti-christ's deception;  his evil ways had me stumped and ended the film strongly.  The acting was ok, but the anti-christ actor, and his strong ending saves the middle of this film. Worth renting. 6/10  "},{"Title":"A devilish movie!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has a potentially good premise; I mean the what if of the christian storybook god collecting his believers is a fine foundation for a fantastical movie.  Unfortunately the adaptation of the idea to a movie comes across as campy too often, and the acting is quite flat. The instant removal of all these kith and kin believers provides an emotional shotgun, a shallow tactic to convince others to believe. The underlying theme is a didactic one. The Omen series was much more interesting play on the antichrist.  TheThe ratings here at IMDB are quite revealing...so many voted either 1 or 10 voting with their beliefs rather than their senses.  In my opinion, it would be a blessing for the schizophrenic god to take away all these fundamentalist believers.  The world would be a better place for it.        "},{"Title":"It's not the end of the world. . .oh wait, that's what the movie is about.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw this movie the other day, and I wasn't thrilled with it,  but come on people, it wasn't THAT bad.  I almost wanted to type it wasn't the end of the world, but that's what the movie is about. Anyway. . .I actually thought the people playing the main characters were fairly decent.  Some of you writing reviews out here obviously have no experience acting, these people weren't bad at all. It's not like this was a particularly hard script to act or anything. There were only a few people I didn't like casted because the movie didn't make an attempt to identify their point in being there.  Also, for those of you who are totally clueless  Carpathia is Romanian not Russian. So you should at least say it was a bad Romanian accent because if he was Russian he wouldn't be buddies with Rosenzweig considering that Rosenzweig was from Israel and Israel and Russia were enemies in the book.  I don't give this movie an extremely high out of the sky rating mostly because it didn't really follow the book very well, but I still enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Poorly Made, Well Intentioned Movie.","Date":"19 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind is an incredible waste of more than 17 million dollars. The acting is weak and uninspiring, the story even weaker. The audience is asked to believe the totally implausible and many times laughable plot line and given nothing in return for their good faith. Not only is the film poorly acted and scripted it is severely lacking in all the technical areas of filmmaking. The production design does nothing to help the credibility of the action. The effects are wholly unoriginal and flat. The lighting and overall continuity are inexcusably awful; even compared to movies with a tenth of the budget. However none of this will matter in that millions of families will no doubt embrace the film for it's wholesomeness and it's religious leanings; and who can blame them. However it is unfortunate that they will be forced to accept 3rd rate amatuer filmmaking. "},{"Title":"Read Book After Watching Movie.","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie is good and well produced.  However, it will be a disappointment to those who read the book first.  There were a lot of things that were cut out of the movie that made more sense in the book.  Dont get me wrong... see the movie or show the movie to your friends but then read the book. "},{"Title":"Ends Too Soon . . .","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first heard that Kirk Cameron was going to play Buck Williams, I was skeptical, but his performance is outstanding and he makes a very convincing Buck.  And although it does leave out a lot of information about Nichole Carpathia, the movie sticks very close to the first book.  It ends too soon, leaving you wanting to see more . . . especially when you have read all the books in the series.  See this movie for yourself and make up your own mind. You will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Read the Christ Clone trilogy instead!","Date":"10 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm not a fan of the Left Behind book series - the books are written at a 6th-grade reading level with a lack of research and understanding of science, technology, and politics. While the books do manage to remain faithful to scripture, their methods of fulfilling prophecy are often ridiculous (an example is their explanation for the Russian/Arab invasion of Israel). Also, the books have an unmistakable preachy tone that will turn off unbelievers rather than bring them to the gospel. Still, I found myself reading these books because of my interest in the events of Revelation. For a similar reason, I watched this film adaptation. I am sad to say that it is a rather mediocre film bordering on poor. The acting is actually rather decent for the most part with occasional bits of poor acting and over-acting. The script is rather bad, though it is hardly unexpected when starting with the novel as a basis. The characters are poorly drawn and underdeveloped. Events feel scattered and disconnected. The dialogue sometimes sounds rushed. At least the book managed to flesh out its hokey conspiracy theory. Here, the viewer is left with an incoherent mess that only makes much sense if one has read the book. The pacing of the film is also very poorly executed with the opening and conclusion seeming extremely rushed, and the middle dragging to an excruciatingly slow trudge that makes it feel padded. The music is schizophrenic. At times, it successfully underscores the mood and sounds fitting for a motion picture. At other moments, it reminds me of sitcom and mini-series music. And still other bits remind me of a poppy MTV soundtrack that just doesn't belong in the film. I can give the film points for the scene of panic on board the plane, but that's it. The other scenes involving the disasters after the Rapture are far from compelling. The film also suffers from the book's preachiness although its message isn't quite as in your face. In all, I found the movie just as disappointing as the series. This is not the film to rally Christians around it. I hope that this film does NOT get any attention at the theaters next year. It would be more unnecessary bad publicity for Christianity. For an example of a compelling, intelligent, well-researched series based on Revelation that presents a realistic and Christian world view without offending the secular reader (who after all should be whom a Christian is trying to reach) read the Christ Clone trilogy by James BeauSeigneur. It's a great read and is a much better choice for unbelievers or believers who appreciate quality. "},{"Title":"Good, but could be better","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I felt that the newest edition of the End Times movies was a very good attempt.  However, I feel that I need to say that the screenwriters could have attempted to follow a little more closely to the book.  But overall, it was a tolerable movie, even somewhat enjoyable, it is the best job of depicting the end times.  Thumbs up to Cloud Ten pictures. "}{"Title":"Unbelievably bad","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This has to be one of the silliest movies ever made. It is Christian propaganda mixed with cold war paranoia about Russians. The penultimate scene of the two murders and the evil villain convincing everyone to lie about them is utterly unbelievable on every level. Even the villain's accent was unbearably phony. It was like amateur theatre.It made no sense. There were a dozen ways the evil villain could be foiled, and everyone just acquiesced, with hero cheerily assuring himself God would right it all.It just left me going Huh?. As if they had tacked the last reel of of Warner brothers cartoon on the end. "},{"Title":"A great look at post-rapture earth","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" For a non-Christian viewer, as with most Christian films, suspension of disbelief may be hard or even impossible. These characters may seem unrealistic or even hokey. But for any Christian who has heard about the Rapture and what earth will be like following it, this is an interesting story with a profound impact. Kirk Cameron delivers an on-the-money performance of a non- Christian who finds himself, and Christ, as the anti-Christ is gaining control. I found the story to be chilling and scary for those left behind and look forward to the next movie int he series. If there were one thing I'd do differently as a film maker it would be to show the rapture in a more detailed way. It happens and everyone seems to be looking the other way. Not that it might not happen that way, but I'd like to see the team at ILM put together an FX part that could have made it all more thrilling. Bear in mind that this movie is not about the rapture, but rather from the perspective of those left behind looking for an explanation. Watch it. learn from it. Or better still, read the book. "},{"Title":"Waste of $5","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't expect much from this film, but oh brother, what a stinker.I found this gem in a giant crate of awful $5 DVD's at Walmart (where else)? As cheap as this disc was, I feel ripped off. The special effects had a high school look to them, the camera work marred by wobbly tripods and sketchy lighting and the acting was a perfect example of the 'Christian School'. One can imagine the long and exhausting 'prayer meetings' by the production company after seeing the rushes come back - the people who bankrolled this thing must have had seriously anti-biblical feelings towards the inept production company that cranked this thing out. Think of their anguish as they saw their $914.86 investment go up in smoke.Someone asked why Christian movies are so bad - perhaps the Xian film-makers need to look at GOOD movies and attempt to copy some of the things that make them so good. Believable stories and characters, less hysterical arm-waving and fanaticism, oh, and a story that appeals to -everyone-, not just true believers. I.e. Stop The Sermon, Save It For Church. Take the Omen or Prophesy series, for example. Excellent films with compelling story lines, great cinematography and intense music. No hysterical arm-waving. No preaching.If this film had a laugh track it would have been MUCH better. "},{"Title":"The film was excellent!!","Date":"11 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Granted that the book was way better, and observing that they had a time limit, I would have to say that the movie was really good. I really like the movie and would recommend it! So, if you haven't seen it, regardless of whether you have read the book or not, I think you should see it. If you haven't read the book either, read the book too, because they are way different.  "},{"Title":"Great theme, Great movie","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read almost all of the books in the adult series in left behind and this movie is as great as the first book. The movie and the books set out to teach us about the end times descripted in the book of revelation. Anyone can learn alot from this movie and the books about the end times. I hope everyone will see this great movie and read all the books in the series. "},{"Title":"As far as propaganda goes, pretty darn transparent...","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, I saw the movie knowing the general religious basis or circumstances that brought it to light. But nonetheless, decided to watch it with an open mind -- mainly because I wanted to see Kirk Cameron and what he had become in his years since Growing Pains.It started out pretty badly, the bit about Israel and yadda yadda yadda has been a bit overused, and really gave this movie a *very* cheesy beginning. And first impressions tend to be very important, so having such a poor start really didn't help the movie out much.As it continued, the movie actually did a decent job of creating suspense and interest, but it was very detached from reality. Interest in the events being shown was more like being interested in some sort of extravagant and mythical fairy-tale, than any sort of current event or issue.But then nearer the end, when the religious overtones became much more than overtones, when the plot really hit nonsensical (although it is pretty difficult to become more nonsensical than millions of people vanishing for no apparent reason), that is when it really lost it. Of course, I won't get into detail about what those events are -- as that would spoil it for you, the reader.The other huge strike against this movie, is that it was definitely trying to put forth some important message. But as far as I can tell, it completely failed to do that. I honestly could not even guess at what that message was, what it was the movie was trying to tell the audience.All in all, I really expected more from this film. I didn't expect to agree with it, but then how much of fiction does anyone agree with. What I did expect was to see an honest attempt to put forth a message, to interest the viewer, and to make some sort of overall difference amongst the viewers. Sadly, I don't know that anyone (aside from the most strongly religious Christian follower) is really going to get much from this film. If anything, it has only perhaps hurt the 'cause' of the writer and filmmakers, as it has shed a less-than-appealing light on strongly religious Christians (IMO). I only hope the folks going door to door selling their religion have a better way of conveying their message than this film did, because if not then I really don't know how they expect to attract any more followers. "},{"Title":"Utter Crap","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched about 30 minutes into this film before I finally got sick of getting bludgeoned over the head with this movie.  The soundtrack, the so-called 'plot', and each and every actor.  It's like they all think they're the main part of the movie and scream NOTICE ME! over and over again.  The bad guy has his bad-guy music going on and says sinister bad-guy-like things, just in case you didn't quite catch on.  The good guy does brave and noble things just in case you didn't know he was the good guy.  And oh lord, the plane scene.  MY HUSBAND IS MISSING!  OH MY GOD!  IT'S IMPOSSIBLE THAT HE GOT UP TO STRETCH HIS LEGS OR GO TO THE TOILET OR ANYTHING, HE MUST BE MISSING!  (And yes, I know, his clothes were still there, but honestly, she woke up and started to panic before she even had time to look at the damn seat he'd been in.)As a religious girl, I want to apologize to the world for wasting the film this was printed on.And I want my 30 minutes back. "},{"Title":"I can't believe I spent $3.99 to rent this!","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A friend of mine suggested that I rent this movie.  Since I live in the bible belt, I've had enough of the bible thumpin' baptists trying holy steamroll me into being saved.  This movie had weak plot and acting.  Tell me, is the antichrist going to have that stupid accent and why was that plane full of kids, simply so they could vanish. Think about it.  Before the start of the movie, they showed a bunch of previews of three consecutive movies w/Nick Mancuso as the antichrist.  Why didn't he do this one as well. Now he had a cool accent and didn't look like a chior boy.  If you want to see a well done and entertaining movie about religion (aka the apocolypse) rent Dogma. "},{"Title":"Boring and only for Christians!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is maybe one of the most boring movies of 2000 that I have seen! Especially the music fails to create suspense when people suddenly disappear. Also aspects such as martial law are not treated with the necessary seriousness. The story itself has problems the UN could never take power over the world since the United States alone would not allow it but nations such as China, Russia, Japan, etc. would not either. This would also play against someone trying to take over the world as Nicolae Carpathia does. This reminds me of James Bond movies, only that those have more action! Naturally the movie is made for Christians and only for Christians and they may enjoy it. Since I cannot count myself a Christian I find the whole idea ludicrous. This prophecy furthermore seems to be, if believed to be true, dangerously close to other prophecies by cults for the end of the world. Why fear such a possibility when we can make life as good as possible here on Earth without  "},{"Title":"Leave movie making to the professionals","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read every book to date in the left behind series, and the movie hardly does any of them justice. Sure, I've seen worse movies, but this was incredibly disappointing. This movie would have made a good MST3K episode. The script was a horrible adaptation of the book, and it felt like the actors were reading their lines, instead of actually saying them. The characters were stiff and unlikeable. The effects were cheesy, and looked terribly fake. The ending was awful. First of all, it didn't even go all the way through the first book. Second, it made no sense. If you hadn't read the book, you'd have no idea what was going on. It had to have been the most cheesy, film student-like ending I've ever seen in a movie. I'm upset that I actually paid money for this movie. If by some miracle, it does get wide release, they ought to totally overhaul it and let Hollywood take over. Those two wannabe film producers, and the wannabe director should leave movie making to the professionals. "}{"Title":"Laughably Bad!","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What is it with Americans and their hang-up with religious gobbledy-gook? To think this was a best-selling novel is incredible, but to pull it off as a movie you really need good acting and a script that delivers. In this case, all the good actors have gone to heaven and we're left with Kirk Cameron as a CNN-type journalist(!) trying to discover why a lot of people have simply disappeared. Oh yeah, there's a subplot about an evil world conspiracy and famine, or something. The good news is that this is done so cheaply, and with such inane dialogue, that it has sheer entertainment value in all of its unintended laughs. Not recommended for anyone with a 3-digit IQ. "},{"Title":"GARBAGE THAT CAN'T BE SAVED BY THE IMPORTANCE OF ITS SUBJECT","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I never read the LEFT BEHIND books, and I'm not going to either. I rented this movie for a laugh, and what a got was lot's of laughs and some pain. LEFT BEHIND is a terrible movie. It looks as if it was shot for television. All the acting is bad (and Kirk Cameron is just to wimpy to be believable in any role). The direction is terrible, although the photography is not the very worst I've seen. And, of course, that story is pretty silly.                   (as if it mattered)  SpOiLeRsCameron is hot-shot newsman Buck Williams, reporting from a cornfield in Israel when the country is attacked. The attack comes in the form of an air-force that looks like it came straight out of a video-game. A divine figure appears and talks to Cameron, then God destroys the invading force. Then, for some lame reason, the Rapture occurs and all the good people vanish. All the unfaithful, or bad people are now LEFT BEHIND. Is that heavy handed or what? Among those LEFT BEHIND are Cameron (TV must be evil), Brad Johnson as an airline pilot and his daughter, and a grab-bag of regular sinners. They discover they truth in the bible, and find out why they've been LEFT BEHIND. Then there's some nonsense about a temple in Israel. We meet the power-hungry president of the United Nations who has a foreign accent and turns out to be (surprise!) the Antichrist. There is a battle of wills, a conversion, and an ending which is just a jumping off point for a sequel.All this is based on the Book of Revelation, and a highly conservative interpretation of it at that. I still can't see how even a devout Christian could like this poorly made trash. There are much better Christian movies out there, like THE TEN COMMANDMENTS and QUO VADIS. Don't waste your time on this shoddy insult. And if people want their LEFT BEHIND books so bad they can have them, but they shouldn't waste time, money, and resources (Cameron could still make an excellent extra) making bad movies out of it. LEFT BEHIND is worse than STIGMATA. "},{"Title":"Sinister and mean spirited","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm getting a little tired of people misusing God's name to perpetuate their own bigoted view on the world. Well I don't dismiss the idea of Armageddon, or the coming of the anti-Christ, I do dismiss the idea that only certain people who live truly good lives(They seem to be mostly white Christian children) will go to Heaven, while the rest of us must suffer through a millenia of Hell on Earth, just because we weren't good enough. God may be a judge, but I don't think He is going to measure every level of goodness. Give the Creator some credit. "},{"Title":"Laughable Christian propaganda.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Let's face it.  Left Behind is not a movie -- it's a recruitment vehicle for the cult of fundamentalist Christianity.  A sort of Reefer Madness for the Bible school crowd, full of instantaneous conversions, overwrought repentances, and mindless theology of the 'my-god-is-better-than-your-god-because-his-hell-is-really-scary' sort.  Which is precisely why it is so satisfying to see what a failure it is.  And why it's so predictable that Christian apologists are coming out of the woodwork to claim, with a straight face, that it's a good movie!A good movie?  Only if your idea of quality is cheesy special effects that weren't impressive a decade ago.  Only if your idea of good dialog is dreck along the lines of Don't die on me, man.  Only if your idea of character development is hanging a press pass on Doogie Howser and declaring him a veteran journalist.  Only if your idea of star power is scraping the barrels of 80's sitcom characters and watching Kirk Cameron trade his TeenBeat smirk for 95 minutes of furrowed brows (if he registered any emotion other than oh-so-earnest concern, I missed it; perhaps he was earnestly wondering why wardrobe couldn't find him a suit that didn't make him look like a little boy in Daddy's dress up).Of course, when the Christians claim that it's a good movie what they really mean is it's a good Christian movie, which is like saying the Yugo is the best Yugoslavian car ever made.  True, but not much of an accomplishment, is it?  I mean, it's a little bit better than a 700 Club telecast, but so what?  The funny thing is, when you're trying to scare people into accepting your god, you'd better make sure that your movie evokes fright, not guffaws and pity.Upshot  this movie is a howler.  Have fun and savor the fact that the professional quality of Left Behind is equivalent to its message i.e. only a minority of apologists will accept either.   "},{"Title":"Craptacular","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I cannot believe that they managed to spend US$17million on this film. Spectacularly bad acting, egregious scripting and effects that you could do on your average PC, unbelievable plot contrivances...a reporter who can get an inexperienced stewardess a major job at the UN? What? Not only that, but the message of this film is so unsubtle that you come out feeling as if they've tried to batter you over the head with a full size crucifix. All this movie will do will preach to the choir and make everyone else laugh at such a ridiculous waste of money. If the makers of this film really wanted to sway people to christianity and show what it means to truly believe, they would have used the money to help people truly in need. Now, /that/ might have swayed some people into actually listening to them.  "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you are a Christian fundamentalist who firmly believes in a literal interpretation of the Apocalypse, or as presented in the several revised King James Versions, the Revelation of St. John the Divine, you may find this film enjoyable, as indeed, other reviewers have.  If, on the other hand, you're someone who does not subscribe to these views and biblical interpretations and rented this film on video expecting a thriller, you'll be disappointed.  From an objective viewpoint, overlooking its obvious message, the acting is shoddy, the story line contrived and not much more than the message remains.  Definitely a film for born-again Christians which this former altarboy found terribly boring. "},{"Title":"Don't judge the book based on the movie","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you made the mistake of seeing the movie before reading the book, please don't give up on the series. I bought my first copy of any of the books in May of this year, and already I'm almost finished with book 10. I dare say the movie is a piece of trash that doesn't do the series even a sniff of justice. While Left Behind the movie only vaguely follows the story of the Left Behind (the book), the characters aren't even close to accurate.A few examples Rayford never acts on his feelings for Hattie (he is about to when he's informed of the vanishings); Buck Williams is a blonde haired, magazine writer, not a TV reporter; Chloe is at Stanford, and a lot of the book details Rayford wondering if she 'survived'; Buck and Chloe don't meet until much later, at a meeting in New York, set up by Hattie; Irene and Raymie are never 'in the book,' rather just in Rayford's flashback thoughts; the roads are so jam packed with wrecks following the rapture that Rayford and Hattie have to helicopter back to the suburbs... etc, etc, etc...And that's just from the first movie; they're about to release the third. Please, even if you didn't like the movies, give the book series a chance. "},{"Title":"The only movie that I ever found offensive","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So let me get this straight the only people who can get into heaven are Christians who take every word in the Bible literally? According to this view, no Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, Shintoists, Taoists, Confucians or Sikhs can get into heaven. They're all doomed to stay on Earth when the Rapture happens and be forced to live in eternal Hell.Yes, it sounds more like some idea from the Spanish Inquisition, but what I just described is the whole premise of Left Behind. This movie is truly the bane of anyone who believes in science. To actually like this movie, you would have to have the Jerry Falwell/Pat Robertson view of the world.Not to mention that the acting resembles the acting in Ed Wood's movies. No, let me rephrase that in Ed Wood's movies, the acting was so bad that it was funny; in Left Behind, the acting is so bad, that you feel as though someone is drilling a hole in your head. Actually, a head drilling would probably be preferable to watching this movie.So the virtuous people who believe in creationism are going to heaven, while the vicious people who are either gay or like to watch Gilligan's Island (or both) are going to hell. If this is Kirk Cameron's view, then he is certainly not one of my idols, and the people who wrote the Left Behind books belong in a zoo. "},{"Title":"Stupid","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This reminds me of when I was a born-again believer who was going to be a minister.  I never actually thought I would be a minister or even graduate from high school because I was almost positive I would be raptured to Heaven before that would ever happen.  That was before I discovered that Christianity was a bunch rubbish.  I am now an atheist, and that just proves that the once saved always saved doctorine that Christians tell us is no more real than elves.  If it were true then why did I leave after many years of being a devout born again believer?  Yes, I really was saved.  I prayed that silly sinners prayer with all my heart.If Christians were to read their Bible they would discover that their god thinks like rape, genocide, abortion, and many other atrocities are alright according to him.  They might be surprised to learn that no where is the word rapture mentioned. "},{"Title":"Do Any Christians Know How to Pronounce Nuclear?","Date":"7 July 2007","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I grew up Baptist and I know the story this movie is trying to tell, although I no longer believe the story. I'll give the movie kudos for being as good as the average Lifetime Movie of the Week. Mildly interesting, mediocre acting, a bit slow, the script is predictable, the music is sappy, and it is a bit melodramatic. And all the people left behind have got to be the squeakiest clean non-Christians, ever. Not a single curse word from any of them. But I laughed out loud when the actor playing the man who runs the United Nations pronounced nuclear as nu-cu-ler, just like Bush. Is there some Christian code of honor that mandates that since Bush claims he, too, is called by God, that all Christians must cover up his ignorance by mispronouncing that word the same way he does? LOL! I really had a difficult time taking the movie seriously at all after that. After the nu-cu-ler incident, the movie began to feel like packaged, manipulative propaganda. I was looking for something bold. Actually, I was looking for something that might make me think, but I didn't find it here. If you're looking for mindless entertainment, stop here - it's good for killing a rainy afternoon. But if you're looking for intelligence, look elsewhere. "}{"Title":"Lord Have Mercy, End The World Before I Have To Finish Watching","Date":"21 April 2005","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is just about the worst apocalypse movie I've ever seen. In fact, it makes Jack T. Chick comics look like sober, well-reasoned mythology, but it lacks the serious passion one at least can detect in those mad tracts. The music, effects, acting and scripting are all about as bland as barley water, and the actors are almost exclusively C-list 80s and 90s TV actors(like Kirk Cameron, its STAR) who obviously can't even get jobs in porn--and I guess this kind of thing is what you do after even porn won't have your has-been butt anymore. Funniest of all is a very phony and rather bare Hollywood premiere bit on the DVD extras with Tom Selleck present--and as this film went almost straight to video, this attempt to appear to be part of the mainstream is pretty sad. Christian alternative culture--why IS it so boring? "},{"Title":"Twaddle","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Bad twaddle, too. Canada should be ashamed of financing a film like this. We never even found out if any Chinese or Indians were left behind. Pity the poor fools (Mr. T might say). The search for the meaning of life is tough. Don't waste time looking here, unless you are already down to the Branch Davidian or Jim Jones and obviously have too much time on your hands. "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected.","Date":"27 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Left Behind The Movie (2000) Dir Vic Sarin / Cast Kirk Cameron, Brad Johnson, Chelsea Noble, Janaya Stephens, Gordon Currie Wonderful film referencing the Biblical accounts of Revelations where the rapture has happened and those remaining seek answers. Total chaos erupts but journalist Kirk Cameron figures that he knows where to go for answers. He seeks a disc from another source that can prove useful. A flight captain arrives home to only his daughter but he soon realizes where his wife and son have gone. He finds answers within the wondrous scriptures of the Bible. It is the second coming of Christ and Cameron believes that world leaders are already being deceived by the Anti-Christ. Director Vic Sarin does a marvelous job at creating tension with Cameron bringing both intelligence and desperation as he struggles to make sense of it all. Brad Johnson as the flight attendant now realizes his wife's faith was true. Also with Chelsea Noble and Janaya Stephens among those deceived and corrupted. Based on the popular book series the result is a low budget yet satisfying portrayal of end times that seems to reasonably surpass the fine line between poor production and decent low budget filmmaking. It provides suspense as well as interesting theories for discussion for those scholars on the subject. It is a definite Biblical masterpiece with relentless power. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"So . . .","Date":"9 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm about 40 minutes in, and it's easily my favorite awful movie. The writing is so deliriously bad. The filmmakers should have had a non-delusional person look at the screenplay. I wouldn't be shocked to find out there was a key-grip or two fired for voicing their opinion on this horrendous script. Kirk Cameron's wife is really beautiful. Kirk Cameron is a tool. I don't believe in any of the hogwash that this movie depicts, so that might be part of the reason that I dislike it, but ultimately the content is no reason to give a bad review, like the people who gave Noah bad reviews because they were Christian dopes and actually believed it was based on real events. "},{"Title":"Trying to be Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! but failing with bad script, acting, and more!","Date":"30 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This comedy tries to have all the gravitas of the 1978 film Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! to offset the insane premise the script offers up, but fails to deliver. This is due to the weak script, which both fails in dialog and plot, as well as acting that would put community theatre to shame.In a movie like this you need Shatner-esque levels of scenery chewing overacting in a lead, something that a washed up 1980s sitcom star cannot deliver.If the writing and acting isn't bad enough the cinematography and editing are amateur at best. Was this shot and edited by interns working for college credit and meals? It seems like it.All of that coupled with an absurdest script, which apparently is based on two best selling fiction books, makes this train wreck of a film not even worth the camp value for comedy.Apparently this is supposed to be some sort of cult film, but it seems more like a film produced by a cult.If you want to watch an absurd comedy watch the cult movie they were apparently trying to shoot for - Attack of the Killer Tomatoes! "},{"Title":"I'd rather endure the rapture than have to sit through this again...","Date":"27 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Behold, the bible prophecy of Armageddon... in a film making sense it's diabolical acting topped up with a fine stoning of a disgracefully written script. It was a few months ago, but I remember well the circumstances behind the events which led me to have the misfortune of viewing this bible-preaching mess. My best friend and his father are devote Christians... in contrast to me, a well-spoken for agnostic (I think it's a good bet to just sit on the fence). So it was a rainy night, nothing new in this country, and we sat down and watched this due to a lack of anything else to do. Well, I had a good laugh at the cardboard characters, the atrocious acting that reminded of the acting you'd see on any teenage sitcom on a Saturday morning, and the bible-preachy script, which served to remind me that I was viewing this on the God Channel after all. As another reviewing noted, the script sounds like an idea from the Spanish Inquisiton - all Christians are going to heaven, but no one else! Based on a best-selling novel (Which I was told is pretty good), I guess then if that's the case the author should launch a lawsuit against the filmmakers. It's hilarious... basically, the film is about the rapture/Armageddon that is detailed in the bible. Before the final days on Earth, good believers and children will be taken to heaven - just vanishing, and leaving behind their clothes (?). The scumbags left behind (That's you and me buddy) will have to endure all kinds of mayhem in the form of insects and fireballs etc. etc. In the film, two of the characters are a rebellious teenager and her unfaithful pilot father. Other characters, one a TV presenter of some description (My memory is somewhat hazy to details) realises that the newly elected leader of the United Nations is the Antichrist... GOOD LORD! Well, I've said enough I think... Left Behind is an atrocious film, which I'm sure has offended a lot of sensitive people. Myself on the other hand, neutral in all religious opinions, sits on the fence and laughs at a poorly made film. I'm sure even with my budget and resources, I could pull together a better film. Quite frankly, I'd welcome the rapture any day in opposed to having to watch this again, or any of it's deformed offspring produced to make a trilogy... it ends terribly, indeed leaving wide open (the gates of hell) possibilities for a sequel, which came the following year under the title Left Behind II Tribulation Force and another sequel in 2005, called Left Behind World at War. Forget the fireballs and rising oceans, making those of us who are left behind on the final days watch the Left Behind trilogy would be punishment enough methinks. "},{"Title":"Boring sci-fi","Date":"5 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...well OK, it's not a sci-fi but I tried to view it as such to make it tolerable. After the cool Twilight Zone style disappearance of people is was resolved boringly that it was magic invisible Jesus who was the body snatcher. And then it's ye ol' anti-Christ, United Nations, global currency, global peace, grand conspiracy, blah blah blah blah. Something is deeply disturbing about a belief system where working for the betterment of future generations and the ecosystems upon which they stand is somehow a bad thing.I found the movie in the cheap cheap cheap used bin and was going to buy it but the store owner gave it to me as a gesture of wanting it out of his store now! "},{"Title":"Movie lacks flair but message comes through","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie which is based on the best selling book lacks some of the flair found in high budget Hollywood blockbusters, but the underlying message comes through loud and clear. Despite its low budget production you will find many familiar faces in this movie. This is like most movies a work of fiction, however the fiction is in the characters not the bible prophesy of the end times represented in this film. This movie may not represent everyones view on how the end times will come about, but then again with so many different views it is impossible for a movie to satisfy everyone. I found that regardless of your view of the end times the foundation of the movie and its purpose is not lost amongst most people regardless of belief.I have read the book and watched the movie, and I am a much bigger fan of the book however this film will for many people be the only exposure they get to the prophesied end times and more importantly allow them to be enriched in their spiritual lives. "},{"Title":"'The dead in Christ will rise first.' ~ 1 Thessalonians 416","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Career film critic James Berardinelli writes about this film that it's an exceedingly poorly made motion picture. Ann Limpert's review on Entertainment Weekly states the drama is a little hard to believe. Stephen Holden of the New York Times thinks the high-school-level acting doesn't help. These are all legitimate liberal opinions, but they overlook that 'Left Behind' accurately explores Biblical prophecy and presents tangible truths about the coming events of the Rapture of the Christian Church. I commend the filmmakers for that effort. In this world, God gifts us w/ 'free will' and film critics freely make use of that professionally to critique movies for the masses. No, it's not their job to preach the Gospel to mankind, but given the multitude of readers they reach what an amazing gift they could humbly give to others by, at least, communicating the truths of faith-based films like 'Left Behind.' Jesus will rescue His bride from the wrath to come during Tribulation and that is a fact no professional film critic has ever, can, or will ever be able to deny ~ God bless. "},{"Title":"Definitely 'stands out' from all the films I've seen....","Date":"28 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am a believer.I believe if religions in general were not invested in propagating uncertainties, fear, anxieties, and panic about (afer-)life, as this film does, no one would bother to donate a penny or a thought to their causes.I believe in miracles.Given that the acting was so pervasively bad in this film, it must be a miracle these people can still make a living through their acting.I believe in hell.I can only imagine this must be one of the films they show to the detainees at Guantanamo Bay, because watching it was torturous hell.Seriously, I don't recall how I got roped into watching this film. It certainly didn't 'sound bad' at the time, as it was being pitched as a doomsday disaster film. But I daresay that of the thousands of films I must have seen throughout my life, this is one of the worst. "}{"Title":"Argggggh","Date":"6 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When The Omega Code, a similar Revelation-based Christian movie, was released in 1999, I couldn't stand it. In my review, though, I made reference to this then-in-production film as one I hoped would be a better movie on the same subject. I was wrong. This is awful.The directing is muddled, the acting third-rate, and believable effects almost non-existent. It takes a special kind of talent to be able to create such a dud out of such a gripping, best-selling page-turner of a novel.The Left Behind books are still amazing, as is The Book -- the source material in the Bible. Stick with them. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst piece of crock ever!","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What seemed like a wonderful plot, a nice spooky setup etc quickly turned into a bad tasting thanksgiving turkey. NONE of the leading characters are believable...and then throw those unbelievable characters into the bedtime stories of the so called good book and you quickly realize that you just flushed your money down the toilet. Best advise would be to go visit your local nuthead catholic or Philadelphia activist (yep...Sweden is a nice secularized country but weed may still grow even on a perfect lawn)and try to sell it to the poor geezer for a decent sum of money. That's your good deed of the day helping him keep up his delusions. /Leo  "},{"Title":"Made the books look bad.","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a Christian and I have read all 11 books and am awaiting the 12th to be released. I rented the movie in hopes to enjoy it as much as I did the books. The movie looked really cheap and the acting wasn't much better. I didn't even finish the film because I thought it made the book seem really lame.I'd have to say if I would have saw this movie before reading the books in the series, I would probably never have opened a single one of them. I really wish they could have done a better job creating this movie. All in all, I rated the film a 2. It wasn't the worst movie I've ever seen, but in my opinion, it was pretty close to that. "},{"Title":"The book series is much better...","Date":"18 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You know how you read a book, and you see a specific actor playing that role, then the casting powers that be really make a mess of things ? Well, this is what happened to this movie. I am an avid fan of the Left Behind  series. I look forward to the Rapture and Christ return. The series is heartfelt, and I believe sincere. But, the casting sucks...Only those who have read the series can understand when I say...Kirk Cameron as Buck ? Brad Johnson?Well, I guess I let my imagination get the best of me sometimes. I liked the movie, but it still chews at me...Why was this cast selected ? "},{"Title":"MMM... Asi-asi","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Seen better? Yep. Seen worse? Absolutely! I saw this movie at school. As a Christian (Proud to be one, by the way!) I did find it quite interesting. A few parts freaked me, but then, I'm easily freaked. As an actress (amateur, of course), I did find the acting quite good. Cameron was believable, and whoever played Carpathia actually had me very very upset with him. He was that creepy. That's as close as anyone has ever come to an accurate anti-Christ (hey! The Bible said he would be suave, calm, and popular!)Actually, I haven't read the books, but I did listen to the live-action radio dramas weekly. Truly, the radio drama was a lot better, but I like radio acting more anyway, so I'm sort of biased that way. The sequel was just as frightening, and it's perhaps the best Revelation movie since Thief in the Night which scared the living day-lights out of me! Of course, I was only 8 then!Everyone around knows when I write these things, I always say that what I've written is my opinion. How do you know if you like it unless you SEE it? Rent it and see for yourself before forming an opinion, no matter what ANYONE says!! After all, One man's trash is another man's treasure, and vice-versa! "},{"Title":"Eh. Could have been better.","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was not very impressed with the movie. As many of the comments have shown, not many others were, either. Most frustrating for me is that the filmmakers took a book series that was, frankly, intense, suspenseful, and fantastic, and turned it into a movie that was obviously not funded well. I enjoyed the choices for actors in the movie, they fit the physical images in the books, but the quality wasn't spectacular. For those of you disappointed in the movie, try the books. In the storyline, while still obviously coming from Biblical predictions, the everyday events would be more credible, even to the non-Christian. "},{"Title":"Coulda been betta","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Before the review, a brief plot summary  Buck Willaims is a young reporter investigating the unpredicted and unexplained assault of Iraq upon Israel. Rayford Steele is a pilot with a Christian wife (whom he is cheating on) taking a plane to London.  Suddenly, millions of people all over the world, including Rayford's wife, vanish out of their clothes, and Buck's investigation leads his path to cross Steele.Yet another interpretation of the Rapture and Book of Revelation.  Unlike Apocalypse, I knew who the Antichrist was immediatly (I have not read the novel) since he appeared immediatly after the Rapture and not before it, like in Apocalypse where the Antichrist's identidy came as a suprise.Some of the acting is a little second rate, some is very second rate. Christians should look for T. D. Jakes of TBN, as Pastor Billings, but I personally found it more interesting watching Jack Van Impe in Apocalypse and it's sequels. The opening special effects are sad, and probably the best in the entire film is the car explosion, very early ninties type.Now, I'm not wholly critizing the film.  The storytelling is interesting, and the plot is fairly intruiging.  The ending leaves a place open for the sequel, which will be a TV series.  The Antichrist's corny accent is slightly annoying, but the character is chilling (though not as chilling as the Antichrist in the sequels to Apocalypse).In short, it could have been better, but there are those worse than it. One is Years of the Beast but a dead ringer is The Omega Code. When you've got a few hours free, and you're not in too great a mood, you could give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Oh god, this is bad","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow.What do you say about the movie that has nothing going for it?Acting - non-existent.  Apparently, the rapture took all the good actors away to Broadway Heaven, leaving third-rate television stars to reap the rewards.Direction - Horrendous.  Vic Sarin directed a movie entitled COLD COMFORT, a paranoid cabin-fever movie that put MISERY to shame.  But I guess work is hard to come by these days.  I know it's a shame to sell out, but could you at least try?Script - Where?  Stating that the script is bad implies that someone actually cared enough to create one.  But this hackneyed, obvious, cliche'd, festering bag of limp dialogue makes me long for the hard-hitting, bone-crunching dialogue of THREE'S COMPANY, which had an improbable premise, but was handled with far more tact and skill than LEFT BEHIND's 'script'.POINT - None.  Actually, that's not quite true.  How about, Everyone who doesn't believe in our point of view is going to hell?  That about sums it up.  I'd accuse the movie of being racist, but that might be seen as actually having an opinion that cements my place in hell.RESULT - Awful.  Rent THE RAPTURE, starring Mimi Rogers.  It raises debates and questions about the true nature of religious beliefs.  It shows that there are questions of faith that are well beyond the makers of LEFT BEHIND. "},{"Title":"So far the strongest competition for Battlefield Earth","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd have a really hard time to decide which one of these is the worst movie I've ever seen. Interesting, both are trying to sell some sort of religious message and both fail miserably - as a message and as a movie as well. Everything is bad in this - script, acting, music, the poor attempt of selling Toronto for London, New York and Chicago and the stupid pet tricks as well. Don't try to find any logic, don't try to ask any questions, because it will fall apart. Well, it does anyway. I am sure that the creators of this movie did not intend it, but the audience actually laughed during supposedly most serious moments. Only for die-hard Christian fundamentalists (those who voted 10). If  an effort to try to recruit some new souls is behind this, then that failed as well, because making fun (even if unintentional) of Christ is not the best way to market him.So far I thought that when people die, only their souls go to heaven/hell. Regarding to this movie, bodies go as well. Good thing is - pants and shoes stay. Somewhere up there must be 140,000,000 naked dead people running around. "},{"Title":"Background music taken from the cheesiest sci-fi movies of the 50's!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't know if I just purchased a bad copy of this movie or what, but the background music, sounds like it was taken from a very bad B movie, from the 50's!It was SOOO bad, it really detracted from the message in this movie.If they had made the movie in Black and White, instead of colour, it would definitely be a candidate for Mystery Science Theatre, 3000 (MST3K).The Christian thriller -- A thief in the night, although cheesy and dated, had a much better production quality then this.I kept looking at the guy who played Nicolae Carpathia in the movie.  I had seen him before -- but where?  Then I realised, it was Gordon Currie!Gordon Currie starred in the all time cheese special, Blood and Donuts! (A shy bi-sexual vampire seeks sustenance in a donut shoppe!)Skip this movie.  Its a real hack job.  I liked A Thief in the night much better!  And be sure to catch Gordon Currie in Blood and Donuts!Rated no stars out of 5.  If they had however, filmed this in Black and White - it would be a classic!The true message, got lost in the bad acting, bad dialogue, and the really crappy music -- which definitely detracted from the movie! "}{"Title":"Ehh...","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'll start off by saying the book series this movie taken from is FAR more intricate (re better) than the film adaptation of the first book.This movie is so-so. I don't know much about acting, or the qualities that make good acting, but I can tell this movie is sub-par in this area. Although, I think the actress who played Chloe Steele did a decent job.The thing that REALLY gets me is the fact that the movie is geared towards secular audiences, but I think it really fails to connect with that mindset. I don't want to say the movie is too preachy, but it is. Some scenes are just waaaaay too cheese for any non-Christian to take seriously. I get tired of Christians parading religion like this, (it's like an infomercial for crying out loud) while genuine Christians try to communicate what they believe in an effective manner.Christians let's try to shape up and be real.Non-Christians sorry you had to be put through this. We're not really this cheesy, honestly!! =D "},{"Title":"Leave out of your movie going experience.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I would recommend 'the Rapture' with mimi rogers and david duchovny. It was more thought provoking. I am a spiritual person but this movie does edge me to reconsider where I stand. It was way too adolescent in it's approach, really we are all not five year olds. No worth a look! "},{"Title":"If you liked Stephen King's The Stand, you'll enjoy this.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you liked Stephen King's The Stand, you'll enjoy this fictionalized exploration of a fundamental Christian belief known as the rapture. While no human being can possibly interpret this doctrine with 100% accuracy, the film does a good job of bringing some highly likely scenarios to the screen.If you can accept the Holy Scientific Faith that Once upon a time, all the matter in the 125 billion known galaxies existed in a single sub-atomic spec, for no apparent reason; and suddenly, it all blew up and here we are, then it shouldn't be much of a stretch to entertain the subjects presented in this film.  If you know what speciation, taxonation, and macrogenesis are, and know the spotty record of each, then you'll find that this film's ideas are based upon substantive archeological records that are at least as sound as the evidence for those ideas.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible...","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw this thing on a video brought back from Hicksville,southern USA by a student,and am duly moved by the spirit to comment...One of the most amateurish efforts I've had the misfortune to sit through in many a year-terrible performances,an unintentionally hysterical screenplay and production values up there alongside the finest that daytime soaps can offer.While perfectly happy that the snake handlers,speaking in tongues brigade,fundamentalist dopes and happy clappy evangelists are spending their money on tripe like this rather than anything that can actually do any damage,I'd really rather it never imposed itself upon my local cinema. "},{"Title":"Accurate","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Critically speaking, I was not very impressed.  However, this is the most accurate end times movie according to the book of Revelation in the Bible. The book to this movie is much much better, but it is still fun to see the movie.  I recommend taking the time to see this movie. "},{"Title":"Narrow minded","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Mainstream Christian films risk losing their audience if they proselytize too much or focus on narrow themes.  God's Army managed to be informative and entertaining because it avoided those traps.  Left Behind, based upon the book, unfortunately invests so much time on the Biblical foretelling of the end of the world and the return of the Anti-Christ that only ardent believers would understand the significance of what transpires in the film.  As such, the average moviegoer is about one step behind the confusing events that are only explained later.  Take the State of Israel about to be annihilated by circling warplanes only to be magically saved.  Or people who vanish with only their clothes as reminders, or the restoration of the Temple of Israel, or the Eden project, or a worldwide conspiracy to control food, or the selected biblical references that trace mankind's demise.  The concurrent theme of wayward people who find Christ in the midst of their dilemmas isn't enough to offset an assumption of biblical knowledge the filmmakers expect.  There is also this dangerous implication that since only the devout have left, those remaining must redeem themselves in some way to be saved.  Does that mean that the outstanding Jewish leader in the story and all others like him aren't going to be saved? Or are they really part of the conspiracy?  Perhaps it was asking too much for the filmmakers to frame Left Behind in any other way than what is presented.  After seeing the in your face approach of Dogma and the blatantly irreligious The Rapture, and the slyly romanticized Ellen Burstyn film, Resurrection,  moviegoers clearly needed a more balance presentation of Christ.  Left Behind however made more sense to a limited audience than it did to a wider one that either didn't know about the literal Apocalypse or weren't going to buy into it anyway.   "},{"Title":"Not terrible, but needed more effort by actors and director","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Look, I enjoyed (am enjoying?) the entire Left Behind series of books, even though they are being drug out a bit too much.  I expected a true mass market theatrical quality release for the movie, and didn't get it.This is not a 'horrible' movie, and is worth seeing if you don't expect too much.  Problem is, much of it is miscast (especially the Kirk Cameron role), and it reminds me too much of those 'gospel films' shown in churches on Sunday evening evangelistic meetings.This one gets a 6, max..... "},{"Title":"This movie was Bad, Real Bad and I'm a Christian who liked the books","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read all the books that are out in the left behind series, and I generally like them. ALthough, I think they are stretching the series out now to make a buck, and I think that is kinda wrong, considering the purpose in the first place. Anyway, The Movie Left Behind stinks. Like others have said. 1980s special effects. These might have been good in 83, but all the star wars ones are still better. The dialogue is so cheesy. The actors are awful, Brad Johnson couldn't act his way out of a paper bag. Kirk Cameron is the best, but he is miscast big time. Too young and inexperienced looking to be the big shot, he is supposed to be. Continuity errors abound. I wanted to like this movie soo bad, but its trash. It just makes Christians look dumb and money-grubbing by putting out generic. A good plot can still make a movie good, even if you do not have a big budget. Heck, Gary Busey has been in some christian movies, Gary Busey would have made this movie better. Its ridiculous to put this movie on video, then a couple of months later put it in theatre. For my sake in being a Christian, please remove this movie from the theatre and stick it in the 50 cent section at your local grocery store. "},{"Title":"Weak, but nice try","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The producers of Left Behind were so desperate to have their movie made, they should have tried a little harder to get Sony interested making the film instead of Cloud Ten.  Not knowing the Cloud Ten repartee, I can't say if that was a smart decision or not.The film needs work.  It also needed a bigger budget.  And (sorry, Kirk Cameron) it needed a bigger cast.  Actually, the movie needed to be made for television and aired during November sweeps on CBS.At least the film has a few things going for it being based on a best seller is one.  However, the two authors of the series do not receive any credit for their book whatsoever.  Odd.  Second, the film already has a built in audience.  I would like to see a good, Christian based film succeed in the secular film world.  While you don't have to have profanity for a movie to succeed, you do have to have smart dialogue and good characters.  Maybe a couple more rewrites would have made this a success. As for a good, Christian film, I'll stick with Ben-Hur.     "},{"Title":"Thought-Provoking","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had some concerns when plunking down my cash to watch this film.  I had been subjected to christian filmmaking before, including ones touted as as good as the hollywood films.  I was always mightily disappointed.  In christian films I had seen before, the acting was almost always sub-par, the sound was bad, the special effects were usually really cheesy.NOT SO WITH THIS FILM!!  Okay, so it is not in the same league with $50 - $100 million dollar big studio films, but I have got to tell you, this movie was at least as good as the major networks and cable channel better made-for-TV movies.  Yes, the subject matter is a bit controversial, but only because christianity itself is and always has been controversial.  If you can get past the controversy you will see a film that is quite entertaining and offers a look at a possible future.  It was not preachy as christian films have tended to be, but it does remain genuine to the faith (and anyone who is TRULY open-minded will not mind that).There are a few glitches here and there (for instance if the rapture happened at night in this one town in Illinois when people are asleep, why are there people walking their children in strollers down the street?), but I guess if you are trying to get the point across for $17 million (this includes publicity, etc.) in a 90-minute film, you can overlook small glitches like that.I would like to see a sequel made with the same actors, but a bigger budget. Its a shame this movie didn't take in more money at the box office -- I think more could have been done to publicize it.  If you didn't see it in the theaters, I recommend trying to find it on video or DVD.  It is an enjoyable and thought-provoking 90 minutes. "}{"Title":"Is it sci-fi, mystery, action, or drama?","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The catastrophe is stunning is scope yet remarkably simple. In realistic chilling detail the world takes on the realization that many of their friends and family are no longer with them. It begs the question Would I be taken or left behind? then presents a religious appeal to Christianity as the solution for their departure. The subject is Armageddon in nature and some of the cinematography is very sci-fi especially towards the beginning. It seemed as the film proceeded that the story line eroded even as a mysterious plot was mounting. The sensory side of the movie was compelling and unifying but almost seemed to distract from the developing story lines. Most difficult for me was the ending. Finally revealed was the true evil and good only to say here we are and here we end. It was not a cliffhanger ending but instead a call for a sequel. Fun to watch! Sure, even good to recommend. But an unfortunately complicated plot that was never sure if it was a sci-fi, documentary, mystery, action, or religious drama.  "},{"Title":"More Of The Schmaltzy, Quasi-Theological Same","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie represents for me another milestone in the ongoing march of doctrinaire Christians to accommodate themselves cautiously to the cultural mainstream to ply their wares to grownup people who--surprise!--determined long ago that the fabled caprices of a hairy thunderer demigod have no moral or spiritual relevancy to their lives.Not since The Ten Commandments have we seen such grandeur and special effects brought to bear, in it's their own humble way, to seek to approach the grandeur and special effects of the Bible.Now  Back to Earth.  Notwithstanding other people posting to this group to laud the emotional palpability of the immediate post-rapture scenes, you have to admit it's funny to see actors cathartizing over settings of their loved-ones' clothes pinned--police chalk outline-style--to airplane seats and whatnot.If God has his way--as He so often does--this movie will haunt seconds bins for generations to come. "},{"Title":"Those wacky Christians did it again.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I must admit, that this wasn't nearly as bad as The Omega Code (one of the worst movies of all time...and one of the most hilarious).  Left Behind The Movie (always a bad sign when they have to remind you that it is a movie) is just Christians offering up more bad acting, poor script writing and rotten directing.  Our small group laughed quite a bit though.  One of my favourite things is the stewardess who gets a new job which turns out to be a pretty good gig.  At the end of the film she is at the round table UN meeting participating in a new world food supply proposal. Talk about upward mobility.If there is a God, he would hate this film.  However, I do love the majority of postings on this site stating the titular line Will you be LEFT BEHIND?  Apparently this movie was supposed to speak to non-believers and somehow prove that there is a God.  After two hours of this crud, I am quite certain that there is not.Oh, be sure to rent Omega Code...one of the funniest films ever. "},{"Title":"It grows on you...","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having read the book prior to seeing the movie, my first reaction was disappointment.  It was different in many ways than what I expected.  However, I enjoyed it a lot the second time I viewed it.  There were no false expectations about what the film would be like. "},{"Title":"So... Sorry","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I would love to have rated this movie higher but I am at a true disadvantage... I have read the books... and they have made the movie scream turn me off... go back to the book!The film content and intent are great but it was a poor attempt to convey the story as it was written... this would have been better served as a 10 hour mini-series... then released to tape and dvd... at least there would have been time to tell the story as written.To Kurt and the rest of the cast... God Bless you for your efforts.  "},{"Title":"loved the movie, true to the scripture","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie was great. It had good acting, good cinematography, and the beginning with the planes exploding looked great. It far exceeded my expectations. The evil character came off as cool and smooth, but ended up looking totally evil, very few characters can pull that off "},{"Title":"one of the most *real* scripted movie ever","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie - Left Behind - is a very well scripted movie.  I seen it on DVD and I really enjoyed watching it.  Know what happens to people that dont accept Christ as their Lord in Savior.  Hope Christian people bring their non-christian friends to see this movie.  They will see and understand what the world is like with Christ if they love and accept Out Lord Jesus Christ )  Many prayers are with the non-believers and hope they will find the right path to see the light, the glory, and honor of Jesus Christ )  I recommend this movie very much.  I also encourage people to read the books in stores now.  They are so wonderful and you can't put the book down, you'll want too keep on reading )   thanks for reading this and May God Bless your souls with love and joy )   "},{"Title":"ewwwww","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  the books are amazing to say the least i love them. the movie on the other hand was one of the worst i have ever seen. how u can destroy a book with a movie in one fell swoop. even if i didnt read the book id have to say this movie was garbage. horrible storytelling, horrible acting, horrible directing, horrible script. ugh i was very dissapointed in this. they turned an amazing book into an afterschool special. there was no thought put into this movie. there was no spirituality in this movie it was as if a bunch of people that has never made a movie before made this movie. do not waste your money like i have and definetely dont see it on a big screen!!! ughghghghghhhg i give this thing they call a movie a 0 out of 100!! "},{"Title":"Needs Work","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Personally speaking as a believer myself, I wonder what Christian filmmakers are thinking. The movie is somewhat enjoyable and the acting is not as bad as I thought it would be (The bad guy was really good). But the movie fluctuates wildly between success and failure in almost all respects, while the plot chugs merrily along in the background. Like a previous reviewer said, it seems to have something wrong that you can't quite place. What this movie needs is1)Better acting. Sorry Mr johnson, Miss Stevens; better luck next time.2)Removal of pointless scenes. The opening makes almost no sense and serves as chance to show off that Christian movies can have computer graphics in them too.3)Better scripting. Lame dialogue and wrong situation approaches abound throughout. It reminded me of NBC's atrocity known as Atomic Train.4)Camerawork. I just wasn't inventive enough. Need I say more?All in all, I enjoyed it, but was saddened very much by the fact that every time someone makes a Christian film, it's either cheesy and full of bad acting, or relentlessly inaccurate with its portrayal of Christian religion. Don't get me wrong, I don't mean to bash this movie, because despite its flaws, it is still a step forward. My gripes are not on substance, but style. On the scale, it is, in terms of style, better than the recent Dungeons and Dragons (an unintentionally hilarious movie) and not quite as good as say, the recent Antitrust. The DVD contains a documentary in which it is mentioned that Christian companies are finally making films that are on-par with what hollywood has to offer. This is true, it is on par with hollywood. But only on the mid part of the B movie scale. "},{"Title":"Jerry Falwell's favorite movie, obviously","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is, I think a first force-christianity-on-you christians are now using Hollywood as a medium for Missionary conversion. Society has now regressed to the level where you're expected to pay 7 bucks to be religously harassed. Thank God for the exorcist, or this movie would have nothing to counterbalance it.  "}{"Title":"Did not live up to the book","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having read the book series, I was really looking forward to this movie.  In September, before the video/dvd was released, I had the opportunity to hear Tim LaHaye, the co-author of the series, speak at a church in Kansas City.  Afterwards, there was a booksigning.  When I got up to him, I asked him what he thought of the movie.  He kind of glared at me and said, I wish you hadn't asked me that.  I told him I had heard of some of the plot changes.  His reply was, Actually, I haven't seen it.  The crystal clear implication of his statement was that he had no intention of seeing it.  The film was disappointing.  Some of the acting was great, but most was sub-par.  There were some great moments in the book that would have been incredible on film, but not one of them made it to the screen.  I think we can blame budget restraints on that.  I will say, the second to last scene in the movie is almost exactly like the book.   "},{"Title":"THIS IS A BAD MOVIE","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had to go watch this movie on New Years day at my friends church. I was bored, and plus i didnt like the idea that i was kinda forced to watch such a terrible movie. I think this movie will do horrible at the box office because in genenral the public doesnt like Christian movies and music and stuff, but if you are into that kinda stuff, and a lot of people are, you will probably like this movie, so go and see it a guess. "},{"Title":"wow","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am simply amazed at the reviews.  I hope this gets added to my previous post as I did not read the other reviews before posting.I do want to say, that I wish that people would open their eyes a bit and get out and see more movies.  This was not as cheezy as some of the B-flicks, but obvious acting and lines is not great acting.  I wish that Christians could see something that is  Christian related and not think it was the greatest film in the world. Sorry, I wouldn't rate this with Mosquito Coast or Armageddon, but  rather with movies like Red Dawn (80's flick).Great movie for getting a message out, but I think it would have been more effective for non-believers if the message was not so slap-you-in-the-face.  I do agree that it does leave you wondering what/how your place with god is. "},{"Title":"Good story line falls short","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't quite put my finger on it, but something about this film really  bothers me.  I think it might be the poor acting, maybe it's the directing of the film that made the acting look so poor.   Too many scenes where it is obvious that one actor is waiting for the the other to finish the lines before they speak.    It's almost as if they have an audience and they are waiting for clapping or cheers to die down.Special effects looked like they were out of the 70's, but with the story line, you could almost get by with that if the acting was improved. "},{"Title":"Will you be Left Behind?","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind is without a doubt the most action packed, authentic Christian movie I have ever seen.  It doesn't overwhelm you with You are Bad!! but it envelopes you with the feeling that you are loved, no matter what you have done, or where you have come from.  I am taking everyone I can to see this powerful, yet entertaining film. See you at the Movies!! "},{"Title":"Time to mount up!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Through out time there has been a story unfolding. It is interwoven in everything we have known in the Past and that which we know now. Entering this New Millennium is only the first page of the last chapter of this human saga as we know it. For the past 2000 years the story has been made known to mankind as plain as black and white. This story is about to be revealed to the world. In an instant, the eyes of humanity will be opened. The blind will see and the seeing will wish they were blind. At that moment, confusion and chaos will fill the land and life as we knew it will only be a distant memory to dream about. The future is here and it's your worst nightmare. Don't be LEFT BEHIND!The millions of fans that have read the books can't be wrong. Neither can the huge sell-outs of the video on October 31, 2000. Though there are many well made movies from big budget producers coming out of Hollywood, there's something about this phenomenon that cannot be dismissed. The acting is convincing and the special effects are effective. But it is the Story that is the heart of this film. There has not been an adaptation of a best seller on the big screen that has made an impact that Left Behind is going to make on the film viewing audiences around the globe. It's as if it were meant to be. And to tell you the truth, it was.Don't be Left Behind.  "},{"Title":"Interesting, but unoriginal storyline.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Course it's in the bible it doesn't have to be original.  But as far as movies go it's somewhere between The Stand and though I havn't seen it yet perhaps The Omega Code.  Nor have I read the Left Behind book series.  This was a movie my dad bought for my mother and though I thought it lame of course, I always watch a movie I havn't watched thats just come out on vhs or dvd (especially dvd) So when this DVD comes into the house it's just inevitable that I'll watch it.  This I did and here I am. (Spoilers included though if you read the bible (whatever version) you'll get the general idea.)In the obvious turn that this will be a movie series, this movie doesn't have the type of ending you will want.  But some really great movies don't. (Ghost in The Shell)  It's a good try at being a movie, but it has alot of items that make it more of a TV Movie than something out of Hollywood.  I do like what they are trying to do with this movie, by releasing it on video, they hope to get people interested enuf that they'll go Feb 2, 2001 and in some form of a protest against the most violent of movies with so called little family values.  (Pulp Fiction) The core reason being that Hollywood makes these movies (as they've said) because it's what the people want.  So if enough people go to Left Behind, Hollywood might take notice.  They have an uphill battle to make. I might go myself just to show my support in one hell of a great idea.  But it's a battle I'm not sure if they can win.  I better movie for instance would help.  They included all the enticements, VIOLENCE, people being shot in the head, affairs being committed.  Which would be why so many were being left behind.  It's not a horror movie as THE STAND is but it's interesting.  It has some well known actors.  It's hard to think Kirk Cameron is in this type of movie, and then Brad Johnson I believe, best known as the kewl dude from (Always). The DVD contains several previews of movies very similar.  We've got Gary Busey of all people (who was in drag in Under Seige)and Mr. T in another.  My biggest problem is the actors themselves and it's hard to watch supposedly Christian movies with folks who act.  Act in movies totally opposite to these types of movies.  I have nothing against them.  They just seem out of place.7/10 "},{"Title":"This one is easy to believe.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When you look at how things are happening in our world and see this movie, it really does seem like we are headed in a direction we need to be aware of.  I enjoyed it very much.  It gave me something to think about and has opened many discussions regarding it's topic and where I fit into the scheme of things.  Go see it! "},{"Title":"Totally Amazing!!!!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is such a wonderful movie. I recommend everyone should see this! Finally we have a great movie with awesome morals!  After you watch this you truly won't want to be Left Behind! Again I have to say this is a must see!!!!! "},{"Title":"Once again Christian filmakers fall short.","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I heard that a Christian production company was developing this film I had my doubts, but I figured that a New York Times Bestseller would be given the budget and respect it deserved.  I was wrong.  Instead of giving movie going audiences credit for having at least some intelligence, the filmmakers decided to dumb down the plot and pound the message of salvation over and over again.  What person living in the US doesn't know the message?  It didn't need to be preached at us every minute, that only turns off the exact people this story is meant to minister to.  When will the Christian film community learn that in order to reach a secular audience they need to do quality productions, not watered down TV movie stuff.  This movie hits theaters Feb. 2nd and I predict it will do well at first, as church goers attend it at their pastor's urging.  Unfortunately the audience for this film will be limited, it's frankly not good enough to attract much secular attention, and that might be the saddest thing about this movie.  The audience it seeks after will be exactly the people that are turned off by it's poor production value, mediocre acting, and excessive, in your face, preaching. "}{"Title":"Makes You Think","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As you watch this movie, it makes you really think about where you stand with God. It also shows non-Christians what they'll miss out on and what they'll suffer if they are left behind. Left Behind needs a lot of support in the theaters. It's coming out on February 2, 2001. Make sure you check it out and bring your friends. Let's make Left Behind the number one movie in America.  "},{"Title":"This is One Movie You DON'T Want to Miss!","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a Godsend! He has used so many people for His glory and honour through the books and now the movie. This movie is for everyone. If you are a Christian, thinking about being a Christian, wondering what a Christian is or you simply aren't a Christian this movie will make you think! The material is real and so is the message. We see movies based on 'true life' but this is a step further. Take everyone that you know and then some. You will NOT be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Will you be Left Behind?","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I own this movie on DVD and have read the entire Left Behind book series to date. This movie will be a huge hit at the box office. Not only was it great to see Kirk Cameron again, but this movie is packed with excitement, thrills, tears and a powerful message. This movie will make you question your beliefs and take a long, hard look at your life. You must see this movie and then you decide...Will you be Left Behind? "},{"Title":"Must Read!","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you like end-of-the-world movies, the Left Behind book series, or any disaster movies, you will like Left Behind.  I own the video, and I've almost worn it out!It's the story of millions of disappearances around the globe in a single instant, and how those who are left behind try to find out what caused it, where their loved ones are, and dealing with keeping the world going. There are planes exploding in mid-air, and one man looks so good in his leadership until his evil side is shown, and he uses mind control.I can hardly wait to see it on the big screen! "},{"Title":"A Don't Miss Movie!","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have seen Left BehindThe Movie, and thought it was done with every bit of professional quality as what you would see coming out of Hollywood.  But what's better than what's coming out of Hollywood, is the fact that this movie is based on facts and prophecies straight out of God's Word.I was impressed by the cast of actors engaged in the story, and was surprised by the involvement of some like Brad Johnson.  This guy is very convincing and so is Kirk Cameron. This movie kept me on the edge of my seat and I knew what was going to happen because I read the book.  This movie will not disappoint you - it's message is a powerful one and the delivery of the message is most effective. "},{"Title":"check this movie out!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind the Movie was impressive.  Even though the movie is only an hour and half, the movie is packed with action, right from the very start. Planes overhead, explosions, good looking women-what more can you ask for in a movie!  This certainly is not one of the normal, boring, and usually horribly acted Christian movies that I have seen.  Kirk Cameron and Brad Johnson led this cast with superb performances as Buck Williams and Rayford Steele.  The two characters battle with the spirituality they know and come to find something bigger and better.  And yet they end up trapped in the middle of good and evil every time.  Perhaps one of the best casting moves this movie has made was that of Gordon Currie as Nicholae Carpathia. Currie portrays the Anti-Christ character as he will be when he really comes-as a great, likable, and all around generous man.  One doesn't realize his true identity until the end of the film.Amazingly enough, this movie is a great adaptation of the book, and follows very closely with what happened in it.  Had the viewer never read the book, however, the movie would have been just as good, if not better.  The characters are masterfully developed; bringing out who they truly are and watching them change as the movie progresses.  The plot twists, the hidden personalities of the characters, their conversions are all unforeseen when the movie begins.  Knowing nothing about the Biblical story or the Left Behind series would even further express the point that this movie is trying to get across.The cinematography, directed by Peter and Paul Lalonde, rivals that of some Hollywood producers.  The use of different camera angles, colors, lighting, and overall direction is astounding, drawing the viewer into the film simply with how the film appears.  If you are thinking about seeing this movie a second time, please do.  After watching a second time, I realized that I liked the movie even more than the first.  To be honest, I wasn't too impressed the first time around, but maybe me expectations were too high. I was able to catch many of the special production tricks that the Lalondes added to spice up this movie.Left Behind is a must-see, whether a Christian or not, this film will spark your interest and most likely leave you with many questions (and a burning desire to see what happens next) but you will also find yourself happy that you spent the money to see a great movie.  "},{"Title":"A truly inspirational work of art","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I knew nothing about the Rapture until I saw the movie.  I didn't even think the movie was going to be interesting.  Boy was I wrong.  Within minutes I was riveted to my seat.  I got so caught in the movie with the action and the way they get the messages across. I'm trying to get all of my friends and family to go see this movie because I think it really gets its point across.  I give it two thumbs up for the work that went into the making of Left Behind. "},{"Title":"Amazing view of revelation","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Watched the Left Behind movie at least 6 times. It really makes the book of Revelation come alive. A must see for anyone interested in the end times and how God will work it all out. This is truth at its best folks. Any one with any curiosity about the end times would love the way they worked it out in this film.  "},{"Title":"Better than expected","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While I have some problems with the theology behind the film, this was a very well done apocalyptic piece. It had a good story line behind it, characters were believable, and it presented its message without trying to ram it down the viewer's throat. I enjoyed it very much ... to my surprise. "},{"Title":"A Disaster of a Movie!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst movies ever made.  It is pointless, plotless, and badly scripted and acted.  It was apparently put together as some kind of religious message being foisted on an unsuspecting public by a lot of former Hollywood hopefuls, has-beens, and never-weres.  The promise of some kind of apocalpytic thrill is quickly doused by absolutely ridiculous and juvenile overacting and a script that is so bad as to be laughable. "}{"Title":"Makes a better movie than a book","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't believe people who say they should have kept more to the book.  I was in fact relieved they didn't.  While the book is written at a third grade level, the screenplay seems to be at least a sixth grade effort.  Given the basic blueprint (the Christian pulp), this movie does suprisingly well.  It does not hand everything to you on a silver plate, repeatedly, like the novel does.While I was fearing the worst as far as cast performance was concern, I was pleased to find adequate characters for the most part.In short, skip the book and watch the movie.  You'll spend 2 hours watching an OK movie instead of 8 on a horribly written novel. "},{"Title":"Not what I had hoped.","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had waited for the movie since the first time I had read Left Behind.  I have read and read every book in the series countless times.  After seeing this movie, it sickens me. I felt extremely let down by the movie.  It intensely lacks the deepening feeling and emotion of the whole story.  They changed too much.  Shifting characters and story lines around so much, it lost its uniqueness of a work of literature.  Yes, I understand that things need to be changed to make the movie, and it was only based on the book.  But the book's story was so good, there was no need to change anything.  I can't really say anything else about it with out spoiling the movie itself.  I just want to say, don't expect the movie to hold any power and emotion that was captured in the book.  It has a lower production value than a cheesy B horror flick. "},{"Title":"fundamental problem (no pun intended)...","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The fundamental problem with Christian attempts to be hip in music or movies is that they always embarassingly pale to the original genre they are trying to ape.  Left Behind, like Omega Code before it, is no exception.  It's the fundamentalist Christian alternative to the Scientologist movie.  No matter how much the dogma is dressed up, it comes off as second-rate sci-fi; so why bother with it when you can get the real thing?  If these religious cults are so useful, then a movie isn't needed to convince anyone.  Believers of any faith are better off watching movies that will make them think like Contact or seeing movies of actual men of faith in action (Ghandi).  "},{"Title":"Well-done independent film","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was a high-quality production, having seen enough low-quality heavily-Christian-influenced movies to cringe at the thought of watching another one.  However, it didn't get preachy, the acting was consistently solid pretty much across the board, and I'd be willing to watch sequels in a heartbeat.  I only had two nitpicks weak helicopter CGI at the beginning, and a jarring pop-music segue at the conversion scenes.  Even that, though, turned out to not be as bad as I initially thought it would be.  Some have complained that it doesn't follow the novel precisely, but that's fine with me.  It hit all the major plot points, and got some things done faster, considering it had to convincingly condense the novel into less than two hours.  It's a realistic take on what life might be like if 2000-year-old prophecy really did come true one unexpected day... "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Having read viewers' comments from here before watching the movie, it gave me varying ideas and opinions.  I was wondering whether I would like the movie or be disappointed in it.  I didn't want to be too influenced by the reviews, so I tried to be optimistic.I truly enjoyed the movie, and thought it was well-done, with good actors and an exciting story. There are things to be picky about, yes, but overall the movie was good, so I'm not complaining. =o)There is one thing that is true... They should have included a clearer gospel message and showed more that salvation is through the Lord Jesus Christ.  But it does point to God and the Bible, and therefore I think some people may be helped through it, and perhaps read the Bible or ask questions. I didn't like how Buck (Kirk Cameron) used the Lord's name in vain once.   (Ok, here are some of my complaints, after all.)  I also didn't like the pop-like music when Buck was saved...it distracted and made me wince, and just didn't fit!  The computer graphics at the beginning were pretty bad, so that was a distraction, as well.I have to say that Rayford and the antichrist seemed just right (the actors who portrayed them).  The antichrist (Nicolai) was deceptive, appearing to be charming and good to most people, while he was really sinister and awful in that meeting!Anyway, I enjoyed it, and hope they continue the series! "},{"Title":"Great Story - Bad Movie","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Yes, Revelation is a vital story to be told to the world. SO WHY NOT JUST READ REVELATION!! no one knows what will happen and movies like this just cloud peoples minds more. I appreciate the attempt because it does get the idea out there, and I believe everyone should read God's word to decide for themselves what they think will happen. But, looking at this film just as I would any other film, I must say that it's not that great. The special effects were very fake, even just the helicopters flying through the air. It didn't hold my attention and the acting wasn't that great either. Seeing it once wouldn't be bad, just to form your own opinion, but just see it for the story and for a discussion. Don't expect to see a great movie.   "},{"Title":"The End...","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am one of the many Christians who have heard about the Left Behind Novel series by other more rabid followers. I hear the books are, for the most part, well written, so when I have many people coming in to my video store asking for the movie Left Behind, I figure it at least has some talent or good scripting to get so much attention. I was wrong.I feel the basic problem with the movie is the fact that it has no pace at all. We get many of repeated scenes, of women asking where there children/babies are, of people endlessly praying for forgiveness or just blank stares from the lead actors. I cannot stress how nearly every word spoken from the actors in this movie does not even resemble the way any normal person would speak. The way the characters are handled is poorly written as well. How could a television reporter gain access to a military base command room? How does one go from a Stewardess to the U.N.? Who is doing all the assassinations? We are never given explanations.The ending is major letdown just as the story began to pick up, leaving much of the books resolution out. I don't feel I have to write about the music, no one in their right mind could enjoy any of the tracks provided. A missed effort. "},{"Title":"totally untrue","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I had a feeling while I was watching this one that I wasn`t exactly seeing an adaption of the book. I was seeing a lazy, feel-good, totally different movie version that failed a book that was pretty good.  Only the character names in this movie are the same. None of the situations are. It`s all so unlike the book it`s disgusting.Leave the movie, take the book. "},{"Title":"A Fair-to-Middling Apothelyptic Thriller!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  With the coming of the Millennium, and the Mideast situation again in the headlines, groups of Christian filmmakers have determined that the time is right to reinterpret the Biblical prophetical books (Daniel, Ezekiel, and Revelations, primarily) and the stories of the Antichrist and the Rapture. The first of the current 'End of the World' films was 'The Omega Code', featuring Caspar Van Dien as a reporter involved with a charismatic leader (Michael York), who was actually the Antichrist; in 'Left Behind', the reporter is Kirk Cameron, with the leader portrayed by Gordon Currie. Both films feature 'main stream' casts, better-than-average production values (although the FX are bargain basement, at times), and a moral that says that although even worse times are coming, God will prevail (as opposed to Hollywood's earlier Antichrist films, 'The Omen', and 'Rosemary's Baby', for example) that put Satan on top, at films' end. Where 'Left Behind' and 'The Omega Code' differ is the interpretation of when the Rapture, the Biblical-predicted ascension to Heaven of the faithful, will occur. 'The Omega Code' implies that the Antichrist will already be in place, and world events already twisting to his purpose, when the devout will disappear. 'Left Behind' follows the majority Christian opinion, that the devout will leave before the seven-year Tribulation (rule of the Antichrist) begins. In following this interpretation, the Rapture serves as a Stephen King-like opening to 'Left Behind', and provides a 'hook' that the rest of the film plays off of.One of the things that struck me as interesting about 'Left Behind' was that, as children, our church hammered into us, again and again, to accept Christ and AVOID missing the Rapture, and being left behind, at all costs! 'Left Behind' on the other hand, says, in effect, 'Hey, most of us will miss the boat, so let's face the worst of times with faith'. This may be a more honest way of seeing things, but it still feels uncomfortable!The story focuses on pilot Brad Johnson, a career-motivated married pilot with a girlfriend on the side, who has no time to listen to his wife's Christian message (guess which one goes to Heaven in the Rapture?), and reporter Kirk Cameron (looking VERY young!), a international reporter who witnesses first-hand the Biblical prophecies being fulfilled, yet searches for human explanations for events. Both men must reexamine their lives, and discover for themselves God's purpose.Don't expect a neat and tidy resolution to 'Left Behind'! The first of a four-film saga of the Tribulation, the story serves primarily to introduce characters, place the Antichrist as the Ruler of the Earth, and show that no human can stop or even slow down his ascent. Only faith and the love of God will help those 'left behind' to survive, elements that they lacked prior to the Rapture, but that they must embrace despite the price in suffering they will have to pay, if they want any chance of salvation!For non-Christians, this message may seem fanciful, and the story second-rate Ludlum; for those who do follow Christ, 'Left Behind' is intended as a 'Wake-Up Call', not as well-done as it might have been, but powerful, nonetheless! Is it great cinema? Not really, but it is better than the standard 'religious' film, and deserves respect for attempting to buck the 'typical' Hollywood product, with a message which may be quite timely! "},{"Title":"*Sigh*  Why can't Christians write GOOD screenplays?","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a Christian.  I also work in the film industry.  I have not been a Christian my whole life so I was a bit embarrassed at the evangelistic attempt in this movie.  Why can't movies with Christian themes be so well written that they don't dummy down to those who live outside their beliefs? I did not become a Christian because I was scared into it.  I became a Christian because someone was nice to me.  That eventually led me to want to know more about why this person was so nice.  One thing led to another and then four years later I found myself in church.That's how it happened. No fire and brimstone.  Now, I realize this movie is based on the end times and that premise in itself begs for people to be preached at. Turn or Burn.  But the love of Christ is so much more compelling than what was displayed in this rushed, hurry up offense of a screenplay.When will Christians use their gifts when they are fully developed? When will they be anxious for nothing and in God's perfect timing, craft a beautiful story?  When will that be? The novel This Present Darkness is a wonderful example.  Where is that screenplay?Let's be more sensitive about bridging the gap when we use our gifts to care for others.   "}{"Title":"Close Encounters of the Third Kind is more believable","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Thrilling, but a flakey premise. Alien abduction (is there a connection?) would be easier to take. At least it didn't seem quite as preachy as earlier efforts. So what is it?, Sci-Fi, or what? An answer looking for a question? No, people, the future it NOT clear! "},{"Title":"a waste of effort","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Hollywood has, in the past, attempted to tell the story of Revelations (The Omen, End of Days, etc.) Although this is a poorly acted, poorly written, and poorly scripted movie, it does explain, in laymen terms, what lays in store for the human race. If nothing else, it may encourage some people to pick up the books and read them.  Then they will realize that we are, indeed, living the final days. "},{"Title":"Silly!!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Doesn't anybody think it is odd that a stewardess gets a job as an assistant to the secretary general of the UN because a cable news network reporter writes her a letter of recommendation?  Can you say contrived?  Poorly written and poorly acted, too.  The movie is good for a few laughs though. My favorite line Oh, Buck Williams.  What are you doing in my house? The background music is laughable as well.  It is almost as if they were making a spoof of the novel.  If you are an ultra fan of the books you will still probably enjoy it.  But if you think the books are a little less than intellectually stimulating, you should probably skip the movie.  It is plain silly!!! "},{"Title":"WHY???","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, first off I work at a bookstore. I have witnessed the slavering fans. I have accepted the wrath of those who were denied their God-given right to purchase an out-of-stock Tribulation Force. These books are big sellers. These people want a movie version. You would think that the movie folks would be throwing money at this movie. What do they come up with? Direct-to-video Kirk Cameron from GROWING PAINS??? You might as well crumble up the entire franchise and throw it in the garbage! What the heck happened Hollywood? Sure the books are preachy and written simple enough for middle-school drop-outs, but they sell in the MILLIONS!! You let a million-copy best-selling series slip through your fingers!!! What have you done??? Well, you have saved me the pain of listening to fools count the blessings of the Left Behind movies to me at 5 minutes after closing.Want a revelation? Here's one LEFT BEHIND SUCKS!!!Now spread the Word, my children. "},{"Title":"Disappointing in light of the excellence of the book","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Too much detail was lost in the translation from book to film.  Some loss is necessary, but this is simply terribly excessive, and the fact that they tried to cram it into a mere 94 minutes would indicate that they really didn't care that much.Kirk Cameron is undoubtedly a fine young man, but he simply is not Buck Williams!  Much of the acting is wooden and the flaws in the writing only exacerbate the problem.  The special effects were state of the art... in 1975.It is really a shame, given the excellence of the original book, that Cloud Ten ended up with the property.  With a budget less than half of Left Behind, TBN's Omega Code had superior writing, superior acting and vastly superior special effects.The Left Behind series had the potential for setting a new high standard for Christian films that would have great appeal to the general population. Unfortunately, unless there are some major changes in the offing for future installments the chance for greatness has been missed.For those believers who are real fans of the Left Behind series this film will still probably be enjoyable because you can fill in the missing pieces and bridge some of the gaps that will be incomprehensible to the average viewer.  I only wish it had lived up to a little more of its great potential. "},{"Title":"Great Movie, Great Message!","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very surprised at this movie.  Not only did it contain some big names, but most of the actors turned in good, if not great, performances.  It was a much better production than last years Omega Code movie, although the special effects were not as good.  The script was compelling and easy to follow.  The story was gripping.  Kirk Cameron surprised me with his performance, and I felt that Clarence Gilyard Jr. gave an excellent, convincing performance as the preacher who became aware that he was a fraud. His heartfelt confession and request for forgiveness made me think.  I look forward to more movies in the series, and I may even read the books! "},{"Title":"I don't subscribe to a religion...","Date":"20 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ....But I've read the novels and was very interested in seeing a film version. My first inclination that things weren't going to be the way I hoped was when the previews started. There were 3 separate previews for films that used the philosophyLet's hire a once popular actor, build a crappy film around him and try to save souls. Look, the only people that watch these films are people who are already converted or like to watch the cheesiest thing they can find. I, personally, want to rent the one with Mr.T in it. That would be fun. More fun than Left Behind The Movie. The acting varied but was more than acceptable. The look of the film wasn't bad, either. (Although there seemed to be a strange fluctuation near the end?) But the film was very disjointed and only deals with about Half of the original novel. They took out half of the book and still couldn't make everything seem to fit together. (Ummm....Mini-series? You'd reach a wider audience if people didn't have to pay. And you could make a more cohesive film. Plus there's all those bible based miniseries telling the old testament and making decent ratings. Why not Revelations? Anyway..)Terrible music gets in the way, too. Blech. I kept expecting Carmen to come around and get everybody involved in a sing-along.Final thoughts(and you thought I'd never quit)Why the heck did the producers thank everybody BUT the writers?We need a film version of This Present DarknessHow much is Mr.T going for nowadays?  "},{"Title":"It will happen !","Date":"15 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Congratulations Hollywood, you can produce a movie with good values and still retain suspense, action and intense viewing pleasure.  Kirk Cameron leads a professional cast in this well made Best Selling Novel.  I look forward to the sequels that will follow.  I rated this an 8. "},{"Title":"Good, but leaves you wanting","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The film was good, although not a true representation of the book.  It played like a first part of a miniseries, and leaves the story very incomplete.  With now 8 books in the series, hopefully more will be produced.The quality of the production is very high, and is of a much better production value than previous Revelation films. "},{"Title":"The Book is Awesome, The Movie is OK, The Message is Dominant","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was surprised not to see Tim LeHaye and Jerry Jenkins names as part of the opening credits. I have read every book and the series and I am fascinated by their content. The first book, left behind provided too much info to put into one movie. The message the movie conveys is the most important message anyone can learn.The acting and special effects in this movie are not up to par with blockbuster movies. With more money and time spent on editing this movie could be a motion picture hit come Feb. 2, 2001. I hope too see more movies based on this series.  "}{"Title":"Good, but a few bad scenes marred the experience...","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've been reading the Left Behind series books, and so far I've really enjoyed them. The writing is good, though not great, but the story is so compelling that I find myself reading 200 pages each time I sit down to read.Left Behind The Movie widens the gap between the great story, and the mediocre writing and directing used to convey it to the audience. While the film certainly has some exciting moments - most of the time they are accompanied with either silly dialogue or stilted acting that unfortunately distract the viewer from what's really going on.The acting is either great or terrible, depending on who you're referring to. Kirk Cameron is great as Cameron Williams, and Janaya Stephens is excellent as Chloe Steele. Other performances are adequate, such as Brad Johnson's Captain Rayford Steele, and Chelsea Noble's Hattie Durham. Unfortunately, a couple of the performances were just plain awful. Gordon Currie was completely unconvincing as Nicolae Carpathia, especially in the few scenes that really were important in his character's development. He looked way to young to play the part, and he made Carpathia into a stiff and boring leader, completely opposite of his charismatic presence in the books.However, Currie's performance looks like Oscar material compared to the awful portrayal of Bruce Barnes by Clarence Gilyard Jr.  Bruce's lamentation at the church after the disappearances is easily the worst few minutes of the movie. To be fair though, Gilyard's lines are easily the worst of the script. Emotions that could have been conveyed with a slow zoom in to a teary eyed and broken man were instead explained literally by Bruce himself. It would have been less distracting for the film to just stop and ask everyone to turn to page 135.That brings up another problem I had with the film - it seems to assume that the viewer has read the book. Nicolae's presence as a political leader is never explained, and his rise to power is depicted in only about two minutes. Some of the most compelling scenes in the book are those that allow us to learn more about this mysterious leader. These moments are glaringly absent from the movie.The last thing that I have to mention is the music. The music is by far the worst thing about Left Behind. The choice of music for one of the most significant scenes in the movie made me roll my eyes in disbelief. What should have been the most moving scene of the movie is marred by the fading in of some cheesy Christian pop song.Overall, the story is still good enough to keep the movie going. However, the problems listed above sadly keep a good movie from being a great one. I gave it a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"I really tried...  But it was pathetic!","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I saw this movie, I almost immediately saw through it's CHRISTIAN motives.  I'm quite religious, but found this attempt at telling the tale of Revelations to be PATHETIC...  Above the bad story line the movie is ULTRA low budget and one most poorly shot movies in history.  Blair Witch in black and white with shaky shots has better photography.  Also, their attempt at computer generated graphics is just simply awful.  Just in case you haven't decided not to BOTHER seeing this movie...  It stars Kirk Cameron... Really...  If you really want to know about Revelations, read your BIBLE. Kirk Cameron should stick to the Growing Pains reunion. "},{"Title":"Leave it behind.","Date":"31 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" With the popularity of the Jenkins and LaHaye series, it was only a matter of time before they made a film series based on it. And Left Behind is just as narrow-minded as the series is.And what does Left Behind teach us? It teaches us that a loving god (or Jenkins' LaHaye's interpretation of God) selects only a handful of people who profess allegiance to one specific denomination of one specific religion to join him in paradise. Not only that, but at a specific point in time, he magically whisks them all away no matter what they're doing, also causing a number of accidents which undoubtedly whisk all of the unsaved people killed in said accidents straight to Hell. Warms the heart to a boil, doesn't it? Oh, but we're not finished yet. There's this guy named Nicolae Carpathia who begins his own rise to power against said god. We're not supposed to know that he's the Antichrist yet, but come on... they may well have tattooed 666 on his forehead. The only thing that can stop him? Kirk Crocoduck Cameron.But the worst is yet to come. Not only is Left Behind a dark orgy of religious fanaticism, but it's outright plagiarism. Yes, that's right... it's plagiarism, and I'm not referring to the Bible. Left Behind plagiarizes Stephen King's The Langoliers so blatantly at the beginning that I'm surprised nobody else ever caught this. People disappearing suddenly on a plane, leaving behind clothes, belongings, surgical implants, etc.? You can't tell me that Jenkins and LaHaye just coincidentally thought of the very same thing. King should have sued them. So much for originality, huh guys?My critique is not against Christianity, nor against any religion in general. What it is against is a movie which uses fear and on screen violence to frighten people into converting to an extremely narrow-minded point of view, and isn't even done well in the first place. If you're someone who believes that every single word of the Bible - a book that has been translated and mistranslated throughout centuries and is filled with countless contradictions - to somehow still be 110% accurate, then this is probably the movie for you. If, on the other hand, you want an entertaining storyline about the rise of the Antichrist (and one that doesn't paint God as a genocidal monster), watch the Omen series instead. Don't give Jenkins or LaHaye the credit and money they don't deserve. "},{"Title":"Scare mongering for five year olds","Date":"16 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I would have given this film a minus ten but apparently IMDb does not support my expression.What was the purpose of these three films and to end the way it did lol Hey kids God was with them all the way, watching them die and to then have the bad guy walking out of flames smiling, seriously.At first I thought besides being a really badly interpreted bible fiction this has to be Classic Christian scare tactics to get the gullible into church.Now I am starting to believe maybe there is an anti Christ as surely only he, she or it would have created this crap.Then again I don't think this film does either side of the religious camps any favours.Apparently unifying all faiths to stick to the simple concept of hey we all believe in God within each individual religion is a bad thing??? Obviously you may be able to tell that I like to think out of the box instead of solely giving my attention to a dusty old book written by homosapes and one of many.I view my self to be a Goodly person but not one of faith, the fact I made it through all three films should at least show I have an open mind and give even the biggest pile of crap a chance.(Truth, I viewed the first for research on a story of my own and had to give the other two films a chance and regretted it) Watch this trilogy if your the type that has or could find themselves joining a registered cult like Scientology.I couldn't imagine a Christian or person of faith (not registered Enterprise) understanding the purpose or point of this film.Overall save the time watch one of the worse films in history Legion and save having to watch another two films in a trilogy that is Left rear end Before any registered Jedi try to have a moan the first two books sucked ball z and unlike the films I was smart enough to know when to give up ahhh the headaches. "},{"Title":"All Aboard the Snail-Pace Train with Your One-Way Ticket for a Sleeper Car to Preachville!","Date":"20 November 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Do you know what a mistake is? A mistake is watching this movie again because the first time that I rented it, I afterward could not remember one thing that happened! Well, the second time, I saw that it's because practically nothing does happen. Oh sure, lots of people suddenly disappear, apparently headed to God's Clothing-Optional Camp, leaving the same cheap, car-salesman suits behind - along with their dogs, who don't go to heaven. And yes, there are lots of beseeching and long pleading stares (and running up and down stairs) and throwing a baseball at a cross, but otherwise never before have I seen a movie constructed almost solely out of bathroom-break moments.Yes, I certainly remembered wondering if I could give this a negative number of stars - especially when the revival tent is up and the tambourines come out. Did you know that everyone else went to heaven because God's so wonderful? Well yes, but Chloe, this is not about hell (but it sure is about not getting into heaven). We should have all known better, Mom had the answers, why didn't I know that all I needed was my family - oh, please! And can we feed the world's poor with this Israeli quadrotriticale, oh gee what's that in the sky, an attack by Russian planes or a great swarm of Tribbles? Wonderful special effects, people. (What is the game-boy version written with - Atari?) The world is starving and the U.S. is under martial law, but everyone still looks well-fed and beautiful. Ever seen the inside of a dog? That's this film. (Well, we know by now where dog films end up, and it's not heaven. No cats in this film, though - hey, I just realized, there are no cats! They must all be working as translators at the evil United Nations, now run by the Anti-Christ with this outrageous French accent, you silly King Jesus.)Anyway, all the kids are gone - so what about all the little snowflake children in their test-tubes at the fertility clinic? Did they also get taken by the Rapture? There's only one way to find out. At least I don't ask you to do anything that I haven't already done myself, soldier. Onward Christian soldiers, marching so as to bore. "},{"Title":"Books should never have been written, films should never have been made.","Date":"4 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I would give this one a big fat -75 out of ten if it was possible. I almost hesitate even to comment on this tripe, which is not worthy of my attention but unfortunately has captivated that of tens of millions of illiterate American born-again Christians. I picked up the first book in the grocery store and attempted to read the first page or two; alas, Tim LaHaye is a ghastly writer. But that only makes this production more puzzling I would have expected that LaHaye's sheer lack of literary talent, enormous financial success and noted Romophobia would have been enough to have Hollywood producers fighting and clawing to produce a professional-looking film adaptation.Not so, I'm afraid. Hollywood apparently hates born-again Christians even more than it hates traditional Christians. Still, one is amused to hear the critics charging that this promotes a fundamentalist, conservative or even reactionary interpretation of the Apocalypse. This is part of the reason I condescended to write this review. Something needs to be cleared up this moment there is nothing conservative about the theology peddled in this franchise. Prior to the 19th century, most Christians, including conservatives, understood Tribulation as persecution, the Millennium as the long age after the Council of Nicaea, and Israel after the New Testament as the CHURCH, *not* a literal nation!Catholic views of the Whore of Babylon and the anti-Christ vary widely, ranging from everything to the Roman Empire and the Emperor to anyone preaching false doctrine to St. Robert Bellarmine's belief in an evil emperor in Jerusalem, an outrageous modification of which influenced pre-millennial thought. For their part, traditional Protestants have never believed the Whore of Babylon would be the United Nations or the anti-Christ would be its chairman; these titles were respectively and perpetually held, in their view, by the Catholic Church and the Pope. A few Eastern Orthodox and a few others suggest a resurgent Ottoman Empire or perhaps even Peter the Great of Russia.Really, though, almost any imaginable interpretation would have made for a far more engrossing story than the at best selectively literal interpretation of the Apocalypse posited by the Dispensational Premillennialist Covenant theologians of LaHaye's school. Let's say all of a sudden a percentage of the world's population vanishes before everyone's eyes. (I'll resist the temptation to crack a tasteless joke about the idea that born-again Christians might all disappear someday.) There are always sceptics who attempt to explain everything away, but for about 80 percent of the world's population this would surely be crowning proof of the Blackstonian interpretation of the Apocalypse. Why don't we see far more instant conversions than we do here?There are, of course, other problems with this movie there is talk of a horrendously turbulent world, and yet we never see it. There are the actors, if they can be called such. There is the amateurish film-making. Above all there is the uncritical praise given by so many born-again Christians, some of whom go so far as to celebrate, even encourage and instigate, increasing geopolitical turbulence (often centered around the Middle East and the Holy Land) and believing it is their Divine duty to accelerate the return of Christ. Did Our Lord not specifically admonish that It is not for you to know the hour?This is a bad movie, based on bad source material, but it does not fall under the banner of a conservative Christian film by any standard, and the people clinging to its disastrous theology have little recognisable share of the magnificent 2,000 year legacy of this Faith. By their fruits ye shall know them, we are told, and this is the best they can come up with. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen.","Date":"7 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film is a thinly disguised Christian apology. The plot is simplistic (good and bad guys and nobody in-between), the dialogue is contrived and the acting mostly competent but variable. It is hard to believe that producers invested heavily in this film. It starts with the main character alone in a field interviewing a man who has developed a way of feeding the world's starving masses. In an instant the sky is filled with 1950s cheap-set style rockets and bomber planes. Although the field is bombed heavily the planes and rockets disappear just as quickly as they came. It is a miracle! And a prophet appears, utters cryptic words, and is never seen again. The film tediously degenerate into a diatribe against man's greed (the villain is the Anti-Christ, who is a mind-controlling Russian- wouldn't you know it) and a glorification of the promise of heaven. At one point people start to disappear. It develops that they end up in heaven - literally, really! I don't know if this constitutes a spoiler- but the film ends in church with an exhortation for us all to be believers. Hardly believable and for the most part very boring. Just like church. "},{"Title":"Poor concept, poorly shot.","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Let's assume for a moment that the events in the film are an actual foretelling of things to come (to coin a phrase). Would it not make more sense to make the message interesting to those who supposedly need to hear it? I've never read any of the Left Behind books, but, based on what I've heard about them, it would seem to me that the authors have little conception of how international conflict manifests.There are four core things that really sink this film; 1) director Vic Sarin has little concept of the larger story being told, 2) whoever shot this was uninspired for the project, 3) there is a distinct lack of vision for the film, and, finally, 4) the plot is silly and stupid.For a film that's supposed to tell of what would become the opening stages of the final battle on Earth between God and God's enemies, this thing is highly sanitized. Then again it is meant for a Christian audience, even though same said folks want to spread their message, but nevermind. The film didn't need huge amounts of swearing, nor pornographic gore to show the horrors of God's former right-hand angel as he wages war on Earth, but I felt like I was reading the Highlights Version of the Civil War. Or in this case a supposed future civil war.On top of that, there's a real disconnect between what the Carpathea character is supposed to be, and what he's able to do on terra-firma as a human being with demonic DNA. If he's so invulnerable, and otherwise unassailable, then why in the world does he need a following to wage war against the Almighty? Why does he need a lear jet to get around the globe? Why have any Earthly implements at all? How did he get born? But again, nevermind.A film about biblical apocalypse needs some grounding. But this thing is so wrapped up in being marketed to fundamentalists that it loses the larger audience that it was trying to garnish. Video game quality CGI effects in the opening sequence should be a real clue to the would be viewer. And trying to pass off rural North America for Jerusalem seems to have been done more for budgetary considerations than anything else.At best this film is a curiosity. If you want to see what kind of a film a director of Indian decent can make for fundamentalist Christian backers (including Barnes and Noble), then give it a whirl. Otherwise, if you must see some fire-and-brimstone on your TV, then do yourself a favor and rent or buy Chuck Heston's The Ten Commandments--from an era when Hollywood knew how to make these kinds of flicks. "},{"Title":"A Christian movie that shows you to like the Antichrist","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am an atheist, and my Christian roommate said to me that I should see this movie. So I did. I haven't read the books and didn't know of it's existence before yesterday. My roommate gave me also the two sequels, so I knew during the watching of the film that there was more.Overall, I found this movie to be disappointing. There were such good story arcs that ain't been used, or were turned into a boring movie. I liked the first 10 and last 10 minutes, but not the in between part. Let me explain.First of all, I like the idea of the movie the book of revelations has come true. Quite some people are taken to heaven, but what about those who are left behind? What will happen to them?My impression of the beginning was good the attack on Israel was nicely done. Maybe not the most cutting-edge sfx, but it worked for me, I was impressed it was better than I expected. It is even good that you, as viewer, don't know at the moment who is attacking. You are just as confused as the Israeli's. But what is irritating, is that after that hot moment, it isn't made clear who attacked. Like that's irrelevant! You would think it would be the Muslim nations around Israel, but the film doesn't confirm it. The only mention I saw, was 'an attack from the north', which should come from the book of revelations (haven't looked it up). That could mean anything, even Russia.The first minutes there is also some nice dialog between the pilot and his family. My favorite quote (it may not be literal, doing it from memory)Steele (the pilot) to his son, whose birthday he is going to miss due to work 'I'll take a palace for you from London.' son 'Could you also take a sword? And a spear, to put a head on?' shocked mom 'Where did you learn that?' son 'On Sunday school!'The pilot doesn't spend enough time with his family, has a lover on his plane, his son and wife will be taken in the rapture and he has a fight with his daughter these are good ingredients for some drama. It seems to go that way, Until he becomes a Christian. Then he is suddenly mister nice guy, and loses all the faults that make his character interesting. it would really be better for the movie if he becomes a good Christian at the end...And also take his daughter Chloe. She criticizes her dad, points out the double morale, makes cutting remarks, she is a critical note Until she becomes a Christian. Then she loses her sharpness and all her character thereafter can do, is smile. What made her character interesting, her critics, is gone after she came to believe.And take the main character Buck Williams, the reporter. He searches for the truth, and wants to stop the evil from happen when he learns about the bankers. Until he becomes a Christian. He finds out that there is an even greater evil, and instead of trying to stop it, he even assists it to come into place by being passive. He seemed to have lost his fighting spirit and just watches the Antichrist to make all his moves in front of him. He even doesn't attempt to stop him.At a certain moment in the movie, people are shown a video from a priest from three years earlier, where he foretells all that is going to happen. The moment this is introduced, it is already too late. It would be better to start with that priest recording that video, during the first minute or so, and then switch to the attack on Israel. It would make it more interesting, and this message won't fall from the sky.During the movie, I was really bored. I understand that the coming to believe is an important theme, but why make it so BORING? It is really possible to convey the message and make an interesting movie, even without budget!I must say that I do liked the end. Knowing that there were more movies, I didn't mind the open ending. The film ends with the Antichrist getting into power, in a scene that is nicely done. This Nicolae turns out to be the most interesting character from the movie he starts out as a puppet, and ends up as an evil leader. This makes you like him most of the characters. That couldn't be the purpose of this movie... A Christian movie where the viewer is guided to like the Antichrist best? O man...To summarize- The begin of the movie is promising and Nicolae's rise to power at the end is nicely done.- There is enough material for drama (Steele's family conflict, his loss, his lover; the priest who seems to lose faith; Williams' friends who are murdered one by one), but it isn't turned into drama- The idea is really cool (the book of revelations happens), but isn't presented in an interesting way.- The religious message it tries to bring, has the wrong impact! If coming to religion means it happens like in this movie, it means that in order to become Christian, you have to go through a very boring process in which you lose your ability to criticize, you won't act against evil and you can't understand anymore that someone is sad for losing relatives. From my roommate I know that these things are not true, so this film gives the wrong religious message!I wouldn't recommend this movie to others. "},{"Title":"easily the worst movie ever made...or at least that i saw","Date":"6 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" nothing made sense here....there were no redeeming qualities....the writing was terrible...the acting was terrible....ahh come on an end of days Christian movie were the bad guy is nick carpathian (like the carpathin mountains home of legendary Dracula) has got to be a give away.....at least giving the bad guy a name like lou c. fur would be original with all due respect to faith based movies there is no rule that says they have to be terrible....i don't think the producers missed a clich throughout the entire movie.....there are so many choices out there and my understanding is that the bulk of the costs went to paying a certain lead actor, far be it for me to say but more funds should have been invested in the writing and production of the filmdid i miss something here? "}{"Title":"Awful","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. The entire extended family got together for a video viewing, and most walked out. The book was wonderful. Of course, film adaptations of books must be compromises, but this one is beyond the pale. The story is very incomplete. If you haven't read the book, you may have no idea what's going on. The characters are not consistent with the book; nor are they remotely believable -- even if you just take the film on its own and not as a representation of the book. My husband bought this video for me when we were on vacation during spring break. He said the lesson he learned is that if a video is in a bin on sale for $2.00 at WalMart, he should not buy it!! "},{"Title":"A Warn for Sane People","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" First of all, I never heard about this movie or anything related to it before I bought it. I arrived at the store and read the synopsis of the DVD - Just to realize that this movie made a shameless theft from the Langoliers (movie and book) script. I became intrigued and decided to buy.What I was expecting was one more OK B-Movie, and on the first minutes this was what I got. A Few minutes after I would see a completely out of place scene where some guy begin to make the Oh god, why? routine. There was something wrong about it, because as the world was plunging into chaos, why the director would waste so many minutes on a speech of an ordinary somebody talking to god? Unfortunately I would understand the reason on the second preaching scene - This is one more brainless Christian attempts at the screens. I felt so deceived, because I thought I was seeing a movie, and what I was seeing actually was a piece of plastic with the god's words. This movie is as annoying as the people who knock on your door to talk about How Jesus loved you, if you don't like to hear those chats - You'll probably wont be interested on seeing this movie as well - Or to sum up If you're Christian, buy it. If you're not, stay the hell away from it.For the director/creator of this movie - I understand you want to make a movie about your faith, but PLEASE, write on the front of the DVD Christian Movie - Follow your god's teachings and be honest - Don't make people pay to what your garbage routines.An interesting fact I noticed is that 464 people (21.1%) rated this movie with a 10 (ten), while 454 people (20.7%) rated this movie with a 1 (one). At my point of view the TEN rates are from the Christians (or in other words, the Christian people don't care about what's in the movie as long as the lord's teachings are on it - That's the only explanation for 21.1% of the votes on this movie being 10). While the one rates from people rating the movie for what it is - Total complete garbage.Gabriel. "},{"Title":"Quite bad but funny as hell","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Now to me this movie is just laugh out funny, this is mainly because I do not subscribe to the POV put out in the movie, also is the fact that its characters were quite hallow especially the Anti-Christ character, who other than being one dimensional also had a stereotypical bond villain sounding voice. But for me this just made it more enjoyable, so I could laugh at. So in conclusion watch this movie if your a MS3K fan or if you are its intended audience and believe that the apocalypse is just right around the corner. Now because they say I need 10 lines hers some random typing Agnese;fecal;o'snowbank;a c;ARC;offend;a v light sabers;on';Vin'adj'avenge j;VAX v ;ks n'jives'Jed'Zen'funfair;z' v;K Nevsa's';Viv V sniff'orifice;logo epigraph'sniper's'Keefe'Warp "},{"Title":"This film is so wrong - on so may levels...","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm glad I only spent $5.95 at the discount bin at Walmart for this gem. This movie has all the social relevance of the crazy guy on the corner with a sign saying repent now &#150; the end is near. And if those dazzling discount bin special effects caused you to miss the message, Jews will not be invited to the Rapture while a bible thumping President (with 152 executions under his belt) will be the first to be whisked away.This film does a great disservice to Christianity. In their zeal to gain converts, the producers have recklessly used the tools of fear and hatred to achieve their agenda. The true Christian spirit of compassion and love is completely lost.Memo to the people who made this film When Judgment Day finally comes, don't let the guy at the gate know that you had anything to do with this film. "},{"Title":"Great idea but way too preachy.","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The concept is wicked. What would living in the end days be like? A chance to go toe to toe with the Anti-Christ. Another really interesting plot. Resistance against the new order. Another worthy plot. What does the movie do? It preaches and preaches. The actors are VERY Christian. You could grab that exact person out of any major church around the country in a heart beat. However it does tend to send an accidental message that if you are not the family type church going critter then you will not be included in any of the saved's activities. I have not read the books and likely will not either having seen this movie. Until I watched the movie the books had intrigued me. Every other scene being oh woe is me I should have listened got old ten minutes into the movie. If I had been at a theater and not had something to read I would have walked out on this movie. There are some interesting points in the movie but all tension is quickly killed by over the top sermons that repeat until you just want to hunt the writer down and give them writing lessons. Having an agenda is one thing. Treating the audience as too stupid to pick up a subtle message is insulting. "},{"Title":"If you don't expect too much, it isn't bad","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was rather dismayed by the poor quality that surfaces during this movie. Average acting at time, lame special effects, twists that were easy to predict. However, it really wasn't that bad a movie overall. It's a great story told in a way that would appeal to mindless moviegoers. It's merely packages to the masses rather than targeted at a single group.If you are a Christian, you have to turn off what you believe about the end-times. If you are not a Christian, some parts will fly over your head. For the most part, it is best to sit back and enjoy the ride. This is not overly deep subject matter and you don't get lost very easily.Best of all, it can be watched by anyone over 8. You don't have to sweat the language or gore or sex. There is really none of that. You can take it seriously or not take it seriously and still have fun. It's rather like a spiritual Godzilla movie. I gave it 6 stars and will see it again.  "},{"Title":"Pure unadulterated garbage - the premise, the acting, the casting","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You'd have to be a 6 year old to believe the premise is true.  Even getting past that it certainly would be possible to use the premise as the basis for a good movie.  That was not done here.  The acting was so abysmal that it's absurd to even call it acting, they may as well have used stick figures.  The casting was absurd, Kirk Cameron simply does not convey the strength, intelligence, or anything that would be approriate for the part he plays.  Most of the rest of the cast is better then that, rising at times to the level of awful.That said, I'm sure some people will like this dreck, there is a market for anything. "},{"Title":"a very WELL made movie","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  this movie despite what some people might say is well done and the books it is based on is well written anyway, it is a movie about the end of the world it is not riped off except from the bible which the books are based on.the movie is about a TV reporter getting caught in the rapture (people start disappearing left and right leaving only their clothes(basis is from revelations god takes Christians to heaven so they do have to go through the tribulation( which is a horrible 7 year experience)))but don't take other peoples advice watch the movie for yourself. i rate this movie a 10 of 10  "},{"Title":"Unbelievably bad","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is one reason IMDB should allow a vote of 0/10.  The acting is awful, even what some here have lauded, the Carpathia character!  The script looks like it was written in haste.  In one scene, the black preacher who was left behind, when asked by Buck what dan7 in the computer graphic meant, said, Daniel 7, *CHAPTER* 24.  He probably meant VERSE 24, but the film makers missed this slip up.  Perhaps the worst part is that the film's eschatological position is Biblically unsound.  While many Christians have espoused the film's interpretation of end-time events, such interpretation, in *my opinion*, is faulty.  To understand these flaws, read Christians Will Go Through The Tribulation by Jim McKeever and The Blessed Hope, A Biblical Study of the Second Advent and the Rapture by George E. Ladd. "},{"Title":"2 Stars","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As far as scenarios go, Left Behind presents an interesting enough one (providing the literal reading of Revelations can be forgiven). Where it comes unstuck is the execution. Seriously, it is amazing this movie was actually given a theatrical release in cinemas.The script progresses in the most atrocious manner, way too briskly at first then achingly slowly throughout the extended middle of the film. Not to mention the distracting in-your-face factual and continuity errors. The dialogue was shockingly simplistic, and the actors' delivery certainly wasn't doing it any favours. You can tell the leads - they're the ones that remain calm whilst everyone around them are in hysterics. Clever technique. And who on earth decided to cast Kirk Cameron as the lead?As I've mentioned the pacing was so far off the mark. Two-thirds of the runtime is spent on setting up the rapture, then the remainder rushed through over the last third (and we're talking some serious area to cover here). Episodic, to boot, with television commercial sized scenes. This may well be the fault of the 'bestselling novel' (as the opening title announces), but I gather several more in the series have been released, so perhaps they should have been combined for the screen adaptation. It all screams that dreaded phrase - MADE FOR TV.It's not a total lost cause, though. Te casting agents have found a surprisingly compelling face of evil in Gordon Currie. And again, the premise is indeed a fascinating one. A few observations though it's nice to see becoming a Christian REALLY means denouncing your nose-ring. And it truly would take a film made under the current American administration to paint the UN as an evil entity, and nuclear disarmament as the first step on the path to hell. Why is it that the best Christian films are made by atheists?No much to recommend here. Two stars out of five.  "}{"Title":"Please stop making these movies.","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I find it sad that Christians (and I am one) feel that we must make movies like Left Behind. We have much better stories to tell that don't have to be so preachy. I was very disappointed with this film. As an aspiring filmmaker who believes in Christ, I see this film as the perfect example for what I am not going to do with my career in film. "},{"Title":"Too Religous for my taste","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're religous in nature, you will enjoy this movie. If not (like me) you will not. I have no objection to it being a film with a religous message, but it should have been billed as such. I watched the whole movie through waiting for a cool plot twist only to be disappointed by a (literal!) Deus Ex Machina. As for its entertainment value I found it very disappointing. As to it's religous value, you'd probably be better off just reading the Bible. It's got better action scenes and more sex. "},{"Title":"well made first film in a series","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LEFT BEHIND is the first film in a series and is based on the best selling novel. The film tells the tale of those left behind following a biblical rapture. The film is good and its production values excellent. I was suprised with how goood the first film was. Not since MARK 4 had a film come along with so much going for it. "},{"Title":"more Pap","Date":"3 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  the only enjoyable thing about this highly mockable movie is playing guess that location.  What Toronto landmark will stand in for what American/international location.who knew that the anti-christ would be russian?  obviously he can't be american since we need the yanks to save the day - oh Buck... you'll tell us all the truth... you'll show us the light... and the way outta the building should those nasty anti-christers get their way.Five golden raspberries.  Faith is not enough to hope they don't make another of this ilk!  We don't gotta prayer. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A good movie. Based on, supposedly, prophecies predicted in the bible. Who knows, who cares. As entertainment, it was entertaining. The film's ambitions are obviously hampered by its low budget, and Kirk Cameron takes getting used to playing an adult. All in all, a good movie that made due with what it had. Not surprisingly, most people who derides the film seem to focus on its preachy Christian aspect. How odd that they would focus so much on this part of LEFT BEHIND, when so many liberal-minded HOllywood movies preach until they're out of breath. The mark of a movie is its entertianment value, and LEFT BEHIND is entertaining enough to recommend. "},{"Title":"ONLY OKAY","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Didn't do the book justice......it wasn't the WORST I've ever seen, but I've seen some B movies that kill this one.The message however, is still powerful. I would hope that the movies or books encourage folks to pick up the Word of God and see what it has to say to their hearts.Looking forward to the next 2 installments AND the TV series next year. "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful....read your Bible instead.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie which was released directly on video should carry a warning label that it is dangerous to human health and may subject the viewer to terminal boredom.  It is yet another thinly veiled, evangalizing rapture religious movie with the good guys (the believers) suddenly vanishing and the bad guys (the non-believers)left behind.  It's an interesting concept, especially since we see it happen on a flight captained by a non-believer who is having a sinful affair with a stewardess aboard (needless to say that sinner doesn't disappear either!).  Unhappily, with all the pilots being non-believers, the plane did not crash or the movie would have been mercifully over. Though this could have be interesting without the heavy religious browbeating, as a whole the plodding movie makes one gag, the acting is horrible and the obviously computer-generated simulations are very fake looking.  Plus it's yet another movie shot in Canada that purports to be New York City. Spare me...I'll just read the Bible. "},{"Title":"Porno for fundies","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  There is a great movie to be made from the Biblical prophesies of the rapture, the tribulation, and the rise of the antichrist.  The events involved are so inherently dramatic that at some point (no one knows the hour) someone is going to mine them for a couple of decent hours of film.  Left Behind is, however, not that couple of hours.  It is instead 95 minutes (it somehow seems so much longer) of shoddy craftsmanship in virtually every aspect of filmmaking bad writing, bad direction, and some of the worst acting ever recorded on film, all aided and abetted by amateurish cinematography and special effects that -- well, to call them cheesy is actually an insult to cheesy special effects.  (That this film even exists suggests that someone -- I'm not sure who, but someone -- owes Ed Wood an apology.)Now, it's possible, of course, for all of the above to combine to produce a movie that is still enjoyable -- in spite of its flaws, or sometimes even because of them.  Left Behind isn't that movie either.  Its ineptitude is not even oddly charming in the manner of, say, Dolemite or Plan 9 from Outer Space (although there are some amusing moments of unintentional humor, many of them the result of the antichrist's truly execrable Russian accent).  In fact, for something so bad in its every aspect, the movie is oddly dull.Another reviewer very aptly observed that for a movie whose stated purpose is converting people to Christianity, it had an unsettlingly contemptuous tone with respect to non-believers.  I would suggest that the reason the movie and the books upon which it's based are so successful is that they're essentially porn for Christian fundamentalists dramatizations of a future in which they're proven right, and get to look down from heaven like the mean-spirited children in the opening credits of The Wild Bunch as the scorpions (everyone not in strict conformity with their narrow world view) are tormented in various ways.  Now, if that's what does it for you (if, that is to say, you're the type of person who's already memorized Kirk Cameron's anti-abortion rant at the conclusion of Listen to Me), then by all means buy the DVD and put it up on the shelf next to your KJV.  Otherwise, this is a must to avoid. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films I've ever seen.","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that the fact that I am an atheist no doubt skews my perception of this movie quite a bit.  However, I would like to think that I am open-minded enough to enjoy a film about religious things if it is done well.  This one was not.  I was forced to watch this while at a friend's house, he no doubt having the intention that it would provoke a change in me.  It was agony, all right, but not from fear of God's wrath.  Just the agony of having to watch a worse-than-B-movie in its entirety.I know the movie is based on a best-selling novel, but if the book is this bad, then I have no idea how it sold so much, aside from religious fervor.  The plot itself is very basic.  God comes back; the unsaved remain; some of them try to do what's right and stand up to the antichrist.  However, there are so many things that stand out as glaringly stupid, I can only hope the book doesn't have them too.  The examples are too numerous to mention, but I will cite my favorite one.  An anchor for a CNN-like news network pulls some strings and gets a flight attendant hired on at the UN.  She then in about a week or so becomes the right hand man to the antichrist.  Man, that anchor has some connections, eh?There are other things that bothered me, beside the horrible acting.  Chiefly, the demographic make up of those who are left behind.  If you'll notice, those still on earth after the rapture have been none-too-subtly portrayed as breaking some assumed religious code.  Those who have lit up a cigarette, those who have unorthodox body piercings, etc.  We all know there will be none of that in Heaven.  What is more disturbing is there is only one non-white ethnic person who is carried on up into glory.  Several more African Americans remain.  Coincidence?  I'll leave that question unanswered.The bottom line is this movie-wise, Troma Pictures has produced more quality work.  As a platform for bringing about revival, it also fails miserably.  If you want your friends scared into religion, try taking them to church.  Take it from one on the outside, the movie only serves to distance non-believers more.  The main thing I carried away from the entire flick was an amazement at how intolerant fundamentalist still are. "},{"Title":"How blatant can you get?","Date":"24 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Irregardless of where you stand on the religious spectum, this was not a good advertisement for the right wing.  The commercial sell-out was one of the most blatant I've seen.   For example, have you ever seen a lattop with the brand so big TOSHIBA.  About ten times reality.   The Apple one was pretty bad too.   My wife tells me the book is acually pretty good, but this film was so clearly targeted to manipulate and influence people.   If the human race is really this stupid to fall for a film like thisl, then we deserve whatever we get from above! "}{"Title":"A little off, but let's hope it opens some eyes","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I never read the book Left Behind, but I've read a good deal of the Book it was based on.  I don't agree with all of the theology this movie conveys. But I do agree that we all need God as a personal part of our daily lives. They don't talk about Jesus much in this movie, which is another thing that bothered me, because He is the center of the faith about which this movie preaches.  Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life.  As for the movie's plot, well . . . it was cliched and cheesy, but it was still a good movie. It was enjoyable and heartfelt.  It also is probably the first Christian feature film that wasn't a complete cheese-fest.  Truth be told, those people who make Christian films like this don't have the same resources most of the time.  But, c'mon, do what you can with what you got.  Let's face it most Christian entertainment is cheesier than it needs to be.  The Bible talks about living our lives with integrity.  I wish Christian film displayed that same integrity written about in the Word.  I recommend this film to anyone, children and adults (though the kiddies might find the rapture scenes scary) -- but I recommend reading the Bible a million times more. "},{"Title":"Cheated","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Since I'm not Christian and had never heard of the book(s), I rented this DVD expecting a normal film, not a Christian propoganda piece. My mother actually left the room in disgust while I watched the whole thing, curious as to how far the propoganda would extend.The acting was okay, some actors better than others, all of them reasonably well done at least. The special effects pretty much sucked though.From a purely fictional story perspective it was an interesting movie. I was very disappointed to have the Making Of and the File Project special features be nothing but heavy-handed and self-congratulatory Christian back-patting.I suppose if you're Christian and believe this type of stuff it'd be a great movie. If you're not, be warned what this movie is really about - the Christian belief that if you're a good Christian you get to be one of some number of people and children who will one day be taken up to Heaven and everyone left behind (hence the title) will be damned to some kind of a hell on earth with the anti-Christ ruling things. Of course, due to the number of people taken, when children are supposed to be included, I'm guessing that only the good little Christian kids went...Viewer be warned. "},{"Title":"Just a movie but does it have an undercurrent?","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  THE film LEFT BEHIND, of what I have seen of it was very well acted, perhaps best of these type of END OF THE WORLD media ventures. The films tale is familiar but I have some problems with this genre, yet, the movie was intended to be fun and ONE possible interpretation of revelation. As usual the UN is the bad guy and millions vanish in a pre wrath rapture, yet, is this movie believeable in certain rights? First off, with all that has been written on the rapture i find it hard to believe if such a event happened no one would guess what it was. The rapture is a theological security blanket devised during the great awakening and comes from a doctrine called FUTURISM. THis doctrine claims CHRIST will return 3 times instead of once, which during there will be no second chance. The book was hard to read, and yet stereotypical in a genre that needs to change or stop all together. Yet, films like this and the OMEGA MAN can be fun. However, the merchandising for this film is boorish. This includes chrisitan dogtags for kids..let us consider the message this sends. Do we arm our children with God'sa love or of the pagan christendom doctrines of a nazish neo fascism? I do not blame the cast and crew of this, this was a job for them. a paycheck and a chance to practice their craft. Recently I was the victim of a chrisitian blacklist, I have a problem with this campaign. I suppose what is next...toy hitler youth aka jesus youth knives with BLOOD AND HONOR inscribed on them? Films like this need a better merchandising campaign...merchandising off the end of the world....how garish. The message of Christ was one of love but every story has a end, and so does the Bible. I mean the movie seems well acted and produced and i am hpaay peoplelike this are making alternatives to hollywood movies but there is too much inconsistency in the rapture doctrine described in this movie. This is something Ellen White exposed....another variant one which cannot be overlooked... she was a protestant minister who was just as flawed as HAL LINDSEY or myself. We must remember only a movie, pure entertainment with a moral message. Nothing wrong here...just one variant to revelation. Some say revelation will never happen, this is fine. yet, there is a place I go to along the lakeshore, a few of them and I contemplate these thoughts as I watch ore freighters sailing for Duluth or Chicago leave port and I wish i was on one, going some place. i let the rythmic contraction of the waves make me forget these things and I think..when that time comes who cares? Of the series of films started by independent trend setter MARK 4 these seem to have the best acting and production values. Yet, why not make moral movies? I point to FORCE 10 FROM NAVARRONE for a reason. It is possible to do a quality action adventure or western for a family audience and not have it stink. I will not of what I saw, BRAD JOHNSON gives a stellar acting performance.  "},{"Title":"Interesting idea, but incomplete as a movie...","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  1st watched 3/16/2001 - (Dir-Victor Sarin) Interesting idea, but incomplete as a movie.  The filmmakers obviously expected to be making sequels before they even started this project(which is obvious with Cameron's plea at the end of the video version of this movie.)  The viewers are left hanging and we are expected to accept the ending(which is really a beginning) as the end of the movie.  Cameron is ok in the starring role and the rest of the production is fine, but again the overall effect is as I've said prior. The whole series of books(8 that I'm aware of ) should have been condensed into a longer movie in my opinion.    "},{"Title":"Left Behind was worth seeing","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was interesting and entertaining  A lot more worthwhile expense of my time than some of the trash out there at this time. The only one that I thought wasn't very good in his part was the father. I think everyone else did a good and believable job. "},{"Title":"Please give it a chance","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My wife bought this movie on DVD and, I admit, I was *not* looking forward to watching it (and resisted for about a month). Why? It wasn't because I'm not a Christian - I am. It's because it didn't do well in theaters, and I read some bad reviews here on imdb, saying the effects were cheesy, etc.Well, last night we watched it (there was nothing else on), and I was absolutely blown away. I was mesmerized by the story, and I was continuously impressed by the quality of the filming in every regard. Yes, it's not a Phantom Menace or The Matrix, but how many movies are? - Left Behind is as good as any Hollywood movie, and better than most.If you're avoiding it for the same reasons I did, I gaurantee you won't be let down. After seeing the movie and reflecting on it, it doesn't surprise me one bit that it received such reviews here and that it lasted in theaters a fraction of the time that Habbibal did. "},{"Title":"God, this movie sucked....","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Kirk Cameron in a movie?....you've got to be kidding.  That was the first thing wrong with this movie.  Unfortunately, it wasn't the last.  The books were pretty good, but this movie was *horrible*.  Reading some of the reviews of this dreck makes me want to laugh.  Just because it extols Christianity is no reason to accept the bad acting, plot contrivances, and a book so condensed that it would make the authors cry.  Do yourself a favor, skip the movie and spend the money on the books...... "},{"Title":"Waiting for the Rapture 'til the cows come home","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Never before have the motives of the producers of a motion picture been more transparent. Let's see FIRST, they get every willing televangelist to hype this film as the greatest thing since sliced white bread. NEXT, they encourage as many fundamentalist Christians as possible to purchase copies of the film so as to recoup its paltry production costs and pump up its advertising budget. And FINALLY, when the film hits the theaters, get as many said Christians as possible to see it yet again, bus them into the multiplexes if necessary, NOT on the merits of the film itself, but because a #1 box office opening will be seen as some sort of profound spiritual victory.But THAT, of course, won't be enough. I imagine that any film critic with the audacity to give Left Behind anything short of a glowing review will be deemed anti-Christian.Of course, this shamelessly manipulative marketing campaign shouldn't surprise anyone. It is, after all, good old fashioned Capitalism at work. What DOES surprise me is how many people have been suckered into the whole Left Behind mindset. As someone who tries to balance his spiritual beliefs with some sense of reason and rationality, it leaves me scratching my head. It would appear that there are many, MANY people who actually believe that sometime in the near future a Rapture is going to occur, and that millions of people all over the Earth are going to simultaneously vanish INTO THIN AIR. What kind of reality, I wonder, are these people living in? Is this Rapture something they actually believe in, or is it something they fervently WANT to believe in? And when they reach the end of their lives and realize this Rapture has not occurred, will they be disappointed and disillusioned? Will there still be people 100 years from now insisting that the Rapture is imminent?In a way, I almost wish that such an event would occur! What an interesting day that would be! What would be even more interesting is if the Apocalypse were to occur in a more spectacular fashion, not in the anthropological sense the authors of the Left Behind series have portrayed, but as more of a Stephen Spielberg production, with boiling clouds, trumpets, angels descending out of the sky, Moon turned to blood, the whole nine yards. Imagine coming to the realization that it was all coming true, just as the evangelists had been warning for years, and that there was something more awesome than just the cold, hard, physical reality we inhabit. Wouldn't THAT be something???Yet in the final analysis, it's that cold, hard, physical reality that I will content myself with. My life is not so meaningless that I need the fear of a Rapture and the End Times to make sense of it all ... nor do I need Heaven or Hell to bribe or scare me into behaving decently,  thank you very much. "},{"Title":"Well, as far as these type of movies are concerned, this one is not completely horrible.","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Surprisingly enough does movie does have some redeeming quality in it when it moves toward its end. For the other part this movie is being a really bad and lame one, with a small budget, insultingly bad written script and everything that goes with it.It's silly that with all the money going around in the Christian circles they never can seem to get sufficient funds to make a decent movie with. I'm not a religious, so I couldn't care less really but film-making does some like a good tool to reach a new audience for churches and getting people more interested and curious in reading the bible for instance. In that regard these movies always seem like a wasted opportunity.The low budget does really hurt the movie and brings it down. It makes the movie laughable to watch with its effects and it just gives the overall movie a campy B-movie like feeling.But what's hurting this movie more is its writing. The stuff that just happens in this movie is just insulting to the intelligence and then I'm not even complaining or talking about the religious aspects of the whole story. The way the movie progresses is just so improbable and the people within this movie do such highly unlikely things that it's being insulting to its viewers.I also hated how the movie was being like a soap opera at times. Seemed to me that they simply had a hard time turning this into a full length movie and they added in some characters and dramatic developments just to fill things up. I just couldn't cared less really at times.Still it needs to be said that the movie gets more solid and steady toward its end, when its story gets more focused on its essence. Still it remains predictable all but it prevented this movie from being a complete wreck to watch and as far as these type of movies are concerned, there are far worser one to watch out there, though I don't think this movie will win over any new souls.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The plot for this movie was taken from the book Left Behind by Jerry B. Jenkins and Tim LaHaye. Although I like the book better, it is a good attempt at relaying what happens in the book. This book is the first in a series about the end times as outlined in Revelation in the Bible.This movie may not have the best actors, but I love the storyline and the characters. If you don't want to hear what the Bible has to say about the end times, don't watch it then. But if you are curious, this movie is a great way to find out what is in the Bible, while being entertained. I think the movie does a great job of depicting the emotions that people would have if they were really in this situation. Another comment said the movie was cheesy, but I think that if many people suddenly disappeared from the earth, people would be pretty emotional. Overall I believe this movie is worth watching. "}{"Title":"everyone should see this.","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The time has come for people to realise what is about to happen and what is truly happening. It is a fact that everyone should see this movie and get their minds straight before it is too late.This movie is so correct that it will move anyone and everyone that watches it. "},{"Title":"go see it and judge for yourself","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First off, to clearify something, If you are like me, and love action and special effects...you have to be a little more open minded to appreciate this movie.  I loved it, I have been reading the books ever since they came out.  I heard about the movie and then I had millions of ideas how they can make the movie.  I thought about what it would be like and how exciting it would be.  We just got it and well, I gave it a 10/10, but not because the special effects were incredible, or because the acting was oscar winning, no...I thought for the little resources they had, this was the best movie I have seen.  This is not a HUGE hollywood production, there was not 180 Million dollars spend on this movie, and the selection of actors was not that big.  So with all they had, I thought this was incredible, and hopefully there will be more out there.  I will definately support this project.  I gained a lot of respect for the director.  This was a challenging task and I hope it gets a large audience so that they can afford to make the next one even better.  It also feels good watching a movie without swearing or nudity. I would definately recomend this to anyone, it was well done. "},{"Title":"Don't Be....","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My dad has been telling me how good the books are for almost a year now.  After watching this movie...I NEED to read the first one. I thought it was great.  Of course, you're going to get preached at a little, but I thought it was done very tastefully, and if you really don't want to hear Christian things, you probably shouldn't see this movie.  That is the point of both the books and the movie--to teach people about what will happen.  Yes, they're entertaining, but there's actually a higher purpose.  Anyway, the movie didn't over-emphasize the message, so I don't want to either. If you like action, intrigue, and good acting, and don't mind not being sworn at for 2 hours, you will like this film. "},{"Title":"Wow","Date":"19 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was incredible; i can't really describe how i felt when i watched this movie but i do know i didn't move for an hour and a half, i was completely enthralled with it. Great Job Cloud Ten Entertainment o) "},{"Title":"Powerful content, I wish everyone could see this movie.","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm so glad to see there are finally some movies coming out with a christian message. I get so tired of seeing nothing but violence and sex on the big screen. Of course, we always want to blame Hollywood, and they should shoulder a lot of the blame. But the bottom line is that if we, as moviegoers, didn't go to see the violent, sex-filled movies, they would quit making them. I gave Left Behind a rating of 10 because it was well acted, believable and had a powerful message.  "},{"Title":"The Movie is not like the book","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read several of the coments about how the movie is bad, while not the best movie, The book is better. I read the book first and when I saw the movie I couldn't enjoy it due to all the changes. I ask that if you see the movie don't let that judge the book.  "},{"Title":"This Is What Happens With Small Budget","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's these kind of movies that continue to give Christian film-making a bad name, meaning sub-par acting, poor special-effects and just an overall B film feeling to the whole project.The reason, is course, is money. When you don't have a big budget and support from the Hollywood community on all phases of the film, how are you going to make a classy movie? You have to be some multi-millionaire with clout like Mel Gibson or Robert Duvall, otherwise you are going to wind up with something like this. Mainstream Hollywood hasn't made a pro- Christian film is 40 years and probably won't for another 40. Just check out the early scene with the planes flying overhead. I thought I was a watching a 1950s low-budget sci-fi show.Yes, kudos for someone at least trying to make an earnest effort to re-create the suspense based on the best-selling Left Behind books, but this is not the answer. Big bucks and top special-effects people are needed for high production values and to attract top actors. This is what you get when you don't have that kind of budget. Hollywood is too atheistically-biased to produce Biblical movies anymore. Goodness, what would their peers think? "},{"Title":"I simply don't see the value.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"       Let me first say that I am not a Christian. I do not subscribe to any religion, and my views of the Book of Revelation are preterest at most.       I am, however, a lover of film. And let me be the next to say that this film is awful. Abysmal. Worse than The Omega Code, and that's a bad thing. Kirk Cameron's performance was leagues worse than the insipid acting effort put forth by Casper Van Dien, and THAT is definitely a bad thing.Take the location of the shoots. Much of this film takes place in Israel or the United States. This film was shot entirely inside Canada. I'm sorry, but Saskatchewan wheat fields simply do not resemble the Israeli landscape in even the most far-fetched scope of imagination (which this film asks the viewer to entertain throughout).     The most infuriating thing about this film is that it WILL win awards, mostly from the Protestant groups that applaud its very existence. This is the same reason that the horribly written and conceived books sell millions. As an aspiring novelist, this also makes me ill. To all the fans of the books and movie, think about this     How many times have you seen a straight-to-video movie muscle its way into the theaters? I hope beyond hope that it fails dismally. 1 star (I'd give it none if there was an option).  "},{"Title":"It's too bad you can't rate ZERO!","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind is the kind of we know what we know cause we know it movie that Christians (and most any other naive person) needs to help them feel like what they THINK and BELIEVE (not KNOW) is right. But, at the same time I feel bad for the little guys, because this is not a well made film. It does not help ANY message. I work at a video store, and I KNOW the ONLY reason people went to see this movie was because they were religious and they thought it was. ANYBODY on this earth who THINKS they know what will happen in the future is wrong, unless they think they know that they don't know. I've had about enough (but only after I've had too much) of these people walking around with their noses in the air thinking that a movies starring a semi-talented TV actor means something above me.Please, if you love yourself you'll stay away. I refuse to go into any detail about this movie (not because A-I didn't see it (because I did), B-it was too shocking for my atheist-self to handle (because it wasn't), or C-I really don't have anything to say bad about it (because I do). The Reason, (which is a word nobody who helped make this movie understands) is that I want this movie out of my head, I want that it was made out of my head, I want that I watched ALL OF IT WITH AN OPEN MIND out of my head, I want the message that Kirk so proudly and coachly gives at the end of the movie out of my head. I only want all the things that were in my head BEFORE viewing this movies there, anything directly connected with this movie that's floating in my head GET OUT!  My peaceful rage is ending. I'm sorry that somebody in this world went to the theater to see this movie about what could happen in the future (but won't) when they could have given that Seven Dollars Plus to any number of Human, Animal, or Rain Forest charity. But if they did that then they wouldn't be able to BELIEVE in the fact that it's real, they might have to fact what is.  LEFT BEHIND ZERO (out of ****) "},{"Title":"OK, maybe not the best, but...","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First up, I will say that I am a Christian, and I will say that the majority of Christian movies I have seen up to this point have been very disappointing. Although the messages they have tried to get across have been obvious, the filmmakers have not conveyed those messages well. This, however, is usually not their fault, as there is usually some sort of low budget handicap hindering these movies. Even keeping that in mind, the movies are not enjoyable. Left Behind, on the other hand, is.In comparison to those previously mentioned other Christian movies, Left Behind is a great effort to present the story of Revelation seriously and realistically. I have never had a chance to read any of the Left Behind books, which I have really wanted to do, so I cannot compare the movie to them. Granted, it is not a perfect 10 or anything, but I will say that it was a very well made movie. The acting was pretty good, and the special effects were, well, decent. There were only two things I really did not like about the movie. One was the writing. It was simply not written as well as it could have been. It was somewhat cliched, and there were a few groaner lines, things that people would never, ever, say in real life. The other was the music. For the most part, the soundtrack was pretty good, but why in the world did they have to start cutting through the serious music for some soft rock type music? That was simply not appropriate. Also, there were moments during which silence might have been more appropriate than any music they could have used, especially during scenes of mourning. Apart from these points, I thought the movie was pretty good. Even though it lacked technically, it is still a great improvement over its predecessors. No matter how much room there was for improvement, it must be admitted that there is an element of Left Behind that makes one think about the times to come and how to be ready for them. If you watch this movie with the right attitude, not one that wants sensory overload, but one that wants to be challenged, even if only a little, you may find something to chew on in it.   "}{"Title":"Glad this went straight to video...","Date":"30 October 2004","Score":"13 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I could not be more disappointed. This was such an inspirational book series. How sad it would have been to have those who have not yet read the books to discover them through this movie.Unfortunately, I am not a student of movie making so I am not quite sure how this adaptation was so terribly de-railed, but I suspect that what may have happened is that the production house assumed that because they had a hit series in book form, that any rendition of the movie would be a success, not taking the time to develop an art form that would stand on it's own.I do not believe that the lack of believable special effects is a key in this movie's ills. The Passion of Christ demonstrates this position.However, I understand there is a second installment and look forward to a better product. "},{"Title":"One of the worst book adaptation films","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The Left Behind book series is one of the most popular book series. It is very well-written (although I didn't really like #2,10, or 12), and the way Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins evokes emotions dramatically. Vic Sarin now brings the books to life. Or so they tell you.The movie does start out with what happens in the book, but it just destroys a classic scene. It's very unrealistic and the effects are very bad. The movie then abandons the book, comes up with some politically strange scenes, introduces the villain (whom you don't even know is a villain), and finally returns back to the book for the Rapture scene.The Rapture scene is easily the best Christian scene; it was so well written and didn't come off as cheesy. One problem most of this scene was taken directly from the book! Therefore, the writers did almost nothing here. But I did love the scene.More story lines become present and their are many cheesy and pointless scenes. Rayford Steele is introduced as a man struggling to find some ground after his wife disappears. In the books he is the main character and a much brighter man than he is in the films. Brad Johnson is very flat as Rayford Steele and his performance doens't weaken the film but it doesn't strengthen it. Plus they have made Buck the main character, which in the books, he is not.So what about Buck? Kirk Cameron portrays him (this guy's been in so many Christian films at this point), and I thought he had the second best performance. That isn't really saying much though, considering the fact that he rarely has a good moment as an actor. As a matter of fact, he cannot act out someone in pain.Janaya Stephens plays Chloe Steele, Rayford's daughter. She's a very B grade actor but does well with her role. However, the love story between her and Buck is so horribly written and so random that it significantly degrades her performance. Bruce Barnes (I forget the guy's name who plays him) is very cheesy and nothing like he is in the book. I didn't really like his character that much and it made the film worse than already it is.But I now have good news; Gordon Currie! Gordon Currie is a wonderful actor, beautifully matching the evilness of Nicolae. It would be hard to remake the Left Behind series without him as Nicloae Carpathia.While this film completely ravages the book and fails on many levels, there are some golden moments that really strengthen the film. The Rapture Scene, the UN showdown, and the closing scene are all very dramatic and those scenes deserve an 8.0 for being so fantastic. Gordon Currie steals the show as the ultimate bad guy of humanity.But sadly enough, neither of these two good things could do much to save the film. 4.8/10. "},{"Title":"Eh","Date":"2 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't agree with any of the theology in the Left Behind series, but nonetheless I found the books gripping and I read 8 of 12 of them. Undeniably good writing and interesting story. However, I didn't have very high expectations for the movie. There was no way mainstream Hollywood would have taken up a Christian series and produced a big-budget movie. So it was done independently... and it just felt like I was watching a really long TV show. It just didn't FEEL like a movie; it didn't have that movie experience to it, if anybody knows what I'm talking about. So the movie suffered because of that, and the low-budget, poor special effects were another detraction for me.On top of that, I feel that Gordon Currie was woefully miscast as Nicolie Carpathia. Reading the book, my impression of NC was that he was supposed to be this charming, dazzling, amazingly handsome guy who spoke English with almost zero trace of an accent. So I imagined somebody like Pierce Brosnan in the role. Instead, they found some Clay Aiken pencil-neck who looks like an employee of the month from Best Buy, and gave him a really bad fake accent. So that lost a few stars for me right there. A movie is just not convincing when the major villain doesn't look or sound the way he's supposed to.The acting was okay, but nothing to write home about. Some of the scenes - like one of the conversion scenes (can't remember which one) - were real seat-squirmers for me. And some of the Christian rock music or whatever it was, was really out of place for some of the scenes, like in the one with Kirk Cameron praying in the bathroom.In short, it wasn't a bad movie, but it just didn't do it for me. Stick to the book, folks, it's much better. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have read the Left Behind series and I have to say that I was really disappointed when I saw this movie. Everything was so jumbled around. Characters where introduced way before they should have been and some of the actors chosen were just not right for the parts. I know the movie is never as good as the book, but this was a real twist on the story. On the brighter side, the movie does do a fairly descent job of mapping biblical events and showing the plan of salvation. And when it comes down to it, that is really the most important thing about this series. I would recommend reading the book series if you can, but for those who want answers regarding God's plan of salvation, the King James Bible is as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"Nice but not so well","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I like Bible-based films, but this one is slightly weaker. Why? Maybe, the script itself is not that exciting. The idea of having so many people vanishing into a thin air is neat, but it looks like a heavy reworking from The Langoliers. The play of several main actors is not that deeply convincing, and then, finally, the man called Nicolas Carpathia is unbearable. I mean, this terrible creature as he was intended to be portrayed seems to be a vain, weak parody. The actor's play is also not so well, and then, the scene with killing of two men in the UN Hall is more like a farce, not a real tragedy. It does not convince and leaves with a feeling that it had to be better but simply did not work out well. The Christian element is obvious but also not so vivid and as a whole, this film is more like a nice, but largely unsuccessful try. "},{"Title":"not worth it","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am on the 5th book of the series. I find the series thus far absolutely wonderful. So when I found Tribulation Force II DVD in the library and was really excited. Although it started out slow, I had high hopes because a lot of movies do. But even as the movie go on, this one got no better. Maybe because the writers are so great, and the books are so interesting, that caused the movie to be SO boring. The acting was not bad. (Even though I only recognized two of the actors.) It dragged is terribly that I turned it off before it was even half over. It was a real disappointment. The stunts, the graphics and the scenery were not all that realistic. Maybe it was a low budget film, that would have to be my guess. If they put a little more money into the movie as far as better actors, and stunts, but it would have flew. But in my opinion, don't waste your time looking for the DVD, read, read, read! "},{"Title":"Could've used some work, but still OK","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Left Behind is an apocalyptic thriller based upon the popular series by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. JenkinsUnfortunately, they're nothing alike. The Lalonde brothers used the cool parts of the book and left out everything else, such as the Israeli Air Strike, The Rapture, the exploding car, and the conference showdown. I'll point out good and bad points.Bad points 1. Cheesy- there are some extremely over dramatic lines that are acted out horribly.2. Avoids the book- as I stated, it only four exciting events in the book and the characters.***SPOILERS IN THIS PART***3. Some stupid lines-when the jets crash after a couple of minutes, Buck says This attack appears to be failing. No crud!***SPOILER OVER***4. Some bad acting- Kirk Cameron is the worst actor in the film. He doesn't do such a good job as portraying Buck Williams.5. Rushed- This movie is very rushed and takes a 468 paged book and makes it a 90 minute film. This just shows how much they skip from the book.Good points 1. Music- The music is played by James Covell (?), and he does a very good job. The opening music is an epic, and the rest of the music in the film I would give a 7.9/10.2. Nicolae Carpathia- Gordon Currie steals the show as playing Nicolae Carpathia the ***SPOILER*** Antichrist.***SPOILER OVER*** He is very menacing but still holds a persuasive charisma, and he is very believable as his position in the spiritual realm.3. Some great scenes- There are two excellent scenes in the film, two of them being the four events stated above.4. The Rapture- A little bit cheesy, but this scene had my heart pumping when it came. It's especially scary ***SPOILER AGAIN*** in these two parts I'm afraid he's gone off naked (clothes in his seat), and Honey, where are the kids? These parts become the most powerful lines of the film.*** NO MORE SPOILERS FROM THIS POINT ON***I wish I could pull out another good point, but there is none. the movie is a decent action thriller that would've been better as a Broadway play. It might be worth the look, depending on how well your tolerance level is.Like I said, it could've used some work, but it's still OK. "},{"Title":"it's a jack chick tract on film... eeeugghh....","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Got this ex-rental for $10 from a video shop, the price included $10 of video hire... I think I was gypped, paid far too much for this preachy, plodding, interminably boring propaganda. At least Jack Chick tracts show the amusingly anguished faces of the people going to hell.Actually, according to Jack Chick, The Catholic Church keeps the name of every Protestant church member in the world in a big computer in the Vatican for use in future persecutions, so I guess it was easy really for the UN in this movie to calculate the numbers of vanished --- they just asked the Vatican who the true believers were... Would have been easy, cos of course no one at the Vatican would have vanished. "},{"Title":"Possible spoilers. HORRIBLE!","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Normally I don't review movies, but I feel I had to.The book series left behind is a very good series, and I recommend it to all (it gets *extremely* preachy, but besides that, it's a great storyline). However, the movie focuses only on the first book, and barely even touches on that. The characters that die don't die in the same way as in the books--not even remotely similarly. There is no Revelations storyline, only one mention of the Antichrist, and overall is just a bunch of people hating Carpathia. Much of the storyline, I don't remember from the books, and much of the book is completely left out--no mention of Hattie, Buck, Rayford, Chloe, etc's background, no explanation of what is called the disappearances, and absolutely no mention of Chiam (spelling?) or Tsion.Horrible. I cannot even convey the horribleness of this movie. "},{"Title":"I still don't know what to think.","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I just finished watching the movie and am sitting here not knowing what to think. I am new to the series and when I heard that there were movies based on the books I had to see them. I just finished watching the first and am not sure if I should even bother with the second. I love the books and think that they even surpass Harry Potter as my favorites. They have brought me back to God, but this movie would have deterred me from the books had I seen it first. The actors who played the roles were well placed however, I didn't feel connected with the characters at all. My husband walked through the room and said that Rayford was a jerk. If he had read the book he would have seen Rayford in a complete different light. I will watch the next movie but if it is as bad as this one, there is no way I am watching the third. Hopefully it will not do too much damage to the book series. "}{"Title":"What an awesome, faith-affirming movie!","Date":"30 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I LOVE this movie, but it's not as good as the book. However, they rarely are. These books have really helped me to reconnect with God, and I hope they (and the movies) help others do the same! I think that the cast of characters are PERFECT! I especially love Janaya as Chloe, my favorite character. And Kirk as Buck--WOW! Kirk and Janaya have GREAT chemistry; guaranteed to be an awesome pairing! I can't wait to see Left Behind--World War III!!! I absolutely LOVE this DVD as well! They have so many awesome special features! My personal favorite is the Making of Left Behind, which is hosted by Janaya. (Can you tell I really like that girl?!)God Bless, Amanda "},{"Title":"Not THAT bad (but not to good either)","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First I will reveal my bias. I am a Christian, I haven't read the books and I'm getting into film making.I rented this movie to see how bad it was. Yes it's bad but it's not awful. I found several redeeming qualities, namely a few scenes that really worked. One of them when the father goes to the church to find the pastor hasn't been taken, along with another one to one scene (which I forget) which actually conveys genuine emotion.What didn't work? Lot's. The opening is overly confusing and there is no hook, the characters are too sketchy, people disapear but their clothes are left?? etc... etc...What REALLY didn't work. The Make be a believer song near the end with Kirk in the bathroom. What was with that?? It completely destroyed what might of been a touching moment. Also the DVD release boasts features such as music in the menu screens!! If you don't have any features please don't pretend you do.ummm.... 4/10Mike "},{"Title":"Critical Thinking","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I wanted to like this movie.  Honest.  But the longer I watched, the more depressed I became from the constant and embarrassing faith exhortations.Why can't real Christians make good motion pictures?  Well, creation of (good) film art takes a sophisticated and analytical consideration of humanity, life, empathy, etc.It's no secret that fundamentalist of any ilk have few of these qualities. Simple folk make simple movies ...and simple people like 'em.  The very reality of low-brow Hollywood films reflect that posit  People are morons. --Nature of the beast, I guess, no pun intended.I just wish these guys would challenge themselves and make a film that tackles the complicated theology of their religion rather than preach the dogma, but I realize it's beyond their capabilities to consider their ideals with any level of subtlety.  Watch 5 minutes of TCN to confirm it.Last Temptation of Christ, anyone?  Hell, The Stand even had redeeming and artistic qualitites.  Rather to look to films such as Pi, which had wonderful religious designs, instead of hack work in the vein of Omega Code and Left Behind. ...and Kirk Cameron?  Good God, what an idiot.  "},{"Title":"Boring, cheap-looking entertainment","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is the latest sad attempt by Christian filmmakers to hit the mainstream with a boring, preachy end-times movie. I'm not sure why, but it seems the only type of entertainment these production companies can make is stupid rapture movies with awful acting. Left Behind is definetely true to this form. The plot of this movie is scattered and disjointed, and we jump from scene to scene without any timing or logic. Alot of other people have complained about the cheap-looking special effects, but there were barely any special effects moments in the movie, so it wasn't a very big deal. However, what truly made the movie so unbearable was the terrible acting. None of the actors seem capable of showing genuine emotion, and are either stiffly reciting their lines like cardboard cutouts, or having boring, melodramatic tantrums. Kirk Cameron is mediocre in his role as Buck Williams, which is more than I can say for the rest of the cast. However, not all the blame can be placed on the actors because the script they are working with is so lame to begin with. Overall, Left Behind is very low-quality entertainment. It does not succeed on a theological level, and simply ends up being boring and preachy.   "},{"Title":"Nothing redeeming about this film","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Well folks, I'm a Christian, but please don't confuse this film with Christianity. There is nothing redeeming about it, from the casting to the script to the direction. I tried to like the film, but there's just nothing here worth liking, and I'm just being honest, not vindictive. Please read a book by G. K . Chesterton or something instead... "},{"Title":"disclaimer","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The book left behind is based on the bible but of course it is not the bible so we shouldn't be so surprised that some facts may not be accurate.  Just as movies are a form of entertainment so are books.  It's kind of like those fortune-tellers that you call up.  There's a little disclaimer at the bottom of the screen that says for entertainment purposes only.  And besides you should never count on a movie to give you the full truth about anything. If you believe in anything believe in the Holy Bible. And as for the low quality of the film, that is expected.  It takes millions and millions of dollars to make a movie.  Hollywood has millions of dollars to make top notch movies that have A-list actors and top of the line special effects. This is a Christian movie made by a Christian film company, not Hollywood. At the end of the Left Behind tape kirk cameron leaves a message.  He says that if you want Hollywood to start making these movies and giving them the time and money that they deserve to make them of excellent quality then you have to show hollywood that there is a market for this type of movie.  So don't complain about how crappy the acting is or the affects are. Encourage people to watch the movie more so Hollywood will realize that there is actually an audience for Christian films and start producing.  "},{"Title":"Kirk Cameron, poor cinematography and wrongheaded theology.","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Thanks to its laughable effects, bad dialogue and poor cinematography, the film is lousy. As if that's not enough, this exercise in preaching to the saved also stars Kirk Cameron. What else do you need to know?Admittedly, Gordon Currie was fine as Nicholae Carpathia- I've never seen a movie character before who appeared so shiny yet whose persona made me feel so much like I needed a shower after seeing the film. Good job.Incidentally, anyone who thinks that this movie's theology is solidly biblically-based needs to read Gary Demar's book, END TIMES FICTION. That book, which focuses on LEFT BEHIND, shows how belief in the Rapture is actually unscriptural. "},{"Title":"a plot that needs reworking...flawed theology???","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  According to this film there is a rapture and a second chance at salvation in christ folowing it. In the bible there is no second chance at redemption. The parable of the bridegroom points out that there is no second chance. Is the film flawed? I would say so. The plot has christ doing a pretzel in the sky while a second chance is bestowed on mankind. Why would christ ressurect the dead and rapture the christians only to have to do it again at the end foretold in this films explanation of events? I rest my case. "},{"Title":"THE OMEN MOVIES WERE MORE BELIEVABLE THAN THIS","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Another brilliant MIS-INTERPRETATION of the scriptures by money making hacks. The erroneous premise is based on the fact that the Rapture will take away all Christians and only the wicked will be left behind. WRONG God will separate the wheat from the chaff. So these smug Christians aren't going anywhere. They get to stay and play with the Antichrist to prove themselves worthy. The film is amusing but not too believable. People are so despirate in their mediocrity that will accept any kind of crap presented to them. Plus I have never been a Kirk Cameron fan.  "},{"Title":"This movie was left behind.","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was so excited about seeing this movie. The trailers built it up as something scary yet exciting. I got left behind from the start.Here we have Kirk Cameron playing Buck Williams a CNN reporter. They sky fills with these fake looking airplanes and the bomobs start falling. Buck and the old man just happen to be close to some secret HQ near a cave. Then Buck runs outside points a camera at himself which look so stupid and starts reporting with bombs falling all around him. Then you have the pathetic actors back at the so called CNN station saying Oh buck be careful Yeah thats our Buck LOL whatever!!!  "}{"Title":"Falls short","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  First let me say that I LOVED the books, and I became a Christian as a result, but the film just wasn't up to the mark.  I'm not going to spoil it for anyone but let's just say there are quite a few changes to the storyline, and just as much left out.  The acting isn't as good as I'd hoped (Buck wasn't too bad) and the books described Carpathia as being charismatic etc but sadly the guy who played him was not.For a low budget film the effects at the start of Russia attacking Israel weren't all that bad, but the generally it relies too much on the viewer having read the books to make sense of an often-weak and wandering plot. I'm sad to say I'm disappointed.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the book","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw the movie, I thought it was good. Then I read the book which was great. The movie didn't seem as good. But to be fair I watched the movie and was very disappointed. It lacked the energy and excitement that the book had. Without reading the book I would have given the movie a 6/10. After reading the book, however the movie gets a 3/10. "},{"Title":"Left Aghast...","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"   Left Behind, based on the New York Times best-selling novel by Jerry B. Jenkins, features Kirk Cameron in a post perm hair-do, and a post-stardom role. First off, I wasn't a big fan of the book. If you want a good Christian book, read Pilgrim's Progress. However, I realize that many did like the novel, so I tried to watch this film in all aspect of being a fan of the writing. It stunk. Not only was it nothing like the book, but the acting was horrible, the script reeked, the direction style was confusing, and once again, I find myself wondering why they can't ever make a decent Christian film? I'm still waiting for Spielberg to make one, but I'm fearing that will never happen now... ) If you liked Left Behind the novel, skip this film altogether. I heard the sequel is better, but I'm still not going to see it, because I fear it would just bring back horrid memories of this film. Want to see good Christian entertainment? Two words-Veggie Tales.Left Behind the Movie gets 1.5/5 stars from me.John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Booooooooring!","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To date, I have read all of the books in the Left Behind series.  This movie, which is supposed to cover the first book in the series, does the book an incredible injustice.  If you have not read the book, please do not see this movie.  The acting is cheesy.....  The special effects are horrendous.... and the only stand out acting is done by Clarence Gilyard.Perhaps someday we will see a true epic based on this awesome book. "},{"Title":"What a let down!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To tell the truth, I was looking for a lot more then what I received from this movie. They seemed to have thrown most of the book out the window after the people were Left Behind. I felt that the writers and director left the viewers and series' readers behind when they wrote the script.Too much of the book was left behind and just plain thrown out. To much of the movie did not follow the book.It is amazing that they can turn a book like Harry Potter into a movie that follows the book's story, but when they make what could have been an important film like Left Behind they screwed it up.Let's face it, the series' fans wanted to see the book on the screen, not a rewritten story line.All in all, I was very disappointed in the movie. "},{"Title":"What a let down!","Date":"5 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To tell the truth, I was looking for a lot more then what I received from this movie. They seemed to have thrown most of the book out the window after the people were Left Behind. I felt that the writers and director left the viewers and series' readers behind when they wrote the script.Too much of the book was left behind and just plain thrown out. To much of the movie did not follow the book.It is amazing that they can turn a book like Harry Potter into a movie that follows the book's story, but when they make what could have been an important film like Left Behind they screwed it up.Let's face it, the series' fans wanted to see the book on the screen, not a rewritten story line.All in all, I was very disappointed in the movie. "},{"Title":"More like a made for TV movie","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  And so the continuing saga goes on...and on...and on...and on. That's why I quit reading the book series. I felt like it was a total rip off. It never ends, there's no sense of closure. Can't they just take it from point A to point B instead of leading you through a doorway like the Carpathia guy in the movie. That's why it was a flop. I mean, no one ever really heard of it, except if you were churched. I'd rate it a 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Different view","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  All I can say on a different take is, I believe this film is a degradation of how our Creator God operates! Someone has totally misinterpreted the Word in writing the book and also producing this film. Hopefully true believers will know the real story! "},{"Title":"Muddled and Confusing","Date":"25 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read the first eight novels in the Left Behind series, and while I doubt these books will be pushing Homer, Shakespeare and Hemingway off the shelves, I have found them, for the most part, to be reasonably well written and entertaining.This film is another matter however. There seemed to be very little devoted to establishing a background and a coherent storyline. It almost seemed to be a Cliff Notes companion to the written material. Personally, if I HADN'T read the books, I would have been totally lost as to exactly what was going on.I'll give the folks associated with the film kudos for a good effort, but frankly it had a little bit of an Ed Wood production feel to it.**** out of ********** "},{"Title":"Cloud Ten Is Better Than This","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Cloud Ten can make some great movies. They're like a Christian Full Moon. But this was atrocious. Totally awful. The opening scene is lifted right out of THE LANGOLIERS. The anti-christ is Russian. How lame can you get? 2 Sequels? Oh dear. C'mon Cloud Ten. Go back to the APOCALYPSE series, which is very good. "}{"Title":"An okay movie","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked the books better. But I will admit this was a good movie.I like the message that they are sending. And the story-line was pretty good. This may be Kirk Cameron's best acting yet. "},{"Title":"Doesn't Deliver","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After the success of the novels, I had great hopes for the movie. Unfortunately, like many Christian movie productions, it seems that they are still left behind on the quality angle. I know this sort of critique borders on blasphemy, but even though the movie deals with Biblical truths, I think more consideration should be shown into developing these types of movies. It looks to me as if the producers say   Well, we put in enough Bible stuff to satisfy the Evangelicals, so they'll go and see it no matter cheaply it's done. I'm sorry. but movie goers aren't that stupid! So what's wrong with the movie? Most of the actors are well cast, but Kirk Cameron just doesn't look rugged enough to play Buck Williams. The dialogue is too hackneyed, and the direction is less than adequate. In the opening minutes, we are transported to various locales with the appropriate defining subtitles, but are given no reason why we're there while rush to another location. I also heard a lot of promises of how the movie was going to be true to the book, but it seems that the director and writers lost their nerve when it came to crucial dramatic moments. (Spoilers Ahead)Besides the Rapture itself, two key moments in the book are the personal salvation experiences of Buck and Rayford Steele. No matter your views on this subject, this transformation is necessary to change these characters' motivations for the rest of the series. In the movie, all we see is Buck mumbling some incomprehensible words in the bathroom, and Ray entering a church for the first time. We are then expected to believe that these two men have now become Christians, even though there is no clear indication of when this took place!It says a lot about a movie's entertainment value when the villain is the only good product of the movie (Remember Gary Oldman's Dr. Smith in Lost In Space?) Nicolae Carpathia's final scene in the movie is the only part that is actually well done. Instead of being disappointed by this movie, I suggest Years of the Beast, or the recent Migiddo. You'll be given a much better vision of the Apocalypse. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The book, 'Left Behind' is a wonderful Christian novel, and one of the best-selling novels of the 1990s. I am not a Christian, but that does not mean that I can't recognize a good book when I read it. Unfortunately, as is the case with many Christian movies, the directors did an absolutely wonderful job of ruining a good thing. Almost every actor and actress is wrong for his or her character, especially Kirk Cameron as Buck Williams.  The scene in which the Rapture occurs is filled to the brim with hysterics, rather than confusion, which makes everyone left behind look a little too dumb. 1 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Possible spoiler?","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The only thing worse than a bad movie is a bad movie that doesn't have an ending!  Not having been familiar with the book series, and intrigued by the sci-fi premise, I expected a resolution for the time I invested in this one. But no!  It's just basically a setup for more to come.They should have put First in a series or To Be Continued right on the box.  That sort of thing is OK for Tolkien, but not for this one. "},{"Title":"Christian Sci-fi","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw about 10 minutes of this film being watched by a fellow dormmantein college. Beyone the blantant religous themes, How is Kirk Cameron still getting work!? All these TBN funded christian doom films have one thing in common. Special effects that make Ed Wood look like Steven Speilberg, preachy dialogue and wooden acting.Avoid this film, even if you are a believer. What Would Jesus Do? Probably want his money back. "},{"Title":"A disservice to the christian community","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Let me start by saying that I've really enjoyed the books. They are well written and the message is good. I took the same expectations that I had from the books to see the movie. What a let-down. This had to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen. The acting was poor, dialogue dragged and was unbearable to hear, the music is poor, ect. So I watched it a second time, this time with low expectations. I was really trying not to be too critical. It didn't work.This film tries to prepetuate the christian message, mainly the end-time rapture and tribulation message. It tries to get people to think and to reconsider the way they're living today. What it accomplished ... nothing. Nothing but ridicule from everyone except from most christians. I believe in the message. I believe in the end-time rapture and the tribulation that is to follow. And I rather believe in it strongly. And it is because of that, that I'm rather upset at movies like this. They should leave this story to people who can actually make movies. And the argument, well, it's got the message; people will see it and get it; who cares about the quality, is a BS argument. People go to see movies that at least look like quality; they don't go out and watch garbage.So sadly, I have to agree with most of the comments here that this movie is horrible; don't watch it - read the books instead. "},{"Title":"A Movie With A Message","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The message is that all non-Christians are not to be trusted because when tribulation comes they will side with the anti-Christ. It is a very hateful and dangerous message in the complicated and diverse world we live in. A world where everything isn't black or white, left or right, Christ or anti-Christ, but the producers of this movie would like you to think so. This movie was a real stinker.  The acting stunk, the music stunk, the script stunk and the story&#133;   Need I say more. And, yes, I actually watched the movie from beginning to end. Ouch!  "},{"Title":"Pretty typical of the genre terrible","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The poor Book of Revelations.  It seems like the people most interested in making movies about it are incapable of anything resembling competent filmmaking.  Shallow acting, cheesy dialog, cheap-looking sets and effects undermine any hope of credibility.  It doesn't matter whether you believe in the religious aspects, the movie should be able to support the suspension of disbelief.Part of the problem is that the filmmakers insert their religious content in ways that they obviously think is subtle but really is pretty bludgeoning.The producers of this film, Peter and Paul Lalonde used to host a TV show called This Week in Bible Prophecy that purported to interpret the news in light of the Book of Revelations.  It was hilariously cheesy and literal-minded, but having watched a few segments, the ridiculousness of Left Behind was no surprise at all. "},{"Title":"OK, but not great","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say I expected more of the Left Behind movie, and it would have been nice if the movie had followed the book more closely.  The screen writers took far too many creative liberties which I won't go into here.  I hope they're not seriously going ahead with the next movie in the installment, I really think it would be a mistake as this movie has set the tone for the series, and it's not a good one. "},{"Title":"A flat average movie.","Date":"7 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was okay.  I did not get the feeling that I was being indoctrinated with Christian propaganda.  Like many movies, this movie has its merits as a half-way decent dramatization of a fictional book.  And lets face it, until when or if the events described in the Bible's book of Revelation come to pass, it is just fiction.That being said, this movie was average.  Good for a one time viewing.  It did not make me laugh.  It did not make me cry.  It didn't really elicit any strong emotions in me at all.   Still, it was moderately entertaining; with mystery, intrigue, paranormal activity, and a surprise twist ending. "}{"Title":"Interesting idea, mediocre production","Date":"17 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A friend recommended the Left Behind books to me and I couldn't help but check out the movie too. The whole idea behind the Left Behind series, whether you hold with it or not, is certainly thought provoking. I think the story is good. Love the Nicolae character and really liked the Bruce Barnes character (Clarence Gilyard). I realize that the movie was produced by a Christian film company who may not have as many technological gizmos at their disposal, but it is a shame that the movie couldn't have been a little slicker. Still, I think it's a decent rental. I wouldn't have been pleased if I had spent top dollar to see it at the theatre though. "},{"Title":"WWJD? Sue for defamation.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie (and the books that spawned it) requires a willing suspension of disbelief. And humor. And compassion. And higher cortical functions. Highly recommended for post-op lobotomy patients and/or Southern Baptists, a reassuring affirmation of stupidity and bigotry. John Stossel probably gives it thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Interesting film about the end of the world","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Left Behind is a hard film to swallow unless you are a believer. While I believe in the possibility of Armageddon, I find it hard to believe that children and people would disappear without their clothes everywhere off the world. They don't explain the cause of their disappearance or where they go too. I am glad for Kirk Cameron to have an opportunity. I always liked him since Growing Pains. He does his best work yet in this film with his wife, Chelsea Noble. But I loved Colin Fox and he was totally miscasted for the role as the Jewish doctor, Dr. Chaim Rosenzweig, with the formula to feed the world. While this story is hard to believe, its still watchable but don't panic about the end of the world yet. These books are partly fiction. "},{"Title":"One more comment... (negative)","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It has occurred to me to make *one more comment* on Left Behind.  This is to serve to put a fine point on the general observation that the film is porn for fundies, and sacrifices the interests of genuine moral and religious virtue to the baser goal of simply Being Right; a much easier and wider path.Look at the specific example of the character of the U.N. leader.  The script seeks to depict him in accordance with some end-time prophesy that he would be a master of deception.  How do they show this?  They show him hypmotizing people in a conference room into believing that two people he kills by his own hand actually committed suicide.Well, this is sad.  Religion should, first, shed light on everyday, practical facts about how and why people lie and distort.  But the abovementioned depiction of deception in Left Behind is tragically...well...deceptive.  If you come to expect that deception will come in the form of some supernatural power, you have been robbed of the ability to detect it in forms that are driven, not by satanic forces, but by very human interests in privilege and power.  In other words, whereas Christianity should serve to make us more enlightened, observant and sensitive people, this ostensibly Christian movie posits a pseudo-spiritual Red Herring of a dangerous nature.What we really need is a religious film that teaches people to detect bullstuff.  Instead, Left Behind teaches them that deception comes from spooky, supernatural dimensions, and that you won't have to contend with the anti-Christ simply because...if you're Christian and still on the planet, then that guy saying all those cozy, spiritually resonant things can't, by definition, be him.  So just keep on waving the flag and trusting the latest Christian-variety jackals in Washington, even when they spout whoppers so big a pet rock would cringe in revulsion.Come to think of it, I resented Enemy of the State for almost precisely the same reason; because it also drops a Red Herring.  If you believe Enemy, you'll think the essential problem is state surveillance.  But the dangerous thing isn't that they might be spying on us, it's that we walk over to our TVs, turn them on, and invite the pernicious lying creeps into our own homes of our own free wills.  We hand our brains over to these unworthies on a silver platter, free of charge, and then--in response to films like Enemy--find ourselves worrying if maybe they're spying on us.  They don't need to; they let us spy on our own damn selves!  And movies like Enemy and Left Behind are reprehensible in dropping these distinctly unspiritual Red Herrings in the paths of spiritually searching people. "},{"Title":"Leave it Behind","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have no problem with religious ideas in films. nor do I have a problem with dealing with the apocalypse. What I do have a problem with are badly made films with concepts that are flimsy at best.I've heard of the whole idea of the pre-judgement rapture, but it doesn't make much clear sense.In addition, the film is offensive in its portrayal of Jews as money chasers and Muslims as violent war-mongers.Finally, the film is it's message is very confused. Since I don't want to drop any spoilers, I will only say that I saw film (after I got suckered into seeing it because it looked like a disaster movie)and walked away thinking that living under the rule of the Anti-Christ would be a GOOD thing. I assume this was not the message they were trying to relay. "},{"Title":"Excellent movie if you've recently had a lobotomy","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this movie with my girlfriend a few weeks ago. We read the back of the box, thought the premise seemed interesting, and decided to rent it. I figured it was sort of a Quiet Earth type film. While driving back home, I started to think... I wonder if this has something to do with the rapture? My girlfriend mentioned she thought she had heard of a Christian book with the same title. I'm not overly religious, but I thought I'd still watch the movie... it's an interesting premise, and if it were well done, it could be a worthwhile film (even with an obvious agenda).The problem is, this film is terrible. From the initial scene until the credits roll, it's absolutely implausible, heavy handed, filled with useless dialoge, and stupid.Although, I was slightly entertained.. I laughed out loud several times during the movie. Perhaps this is just very good satire... who's to say. I got the same feeling watching this movie as I did Red Dawn An interesting concept destroyed by extreme bias and utterly idiotic characters & situations "},{"Title":"Not up to the book","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  An excellent plot -- fascinating idea. I had read the book in Feb. 2001, and did not think that the movie was as good as the book. The special effects were only so-so, but I will not hold the budget against this movie, because the concept is so good. It was interesting to 'see' the characters after visualizing them from the book, but, on the whole, I would recommend that you read the book instead of watching the video. "},{"Title":"One Ninth of the Story","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you haven't read the book, I can't see how a viewer would know what this was all about. Movies that cover only part of a story need to have some merit of their own, this movie was Part one of 8 or 9 parts and did not bring enough in the way of story.  Much like the book. "},{"Title":"Buncombe.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is mythology for the gullible. When I was in high school, 30 years ago, many of us were Jesus Freaks who expected the rapture to occur at any moment. Reality has a way of intruding on the most intensely hope-driven and faith-based plans, however.This flick has some of the worst dialogue, poor cinematography and bad acting I've ever seen. Making a Christian movie doesn't excuse you from trying to make a quality film; someone ought to have told the film makers -all of them- this before shooting even began.It's interesting to see who the star of this thing is Kirk, the Sonny of God, Born-Again boy of the Sodom-by-the-Sea which is LA. I wonder what he'll be thinking 50 years from now when the Man of Men hasn't returned?It would be interesting if Kirkles would log-on and tell all of us what he thinks.  "},{"Title":"Buncombe.","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is mythology for the gullible. When I was in high school, 30 years ago, many of us were Jesus Freaks who expected the rapture to occur at any moment. Reality has a way of intruding on the most intensely hope-driven and faith-based plans, however.This flick has some of the worst dialogue, poor cinematography and bad acting I've ever seen. Making a Christian movie doesn't excuse you from trying to make a quality film; someone ought to have told the film makers -all of them- this before shooting even began.It's interesting to see who the star of this thing is Kirk, the Sonny of God, Born-Again boy of the Sodom-by-the-Sea which is LA. I wonder what he'll be thinking 50 years from now when the Man of Men hasn't returned?It would be interesting if Kirkles would log-on and tell all of us what he thinks.  "}{"Title":"God-awful","Date":"11 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I tried to put aside my personal beliefs about the Rapture when I cast my vote.  I knew what the movie was about when I turned it on.  Heck, I've read all eight Left Behind novels, more out of curiosity than anything.  I kept in mind as I watched the movie that its goal was to spread what the filmmakers and authors believe to be The Truth.But it doesn't even do that.  In fact, this movie couldn't convert Mother Teresa to Christianity.Seriously how can you make a movie that purports to give us the inside scoop on heaven, hell, and God's plan of salvation and use the name Christ exactly one time in 100 minutes?  I don't believe in the Rapture and I don't agree with the Tim LaHaye/Jerry Jenkins view of theology (although I am Catholic), but I am at least willing to give them credit for spelling those views out in a way that readers can understand.  This movie, like the equally abysmal Omega Code, does no such thing.  The people behind it are so namby-pamby about giving us The Message that I wonder if they believe it themselves.If you want to see some incomprehensible stuff about global conspiracies and evil world leaders, then watch Left Behind.  If you want to learn about Jesus Christ, then get it straight from the source and read the Bible.  Besides, isn't the Book always better than the movie?Rating 1/10 "},{"Title":"Everything I needed to know I learned in Sunday School","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You have to laugh at a movie/book who's premise in part consists of international bankers, being manipulated by the anti-Christ; a United Nations who's strings are pulled by these same international bankers and the greatest evil of all consists of getting off the gold standard and having one currency.Nice to learn too that 95% of the world is not going to heaven, if you lack faith in a rather narrow Christian dogma; I guess we're stuck here with the devilish Jews...er, I mean international bankers.Bad cinema is one thing, but bad anti-Semitic cinema disguised as righteousness is more dangerous than amusing.I give it a 3, but only because it has a nice establishing shot of Chicago and a cool staged car crash.  "},{"Title":"Who are these people giving this movie a '10'????","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I haven't walked out of a movie before it was finished in ten years, I believe.  I walked out of this one.  As bad as it can get, and I seen that they plan to make a sequel!!  A news reporter tries to help solve the mystery of millions of people simply disappearing from the Earth at one time.  Best part&#133;they disappear, but their clothes are left behind, so they show an airplane seat with a full suit laying on it, and an old woman asking where her husband went.  Yikes!!!  If you see this in the rental section&#133;&#133;make sure you leave this behind!!  F "},{"Title":"Started out good but was a major disappointment","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The concept in this movie was excellent.  It could have made an extremely good movie.  However, while certain characters were reasonably well-developed the plot went nowhere with them.  Other characters were extremely thin or stereotypical and the ending was lame beyond belief. I also don't think that I got the point of the international bankers stuff - that was another story line that came from nowhere and achieved nothing. And, of course, the anti-Christ has a strong fake Russian accent - the Cold War is with us still.  I had heard interesting things about the Left Behind books and was very interested in watching this movie.  It was an unfortunate flop.      "},{"Title":"Started out good but was a major disappointment","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The concept in this movie was excellent.  It could have made an extremely good movie.  However, while certain characters were reasonably well-developed the plot went nowhere with them.  Other characters were extremely thin or stereotypical and the ending was lame beyond belief. I also don't think that I got the point of the international bankers stuff - that was another story line that came from nowhere and achieved nothing. And, of course, the anti-Christ has a strong fake Russian accent - the Cold War is with us still.  I had heard interesting things about the Left Behind books and was very interested in watching this movie.  It was an unfortunate flop.Oh yes, and I am a Christian but, I guess, you'd say pretty far to the left and I found the theology of this movie to be totally weird.  However, even ignoring that, I thought that movie basically sucked.  It's not worth the time spent watching it - even out of curiosity.   "},{"Title":"The box cover is better than the movie.","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  We rented this movie because the box read really well, along the lines of The Seventh Sign. I am always up for a good Apocalyptic movie. I should have left it on the shelf had I know how blatantly this movie is geared toward its pro-Christianity message.The acting was sub-par, not to be sexist, but none of the female leads could act their way out of a high school drama production. The first hour was actually engaging until one of the characters suddenly plunges into a strange stupor of righteousness which is both confusing and awkward to the viewer. Its not until later that you realized that you are not supposed to think he's lost his mind, but that he's actually accepted God. Many plot details were vague and confusing which cause many characters to be underdeveloped.When renting this movie, do not be lured by the fancy box writing, and know that this movie is heavily pro-Christian and does not ease off on the message for the last hour of the movie. For someone not going into the movie with this attitude, the message is laughable and detracting from the story. "},{"Title":"Pretentious, Hateful, and Terrible","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I found this movie poorly-made, badly-acted, and insulting.  It does not fulfill its mission statement of converting anyone to Christianity, but instead affirms an arrogant sense of superiority for those who already believe.Many religiously-inclined types use the subject matter of this film as a defense against the many flaws that it has.  That's just nonesense.  Film is presumably an art form, and should be held to standards of excellence, whether the subject is a Summer Camp, the Holocaust, or the Rapture.This film sucks, plain and simple.  The dialogue is ridiculous, the acting melodramatic, (With Baby-Face Cameron and Square-Jaw the Pilot being the standouts of crap), and the special effects laughable.I read an article in Variety that the movie had a budget $510 dollars, and paid its actors their body weight in King James bibles.  Such would seem to be the case.The movie taught me two valuable lessons, though 1)  Children go to Heaven, but teenagers go to Hell. 2)  Only through the slavish devotion to an invisible man in the sky, can we be free. "},{"Title":"Oh God!  Send me a shower scene!","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You don't have to be an atheist to hate this movie.  You only need eyes, because Kirk Cameron, the upright moral guy who got a Playboy Playmate kicked off Growing Pains but who still seems to swing (Biblically, of course), is here to spoil the day.  And he's the biggest name of the bunch.The film starts out with a very bad special effect-laden Iraqi strike force ineffectively bombing Israel.  The Iraqi air force appears to be larger than all of NATO's combined.  Credibility drops from there.It reminds me of Rapture, except that film, while ultimately anti-Fundamental/Apocalypse, displayed a degree of sympathy with Fundamentalism.  This film, however, shows sympathy only with the Hal Lindsays and Applewhites of the world.  A MUST MISS! "},{"Title":"In a movie about faith, faith to the book is thrown aside","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is not a discussion from either side about ulterior motives or anything else.  This is a criticism of how the movie does not make itself faithful to the book in many, many aspects.  It truly is a great series to read, but you wouldn't know it from the movie.In the movie, events are abbreviated so much it is hard to tell where it came from.  It severely abbreviated Hattie's obtaining a position at the UN and Carpathia's rise to power.  Yes, Williams is still a journalist, but making him a TV reporter instead of a newspaper writer throws the plot for a loop.  The death of the President, as reported on the O'Hare TV, directly contradicts the book and compromises any hope for a sequel as he plays a major role in it.  At least they kept the Steeles in Chicago.  Plus, there are errors in the general filming, not to mention credits that need a proofreader.As a movie in and of itself, it might get 8/10, but as a Christian movie in a secular market, it drops.  As a movie based on a book, it gets 6/10, and only that because the books are so good they overshadow the movie. "},{"Title":"It wasn't worth all the hype","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I guess I expected way too much with this movie, since I read all the books beforehand. They mixed all the book events up, and then they added some of their own. If they stuck to the basic plot of the first book, they might have come out with a much better movie. You can tell, however, that they didn't have much of a budget, because they didn't use as many special effects as I thought (people disappearing, planes blowing up, etc.)The movie was a bit confusing, too, especially if you didn't read the books. One good thing about this is, the characters were, with the exception of Buck and Bruce, actually looked quite close to what I envisioned them. "}{"Title":"Could have been better...","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Hey all you flik fans, I think Left Behind the movie wasn't at all like the books, the characters were described differently, it barely made any sense if you haven't read the book, and it seemed like a whole different story if you have read the book.  I think it didn't make any sense at all, but I hope they make movies of Left Behind The Kids, and that they will make sense, because the books are fabulous, and the movies could be if they worked harder at it and tried to make them as good as they will get. Not the best.... definitely could have been better.   "},{"Title":"Could have been better...","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Hey all you flik fans, I think Left Behind the movie wasn't at all like the books, the characters were described differently, it barely made any sense if you haven't read the book, and it seemed like a whole different story if you have read the book.  I think it didn't make any sense at all, but I hope they make movies of Left Behind The Kids, and that they will make sense, because the books are fabulous, and the movies could be if they worked harder at it and tried to make them as good as they will get. Not the best.... definitely could have been better.  "},{"Title":"Why, God, WHY? (pun intended)","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Movies based on books often aren't as good as their paper counterparts. Battlefield Earth was a prime example. Left Behind is another.I had the misfortune of having to watch this on a long road trip. A modern-day version of the Rapture sounded like an interesting concept, so a movie version of the book couldn't be too bad, right? Wrong. It's things like these that make me embarassed to be a Christian. What this movie is telling us is that if you don't practice some form of Christianity, that makes you a bad person.Right.That's just the beginning. Why couldn't this movie have been made by a major film company? Why couldn't Cloud Ten have decided to use better special effects to make this film at least slightly more entertaining? Why does Kirk Cameron have to give this silly sermon at the end of the movie that is akin to a chain mail? Come to think about it, why is he in the movie anyway?Oh, and the Left Behind song (you know, the one that plays during the credits) sounds like yet another rehashed Britney Spears tune. My least favorite part about the movie? It reeks of direct-to-video. Releasing this on video first was a unique idea, but unfortunately, it doesn't work here at all.My score 1/10 "},{"Title":"This one should have been left behind","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I never write these commentaries, but I watch a lot of films--this is bland and bad.  I have seen the Omega Code too, which is at least more entertaining than this drek.  How the hell would these people not know that it was the rapture?  This movie made the Christian rapture look silly. Why show the left behind video twice in the movie--we get the idea already. Who would have seen this in a theatre?--an overblown tv movie.  People were suckered into this one.  and what was with that message at the end of the movie by Kirk--did they anticipate people would not view it?  Bad, but not fun bad, just bad! "},{"Title":"Horrible religious propaganda film.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was made for a specific reason and audience, the Christian religious right in America.  If you are a believer or want to be saved, you will love this movie, otherwise don't waste your time on this Christian science fiction film.The acting is second rate, and the plot is derived from a Sunday morning sermon, told repeatedly in fundamentalist or evangelical churches all over the world.  All the good people go to heaven, and the bad non-Christians are left here on earth to be tortured for their misdeeds. Eventually a few of the bad people accept Jesus, and are killed, so they can go to heaven too.  The rest of the earth is sent to hell to burn and be tortured for all eternity.Sounds wonderful huh?This is a NEVER RENT movie if there ever was one! "},{"Title":"A piece of christian filth","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have been hearing a lot about this movie from christian people and web sites I sometimes consult. That was the reason that brought me to watch this pile of trash of a movie.The saddest part is, I know some people who think this is what will really happen someday. Man! Talk about blind faithfulness.I think I'll rent Battlefield Earth next time. At least they have Travolta with those funny eyebrows.Don't rent it! Don't go see it and please don't talk about it! "},{"Title":"Not good, but not a complete joke either","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is as good as a Christian movie will ever get. With that said, thats not exactly a compliment. Its not nice to say, but I went to see Left Behind expecting to see camp. To see the cheesiest effects possible and awful acting, and conversions! conversions! conversions! there is a segment of the Christian population that are constantly diving in self-parody, and its entertaining. So i see this film, and without the few prayers and close ups of the Bible, this is nothing more than a B sci-fi epic. There were parts that were absolutely laughable, and there were parts that were actually very well done and surprising, such as the performance by the man who plays Viktor Carpathia. The things that were laughable were as follows 140,000 people vanish, yet if you look around at the disappearance toll on the plane and within the cities, the count should be much higher. Theres typical death scene cliches like exploding cars and mind control, bad disguising of Toronto as other places like New York, Chicago and London. if you can put up with the religious content, you will find Left Behind more entertaining than most Hollywood crap. but then again, thats not saying much. "},{"Title":"Bad bad bad","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Not knowing exactly what this was about I decided to delay my judgement until the movie was over.  A lot of things are bad in this movie, as most of the reviews will tell you.  As for the whole idea of the movie, I thought that it was fairly open minded about a lot of things and not being a religious person I could still listen to what they were trying to say...but not after seeing the ending.  I expected the ending to be just as open minded as the initial parts were (or at least as I had imagined them to be at the time), or at least to surprise me.  The ending was BAD!  You're supposed to let people see an example and then decide for themselves, NOT tell them what they are supposed to do with it.To be fair...there are lots of movies about alien civilizations existing, that deliver the message that christians (and other religious people) are just fools.  This movie seems like a counter-attack to those.  I give the movie credit for making me think about things, but after seeing the ending, that credit is easily overshadowed. 3/10 "},{"Title":"More Junk for Jesus!","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The only way to class this movie is Junk for Jesus!This movie makes me ashamed to admit I am a Christian.SKIP THIS MOVIE.It is an excellent candidate for a Mystery Science Theatre 3000 (MST3K).  In fact, once we realized this was a  K-R-A-F-T product, we ended up making MST3King the movie and enjoyed it for what it was.  Cheese!A friend of mine's commentsthe first time we got the film in the office a bunch of us watched it over lunch and ended up making it a mst3k episode. never laughed so hard in my life. the $17 mil spent on production was worth my enjoyment alone...I agree!If they spent $17 mill. making this movie, it sure doesn't have a finished production quality to it.  Why the production quality is SOOO bad, the music so mega cheesy, it makes Blair Witch Project look like a classic!Wayno  "},{"Title":"My take and a response to Clarke J in Westport, Ct.","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As a Christian, I want this movie to succeed.  To the extent that non-believers (even one) may turn to Christ because they saw it, in my view it would be a success.In all honesty, I've seen better special effects and some of the sub-plots were implausible.  The acting was both good and bad, probably more good than bad.But in response to Clarke J's comments about forcing Christianity on people because someone dared to produce a movie who's central plot is well known Bible prophecy, would he say The Ten Commandments was forcing Judaism on the world?  Come on, now.  Your hostility is showing and you know it.  But you know what?  If you don't turn to Christ and get left behind....remember the important message there's a loving God who isnt willing that ANY should perish.  Don't wait for the Rapture. "}{"Title":"Totally untrue!!!!!!!!!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie and the books are so Scripturally inaccurate it makes me sick. After the rapture you aint got a chance to make it to Heaven. You want the truth, read the true word yourself. You'll find the truth in a book called the Bible, I know that the author of the books and the director of the movie has never actually read Revelation, or the Bible for that matter. I really wish that Trinitarians would find the truth. God Bless  Hope you find the truth.     Cause it aint here....... "},{"Title":"typical Americana","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is alternatively comedic and terrifying. That any rational human living in this millennium could believe this crap, terrifies me. A great number of Americans actually believe this garbage and they are growing in number. This movies is horrible - the plot is aimed at three year olds (not to offend three year olds), the acting is just barely passable -(I know actors have to eat and any work is better then none),but give me a break. Somehow, those TV entertainment evangelical ministers have convinced an enormous number of people, that this delusion is not only possible, but likely, and only those who conform to the absolute mandates of their Christian ministers can be saved. I know these religious nutballs paying for these films are making a bundle on this - but why? "},{"Title":"wow...","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  what an amazing piece of crap...this has got to be one of the worst movies i have ever seen, and might also be one of the worst movies ever made...who made this pile of garbage?  horrible acting, incredibly cheesy and unrealistic storyline...i'm so upset that i actually sat through the entire thing...a waste of time, energy and brain cells...whatever you do, DON'T watch it "},{"Title":"A thriller","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What an awe-inspiring reproduction of the book series.  The big screen version was well-crafted with great special effects and acting.  The story followed the books and I wished it was a lot longer.  I hope several sequels will follow as there are many books in the series.  Nothing is more thought provoking of what will happen when the rapture takes place.  I loved Mr. Cameron in the movie, he is a wonderful actor with great abilities.  His wife does wonders as well and all the actors deserve great rewards.  I hope many people see this film and know of what is to come. "},{"Title":"This film shows what will happen when the church is raptured and some of the events that will take place after the rapture.","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film shows what will happen when the church is raptured and some of the events that will take place after the rapture. It also has very good special effects, excellent acting and a biblically sound script.  I highly recommend you take your friends and family to see this film in fact you may want to purchase a copy of the movie for them on DVD-Video or VHS-Tape. "},{"Title":"DON'T YOU GET LEFT BEHIND -)","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Great for believers and non-believers. It shows how the enemy deceives us, even in our daily lives. The acting was professional and well done. Because of the move I brought the other books in the series. The direct Bible quotes really bring the message to light. Don't you be LEFT BEHIND.TELL EVERYONE TO SEE THIS MOVIE, ESPECIALLY NON-BELIEVERS. "},{"Title":"Quality of Movie","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie Left Behind was very well done.  Kirk Cameron played his role with much passion.  If you are looking to see a movie of high quality, I highly recommend this movie.  It is a movie that is very moving and thought provoking.  I know I left the movie in deep thought and now have many questions I will want answered!!  "},{"Title":"Awesome!!","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was very impressed and pleased with this movie.  It is about time Christians made a movie that was powerful, intriguing, and brought the message of Christ to the forefront with no hidden meanings or agendas.  So many times these types of movies are scared to come right out and proclaim Christ.  For this movie Christ 1 - Satan 0 "},{"Title":"This is a film that everyone needs to see!!","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LEFT BEHIND was released on video several months ago.  It is now in the theatres and doing brisk business, at least here in Charlotte.  The video seemed a bit grainy as far as picture quality, but on the big screen so much more detail is evident!  You need to see it for yourselves!  The end credits are done differently and in a more professional manner than in the video release.  Don't pan this movie or avoid it because of negative comments by others.  Form your own viewpoints once you've seen LEFT BEHIND once, or even twice.  Hopefully, the next book in the series, TRIBULATION FORCE, will be made soon!I too had my misgivings at first about casting Kirk Cameron as Buck Williams, but he handled this demanding role well onscreen.  Kirk's real-life wife, Chelsea Noble, plays Hattie Durham.  Newcomer Janaya Stephens does an excellent job as Chloe Steele, and Brad Johnson (former Marlboro Man) as her father, Rayford.  Gordon Currie portrays a chilling Nicolae Carpathia.  But the scenes with Clarence Gilyard as Bruce Barnes, once Bruce realizes what being left behind has meant, are the most stirring of the entire movie.  His grief at remaining behind comes through with raw emotional fervor.  Watch for cameos by Christian music artists Bob Carlisle, Rebecca St. James and Clay Crosse.  LEFT BEHIND is an excellent movie.  Picking it apart for technical flaws alone will not give you the effect it is capable of.  Watch it for the Message. "},{"Title":"Jesus removes the Christians from the world, and the struggle of those who are left behind.","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie shows the accurate struggles of those who are left behind after Jesus removes all the Christians from this world.  Incidents include car crashes from unmanned vehicles; to a plane on the verge of revolting when many loved ones turn up missing.  This shows prophecies from the Bible as they will unfold out in these last days.  It makes you think...will you be left behind. "}{"Title":"The Greatest","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie, like the books, has had such an impact on my life.  It has touched me deep in my heart, mind, and soul.  This is the best movie ever. I hope that all families can see this wonderful film and that it will open the eyes to so many of us.  I hope the story continues.  It will sadden me very much if they do not.  Everyone has to see this extraordinary film. "},{"Title":"One of the most outstanding movies I've ever seen!","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I've ever seen.  It is so real and believable.  I like the way the scriptures are used as various codes in the plot to seize control of the worlds food supplies.  And what really hit close to home is the information I got about the UN delegates backing the vote recount situation in Florida because they didn't want their New World Order (N.W.O.) program to be jeopardized by a new administration. And knowing that really made me pay close attention to what was being portrayed in the UN scenes.This movie brings to reality how easily people who do not already know the Lord personally will be deceived and manipulated by the propaganda of the anti-Christ.  I was really impressed with how well all of the actors portrayed their characters. I give them `2-thumbs-up'.  If you like action and suspense, you'll like Left Behind-The Movie.  Other movies I recommend are Revelation, Tribulation, and the soon-to-be-released Judgement.I personally have already purchased 6 or 8 copies of Left Behind-The Movie to pass out to family, friends and co-workers.  I highly recommend watching this movie more than once as there is too much going on to catch it all in one viewing. You will want to be sure to see this movie when it hits the big screen. "},{"Title":"The End Of The Age?","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie portrayed prophecy and its role on humanity. It was wonderful through and through. I loved the music, the acting and the story. There wasn't anything in the movie I didn't like. Good Job Cloud Ten Pictures and Thank You God. "},{"Title":"It is not fiction!","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The rapture is a fact.  It will happen.  The left Behind movie does a good job of showing how the anti-christ will come into power.  If the words rapture and anti-christ mean nothing to you, I highly recommend watching this movie.  It's a thriller whether or not you are a Christain. "},{"Title":"Thought Provoking, Draws you closer to Him","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind is easily the greatest Christian movie ever made.  (In my opinion, it is THE best movie ever made.)  A lot of Christian movies are kind of `cheesy', for lack of a better word, because of a low budget and non-professional actors.  But Left Behind isn't like that.  It has great actors such as Kirk Cameron, Clarence Gilyard, Brad Johnson, Chelsea Noble, and newcomer Janaya Stephens.  All of the actors do a very good job in their roles.  The actors are just how I pictured them in my mind when I read the book series.  This is one of those movies you just HAVE to see.  You should also definitely read the book series and other books by Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins.  This movie really makes you think and draws you closer to God. GO SEE IT !!!! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie! It is a great way to learn about the Rapture. Even if you are not interested in the Rapture, this movie is filled with action that will keep your eyes glued to the screen. I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"True to the book!","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow! I really have enjoyed all of the books in the Left Behind series and was amazed at how the movie was true to the book. I have seen a lot of movies that were nothing like the books they were based on and was very disappointed. They really did a great job on the setting and special effects! I recommend this movie to everyone! "},{"Title":"A good movie for all ages.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the best movie I have seen in a long time. With the non stop action that will keep you on the edge of your seat the entire time.It is based on the Bible and I think it will give the unsaved an insight into what is to come. While it is giving a wake up call to Christians.I hope we will see more movies of this kind coming to the big screen "},{"Title":"A MUST SEE FOR 2001!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  What an absolutely amazing movie!  Left Behind is sure to be a hit when it is released in theaters nationwide on February 2nd 2001.Kirk Cameron & all of the actors did an excellent job.  They were so very believable in their parts & the special effects were every bit as good as any hit movie out there today.  Just as the Left Behind series of books keep you wanting more & more; the movie keeps you glued to your seat & mesmerized! This movie was very accurately depicted, using the prophecy of the scriptures for flawless detail.  It brings up a lot of points & questions when the Rapture takes place. I think the Left Behind movie can be a major tool in Gods work & I know He has blessed it thus far.  What an amazing way to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ & to see the fruits it can bring.  I feel this movie will be such an awesome message of hope to the lost & we will see a harvest of souls for Gods glory!  PRAISE THE LORD!! "},{"Title":"Reality Check","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is life-changing.  To realize, in an instant life can change for eternity makes you re-evaluate your own walk of life.  It is very intense and will keep you on the edge of your seat and wanting for more, even if you have read the book and know the ending.  It's awesome that we have the chance to make things right before it's too late! "}{"Title":"Fantastic! Wonderful! A Wake Up Call","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I read the book Left Behind, and it was a wake up call for me. I then watched the movie. I cannot begin to tell you how much that I enjoyed it. The movie is action packed. It has drama, and a message. Why have millions disappeared? Men, women, and all of the children. There appears to be no common denominator. Is it some new technological weapon? Aliens? There are many theories. There are a few that know the truth, but refused to acknowledge it soon enough. They were all Left Behind. This movie is a great family movie. It is a fictional depiction of what is to happen after the Rapture of the church. You do not have to be a Christian to enjoy this movie. If you are curious, or unsure of what you believe will happen, this movie will help you with a few questions, and will have you asking even more. Will your family and loved ones be taken? What will happen to you when the trumpets sound? Are you ready? Two men will be in the field; one will be taken and the other left....Therefore keep watch, because you do not know on what day your Lord will come....So you must also be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. Mat 2440,42,44 NIV Will you be Left Behind?   "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie showed a great portrayal of what could happen after the rapture. But it seemed so real that you would think that it may have already happened. Check out the movie and find out why you do not want to be left behind. "},{"Title":"Spectacular!!!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind The Movie 2000 - is the best movie I have seen in a long time. It combines action with drama and it actually has a plot, which is furthered by the great acting.  I have never seen Kirk Cameron like this.  I would highly recommend seeing this movie.  You won't be disappointed.  Would you be left behind? "},{"Title":"Movie that Makes a Difference","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It is not often that one will see a movie that not only will entertain you, but also inspire you to re-evaluate your eternal future. This movie stands out not only in its quality message, but also in its believable cast, state of the art special effects, and edge of your seat storyline. This movie makes you ask yourself questions about history, current events, and what could possibly be to come.  It will give you something to talk about with your family, friends and co-workers.  I can't think of a better conversation starter for the water cooler. You need to rent this movie and/or see it your local theater in February.  If you are sure it won't cause you to ask yourself if you could be Left Behind, see it anyway for the entertainment value.  You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Message stays true!  Great film for everyone!","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is really a fabulous film which, I feel, rivals a lot of the products coming out of Hollywood these days.  Although some changes were necessary to move it from book to screen, the message stays true! Great performances by the entire cast, especially Kirk Cameron.  You must see this film regardless of your spiritual views!  "},{"Title":"Great Movie that Shows The Future Clearly!!!!","Date":"4 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great movie!!  I really enjoyed it!!!  Great acting by Kirk Cameron, Brad Johnson, Gordon Currie, Clarence Gilyard, Colin Fox, Janaya Stephens, and Chelsea Noble!!!  This movie shows how the Earth really will be after the Rapture!!  I advise people to WAKE UP and realize that they will be LEFT BEHIND!!!!  "},{"Title":"! Its a fiction that could turn into a Non-Fiction!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  !Its a movie that It will help to understand the future of human beings on the following years according to the book of Revelations from the Bible, if you are a non-religious person, I recommend to see it and you will discover an answer to all those questions that your life have right now, and if you trust in the message from that answer toward your life and your relatives and friends too, you will not be part of those LEFT BEHIND. Read the books with the same title are very exciting readings.  "},{"Title":"A Thrilling Ride Through The Book of Revelations","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is, by far, one of my favorite movies I have seen in a while. First, you put the movie in & think This'll be a boring movie based on Tim LaHaye's book. WRONG...This movie is great! From the Russain planes being sent down from the sky in Israel to Buck finally believing in God & even to Carpathia shooting the 2 men it is an excellent movie! It shows that sometimes you wish you would've spent more time with people, you regret things, & that...once somebody is gone you realize how much you loved them.This movie was so great that I bought it in the box set that included 2 movie tickets & I bought the first book & am now reading it.But once you read the book or watch the movie it brings up the question...WILL YOU BE LEFT BEHIND?   "},{"Title":"I love this movie!!","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Personally, I believe Left Behind was the best movie to come out this year!!  It is a great movie with many great actors/actresses, and it shows some ideas on how the end of times will go.  No one knows for sure, only God does, but this really shows some realistic views!  I gladly rate this movie a ten!! "},{"Title":"See the Novel Come To Life!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Canadian film company, Cloud Ten Pictures, and American film company, Namesake Entertainment, have produced a low-budget but beautifully shot, well acted,  and wonderfully told story based on the best selling novel, Left Behind a Novel of the Earth's Last Days.  This movie seems to be a highly entertaining fusion of the X-Files, any given showing of the Nightly News with Tom Brokaw, and the very best elements of Tom Clancy's novels. This film has everything one could possibly want in a film.  There are spies and informants, conspiracies, murders, cover-ups, family conflicts, high-tech espionage, greed, world-wide deception, global disasters, corrupt businessmen, political intrigue, potential supernatural occurrences, very real spiritual happenings, wars in the air and on the ground, and wars in the hearts, minds, and souls of all involved.  With all of this, this film carries THE most significant message any film could possibly deliver.In an instant, millions of people all over the world disappear off the face of the planet.  The world's babies and newborns are gone as well as men and women of all ages.  Even some teenagers have vanished.  We are first exposed to this jarring event when dozens of people disappear on an international flight piloted by Capt. Rayford Steele. To his horror, Rayford discovers that his wife and son are among those missing.  Steele's daughter, Chloe, remains though, and together the two of them (along with others who were also left behind ) search for the answers to this cataclysmic turn of events.The Left Behind novel, on which this film is faithfully based, has been heralded as the best selling novel of ALL time, so it was just a matter of time until it would be made into a film.  The novel tells a story on a global scale and makes it personal and involves the reader in a way that other books are many times unable to do.  It is a huge story and must be told in a huge way.  The real task was for Cloud Ten Pictures to tell this large-scale story with a tiny  budget of $17.4 million.  Despite the extremely restrictive budget, the Canadian film company pulled off a miracle and was able to deliver much of the punch that the novel delivered.  The scriptwriters did change some plot/character issues, but overall, the film remained quite faithful to the novel.  The only complaint  it was too short.  The filmmakers packed a lot of story in about a 100-minute film. I wish they could have been bold and given the film a longer running time to capture the full impact of the novel.  Perhaps the shoestring budget prevented them from doing so.  If that's the case, then the filmmakers are forgiven.This film has seen a limited  release on video first but is gearing up for a theatrical release on February 2, 2001.  The filmmakers wanted to get a grassroots push prior to the theatrical release to get people to see the film.  Specifically, the ones targeted for the push into the theaters are the people who have not read the novel, those not familiar with the series, people not typically interested in end of the world prophecies that are being fulfilled in today's world.  Even if you are fortunate enough to see this film on tape, see it in the theaters.  It will jump out and grab you with a power that only the big screen can provide.  Additionally, there are rumors that the theatrical release will have a different ending than presented on the video version.Rush to see this film.  The book is still the best experience, but I love the medium of film.  This is still a powerful film with the most important message a film has ever delivered.  Even if you don't agree with the message of the film, you still walk away thoroughly entertained and you will be left with images and ideas that will stay with you for a long time to come. "}{"Title":"Seeing IS Believing","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A thrilling ride is ahead of you. Prepare your self for Left Behind. After watching this movie I was shocked. I had seen all the other attempts to bring the book of Revelation to the big screen, and they were good efforts, but they always lacked something. When Left Behind stepped up, I had no idea what I was in for. Packed with explosions, chases, and other thrilling things, it still brings out the important message. When the time comes....Will YOU be Left Behind? "},{"Title":"One Athiest Liked this Movie","Date":"19 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I can't believe it. I was riveted by this movie. Maybe I liked it so much because I avoided watching it for nine years. But from the time I saw the planes flying over the northern border at Israel, I felt like had seen this all somewhere before. Maybe I'm one of those few atheist ex-catholics that took my bible reading way too seriously. Maybe its because I'm doing a presentation for my Spanish Conversation group on the UN this week (Naciones Unidos).I remember when I saw Rosemary's Baby, I felt the same way. I was a lot younger and still only a few years away from still being religious. I loved the Polanski movie and moved into the main characters body, just like I did in this movie. When I got home, I couldn't sleep because I was literally checking under the bed to see if the devil was there (Catholics really believe in the devil.) I doubt if I'll lose any sleep in the same way tonight, but this movie was in the top group of science fiction movies in my opinion, because it allowed me to buy in or suspend disbelief so easily.Why should I call this a science fiction movie when many don't see it that way? Because the scientist character, Rosenzweig actually invents a new style of farming. That should be science enough for anybody. This is a note of realism in that which helps the most skeptical realist to suspend disbelief.I notice that there are a lot of believers that don't like this movie. Is it possible that the director has done what is necessary to suspend disbelief for the skeptic, but not among the converted? Perhaps, but I feel sorry for anyone who needs a story to match their religious beliefs perfectly, and who can't just relax and enjoy a work of art for what it is. I have to wonder if any of these Christians like Disney movies, like Hercules. Why should every theological fantasy have to match what exactly what one knows about theology? While the pilot character (the whole family?) was a little weak, the other actors in the play were all strong. As I recalled the evil nature of the one that precedes the antichrist I was struck how this fellow was simply portrayed as an elitist capitalist was not overacted or over the top. How can so many people have missed this? I can tell you why, because they didn't study the book of Revelations in the Bible, but heard their Revelations second hand, through church sermons about rapture. Nevertheless, despite the fact that the movie is often accurate in portraying the events and characters in Revelations, the back story that supports the movie plot is really quite strong. For example, who is the GNN reporter character in the bible? It is the writer/narrator of Revelations (considered by scholars to be John).Some skeptics hate this movie because they say it contains the germs of the carping one hears about the one world government described in the Bible. However, to me there is something realistic and admirable about this idea, whether you feel comfortable with it or not. In a world which is always at war, one has to agree that a panacea can be a lot more attractive, at least subconsciously. When you see the council mollified and hypnotized at the end, you have to wonder if the GNN reporter, who now finds himself in the position of counter-spy will ever try to resist what already been accomplished. In actuality we never see him pray, only shake hands with the lately saved.Well, I've ranted long enough. I think someday someone will dust this movie off and realize it is not just a bad movie about a bad book about a biblical fantasy, but actually a good movie, perhaps the best of its genre. At least, that's the way I viewed it. "},{"Title":"Don't believe this represents reality?  Then pay more attention.","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I can't tell you how many cheap reviews I have read from so many disgruntled--and normally uneducated-- reviewers of this movie and other Christian movies. Whether one agrees or disagrees with the theology it speaks about is one thing, but to rate it on that issue alone shows a preexisting biasness that immediately eliminates the reviewer from credibility--plainly witnessed by those reading it. In other words, one must use the same method of interpretation when reviewing this movie, as with other movies.And when it comes to interpretation, if you seriously don't think this movie represents what the Bible truly speaks about will happen soon, all you need to do is tune into your local news network. Pay attention to what happens to the nation of Israel. Your future truly does COMPLETELY depend on it. If you refuse to give up your self-pride and choose to continue in your sin, well then, you will prove--personally--that this movie was right after all--only then it will be too late. That is what Left Behind is all about. "},{"Title":"thrilling story about the last days, its now!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Everybody must see this thrilling film about the last days on earth. The story is very close up to the Biblic scriptures of the last days and it helps people to understand more about some of the Scriptures witch can be a bit difficult to understand in the Bible, like the Revelation and Daniel. If you have`nt seen it yet...Buy it! "},{"Title":"May I not be left back","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While this appeared to be a fairly low budget effort, I still enjoyed the production. Not nearly as engrossing as the book, this picture nonetheless gives the viewer a special message dealing with the final times on earth before the second coming of Christ. Of course, a much better take on this subject would be the Bible itself. "},{"Title":"Biblically Correct","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The acting was good, I was able to empathize with all the characters. Gordon Currie's Nicolae Carpathia scene in the UN council. was very intense as the evil power granted to him by Satan to become the Anti-Christ came out. Clarence Gilyard Jr. and Brad Johnson's scenes when they came to grips with their unbelief, and therefore the reason they were Left Behind, were also very powerful moments in the movie.And Kirk Cameron is great as Buck Williams, trying to find the answer's as to why all these people just suddenly disappeared!The screenplay was well written, and it followed Biblical Eschatology very closely. The special effects were very good for the genre (usually movies of this kind have a low budget and therefore lack real quality in this area).Overall it is very entertaining!  "},{"Title":"Read the book, you'll understand the movie","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've read all of the comments posted before mine and I have to say I agree with most of them.  There are moments which are very touching and well done (such as Rayford's entrance during Barnes's conversion) and other parts which are, well, dragging compared to the book (Carpathia takes charge.)  Unfortunately there's no way that a script could cover all the detail in the book and still be condensed into a less-than-three hour movie.  Someone suggested it would make a better mini-series and I agree.  However, as I've said above, there are some shining moments.  I support a wider release.  Let those who have ears, hear! "},{"Title":"Terrible (minor spoilers)","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind is just an awful movie.  It is like a textbook example of everything that a filmmaker shouldn't do.  I don't know where to begin when explaining its flaws.The movie starts Kirk Cameron from TV's Growing Pains as reporter Buck Williams, who works for GNN (GNN is just like CNN, but it starts with 'G'. Sorry folks, that's about as witty as this movie gets.)  While Williams is in Israel, the Islamic countries launch a massive attack for no particular reason, but almighty God smites them with a plague of cheesy visual effects.One would think that such an event would be a cause for concern, but Williams reacts as if he was watching a peewee football game.  He takes a plane home, but the rapture occurs before he arrives.  The rapture, for those who don't know, is when all good Christians will suddenly be whisked into Heaven, leaving everyone else to suffer through a tribulation period marked by laughably bad dialogue.  We don't actually see anybody vanishing, various characters just tell us that it happened.  I assume this decision was made because the VFX weren't good enough.From there, the movie continues to grow more ridiculous.  The screenplay is amazingly bad, and none of the characters behave in a way that is remotely realistic.  Cameron and the supporting cast give it their best shot, but there's no way to draw any life from this worthless script.  The visuals appear silly and slipshod throughout the movie, and the cinematography is very boring.One final note many on this board claim that the movie tries to convert nonbelievers to Christianity.  Actually, all the filmmakers seem more interested in gloating about the percieved suffering of non-Christians.  As a believer, I found this attitude very offensive. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"22 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I like these people who claim they are Christians and then use God's name in vain. They complain about seeing the Bible in a movie. They don't even know the 10 commandments! They also seem to think when you are raptured your clothes go with you? Thankfully just claiming to be something does not make it so. The hypocrite's complaining aside... This movie is one of many movies that prove you can have a great movie with ordinary Christian family values that talk about Gob but without swearing, profanities, and nudity. Others like Flywheel, Facing the Giants, Fireproof, and the best of them all Courageous My only complaint would be that I guess when they filmed it they didn't know that T.D. Jakes is a heretic.Check out Kirk in The Way of the Master and at livingwaters.com "},{"Title":"God loving twaddle","Date":"17 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Thought this film was going to be a good 'Alien Abduction' type of film, how wrong could I be 0( Every 2 minutes there's a reference to 'God' the 'Church' or the 'Bible', none of these things i believe in, i feel totally ripped off by this.Bible bashers should keep this kind of brainwashing to themselves, i didn't even know that films were being infiltrated by this kind of tosh! AVOID unless you're a 'Rabid Churchgoing Christian' or something, if i wanna find 'God' then i think i'd have the choice to go looking for him and not have this garbage pumped into my living room.Just my 20 cents. "}{"Title":"Just a visual aid for the book","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm glad that many Christians have written comments and not just atheists panning the poor movie. But yeah, as a Christian, I can say that this is a bad movie, if you see it without reading the books.The series created by LaHaye and Jenkins is great. It's gripping, and although there are now thirteen novels and three prequels, you just can't get enough. Mainly, the most symbolic novel is the first, in which the series takes its name. So, it was almost obvious someone was going to make a film adaptation. The problem Christians decided to make it like all the other ones they've made. That means low budget, amateur writing and acting and generic directing.So, if you have already read the novel, you might not see it too bad, as you have a good expectation, but it's still bad. I mean, it doesn't even live up to the novel in which it's based.For instance, the casting had little to no effort. Rayford was supposed to be blonde and with slightly gray hair, Chloe was supposed to be younger and Bruce Barnes was supposed to be white (no racist commentary intended, seriously).Then there's the dialog. Apparently, Christian film-making has been doomed to sound like a bad after school TV special all the time. So yeah, you should include the evangelical message, but at least you could have it hidden a little, so you don't scare half of the audience away.Another trademark for Christian movies is a pop rock soundtrack. The score was almost inexistent. (actually, I liked Chance Thomas' score for the video game much better) And, sorry to say this, but I'm sick of the almost obligatory pop song playing on an emotional scene, like Buck's conversion. It's just too cheesy.Unfortunately, the novel had so ambitious ideas, that it couldn't be made into a movie by Christian producers without taking risks or setting a higher budget.There were good aspects, don't worry. Cameron's acting was good, but the best one was the guy playing Carpathia. The best scene was the one in the united nations conference room (even better than in the novel, I have to confess), although it can leave you a little bit disturbed. However, the settings sucked. It doesn't even look like a conference room were world leaders get together.All in all, the movie only works when you read the base material. And trust me, the books are far more better. Actually, almost nothing based on the series is better than it. "},{"Title":"revelations from the bible","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" well i usually don't go for biblical movies, but this one was very interesting to say the least, i mean 10 plots of lands, 2 international bankers, trying to bankrupt the U.N. someone trying to bomb the crap out of ISREAL. the devil trying to take power, this movie's only drawback, is it tries to tell TOO MUCH, if that's at all possible, which i think a lot of movies these days get caught up in. they try to say that the logical reason for all of those people dissapearing is radiation, then the preacher says, god just took them,,, i think they could have come up with something better than that, like aliens , or a government plot or something,, i thought kirk cameron did a pretty good job,, not used to him in a serious leading role, but nonetheless he fared very well, i think this movie is good from a historical point, but tries to tell to much to quickly. but it is slightly above average. "},{"Title":"A Fan of the Books, the Movie is a let down","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'll be nice, and allow this movie to get a 6 from me. I want to say I have been a fan of the series since 1999, when I first read the first book in the series. Since then, I bought every book upon its new release and gobbled it up, all the way through to The Glorious Appearing.But this movie, well, it and the others only seemed to borrow from the books rather than make a movie based on them. Yeah, in one respect its good, and as a Christian myself I can see where its an inspirational movie with a message I very much believe in. But I will say that this movie had the potential to be so much more than it was, and as such it disappointed me in that respect. The producers decided to release it to video, then 3 months later release it to theaters. Why? Why not release it to theaters first and then get it out to video? This is probably why the movie did so badly.Good points - The acting is top-notch. Brad Johnson as the troubled and haunted Rayford Steele, distraught over the loss of his wife and son in the Rapture. Janaya Stephens really plays well as the rebellious daughter Steele didn't lose, Chloe. And you really feel for Clarence Gilyard's character, who preached the Word of God but chose not believe in it. Lastly, we have Kirk Cameron, who portrays his role of Cameron Buck Williams to the letter. The scene of his conversion to Christ is almost tear-jerking. And the assassination scene, I must say was very well done. Bad points - The movie moves too fast at times, and at others too slowly. Borrowing from the the book rather than basing itself on it, and having cheesy effects which look like a TV movie instead of a big-budget thriller. Added in scenes for convenience it seems rather than continuity will leave you asking yourself What happened? Then of course it seems that the producers and director tried to bring in suspense in some parts, with poor results. Overall 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An Embarrasment to Film","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the book series.  I've just finished the 3rd book, Nicolae, and it was the most impressive yet.   I just hadn't gotten around to seeing the movie and now I regret that I did.  It is absolutely one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Combine that with the my positive view on the books, and the experience was doubly disappointing.There are drunk college students in film schools across America that are churning out better product than this is.  The film editing is high-school level.  The special effects are lame by today's action standards. The cinematography is uninventive and downright lazy work.That's not the worst of it though.  The worst part of the film has to be the writing.  Someone should take the screenwriters who adapted the film out to be shot!  Half the dialogue of the book was left out! This should've been made into a 3-hour epic on the level of Braveheart, and what you got was an hour & a half piece of garbage that wouldn't pass a 1st year film school class!Another person who should be beaten, shot , and hung is the Casting Director.  Ok, so you've got the most successful Christian literature series in the history of time on your hands.  Finally there's a basis for making an film on Christianity that can be broadcast to the masses, and who do you pick as your leading man? The leading man whose character is a tough, maverick journalist that comes off as a blonde Indiana Jones with a notebook? KIRK CAMERON! KIRK CAMERON couldn't convince me he's a rebel with a dislike for authority if he held Police Officers hostage for a day!  The guy's never been a good actor and he gets worse in this one.  His cast doesn't help him much.  They tossed in Kirk's wife and a bunch of no-names. Hattie Durham was supposed to be hotter than hot.  Chelsea Noble is barely cute by movie standards.  Chloe steel is supposed to be a very attractive college girl.  The actress who plays her wouldn't raise any eyebrows on campus.  What the hell kind of box-office appeal is that supposed to have? You've got a vehicle to spread an amazing story world-wide in the world's most popular media form (movies) and you pick a no-name cast to do it? Amazing! The only saving grace to the cast is Guy Currie as Nicolae. Not a bad job.  At least he looks the part.  As to why they wouldn't go out and get a real big name bad guy for the film I have no idea.Last but not least, I can't leave without tossing some blame back to the Authors, Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins.  After all, they are the ones responsible for selling the movie rights to the right people. Big F in that department.  After reading each book in the series, there was no doubt in my mind that all could be made into big-budget films that would no doubt rack up millions of revenues world-wide for whichever Hollywood studio bought up the rights.  With a mix of action, science-fiction, romance, and religion, it would have wide-based appeal.  Toss in the fact that the religious nature of the film would no doubt stir plenty of controversy. What has been done with this series is a travesty.  Some Christian small-time movie studio put this out and has the film know-how of pure amateurs. It's a mystery as to why LaHaye and Jenkins didn't sell the rights to Dreamworks, Paramount, Miramax, or at least WB! Way to drop the ball boys! "},{"Title":"Not as good as the book but....","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Most movies never equal the book but I still think it is a great way for non-readers to understand Biblical prophecy. This is one of the few stories that are accurate and I do strongly recommend anyone wishing to learn about the end times to watch this movie and forget about all the other Hollywood prophecy movies. "},{"Title":"Average Christian film","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Left Behind is based on the first of a projected by twelve books, and the movie version was an average. All the actors tried their best to make this work. Some elements worked while others failed. Brad Johnson, Kirk Cameron, and Gordon Currie were the only ones who did an average job with their roles, as do all the other actors. Reminder that Tribulation Force, the second book in the series, is the sequel to this movie, due to be released sometime in 2002.  s  "},{"Title":"High hopes didn't pan out","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  After reading the outstanding first book of the Left Behind series, I had high hopes for the movie production.  I was disappointed however in the way that the story was told.  I thought the character representations were a little off, with the exception of Rayford and Hattie.  While I enjoyed Kirk Cameron's performance, I do not think he fit the role of Buck.  I also do not think the movie developed his character as well as it should have. The book was difficult for me to put down.  However, after having such high hopes for the movie, I found myself asleep before its conclusion.  Don't let this keep you from seeing the movie though - it's worthy of your time.  I voted 4/10. "},{"Title":"Good, but not as good as the novel","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  As the case with so many movies, this movie is not as good as the book. They changed a few things. For example, Buck williams(Kirk Cameron)is a writer for a magazine, while in the movie he's a CNN reporter.That being said, I like this movie because it deals with a very important subject The return of Christ. It's just one of those subjects that people like to avoid because they are scared to think of what life on earth would be like after the return of Christ.It's a scary subject, however it's one we will have to deal with sooner or later. Jesus is coming again my friends! It can no longer be ignored or forgotten.Forget about B rated production values or second rate acting and a not so great script. Ask this question Are we ready for the most dramatic event in history of the world? It may or may not happen the way it did in the novel or the movie, but somehow in some way and sometime-IT WILL HAPPEN! "},{"Title":"The Bible Comes Alive on the Screen","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If you have ever wondered what Daniel and the other prophets, along with John, the writer of Revalation, were talking about, Left Behind provides answers to those questions.I have studied the prophecy and agree with this fictional telling of a possible scenario after the rapture.For those wishing to know more, Tim LaHaye has a couple of great books Are We Living in the End Times? and Rapture Under Attack. "},{"Title":"...loved it!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I really loved this movie! The film is unique and one-of-a-kind! The subject matter is what impressed me the most! I thought that the choice of actors was right-on and the locations portrayed beautifully. Even though the cgi was a little rough, it didn't detract from the acting, which is important to me. "}{"Title":"Awesome end times thriller!!!","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is the best movie to date on the rapture and the beginning of the end of the world.  I thought Kirk Camreon was surprisingly good and the rest of the cast was excellent.  The plot and the characters were very cleverly intertwined with end times events.  I highly recommend this movie for anyone who likes apocalyptic thrillers. "},{"Title":"WOW","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw this movie after reading the series of novels it was based upon. It was as thought provoking as the book! When I started reading this book ,I thought oh another book about some guy in midlife crisis thinking about having an affair with a women who is half his age.  After reading past the first chapter I found that it wasn't at all what I  had thought. I am not an avid reader and it takes a lot to keep my attention ,but this book i read thru in one day. I just couldn't put it down! Not only did it capture  my attention but I also went out and bought the books and the MOVIE that followed it and read thru all 7 books in less than two weeks!This is a great MOVIE/book  that makes people think about what the meaning of life is about and where  to look for the right answers .Why were we put here? What is the right path to take. Does it matter?  Yes it does ...Read this series and get an idea of what you need to know and where to find it. IT CAN CHANGE YOUR LIFE! SEE the MOVIE!!! Take someone you care about to see it! "},{"Title":"Left Behind","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the best Christian movies I've ever seen. Could really turn out to be a very good movie. It's very inspirational. Keeps you on the edge of your seat wondering what's going to happen next. Also kind of makes you think. "},{"Title":"Excellent Movie","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The soundtrack for the movie is excellent. The music is strategically placed at great points. The music helps set the mood.The movie Left Behind does assume that the audience has some knowledge of biblical prophecies of the end times. However, this is in the beginning and does not take away from the movie. The different events--the rapture, building of the temple, etc.--are explained and the biblical prophecies referring to it are pointed out. The confusion of those who are left behind from the rapture is shown in the movie.The movie does an excellent job showing how the technology we have now and events taking place make the biblical prophecies more of a reality of our time than in previous generations.This sparks interest in those unfamiliar with the prophecies who want to know more. There are many sources of information about the tribulation due to the demand and curiosity of readers of the left behind series. The movie, more available to general audiences, will spark interest in a lot of people.This movie will open doors for many to what the Bible has to say about the end times.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie and Casting Job","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The cast was perfect for the movie.  Each member of the cast had at least one of the characteristics I had imagined while reading the books.  That made the connection between the book and the movie for me.  When a book gets turned into a movie, there is always something lacking, something missing. But this movie did not lack anything, mainly because the cast was so strong. If you enjoyed reading the book, go and see the movie when it comes out on February 2, 2001! "},{"Title":"A must see movie for all.","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I feel that this movie hits a cord that some out there have forgotten about or never heard. It makes you take note of yourself and others that you love or know. Let us refresh our memories. There was not any sex or violence, which was refreshing. A movie for all ages to see. It kept well with the theme that it was trying to relate to the audience. A must see movie. "},{"Title":"A must see for all audiences","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A landmark in Christian filmmaking, Left Behind-The Movie captivates the viewer with stunning drama and special effects.  It was a joy to see all the characters from the best-selling novel Left Behind come to life in this end-times thriller  Kirk Cameron as Buck Williams, Brad Johnson as Rayford Steele, Clarence Gilyard as Bruce Barnes, and a host of other fine actors who deliver very convincing roles.Cloud Ten Pictures delivers a magnificent Hollywood-style production that will reach all audiences, regardless of age or beliefs.  Mark your calendar and don't be Left Behind when this riveting thriller hits the big screen and takes center stage on February 2nd, 2001. "},{"Title":"2nd Greatest Story of All Time","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a must-see movie!  The screenplay is extremely well done, even though they had to take a book and condense it into a 2 hour movie.  The actors they selected for each part were great and did such an excellent job at portraying their character.  Very believable movie that makes you wonder What if....?  I was so excited to see the first of my FAVORITE book series in movie form.  This is one of those movies where, if you haven't read the book first, you will want to after seeing the movie.  You just get sucked into the story and MUST know what comes next!  (And for those of you who don't know......You ain't seen nothin' yet!!)  I can't wait for the next one to come out!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":" Great Christian entertainment that stays true to the book","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Based on the first book of the LEFT BEHIND series, the video stays true to the book. It is a real treat  for readers to see Rayford, Buck, Chloe and Pastor Bruce leap from the pages to the small screen.The film's small budget may lead to criticism from many- especially those who have not read the series. Yet, for fans this video will please.Acting by  main characters Kirk Cameron (Buck Williams)  and Rayford Steele( Brad Johnson) is adequate. Special effects at times are amateurish . Yet, because of the budget and interest in this long awaited effort it is being awarded the highest score possible.For those that are not interested in movies with a heavy Christian emphasis remember that this is a video aimed  at  a religious audience . Be warned- the Bible theme is aimed at making the viewer consider mortality and fear being Left Behind. Some who are non - believers may resist the message by writing negative reviews. Others, may convert. "},{"Title":"Best end times movie ever","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  While not sticking to the exact line by line translation of the book as some may like this is an excellent adaption.  This is the best movie I have seen in a long time.  Great acting and an intense plot add themselves to well-don but not over-done special effects.  Truly a must-see movie for everyone. "}{"Title":"A compelling story","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This a well-made movie.  The acting is good as well as the story line.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  The message is  powerful and true.  I can't wait for the sequel! This movie portrays the events in the book, Left Behind by Timothy LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins, accurately. "},{"Title":"Best Christian movie yet!","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is THE best Christian movie I have seen yet. The movie was the bomb. Followed almost exactly to the book. It brought to life many prophetic aspects of the Bible and made them seem so understanable even to someone who has never read the Bible. I encourage you, if you are interested in what the Bible has to say about End Times this movie is excellent and bring you to a point where you will want to find out exactly what the Bible does say about the end times. I can't wait for the SEQUEL...  "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"8 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" this movie as well as the second and I'm sure the 3rd and the rest to come. first off i would like to say it has nothing to do with some of the mentioned reviews its exactly what a skeptical atheist would say about a movie like this. first of it has nothing to do with an organization trying to wipe out a bunch of people. they clearly did not read the books or watch the movie. its about the rapture and how millions of believers are going to be taken to heaven by Jesus and what kind of impact it had on the world and those left behind. nothing to do with some large organization. and it also is one theory on revelations and how to interprate the message it gives for me it helped me study and gave me a few ideas to what some of the passages meant. "},{"Title":"Great movie, should be more like it!","Date":"27 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Anyone who lives their life as a Christian will appreciate and enjoy this movie. If you have read the books, you will know what happens, and if you know THE Book, you will have a solid idea of what will happen, but none of the takes away from actually watching the movie and seeing it played out with a solid cast. The only shame is that there are not as many Christian based movies like this out there. People seem to be too afraid to associate themselves with God, which once again, if you have read The Book, shouldn't come as a complete surprise, just as a disappointment.Enjoy the movie, I did!!! And don't forget about the sequels! "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I just watched this movie today and all I have are good comments! It wasn't like the other church movies that I've seen in the past. It kept my attention and made me think. Kirk Cameron was wonderful. I thought it would be a little cheesy at first, but it wasn't. Cameron did a great job, as did all the other actors. Special effects weren't too bad either - not like the low budget movies that you would normally think this might represent. There is no swearing in this movie and this would be ideal for a church service or study group. This movie definitely makes a person think about what will happen in end times. I would definitely recommend watching this movie. "},{"Title":"I  Love   Left   behind   1 and  2.","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have and Left behind 1 and 2 ever sense 2005 and I watch them every night at bed time, I can feel the presence of the Holy ghost in my home.. I love it. I have been watching this movie everyday ever sense i have gotten it. My granddaughter is 3 years old and every night before you lies down on grandmas bed . She said's Grandma i want to watch Jesus in the sky. And too me thats a sign that god is working his will within us if we will let him have his way.. He has Blessed me with this little bundle of joy from the Heavens above. And i love sharing these Godly things with her.. Thank you guys for your walk with the LOrd. And for the love that you allowed the lord to in still in you.. God bless and may God guide you always. You guys are truly a blessing and an inspiration to all who watch. Theresa. "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If you are into prophecy, the Rapture, the Tribulation, you will enjoy this movie. Yes, the book was much better, but this movie brings it to life in a way that helps us understand what it is we're reading a little better. Kirk Cameron, Chelsea Noble, Brad Johnson and Janaya Stephens are exceptional, as is the rest of the cast. There are some differences between the movie and the book. Some things were changed, such as giving Buck an assistant and making him a news anchor instead of a reporter, the way he and Chloe met, and they have him already knowing Hattie and him getting her the job at the U.N. All in all, a very inspiring movie and a good companion piece to the book series. "},{"Title":"Great Message","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Okay...I'm one of those people who read the entire book series--and then watch the movie. Well, my opinion is that overall, it was a pretty good movie.I've seen a lot of really good movies, but I'm not really interested in comparing Left Behind to all of the other movies I've seen. What I thought was most compelling about it is the truth that was displayed through the lives of the characters. The director picked an awesome cast headed up by Kirk Cameron.Here's the one thing I didn't like A movie that doesn't compare to the book it's based on. See, there were so many details and things left out of the movie, that you really miss a lot of the important stuff. Luckily, movies can make up for things that books can't, but I have to say, I thought it should have been a bit longer. If you compare it to the Lord of the Rings Book and Movie Trilogy, at least there's was an effort by Peter Jackson to make the movies really similar to the book. That's what the director of Left Behind should have done.But I have to say that overall, it was a great movie. I actually saw the movie before reading the books, and that's what really got me into the books. Good acting...okay effects! "},{"Title":"u people are fools","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Why don't u read the bible before u start rambling about how stupid the film is. Everything is in the bible. Cant u see where the current events are leading?? All are leading to what the film is showing. The film is NOT FICTION. It is THE TRUTH. Stop being so stubborn and proud, GOD EXISTS, GOD IS ALMIGHTY, and when GOD PROMISES these things to happen, it WILL happen. So instead of being the dumb and ignorant people that u are for claiming to know BETTER than GOD Himself, why don't u do what u know deep down u ought to do... before its too late. Know Jesus Christ, invite him to come into your life. He loves you, died for u. He's the ONLY WAY, the ONLY TRUTH!! He's the only one who can save you and me!! "},{"Title":"A great movie","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" You know at one time I was like so many other atheist...I chalked the Bible up as man made fiction and a collection of good moral stories. I'm not really sure where to begin with this, but I suppose I will begin with when it happened to me. It was the day I opened my heart to God, and asked him for forgiveness. For what you ask? Well for denying him for one. For the very evil that kept him from helping me with my life. It was in that moment that I felt the most incredible joy I had ever felt in my life. It was as if God's spirit stood within me. There wasn't a word that could describe it. Trust me...I looked around, because I wanted to tell others what I was feeling. It gives you happiness. Its something you cant really understand without God's help. Shortly after my experience with God, I found a passage in the Bible that helped me out with that.And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not. John 15 You see like so many other people who deny God, I was that darkness looking at the light. In no way could I understand what he offered. So many people in the movie eventually find this as well.One of my biggest problems is not being able to see God. You know what? I couldn't see the wind either, or the love I felt...but yet I believed in them. So I countered with the witness of wind, as it blows things. Well the same was with God, he has created everything around us, its a witness to all the glory that he is.I know this movie might be fiction, but it holds so many truths. I would deem it a must see for anyone. The rapture is coming...its so close. If your reading this, why not give God a chance? I mean what could you really lose? Its a win win situation... I promise he can and will make a change in your life. Trust in him, believe, ask his forgiveness, believe in what his son Christ did for us, you will experience more joy than you can imagine, and the grace of God. "}{"Title":"Christian Film Giving Their Point of View","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In this wonderful world that our Maker created, there are many religions, races and people who have never been introduced to the Bible and Jesus Christ. This film deals with the Book of Revelation and the Anti-Christ that is trying to win human souls into eternal Hell. The struggle of Evil & Good always remains with us. This is what I would call a wake up call from religious groups who hope and pray that people will follow the right path in life and find out about their Soul, Body, Self-Love and the Holy Spirit. Greatly enjoyed this film, and can appreciate the wonderful production staff and actors who believe deeply in their religious convictions. Hopefully, it will lead people on the correct path in life with their GOD. Amen "},{"Title":"Watch the movie, it is very powerful","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Left Behind is an amazing, powerful movie, serving as a wake up call to many. This movie goes hand in hand with the events occurring in the Middle East right now, and the bible. The movie displays the reality of the end of times, and the tribulation. Do you have doubts about things? Are you unsure of the bible? This is the movie for you, and anyone for that matter. Whether you are into religion, believe in God or not, I urge you to take an hour out of your busy life to watch this movie. Despite the negative reviews and opinions about this movie left here on IMDb, I highly recommend it! Don't deny yourself the opportunity to see it, this may very well be your last chance! + God bless you "},{"Title":"Thought provoking! Rent, better yet, BUY IT, NOW!!!!!!!","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Wow, a movie that actually made one think! What a concept! I loved this movie. For a Christian production that didn't have billions to spend, this flick was great! Cameron as Buck, Johnson as Rayford, and the fine list of supporting actors did a tremendous job. If you've read the books, which I have all nine, Gordon Currie nailed the role of Nicolae Carpathia square on the head!! WOW!!! I can't wait for a sequel. All nine of these books are easy box office hits. I hope the producers realize that when this movie came out, slouches like me never even read a LEFT BEHIND SERIES book yet, but now the fan base is huge! If your ignorant and reading this, this series is the number one selling series of all time! Did you hear me? ALL TIME!!! Case closed. Get the movie, get a Bible, get saved before you're LEFT BEHIND!!!!!!!  FLAMIO  "},{"Title":"We all are truly blessed.","Date":"20 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read so many negative responses on this movie.  I myself really liked it.  I saw it as a truly bold attempt to bring this much needed message to all the people.  Look at some of the trash that comes out of Hollywood and then are nominated for Oscars.  I find this refreshing that someone has made an attempt to touch others in a Christian way.  As we will all see sometime soon in the future, all Christians will be scorned.  Someone has the guts to try and get the word out before it is too late and many will be Left Behind.  If one person in this whole world was saved because of this movie, then thank God it was made. "},{"Title":"what an absolutely amazing movie","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie touched me like nothing else ever. It was played so well. The truth was clearly stated in this movie. If you've ever questioned your belief with the Lord our God than this is the movie to see. I hope that everyone would be able to see this movie. Thank you for making this movie. My wife questioned the word and didn't quite understand the bible and this movie has really made her understand. I thank God that we were blessed in seeing this movie.Thank You!! "},{"Title":"Something for everyone!","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a movie packed with adventure and grit.  Surprisingly it also has a great message.  It is well made like a big budget block buster. The characters are easy to relate to.  They are well developed.  Drama genre fans will really enjoy this movie.  At the same time, there are plenty of explosions and lots of intrigue for the action/adventure fan.  It really possesses all of the major elements to become a big hit!!!  It was so tantalizing that I had to read the books.  I have now read all 8 that are out, and am anxious to see the others made into movies!  If this movie does well at the box office we can expect more to be made - What a treat! Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Worth seeing this movie","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Thought provoking yet disturbing movie based on the NY Times Best Seller Left Behind series, relating to end of the world. Ironic that just as this movie is released, the European Union is currently debating having uniform identifying number for each citizen in EU, and World Trade Organization continues to consolidate avenues for commerce globally. Anyone who  leaves this movie without some troubling questions about the direction history is currently taking us, hasn't been reading headlines in major newspapers of late............. "},{"Title":"When the Rapture comes....","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...don't be Left Behind.  This is a phenomenal portrayal of what can be expected when Revelations promises are kept.  This movie is a must-see for the whole family.  Don't miss out on your chance to understand the Truth! "},{"Title":"Why pick an atheist to review Left Behind?  Result is dumb and deadly.","Date":"30 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Note - IMDb removed the original review by an atheist. The remarks here were about the original review.To whoever chooses candidates for reviews It makes no sense to deliberately choose an Atheist to review a religious movie. It yields certain death. Do you pick an ultra conservative to review Michael Moore films? Do you pick a Nazi to review the America the Beautiful song? Do you pick a devout Christian to review an artwork where a crucifix is in a jar of urine? Ask me to review and I will give you a fair review. I liked the movie because the acting was well done and the story line was interesting with an unexpected twist towards the end, but I disliked the sequel, Left Behind 2, which I would rate a 4 or 5, due to acting and poor plot. To enjoy Left Behind, you have to set aside anti-religious bias and take it as it is. Please use common sense and don't choose a hater of a theme to review a theme. I could do a full review, if you ask. Thanks. "},{"Title":"A Good Religious Story Even for Atheistic","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" While traveling in an airplane, the GNN journalist Buck Williams (Kirk Cameron) and the airline pilot Rayford Steele (Brad Johnson) note that many passengers mysteriously vanished. When they land, they realize that the disappearance of children and some adults is a worldwide happening. Later, Rayford finds that these events are described in the Holy Bible and indeed those who stay on earth were left behind, and the Antichrist will born on the next years. Although having a screenplay a little confused and being boring in some parts, 'Left Behind' is a good movie, and has an intelligent story. In accordance with the Extras on the DVD, the best seller 'Left Behind' is the most sold and one of the top ten of the Twentieth Century. I believe that religious persons will love this movie, but even atheistic will like it. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) 'Deixados Para Trs' ('Left Behind') "}{"Title":"Read your bibles people","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Technical issues aside (I thought the film looked like a Sunday night TV movie), I'm amazed at how many people have bought in to the whole idea of a pretrib rapture and a one man anitchrist. I used to believe this, but when I actually read my bible, I was surprised to find that nowhere is there a pretrib rapture, a seven year tribulation (the bible doesn't say how long it is).The pretrib view came about to make Christians feel safe. This is a very dangerous view in my opinion. I know many people that say, Oh, I'll become a Christian after people disappear. Then I'll know the bible is real. The bible says there are no second chances. 1 Thess. 52-3 For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; AND THEY SHALL NOT ESCAPE The bible is clear that the rapture (a word that isn't even in the bible) and His second coming are one and the same. Also read Matt 2429-31. To sum it up, the passage says that AFTER the tribulation, THEN the Son of Man appears in the clouds to GATHER his elect. Also read Matt 2422.Notice also how the pretrib view is different than the biblical view. They're complete opposites. Much like creation and evolutionism are complete opposites. The bible says that man brought death into the world, evolution says death brought man. One of these is biblical, the other is created by Satan to deceive the world. Satan works by deception. He likes to make things sound good so we'll more readily accept the lies. Yes, Satan is deceiving many christians today regarding end times events. The bible even tells us that many of the elect (christians) will be deceived.I realize that this will rub many Christians the wrong way. But you know what? Sometimes the truth hurts. If you're in a dark room you can't see a thing. You fumble around and guess as to what's there. Suddenly someone turns on the light, and it hurts at first. You let your eyes adjust and you can now see everything. Bible truth is the same way. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie!","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have read many negative comments about this movie. One from a catholic...who admits she is not a Christian.This movie and the books were hits! My family will watch them over and over again. keep in mind this is a FICTIONAL story based on future events. If you don't understand that I cannot help you. The rapture is very real...some events in the movie are very real...but the movie itself is fictional. There is no GNN and no reporter that fakes out the Anti-Christ...at leat not yet. )There are about 1000 prophecies in the Bible. Of that about 500 have been fulfilled...TO AN EXACT T!!!! The Bible predicted that Israel will become a nation. For 1948 years there was no Nation of Israel. Christians for years almost didn't believe this prophecy. They even tried to interpret the prophecy to mean the church. Everyone knows that in 1948 ISRAEL BECAME A NATION.There is more to it...the Bible explains why there was no nation of Israel for so many years.Most of the 500 prophecies have been fulfilled in the last 125 years.Glenn Beck (radio personality)recently (March 30th) did an END TIMES show on his CNN TV program read the transcript here http//transcripts.cnn.com/TRANSCRIPTS/0703/30/gb.01.html There are certainly WORSE movies out there. The message is clear...get your heart right with God, because just as 500 Bible predictions have been fulfilled...so will the other 500 and one is the RAPTURE.Ask yourself; Why would 500 prophecies from the Bible come true...TOO AN EXACT T...and not the rapture? hmmmm...it's true...every word of it.Watch the movie again....it just might lead you to Christ. "},{"Title":"Great film! see it!","Date":"19 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The film was great but everyone should read the books first! The books  are even greater!!! So buy the books and than rent the film.. You will be thrilled for hours and hours and its really worth the afford!As a christian I can approve the story and show it to all your unsaved friends. "},{"Title":"Great message, might scare people without faith","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have read many of the comments on here calling this movie Christian Propaganda. I really don't care what any of those people say because they are ignorant to the TRUTH. They should probably pay close attention to the movie because it tells what WILL HAPPEN. It is sad to see that there are people who are so afraid to believe in anything higher than themselves. I know I will probably get slammed by all the liberal one world people out there but God's opinion of me is the only thing that matters. LEFT BEHIND is awesome and the books are even better. Don't be a fool, see this movie, and believe it! "},{"Title":"The Shaking Truth","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Many times I find myself indulging in a movie to escape the reality that surrounds my daily life. LEFT BEHIND is anything but an escape from reality. Rarely do I find a form of mass media that causes me to evaluate my actions and their reprecussions to the degree that this movie did. Though the books, which were filled with scripturally grounded truths, insued extreme conviction, the movie captured the same elements without the actual process of reading having to be done. My roommate, who has yet to read the books, was able to follow the story and catch the intended message just as easily as I was. The spontaneously occurring incidents kept the attention of the watchers without overwhelming them into confusion. I walked away with just a glimpse of what one would feel like having walked through the rapture. I especially admired the way that the director captured the change that occurs in people's personalities when shaken to such an extent. Buck, although following his investigator instints, is clouded with a sense of confusion. Rayford sees for the first time the pieces of what his wife was saying fall into place. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone willing to face the truth of what lies ahead for us as humans. For those who don't want to invest in buying the movie, or for those who want to support the makers of this film, or for those willing to give it a chance on the big screen, LEFT BEHIND will be released on February 2 in theatres. I would highly encourage everyone to go out an see it opening weekend.  "},{"Title":"Horrible, just simply horrible. No other way to put it. * (out of four)","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  LEFT BEHIND THE MOVIE / (2000) * (out of four)By Blake French	Left Behind The Movie is based on the novel by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins, which I have never read, but after watching this movie I can confidently say I never intend to. It is like the filmmakers wanted to make a film about the end of the world but had no story so they decided to rip off as much material as possible from other movies. They should have ripped off even more because the best parts of Left Behind The Movie are recycled straight from other productions; any original ideas the film has on its own are agonizingly routine and wreak of desperation. This movie is truly horrible. Kirk Cameron stars as a young and ambitious TV reporter named Buck Williams. He just so happens to be interviewing a scientist in Jerusalem when a military attack on Israel interrupts them. Buck must be the luckiest person alive to be at such the right place at such the right time. When day turns into night and the air force begin to explode in mid air without being fired upon, we know something must be up.  	Cut to Chicago where a pilot, Rayford (Brad Johnson), is cheating on his wife (Christine MacFadyen), a religious fanatic. Their marriage is, of course, on the rocks their two offspring (Jack Manchester and Janaya Stephens) deal with their own problems. Despite his wife's objections, Rayford is called to duty on a flight. On that flight, various passengers suddenly disappear leaving only their clothing behind. It is unintentionally funny how the passengers' clothes are left behind, in an upright sitting position clearly safety pinned to the chairs.	There is the setup, but I will go no further in explaining the story. The remainder of the film consists of countless scenes where masses of confused people shout and bicker with each other while the filmmakers recycle every clich in the book. Paranoid informants, government conspiracies, unscrupulous preachers, exploding automobiles, shooting snipers, but none of these things are developed. The reporter's reluctant attitude and robust intentions are stereotypical; Rayford's marital conflicts are never really clear, only discussed to give the characters a little background; Buck's paranoid friend is so eccentric and overacted it is funny. The characters are horribly written and equally acted; I never cared about a single one of them.So what is the conflict here? Discovering the cause of the disappearances? If you are unaware of the cause of the vanishing then  you are not of the movies target audience. The film is not a mystery, but attempts to show what the end times will be like according to the scriptures. But the movie takes the wrong path in doing so. The characters wander through the shameless story with nothing to do; it is just plain boring and annoying.	The film's director is Victor Sarin, who is an accomplished cinematographer and director of many TV programs and series. That is not a surprise because Left Behind The Movie looks like a cheap, made for TV movie? It is never a good sign when a movie is first released on video, then later in theaters to increase the potential audience. Isn't it supposed to be the other way around? Makes about as much sense as anything in the movie. Maybe after the surprise success of The Omega Code the filmmakers thought they could continue the prosperity stride of Christian-based movies. No such luck; by the time you read this review, the film will probably be out of theaters and back to the video shelves.   "}]