[{"Title":"Splendid.","Date":"31 August 2001","Score":"45 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vatel is a French period film with Depardieu as the title character, a master steward under the crown of King Louis XIV whose job it is to put on feasts and spectacles for the pleasures of royalty. Typical of director Joffe, the film peers deep into the character of Vatel, around whom swirl politicking and wickedness, with such depth and dimension as to make the plot of secondary importance. Replete with sumptuous sets, elegant costuming, and epicurean delights, the film fills the eye and whets the palate as few films can while it paints a portrait of a sensitive and honorable man who makes the supreme sacrifice for dignity.A superb watch for those into period films painted with delicate brush strokes and subtle nuances. "},{"Title":"One of the year's best films","Date":"17 January 2001","Score":"38 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Roland Joffe's Vatel does something few movies can do these days it takes you to a place you've never been before.The French made film has Louie XIV visiting a poor province ruled by an improverished prince, who must put on spectacular entertainment fit for the Sun King. There's more than the King's time at stake here, though, for Louie wants the prince to lead his army, should France go to war with Holland, and the Prince desperately needs Louie's financial help, to save his nearly brankrupt province.Enter the prince's chief steward, Vatel, played by Gerard Depardiue. A combination French chief extraordinaire and showman supreme, he not only serves up unbelieveable meals, but also puts on shows that would out do James Cameron, and does it on a much smaller budget. From pop up lawn decorations to fire works extravaganzas that would shame the Chinese, Vatel displays a genius for spectacle that will literally leave you breathless.Vatel the movie includes lots of court intrigue and some fine acting from those carrying it out. Deparidieu delivers an unexpected performance as Vatel.  Rather than the explosive, temperamental French chief, he plays this 17th century showman as a harried administrator who is trying keep a lot of balls in the air at the same time he must navigate the tricky waters of French politics. It's an understated performance in which much of what is going on is behind his eyes (and probably in his stomach ulcers) rather than on the surface.His protagonists are Julian Sands as the petulant,devious King and Tim Roth as the chief court intriguer, kind of an early version of a political advance man. Uma Thurman is a lady in waiting who has caught all three men's eyes.All are good, but what sets Vatel off is the visuals which give you a look at spectacle the likes of which this writer had never before seen. This film should walk away with all the set design, costume design and effects Oscars hands down.  It is one of the most incredible visual experiences in film history. See it in the theaters, though, and not squashed into a TV screen. "},{"Title":"We should not judge this movie by its cover","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"19 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Letting yourself be submerged by the visual aspects of this subtle but not so fast movie is the key to its understanding. The images are rich and varied; the atmosphere is deep in history if not somewhat accurate at least attempts to recreate wonderfully the ambiance, decadence and glory that was France during the Reign of Louis XIV. Those who love history will love this movie, not for its content, but for its exuberance and unashamed panache.I will not attempt to decipher the story line, the words in itself are what is important here. Whether the story is accurate or not or whether is fact or fiction or whose point of view is it, is irrelevant, you should make your own conclusion. The most important aspect for me is its own subtlety, seeing its hidden little treasures in its rich tapestry of images and symbolism was the most fun, also its unassuming little gems of wisdom about human nature here and there, gave enough impulse to the story to keep it interesting, Yes! This is not `The Three Musketeers' for those looking for action and Yes! This is not `Cyrano' either for those looking for the power and poetry of the prose.What these characters do is not as important as how they do it, specially during those days of very conventional and strict etiquette, their seemingly detached attitude is only a reflection  of their hidden emotions as much as their blind following of the rules imposed by a necessary tyrant. Only then we come to understand that this was only a clever device that Louis XIV created to maintain all of these rich dilettante aristocrats busy with life at court to keep them away from the real world and the real politics thus providing him with absolute power (This was his glory not Versailles).I find that if we look carefully under the varnish and the gold, they were not too far from the farce and ridicule that we see on today's society. When we look around, the music, the clothes and the places might be different, but the treachery, pettiness, envy, jealousy, hunger for power and those who utilize it for their own purposes are still the same. If anything, this movie is a mirror of society at is very worst and best, and a great point of reference to look at ourselves as we were and as we presently are. Those who pretend that this story is just a boring fantasy of the past of some fertile imagination dressed up in pretty costumes with some period music; they need a better set of glasses than an eye doctor can normally prescribe. Those with the sensitivity to appreciate what is not obvious and can read between the lines will be ready for a treat.  "},{"Title":"Finally - A French Food Movie!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"13 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Any true gourmand knows the story of Vatel -- and that he died for his art. I thought it impressively well-filmed and quite stunning.  I didn't care that this wasn't Depardieu's best film or that it wasn't that well-acted. The visuals alone were worth the price of admission.  It is sad that Tom Stoppard disappointed with dialogue that could have been far more compelling but I still didn't care.  I am just happy to have a French Food Movie and see the history of Chantilly Cream! "},{"Title":"Nice historical drama","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vatel was not a bad movie, in fact it was worth viewing. If it were not a true story you could argue it was too calm and had too little excitement for the people who seek diversion entertainment. However, since it is a true story, about a royal cook and what he had to go through just to do his art it becomes very interesting. Another good theme was the disfunctionality of the royals and how the servants interacted with these powerful people (Vatel tried not to as much as possible). I particularly liked the part where Vatel said no thank you so philosophically to a nobleman's perverted request that Vatel won him over as a friend through respect. If you like brinkmanship and maneuvering, this movie has it, be it subtle. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning look at the technology and society of Court","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film's production value is in league with the best sci-fi films; yet it was a legit piece about European Court in the 17th Century and the impact of the monarchical system of government on love, money, culture and politics. If you've ever experienced an unrequited or forbidden (not illicit) love, you'll empathize with the plight of François Vatel, played by Gérard Depardieu, whose performance is characteristically excellent. The movie's historical elements offer a surprising look at the available technology, even if the applications were anticipated. The love story is not original (stations interfere with true, but conflicted, love), but the context and visual surroundings -- and the fact that it is historically based -- add an unexpected dimension to the viewing, which is best appreciated on a large screen. "},{"Title":"The Player and The Viewer","Date":"17 August 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.A terrific script, one which appears to be concerned with class imprisonment but is far  more clever. The key notion here is self-reference.Vatel is a producer of lush entertainments, presented to us by -- a producer of lush  entertainments. Though only the translation is by Stoppard, this is the most Stoppardian  of notions to amuse us with a story about people just as greedy as ourselves for  luxurious entertainment -- and to please while condemning.The story goes farther into the truth all entertainers are slaves, prostitutes. The game  for an artist is one of drawing lines between that slavery and the noble joys of creation.  Vatel does what he does because his obnoxious sponsors provide him the means to do  what he desires. That's all, or not all because he needs the applause.Also in Stoppardian fashion, we have Roth (Guildenstern , Mitchel, Vincent) there to tell  us the terrible truth about ourselves. The plot involves competing attentions to Uma's  character -- essentially a sweet whore with canaries -- and Vatel, the grand coordinator  of revels. He is pulled by the King and his present employer as well as sexually by the  King's brother. He wins the admiration (and protection) of that brother in refusing his  advances by noting their common perversion in the quest for perfection.How perfect for this film to be lacking the salt of engaging drama, that excuse we  normally give for watching. How perfect that we collectively reject it because it is merely  beautiful.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching "},{"Title":"The Slave Who Dreamt He Was Free","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Spoilers AheadThis bleak, sad tragedy died a quick death at the box office. I always thought it was such a powerful film. The movie consists of two parallel stories Thurman's and Vatel's. Along the way we are treated to what we, as Americans, never had the misfortune of enduring. Being a peasant, with no rights, treated cruelly by these reptiles with titles. I love the scene of the woman who yells at King Louis and gets nearly beaten to death for her trouble. Vatel's noble is hosting a great festival through which he hopes to get that lusted after military commission. Vatel is his great master of ceremonies making sure the food and pageantry ingratiates and wins the favor of King Louis of France. The artistry of Vatel's culinary and artistic creations is worth owning the movie for. Vatel encounters Thurman who has entered the great contest for the King's bed favors with Roth as his Valet between the sheets. As the movie begins, Roth is making sure the women are spatially located appropriately to their current standings in the pecking order, no pun intended. Uma gently tries to disabuse Vatel of his quixotic and childish belief that his master values him above all things. Vatel gets angry and storms off at such a suggestion, what effrontery!As the movie progresses, Vatel and Thurman are bathed in the utter depravities of these misnomered ' nobilities.' Vatel has to shield a kitchen boy from the King's pedophile brother who has decided he would like to enjoy him. Vatel comes very close to being killed for this and then has to talk his way out of taking the boy's place. Uma gets to see how cruel and ruthless the bed competition is with Roth waiting, hat under the bed, to catch any scraps that he might enjoy when the King tires of the woman of the week. The movie builds to a tragic climax when Vatel is lost as a prize in a card game to King Louis. He kills himself rather than be shipped with the luggage to Paris. He writes a heartbreaking letter to Uma telling her she was right and he was but a slave all the time a piece of equipment. The movie closes with Uma leaving these ghastly beasts far behind her. A more sad, tragic tale other than Joffe's other movie, The Mission, you will never watch.I recommend the movie for its acting, writing and direction but above this for a great taste of what it was like to be a peasant. The machinations in both stories, Vatel's and Uma's, convey such cruelty and depravity of these alleged nobility. Vatel's whose life is pleasing his noble master who treats him like a salad bowl he has grown tired of. When you behold the artistry of Vatel, his nobility in protecting the little boy, and the despicable reprobates playing around with peasants lives as if they were cards on a table, well, it is painful but quite educative. I love the movie for it is like a time machine back to a world we never lived in. Roth is such a utter shameless Machiavellian miscreant here even approaching his character in Rob Roy. He uses Uma's sleeping with Vatel to blackmail her into his bed. A wonderful lesson in misanthropy that both lead characters justifiably flee from, Vatel existentially through suicide and Uma by leaving them behind. An Underrated Movie. "},{"Title":"Favorite Scenes","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I simply never get enough of this film. It's one of the few that I have to re-watch, every so often.Now, one of the things that struck me most strongly was the fact of Vatel and Anne's goodness -- this, in spite of where Louis' example might have led them -- with the people who worked with them.The scenes with Vatel and Colin; with Anne and Louise... especially the one where Louise drops the vase that Vatel sent to Anne (and Anne says It's alright, Louise... it's alright) ... these are made almost painfully beautiful by the contrasting scenes with the aristocrats running amok.But, Vatel's words come back to me here Harmony and Contrast -- All beauty comes from those two things. "},{"Title":"Depardieu is brilliant","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Vatel, perhaps a weak title to a spectacular film; it recreates the excesses of the French court in its pre-off-with-their-heads-phase. In order to escape bankruptcy, the gout afflicted Viscount must entertain the King so sumptuously and so entreatingly, that the King may commission a war with Holland, thereby paying the Viscount's debts. To keep the King and his courtiers entertained, it was no small thing, so the entire countryside is enlisted in the feasts and entertainment. None will be paid unless the banquets are a success. Louis' entourage of Queen, mistresses, and waggish cavaliers run riot through the festivities. The fete is essentially an Olympic opening parade that goes on for three days in dazzling costume orchestrated by one great artist, the Viscount's steward, Vatel.Vatel orchestrates the extravaganzas and falls for Uma Thurman, the King's new mistress. She is not yet the jaded courtesan and sees greatness in Vatel's can-do veneer. Indeed, Vatel is a man of integrity, denying the King's pedophile brother a young kitchen boy at the risk of his life. Vatel swats away meddling noblemen and women for the entire feast while making love to Thurman, star-crossed lovers though they are. Gerard Depardieu is brilliant even with his modest grasp of English. "}{"Title":"a true living movie","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of the best film I've ever seen. The story of Francoise Vatel, the Condé's Master of Cerimonies, and the King's three days visit at Condé's Castle. This is truly a living movie, because of the soul that R. Joffé was able to put inside it. An amazing G. Depardieu, together with the whole excellent cast and the wonderful sets and costumes, gives us the taste of Vatel's life. His thoughts, his hearth and his death appears to us in all their poetry. The screenplay by T.Stoppard and J.Labrune is touching, the dialogues are perfect, the actors are amusing, the music by E. Morricone is quite good. All mixed by the directing of Joffé. A strange masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Historical Drama","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this movie due to the historical treatment of how politics played out during the time of the European kingdoms. Money is always the problem and the money is always from the poor for the selfishness of the rich---some things never change. Vatel like so many perfectionists of their crafts comes to the realization that no one cares--not even his employer! Good film with underlying truths that quite possibly could be reviewed in today's world. If you have visited castles in Europe you will enjoy getting a feel about how the sub-basements were used--no more complaints about your kitchen. Gerard Depardieu gives a good performance and the costumes and scenery are exquisite. "},{"Title":"?  Spoiler ???","Date":"12 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a warning about spoilers but just about everyone on this site talked about the ending of this film anyway so...???? What ? Anyway, I am adding a comment to someone who posted here that Vatel died for his art which is wrong. I wonder if they actually paid attention ??? He died apparently because he did not care to have his HONOR and his feelings continually shredded. He experienced a series of heartbreaks,sad events and disappointments that were pointing to a future of more certain unhappiness. Since he was a man of honor and decency that was too much for him to bear. That is a lot different than dying for his art. The end of the movie made it clear that people assumed so but it was not true. There. Now like everyone else here, I have discussed the ending. "},{"Title":"Contrast of noble status and noble virtues","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is about a servant of noble values having to prepare an extravagant feast for the King's visit.Vatel understandably focuses on one single character, Francois Vatel. To me, everything else in the film seems to be subplots or minor characters. Much time is spent on portraying Vatel as a hardworking, bright and noble person. He even knows his subordinates' life history by heart! Vatel's noble virtues contrasts with the corrupted mortals of high social status. The film's dark theme is sometimes overshadowed by the merry atmosphere of the feast. The extravagant sets and amazing costumes are very dazzling. The film is worth the watch just to see the feast scene! "},{"Title":"Not such a swell party","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The biggest French box-office disaster in memory (it wiped out the massive profits of Asterix et Obelix Contre Cesar and nearly took Gaumont with it), this pretty much completes Roland Joffe's unbroken post-The Mission run of box-office and artistic failure. This is the kind of film Martha Stewart or Delia Smith might appreciate, but few others will.   It all starts off so well. So well that I was wondering why this has such a bad reputation, but it quickly became apparent that it really was just a film about a three-day party seen from the point of view of the caterers. The fact that the party is thrown for the Sun King gave it plenty of visual opulence, but the lack of substance became more and more apparent as it dragged on towards the third day - it's definitely one of those party's that goes on way too long and which you should have left much earlier while it was still in full swing. When one of the characters kills themselves because there aren't enough fish to go around and the script strains to turn it into an act of revolt against a world where nobility of the spirit counts less than accidents of birth, you know that someone's reading a little too much into it.Gerard Depardieu looks alarmingly unhealthy throughout, Tim Roth gives a very bored reprise of his Rob Roy party piece and the wooden Uma Thurman is borderline disastrous/vaguely competent (the scene where she stops the wind by force of will is one of the most laughable pieces of face pulling in recent years). The supporting cast fare better - mostly Brits like Julian Glover, Timothy Spall, Richard Griffiths and Julian Sands. Shot in English, it is very odd to note that Depardieu is dubbed for the odd few words (but rarely full sentences) by another, very British sounding actor. Maybe he was too ill to make the ADR sessions. It's lavish and you can see where the money was spent, you just can't see why.  "},{"Title":"A wasted opportunity - and there is no excuse for it","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is deeply frustrating that what could, and should, have been a great period drama, with some fine acting talent, should end up a dull, mediocre piece of cinema.  The film lacks structure, has a lacklustre script, whilst the acting performances are generally lame and, in some instances, quite awful.  There is some graphic and totally unnecessary violence, and vulgarity is used as a substitute for wit.  To garnish this unhappy ensemble, the background music is repetitive and feeble to the point of nausea.  I couldn't get out of the cinema fast enough.First, the acting.  Uma Thurman appears to be totally miscast in the role of Vatel's secret admirer, and her performance is dull, emotionless and sometimes irritating.  By contrast Gérard Depardieu, a great acting talent, is wasted completely.  All he is required to do is walk about the sets barking out orders to his servants and occasionally looking a bit miffed when one of the aristocracy gets his gander up.  One suspects that he has already realised that the film is a turkey and so feels no enthusiasm to waste his energies trying to lift the film out of the pit of mediocrity in which it is well and truly lodged.  And one can hardly blame him.The film's only saving grace - indeed the only reason for seeing the film at all - is the magnificent depiction of the royal entertainment designed by Vatel.  The scale of the activities is quite breathtaking, brilliantly executed, and offers an interesting insight into the life of the royal court at this time in history.  Unfortunately, we are not allowed to enjoy the legendary fireworks scene because a servant is brutally and explicity killed in the process.  This is probably the one true great moment in the film, but it seems to get in the way of the one piece of entertainment on offer to us and the tragic impact is lost completely.On balance, it is the ending that is the greatest disappointment.  This should be a deeply moving and tragic finale, but it fails completely to have any effect. The film just loses momentum after the fireworks scene and gradually shrivels up to nothing.  It looks as if the entire cast and production team gave up and went home early.  The final scenes lack any emotional impact or integrity and overall the film appears shallow and insubstantial.A totally wasted opportunity.  "},{"Title":"A glimpse of the luxurious life of the Sun King","Date":"8 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This film tells the story of François Vatel, a master of ceremonies at the service of Prince Louis II of Condé, one of the most important aristocrats of the French court but that was bankrupt and away of the good graces of King Louis XIV. The approaching of a war with the Netherlands makes Condé, anxious to led the king's armies, decides to invite the king for a weekend at his Castle of Chantilly, hoping to be able to recover the royal sympathy. Then Vatel is in charge of organizing a three-day party like never seen before for king's amusement. Based on historical events, the film is directed by Roland Joffé, has argument by Jeanne Labrune (in original French version) and features Gérard Depardieu (Vatel), Uma Thurman (in the role of Anne of Montausier, one of the king's lovers) and Tim Roth (as the Marquis de Lauzun, the king's confidant).Joffé managed to make the audience relive the events. The environments, the locations for filming, the costumes, the music, everything was thought out and analyzed carefully to reproduce the atmosphere of the time, so we must congratulate this effort for historical accuracy, which even received a nomination for the Oscar for Best Art Direction. The actors met well with their roles. The script also works in interesting ways, including some situations where we glimpse the contrast (and even shock) of the two worlds of seventeenth-century France the richness and unparalleled luxury of the court and the absolute misery of the common people. Also positive note for the soundtrack of Enio Morricone, although not one of his best-known or most interesting compositions. "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you enjoy historic/period films, this is one to see. There is a weak link - Ms. Thurman- but her performance does not ruin the whole. I confidently proclaim all other performances top notch, from the Sun King to the title character, to the vast staff in the kitchen of the Prince de Conde's estate in the countryside. Excellent! Transporting! The effort and attention in production is exemplary and never gets in the way of the mood of the movie and the viewer being sucked in. It is an an example to try to match. Vatel is a convincing travel back in time to the opulence, ridiculous behavior and systems in the royal court of 17th C. France. The viewer really feels like a fly on the wall, observing the behaviors, politics, seductions, binding and imprisoning codes of conduct and misconduct that were easily paraded by the royal court. I enjoy this film to this day despite a couple dozen viewings. "},{"Title":"French/English period piece, the story of Vatel.","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gérard Depardieu is François Vatel, I'm not sure what his actual title was, but he was a combination of master chef, kitchen manager, estate manager, and live show producer. The setting for the whole story is the country estate, over a few days, when the king of France, Louis XIV, and his vast party are dropping in for some peace and quiet. However custom at that time was that the king was to be lavishly entertained, no matter what. One problem was Vatel's employer, the prince de Conde (Julian Glover), was virtually broke, and hoped that the king would appoint him to a high military position, one that would pay well. And, if they were to go to war with Holland, that would assure it. Meanwhile, the merchants who provided food and other supplies were put off until then, and it fell to Vatel to convince them that the money would come.Much of the middle story involves the spoiled and decadent behavior the king and his vast traveling party. The king's brother, who was gay, made a request for Vatel himself. The king requested a young kitchen boy, and Vatel put a stop to that. Uma Thurman is the vaguely British Anne de Montausier, having an affair with the king, but attracted to Vatel. The movie focuses on Vatel himself, his everyday life, his skill at making changes in the menu when, for example, half of the lobster shipment was bad, or the fish catch was unusually small. Vatel is painted as a strong person with high integrity, and barely able to tolerate the misbehavior he witnesses. A good movie for those who enjoy realistic period pieces.MAJOR SPOILER. Desperate, Vatel's employer bets and loses Vatel in a card game against the king. When he learns this, partly feeling unappreciated and partly dreading going into service for the king, Vatel poisons and kills himself, honor before all else. "},{"Title":"great cast, great costumes, great sets, and above all, great music!","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Enough has been said about Vatel so I wouldn't like to be redundant. However, I should emphasize on how superb the score is, it really takes you out on a trip to another era, of magic and beauty on one side, and the dread of poverty and human misery on the other. Throughout the film, you can easily perceive how the film is very critical on the selfishness and futility of the scheming and shallow gentry of the king's court. We see grandeur and pomposity in the face of pain and misery suffered daily by the servants and the common people. If you're a fan of classical music, you should certainly watch this beautiful film. Its score is indeed healing and uplifting.  "}{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoiler!!!! I thought this movie was great! I showed the theatricality and Royal Propaganda that went on in Early Modern France. Vatel was a complete victim with no option left for himself.  He spends the whole film thinking that he is the master of his own destiny but when his master trades him like a horse in card game he realizes that he is not. He is really just a pawn like everyone else.I also love the use of mirrors in this film.  Vatel objectifies the upper class by alway viewing them in mirrors.  When Uma's character sleeps with the king she looks at herself in the mirror and sees herself as an object for the first time.I thought this film was all about the powerlessness people felt during this time.  To people who didn't like the ending, it was based on a true story so he had to kill himself at the end. "},{"Title":"Reserved for Americans of taste","Date":"6 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vatel is a movie to be relished for those not with time to spare but  who will spare the time this film deserves.  Only those with short attention spans will find it slow or uninvolving.  True, Umma Thurman is typically misplaced (what has she been _good_ in?) and Tim Roth gives a typically villanous performance (isn't he always good? -- is he really like this or is this a persona he has perfected?), but this interpretation of perhaps the world's first great French chef (played by Gerard Depardieu, typically inimitable) makes one think twice about the current excesses of Emeril, Puck & Co. on TV............. "},{"Title":"Exquisite!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The detail alone in this film is enough to astound one! Actors performed flawlessly but the beauty is in the portrayal of the times. The demands of the monarchy on its people were unbelievable during this period and this film presented it to a T.  Bravo!! "},{"Title":"Pleasing but unsubstantial","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Duc de Condé's employee, François Vatel (1631-1678) was in charge of cooking, and preparing shows for the French King Louis XIVth when he once come in the castle of Chantilly, owned by de Condé. If Vatel can impress the King, de Condé will gain his favors, and the destiny of France will change. Read (again) Sévigné to know more about Vatel.In the movie, he falls in love with a King's mistress (Uma), he is refined, very competent (he even invents the whipped cream crème Chantilly). The movie shows three days of banquets.The brilliant Gérard Depardieu is Vatel. But this time, this wonderful actor seems to be absent. He seems to wander about the tables, gives orders, and laboriously hurries. The screenplay vanishes (still Jeanne Labrune and Tom Stoppard wrote it !), the actors vanish, and finally, there is only a beautiful scenery left, due to Jean Rabasse. It is pleasing, but quite unsubstantial. Morricone's music, takes part in the quiet but shallow mood.This movie opened the 53th festival of Cannes. "},{"Title":"Ineffable sacrifice","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" A beautiful film about art, life, sacrifice. Very European, refined, splendid image, subtle acting, atmosphere of a historical period recreated in magnificent way. But the principal error is the beauty of a movie in which food, costumes, colors, words, art in every form transforms the story in ordinary pretext.Depardieu is a brilliant Vatel and his impressive talent, his artistic force are reflected in acting. But Vatel was not a victim of hypocrite nobles, of time and of his social origins. The last gesture was not only result of duty conscience. And he was not a great artist in a fragile domain.His job was his life. The parties, the food, the organization of a entire show was essence of an touching existence and reflection of the time's glory. This sophisticated art to be crux of a world was secret ingredient of a special moral victory. So, Vatel was more than a small character, builder of little extravagant shows, toy of aristocracy. His life, his death was ineffable form of sacrifice for a special gift art to be yourself, part and builder of dream, heart of miracle and desire. "},{"Title":"Saw it 3 times...","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can't wait to show it to all my Friends again and again. You will be impressed by the beauty of the scenes and discover the public show technics used under French King, Louis the 14th. It is amazing to see how much they could do at that time and how they were doing it. Apparently they could also do ice statues as a dinner presentation. Whaow!! what a show! "},{"Title":"Billiards match being played","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I especially took an interest in the brief moment when the game of Billiards was being played, using a shovel style of paddle to move the balls around. It was quite obviously played as indoor croquet.I felt that the film conveyed the story of a downtrodden manager who attempted all for his master only to be shafted in the end. A brief fling with a courtesan, one that means much more to him than to her, contributes to his final act of frustration and despair.I'm sure that others will find historical inaccuracies, a fault of the production team, but I'm prepared to accept them as part of the process of bringing a story to film. Never let the facts get in the way of a good story telling.Altogether an interesting movie that makes a telling commentary on the excesses of the French aristocracy of the time.JC "},{"Title":"Good looking film needs more passion","Date":"2 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is considered a major flop and the French absolutely abhor it in every sense. I decided to view it and remain neutral and just let the film play out without having read the bad reviews beforehand. Story is set in Chantilly, France in 1671 and a broke nobleman named Prince de Conde (Julian Glover) has decided to throw a 3 day feast for Louis XIV (Julian Sands) and all of his royal friends with the hope that if he is impressed enough he will commission the Prince to General as war looms with Holland. Conde has put the 3 day feast and all of the entertainment in the hands of Francois Vatel (Gerard Depardieu) who can work magic when it comes to preparing feasts even though he may not have enough food. Vatel is a patient man full of loyalty and honor and ethics. At times he is forced to tell some of the royal guests No to certain extravagances and this has caught the eye of Anne de Montausier (Uma Thurman) who has become the Kings new mistress and also has to repel the advances of the Marquis de Lauzun (Tim Roth).*****SPOILER ALERT*****While the King is playing cards he asks Conde to put up Vatel as part of a bet and Conde reluctantly agree's. Conde loses and Vatel is given the news that he must pack his bags and get ready to head to Versailles. Vatel is so crushed by his loyalty being ignored that he kills himself. This film was directed by Roland Joffe who had given everyone a truly horrible adaptation of The Scarlett Letter and I don't think this film is anywhere near as bad as that although several critics will say otherwise. The look of the film is very impressive and the Art Design was nominated for an Oscar. Good cinematography make this a visual delight but the story seems to be another story. I do recommend this film and I'll first tell what I liked about it. First, I though Depardieu gave a convincing performance and his loyalty was very evident in his characterization. He convincingly played a man sworn to do the best he can and asks of nothing in return. Secondly, even though a romance between Thurman and Depardieu seems very unlikely I did understand why she would admire him. How can anyone not be touched by his tenderness and morals. But I have to admit that the story could have been a lot better if more had been explained about Vatel. We watch Vatel in this film spend too much time poking his fingers in pots and tasting the food. Of course all of royalty is portrayed as spoiled snobs and it's now become cliche to show them in this light. This film caused a ruckus when it opened at Cannes because the script was rewritten by an Englishman from a French story and it was filmed in English. The bad reviews were all aimed at Joffe and I'm not sure if his career will ever be the same. This film does have some glaring flaws but I suggest to people that if they view it to do so with a fair and open mind. I do think Depardieu is good in this film and Thurman isn't bad either. I think it's worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Excellence","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a superb movie. Gerard portrays the character Vatel perfectly, the party liaison, shall we say, who is trying to help Prince de Conde' regain the favor of the King, Louis XIV, to save his bankrupt province by putting together a massive weekend of splendor and banquets. Tim Roth plays a good supporting role, as the Marquis who is trying to bed Thurman. Also in the supporting cast is Timothy Spall. The movie is very colorful and wonderfully directed, and was nominated for best art direction. The director does well at portraying the time period, and keeps you captivated during every scene. Tim Roth could have had a better role, but that would probably be my only complaint about this movie. I'd give it a 9.5/10.  "},{"Title":"Like watching grass grow.","Date":"21 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The biggest problem of this barely watchable piece of dreariness is that there is almost no story, but plenty of scenes with Depardieu organizing catering and what-not. Costume dramas are supposed to have intrigue, political and personal, plot-twists, surprises, and not just look nice. If you want a good period piece, take a look at Barry Lyndon or The Duellists, not this European-produced hogwash. These two films are visually superior to Vatel, as well. Whatever little intrigue and plot there is tends to be unpleasant rather than fascinating.Who cares whether Vatel's boss or some other moron gets to fight the king's war? Plus, who wants to watch Uma Thurman's wooden acting? She and Depardieu have no chemistry simply because she is a non-reactive agent in Chemistry's Actors' Periodic Table. "}{"Title":"Characters Were More Realistic Than Theatrical","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I agree with the previous commenter that the characters in Vatel didn't elicit a lot of excitement from the viewer, but I also feel that these performances made the characters seem more realistic than many over-the-top, too-dramatic performances of many actors in period movies.  Despite the special effects, costumes, scenery, and general fluffery, the movie was very low-key and told a simple story.  Depardieu was much more mellow than in many of his performances (and so the viewer could concentrate more on the character than on Depardieu himself), and Tim Roth almost seemed bored with his role, but was still great.  Uma Thurman had no business in this movie, and is over-used in foreign movies which is amazing to me because her acting is as deprived of inspiration and as wooden as are her phoney accents.  She was the single drawback to watching this film.  Julian Sands played his Louis XIV right on form, as the REAL Louis was said to be dull and witless as well, and that's how Sands played the role.  The real scene-stealers were Timothy Spall as Gourville, and especially Murray Lachlan Young as Monsieur The King's Brother  -  Philippe the Duc d'Orleans (I watch his scenes over and over again).  All in all, I never get tired of watching this movie, as long as I can fast-forward through Thurman's scenes.    "},{"Title":"A delicious, realistic telling of an age-old story","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A combination of Big Night, Ridicule and Remains of the Day. It resisted the temptation of telling a modern story in the context of a period piece... it tells an age-old story. Depardieu's restrained delivery was excellent. His character, Vatel, has a lot to do, masters to please, and, heaven forbid, he should try to step out of his class; pressures we can't even begin to understand... and no refrigeration! Every actor's performance was great, unlike most of the movies we have to endure coming out of Hollywood today with stars, not actors.    "},{"Title":"Costume Drama","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Vatel was a costume drama heavy on costumes, very light on drama. Gérard Depardieu wandered through this movie looking dazed and confused.  His role seem to consist of a character walking through the back kitchens of a chateau trying this and tasting that.  The first five times he did this were fine.  You got the point that he was managing all the preparations for the King and had his hands into everything but he continued the behavior over and over.  It got to be ridiculous and that was his contribution to the movie.  Uma Thurman sat around looking sad and wistful and, for some reason not really explained, fell in love with Depardieu.  That was a stretch.  Tim Roth mugged it up acting conspiratorial and Julian Sands was good as the King though he lacked the calves.  The costumes were wonderful and I looked forward to the DVD's extra feature called The Costumes of Vatel.  What a disappointment.  It was about 7 minutes long and said yes there were costumes in Vatel.  Nothing about the historical background or the colors or fabric.  It seem to me to be a gold mine of information of which they said nothing.  If you must, watch the movie for the setting and costumes but don't expect heavy drama or deep historical significance.  "},{"Title":"Pointless and cold period movie","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It is sad that a great cast worked on a movie as profoundly boring and meaningless as Vatel. Whatever the goal of this movie was, it fails... Unless it was to present a good-looking, but meaningless film OR a movie with some of the worst dialogues ever seen in a serious movie and the kind of plot so thin that you have to work really hard to see it is indeed there. Vatel is a movie about, well... A man named Vatel that is for sure. But nothing much happens to him. Sure, there are a couple of moments where we should care for Gérard Depardieu's character, but the problem is that we never really cared about him. And we know he has to prepare a huge celebration for the king. But nobody cares! Why? Because we never got to know the characters very well. Even Tim Roth's character, which we should hate, stirs no emotion at all. His actions are kind of mean, but we don't care. OK, I said that I didn't care for much of this review but that is because Vatel is a movie where stuff sort of happens to cardboard figures which are there to try to fill our need for a character. These cardboards figures fail miserably. And even if the costumes are beautiful, and some of the sets stunning, the directing is not very good. In the end, Vatel bores, leaves the viewer unnafected and fades into it's memory. This movie is forgotten easily and is a pure waste of time. Still, some scenes are visually very impressive. That does not mean the movie is really any good. Sadly the great cast is lost and can't help much since the characters they portray have only one dimension and can't seem to say one line which makes much sense...49% "},{"Title":"A gem!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even if this was the fantasy of an anglophone director, it was realized with precision and breathtaking beauty. Certainly, this movie will get some academy awards for sets/costumes.Gerard Depardieu is a brilliant french actor, and anyone could tell that he was having problems with the english language which probably impeded his natural style. This movie could have been more naturally, and perhaps appropriately so, made in French. This would have percluded Uma Thurman's appearance, for someone better looking, of course.The air was filled with luxury, but the background was filled with sadness and misery. Take a trip into time. Enjoy this gem of a film! "},{"Title":"Interesting, but underdeveloped","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The advance buzz on this wasn't very positive, so I wasn't expecting too much from this film.  Unfortunately, I was still disappointed.  Perhaps the film was poorly cast or just poorly written, but none of the characters are truly engaging and there is no connection made between the audience and what is happening on the screen.  The inventions and spectacles that Vatel creates are truly amazing, but there doesn't seem to be any real depth or passion in the character.  The film tries to do too much, and in the end is just a superficial glimpse of what could have been a great story. "},{"Title":"Historically interesting,,,but apparently not everyone's cup of tea.","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film with my sister-in-law, so this time you will be learning what I thought and what she thought about the film. We both agreed that the costumes and sets were amazing. It's obvious that the film makers had a lot of money and they did spend it. However, we were both wondering (and I hope someone out there can tell me more)--are the special effects, such as the incredible set that appears around King Louis XIV, anachronisms? In other words, while this really looked neat, was this even possible in the 17th century? We didn't know, but even today I doubt that such a spectacle would be that easy to create. However, we both felt that while the sets were nice and all, the characters themselves really didn't seem that deep or compelling (except for Vatel) and the relationship he forged with Anne. Nice to look at, of course, but not all that compelling much of the time.Here is where we both disagreed (I could tell, because she hit me over the head with a lamp when I told her I liked this) the ending. I loved the end, as it was a wonderful way for Gerard Depardieu's character to stand up to the King and make a statement about freedom. However, Linda (who's totally wrong) said it was just too depressing and hurt the film. And, now that I just read her this, I think I am afraid to go to sleep while I am visiting them! So, while we agreed on almost the whole film (she gave it a 6 and I gave it a 7), I was left feeling more positive about the film because I have a very high tolerance for depressing and dreadful endings that many people will not enjoy.Overall, not a great film but worth seeing--particularly if you like costume dramas. "},{"Title":"A movie with much visuals but lacking in drama","Date":"6 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie seemed to have spend too much time in the non-essentials.  That includes the festivities for the King, which were visually very appealing, but doesn't add too much to the film.  Also, Vatel was seen most of the time running around in preparing for the parties, but not actually doing much.  After all those scenes there is not much room left for the story to develop and unfold.Much of what's going on occurs during all those festivities, but they were mostly slight gestures.  Maybe it is because that is what those aristocrats do all day, but they don't have to let it actually occupy most of the movie.The film did convey the contrast the lives of aristocrats and the merely normal people.  But the differences were never delved on, instead, they would go back to the fun, games and laughter of the noblemen.Only toward the end, was there scenes where there was scenes with any drama, but it comes a little too late.  It was 7 meals and 5 festivities into the film by then.  "},{"Title":"Le Roi chie (spoilers)","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" The film opens with an elaborate scene of the Sun King defecating while conducting an on-the-road political meeting with his closest advisors. This is to establish that kings are human and that Vatel is of the History-as-a-collection-of-body-fluids school of movie-making, of which 'Le Roi danse' is a prime example. It's all downhill from there. The story is very loosely inspired by Mme de Sévigné's relation in her letters to her daughter of the story of the famous chef who committed suicide because the fish were late in arriving during a banquet organized for the King's visit to his master's castle, thus becoming the martyr of haute cuisine and an inspiration to caterers everywhere. This is not the story you will see in this film however. The hero falls in love with the King's mistress (Uma Thurman), an impossible attachment which explains his final demise. Every attempt of the art directors to convey the beauty, expense and spectacle of a royal party in XVIIth century France is marred by sadistic and inopportune gory deaths and dismemberments. Even Vatel's suicide is made to look as disgusting as the law will permit. The members of the cast appear to be sedated or in various stages of a post-overdose depression. The script's comments on the nature of love, power, servitude and human happiness are all pointless. Avoid at all cost. "},{"Title":"Tedious","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  SOME SPOILERS AHEADThe movie was mildly interesting as it describes (what I call) the Martha Stewart of 17th Century France, Francois Vatel.  However, it just isn't interesting enough and I got bored very easily and very quickly.  What saved this film was Gerard Depardieu's performance as the title character who organizes all the interior decorating, shows, and meals prepared for the coming of King Louis XIV to a chateau in Chantilly.  Uma Thurman's performance as Vatel's love interest is well, below mediocre.  I'd much rather watch paint dry or a pair of snails drag-race. Above all, I give this 2 out of five stars.  The lush atomosphere also manages to save the film from a 1 star rating by me. "}{"Title":"VATEL Good actors, a good film but certainly not the best one of 2000","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gérard Depardieu is known for his historical films, in which he his master. Films like 'Balzac', 'The Iron Mask'... are a few of them. But this films isn't every historical it is always about food and the please the king Louis XIV. It was well played but there wasn't a good story. Uma Thurman, Tim Roth & Gérard Depardieu gave good performances but this film was to flat. The end was good, it wasn't a happy end, but maybe was a sad end the best choice. That the film was spoken in English was better then it would be French spoken. The film was not a high-flyer but was not awful. We can remember it as one of the few historical films of Mr. Jouffé.Rating 7/10 or ** 1/2 out of ****  "},{"Title":"flashy,showy,no substance.","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a movie made for His Majesty Gérard Depardieu,with an absurd supporting cast and lots and lots of wasted money. Depardieu is everywhere in the movie and reduces the others characters to walk-ons.Roland Joffé films everything he can,and tries to impress the audience with fireworks,audacious camera tricks,Fellini-inspired settings but he does not create anything.The Sun King is featured but he pales into insignificance ,which is a shame all the same!His brother is first shown as a wicked perverse man (in the French traditionfor that matter,take a look at the Angélique series)when the historians describe him as an admittedly gay man but a human being who was courageous,generous with the vanquished at war,and finally gentle(see Monsieur,frère du roi by Philippe Erlanger).At least his last line shows his real nature but it's too little too late.But the biggest bomb is Tim Roth's Lauzun!The duc de Lauzun was a Gascon ,who was always cracking jokes ,a bon vivant,fond of women ,so insolent that he was finally sent to the Pignerol jail where he met again Vatel's former master,Nicolas Fouquet -the movie briefly hints at him-.Tim Roth's sullen face is by no means duc de Lauzun,this joker who would marry the king 's cousin ,la grande Mademoiselle,a spinster,for her doughoddly this colorful dowager does not appear at all.Montespan,La Vallière do,but they do walk-on parts.(Only one line eachMontespanI'm coming up Vallière'I'm coming down,the only touch of humor in the whole movie) Queen Marie-Therèse is not well portrayed eithershe was rather ugly,gauche and self-effacing.Here she seems to outshine Montespan,which is rather odd! "},{"Title":"Rubbish - what a shame!!!!","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Great intriguing story and premise, with the best possible cast you could wish for, yet the net result is a boring slow self congratulatory journey through pretension and psuedo intelect masquerading as art.  This could have been brilliant, but instead leaves you dead.  Don't bother to rent this (you'll not bother to go to the cinema), instead, buy a reasonable bottle of wine and a nice TV dinner, it's better value. "},{"Title":"Vatel, a talented steward","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story is about an intelligent and skilled man, who was working for a prince and had to prepare everything (food, parties, etc. ) to welcome and to host the king of France, who was very much impressed with the work done by this man, Vatel (Depardieu). The plot showed an efficient acting of Depardieu, and poor one from Uma Thurman and Tim Roth, probably due to the roles given by the director to them. The film went plain, i.e. emotions were scarce and suddenly the end gave us something unexpected, in fact the previous  scenes for the end did not show any intensity to justify what we saw in the epilogue. I cannot understand whether Joffé wanted to make a joke or was really his intention to show a coherent film with well elaborated plot.       "},{"Title":"A superb movie that just misses perfection, and drives off a cliff","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  * spoiler follows *Countless promising movies have been spoiled by sugary Hollywood endings (The Tailor of Panama comes immediately to mind). But Vatel, a superb movie about the creation of spectacle, misses perfection precisely because its director eschewed a spectacularly upbeat Hollywood ending, presumably in deference to historical accuracy. I think he made the wrong choice. Right up until the climactic scene, my meter had been pointing to a perfect 10 all the way. Vatel is one of the most dazzlingly complex yet perfectly executed movies ever made -- with superb casting, great direction, sublime performances, and magnificent production values in every detail. And then the hero gets in a jam, and falls on his sword. End of story. Bah humbug, what a letdown. No wonder the film was a box office dud.Maybe that is what the real François Vatel really did, fall on his sword. But it just did not fit with the humane and careful character of Vatel so wonderfully created by Gérard Depardieu in this film. This is a dramatic interpretation, folks, not a documentary. Drama demands story arc, but this film chops it off. I have long been a student of the late 17th century -- which is why I was curious to see this movie in the first place. It is not true that a man in Vatel's predicament had no options. In fact thousands of the most capable French artisans and entrepreneurs of that period fled absolutist France, either to the rich and tolerant Dutch Republic, or to the laissez faire England of Charles II. In either one Vatel might quickly have grown wealthy and influential on his artistic talents and management ability. In England he could even have purchased a patent of nobility, and then married his aristocratic lady love. This would have been the kind of plausible fairy tale ending that would leave movie-goers feeling they had gotten their money's worth, and would make them want to tell their friends to see it, too. As much as I admired most of Vatel, I so hated the ending that I doubt I will ever watch it again, and I cannot in good conscience recommend it. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"All Dressed Up with Nothing To Do","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Despite the best efforts of talented actors like Uma Thurman and Tim Roth, director Roland Joffe's film lacks any sign of character depth.  In fact, they don't have much to do, other than enjoying the amazing masterpieces of entertainment that Vatel (a horrid Depardieu) puts together.  The spectacle is brilliantly staged and photographed and is very pleasing to the senses. I do recommend the film because it's faults never offend me.  I was never bored and it did not have a period piece feel to it.  The art direction is Oscar-worthy and the costumes and cinematography were quite good as well. I just wish we cared about the characters.   "}]