[{"Title":"Perfect Love Casteth out Fear","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"40 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The ancient Greeks, gifted with an abstract way of thinking that was always trying to come down to earth and clothe itself with the commonplace occurrences of everyday life, did not have one all-embracing term for love, a we do, but broke it down into four types  affection (storge), friendship (phileo), sex (eros) and charity (agapao).  And probably not since the ancient Greeks has a love story come along which not only divides love into its four types, but also weaves them, with enormous skill, into a single story.  The Widow of Saint-Pierre is a love story of the tragic Greek proportions.  It's an enormously beautiful movie, a story that gains power with every viewing.  And for that reason, it's one of the most remarkable videos I've seen in a very long time.  We've all seen a plethora of films from Hollywood, which basically confine love, and the act of love, to eros.  We all know the well-worn script.  But what would it look like to view a film in which a relationship expresses all four types of love, and throbbing full force?  I would be giving too much away if I were to tell you how these four types of love are rolled up so tightly into a single relationship, but that's exactly what we seen in the liaison between Jean, the Captain (Auteuil) and his wife, Pauline (Binoche).  It's intensely interesting, because the performances are pitch-perfect.  Even the cowardly bureaucrats, who feel threatened by the captain and his wife, are a picture of cowardly perfection.  Their motives are all too human, all too real.  But so is the unfathomable love they don't understand, and fear.One of the things I really appreciate about this film is the way it expresses all forms of love as having boundaries.  Jean and Pauline are not clinging vines.  What we see is a mature, healthy relationship, each partner respecting the unique characteristics of the other.  What a contrast to the infantile clinging vine romances out of Hollywood!  "},{"Title":"Fat, or big?","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"24 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The actions of two men on a drunken spree turns out to be fatal for the man who is being harassed because he dies as a consequence of a fight with his two tormentors. Both men are apprehended and condemned to die as punishment for their actions. The way to die is beheading by guillotine, or the widow in the vernacular.Thus begins this story that director Patrice Leconte directed, based on the screen play by Claude Faraldo. The story is set in the remote island of Saint Pierre, off the coast of Newfoundland. This is a hostile environment settled by the French. Saint Pierre boasts a lot of widows who have survived the rigors of the climate and the hard lives their husbands led.Into this milieu we find a military captain and his wife. Both are Parisians and appear to be compassionate, at heart. When Neel, the surviving drunk is brought to be kept in a cell within the military quarters of the island, the wife, Madame La, takes an interest in the man. With her husband's consent, she asks for his help in tending a green house in the premises and other errands.Neel and Madame La are at simple view, just opposites. The kindness Neel sees in her, transforms him. Madame La even goes to help him learn to read. All these actions don't sit well with the rest of the inhabitants and the people in the government who demand a guillotine is sent over and have him execute the prisoner.The film works because the brilliant performance of Juliette Binoche, who as Madame La, makes her mark in the picture. Her compassion for Neel is genuine; in her heart she believes this man, a product of the environment in which he was born, shows qualities that no one has seen in him.Emir Kusturica, a noted film director himself, is also one of the assets of the movie. Mr. Kusturica is a large man with unkempt looks, who is totally believable as Neel. His interaction with Madame La turns from gratitude into a noble love that is not meant to be.The other principal is Daniel Auteuil who is perfect as the captain, the husband of Madame La, who is outraged by what he perceives to be the wrong punishment for the accused Neel. In spite of the menacing presence of Neel next to his wife, he trusts her as he knows her kind heart belongs to him only.La veuve de Saint Pierre is a great movie that will satisfy viewers in search of a different story. Patrice Leconte has directed with panache as he takes us to see the beauty of Saint Pierre, something that is so bleak, yet it's a place that has a magnetic attraction as we watch the film unfold. "},{"Title":"A GREAT, GRIPPING GRITTY FILM","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"21 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  You have to watch the odd foreign film such as this to understand just how far Hollywood has strayed from cinematic honesty. This is a simple, beautifully done, superbly acted piece of theatre set in one of the world's least known places, the fog shrouded French island of St. Pierre, off Newfoundland. It's a simple yet gripping film with an intriguing plot, almost a morality play. There is visceral human drama, much mystery and wonderful soul stirring pathos. And how nice to see a movie without the mandatory Hollywood happy ending. A well spent evening!  "},{"Title":"Unexpected turns","Date":"25 April 2001","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was most impressed with the visual language of this movie that does not waste words to show emotions. The tensions are well reflected in the play of the actors, whose gestures, shrugs and smiles say more than a thousand lines.Another interesting feature of the movie is that it does not follow the easy path of romance that is expected by the public. In turn, it exposes a world which is cruel, unfair, where justice is determined by personal interests and where those who fight the system are seen as mad and excluded from the high society.It is a movie about the determination to fight for something one believes in! "},{"Title":"the perfect film for a dark & stormy night","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  THE WIDOW OF ST.-PIERRE may not be a great film, but amidst a crop of mediocre current releases, it's a fine effort that boasts a hardworking cast, awesome costumes and sets, terrific cinematography and excellent direction. For those unlikely to stay in and read MOBY DICK, the combination of austere location, mid-19th-century maritime theme, and the Reaper looming o'er the ocean tides offers a satisfying divertissement on a cloudy Sunday afternoon.Based on actual court records, the plot begins after a Parisian military captain, Jean (Daniel Auteuil), and his new wife, Madame La (Juliette Binoche), arrive on an isolated French isle off the coast of Newfoundland, where widows outnumber balmy days 50 to 1. One night, two blind-drunk men brutally knife a man to find out if he's `fat or just big.' The court sentences instigator Neel Auguste (Yugoslav director Emir Kusturica) to death by guillotine, `the widow,' in French parlance. But the remote fishing island does not possess the instrument of destruction that its French rulers dictate and must obtain a loaner from Martinique. While awaiting its arrival, the government locks Neel in a dark cell and entrusts him to the care of the Captain and Madame La.An MSW waiting to happen, Madame has a weakness for `desperate cases.' She asks Neel to build her a greenhouse and tend her plants, a challenging request in this hardscrabble environment. As the Parisian belle negotiates her homesickness and the austerity of her surroundings by cultivating her garden, Neel confronts his own banishment from society and cultivates his compassion. This is one of several lovely parallelisms director Patrice Leconte teases out.The sexual tension between Madame and Neel, though enacted subtly, is nevertheless palpable. During a reading lesson, their fingers brush while scanning a page. As Neel scarfs down her soup in a mildly bestial manner, she looks on lovingly. And when he asks her why she so nurtures him, she replies, `We change, whatever we do. I am sure of that.'Meanwhile, the fisherfolks' tongues are wagging-ever cautioning Madame's loving husband about the duo's blossoming relationship. The Captain, however, venerates his wife's `humanism' and trusts her enough not to interfere. He is another wonderful character, both strong and sensitive, passionate in his love of his wife, unwilling to back down in his defense of their collective ideals.Both Binoche and Kusturica prove more than equal to their roles. Binoche imbues her character with much more depth than that of Vianne in CHOCOLAT. With her limpid brown eyes and achingly empathic face, she elevates this personage to the level of classic tragic heroine. Kusturica, given a part that begs overacting, never wrings out our emotions, yet shows he possesses true remorse for his actions and a heart kinder still than that of his benefactors.Most memorable is the set. Shot in Nova Scotia and Quebec, the film uses clapboard and stone buildings, often snow-salted, as an apt metaphor for the government's rigidity in refusing to commute Neel's sentence, despite his overwhelming popularity in the village as a doer of good deeds. Clearly the film excoriates capital punishment, with such dialogue as Madame's fervent cry, `They aren't punishing the same man they sentenced!'This widow's walk proceeds at a leisurely pace, perhaps a mite too slowly for 21st-century attention spans. But overall, if you like a good, dark tragedy, pick a dreary night and go. "},{"Title":"A beautifully austere film about character.","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As the best of French cinema does so adroitly, The Window of Saint-Pierre tells most of it's story laconically with knowing looks and subtle behaviors while the story it tells is a relentlessly plodding drama of unspoken words and the emotions they evoke. Widow... is more about integrity, honor, love, and other intangibles than it is about its relatively simple storyline and the characters involved. A beautifully crafted somber film, Widow... is recommended for mature audiences because a measure of maturation is required to appreciate all this austere film has to offer. "},{"Title":"redemption, forgiveness, love and death on Saint Pierre a hundred and fifty years ago","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always been a Patrice Leconte devotee. His career in which incoherence and eclecticism get on well together (perhaps that's why he's often slated by French critics) is one of the most fruitful you could dream of, even if French mainstream public often associates his name with les Bronzés (1978), a commercial hit which put him on the map as well as the actors, the famous troupe of the Splendid and tends to overshadow the rest of his prolific career which spawned treasures like Tandem (1987), Monsieur Hire (1989) or Le Mari De la Coiffeuse (1990).This vehicle La Veuve De Saint Pierre (2000) was originally to be directed by another veteran of French cinema Alain Corneau (who sadly shot the insipid Prince Du Pacifique that year, perhaps the nadir of his career) but he turned down the role due to disputes with the producers. So, Patrice Leconte inherited the project. His choice was motivated by the desire to work with one of the two main roles, Juliette Binoche (he had teamed up with Daniel Auteuil the previous year for La Fille Sur Le Pont, 1999)The title of the film has a double meaning the veuve refers to Binoche after her husband's demise. The opening sequence presents her to us in her mourning garb (Leconte's work is served by lavish costumes). The audience knows that she is the veuve and will discover in the long flashback, how she has lost her husband. But a veuve is also a slang word for the sinister guillotine and it has a tongue-in-cheek connotation Saint Pierre unlike France hasn't got a death instrument and must have one. All the time, the island is deprived of a guillotine, it remains a veuve.There are clearly two sides. On the one hand, the officers' who govern the island and are die-hards of the death sentence and on the other hand, the private triangle which encompasses Auteuil, Binoche and Kusturica. Between the two poles, the impending threat of the execution with the recurring images of the ship sailing across the Atlantic with on board the guillotine. The scenario eschews the tempting trap of the Manicheism and the officers aren't caricatures. As a matter of fact, one of the main thrusts of the film is to deride the leaders of the island who seek at all costs to keep the death sentence and their obstinacy is made ludicrous by the postpone of the sentence and the last words of the voice over contain grim details which give a slap to one of Doctor Guillotin's famous words a painless death is a progress for humanity. Moreover, they prove to be unscrupulous because when a new inhabitant settles on the island, they entrust him the role of the executioner without taking care of his opinion.In the private triangle, madame La by guiding Neel on the way of redemption is full of condescension and solicitude but she's a complex character. Her reasons and motivations to redeem Neel are rather elusive even if she says (I don't remember the accurate cue) I think human soul is unpredictable and can be able to become conscientious and intelligent. A little gratifying cue which should have been more construed and fleshed out and remains an inkling. Then, why would she encourage the sacrifice of such a devoted husband to try to save a convicted killer whereas it's doomed to failure? Is it a response to her husband's love? (If Auteuil sacrifices himself it's for love for his wife and respect for Neel). Certainly and if so, Leconte's piece of work is a novel and quirky approach on the relationship between husband and wife, a quite notable feat for an author who has seldom studied this topic in his filmography, except maybe in Le Mari De La Coiffeuse.Buoyed by a more than palatable cast with a special mention to Emir Kusturica who was a discerning choice because he could convey vulnerability and fragility to his persona of great strapping man, La Veuve De Saint Pierre may be derivative if we consider the theme of redemption and the thrust quoted in the fourth paragraph but its treatment is a far cry from Hollywood's formulaic conventions. How to rank it in Leconte's uneven but usually riveting filmography? It isn't on a par with his towering achievements but stands out as a more than palatable flick which however could have gained by being more deepened. "},{"Title":"Fine acting, dubious plot","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"      (WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERS!  DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM.)    Daniel Auteuil and Juliette Binoche turn in fine performances in this killer-with-a-heart-of-gold melodrama.  But the plot is unrealistic.    Auguste Neel was in fact guillotined in Saint-Pierre in the nineteenth century after waiting months for the means of execution to arrive from Martinique.  You can see the guillotine in Saint-Pierre's modern and beautifully designed museum.  (Saint-Pierre et Miquelon, a French territory hard by the coast of southern Newfoundland, is an absorbing place to visit; I was there in 1999.)    In the movie, Neel wanders around the island after receiving his death sentence for murder, performing one good deed after another -- some heroic, others mundane, but all saintly.  Was the French penal system really so inflexible that no one would commute his sentence despite all his good works, including saving another's life?  That's the way it's portrayed.    Neel would have been even more saintly to take the islanders up on one of the many chances they gave him to escape to les Anglais (i.e., Newfoundland, 10 miles away across a channel).  In the end, his self-imposed martyrdom proves foolish, for it leads not only to his own execution, but to that of Daniel Auteuil's character as well.    Nevertheless, the film is beautifully photographed and the acting is fine.  I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful Story of Rehabilitation and Intolerance","Date":"8 September 2009","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In 1849, in the Archipelago of Saint-Pierre et Miquelon, the drunken Ariel Neel Auguste (Emir Kusturica) and his partner Louis Ollivier (Reynald Bouchard) kill for a futile motive (to see if he is fat or just big) the fishing boat captain Coupard (Michel Daigle). Nell, who stabbed the victim, is sentenced to die with his head severed in the guillotine while Louis is sentenced to hard labor. During the transportation to the prison under the custody of Captain Jean (Daniel Auteuil), there is an accident and Louis dies. While spending his days in the cell waiting for the guillotine and the executioner, Neel is invited by the captain's wife Mrs. Pauline (Juliette Binoche) to help her in her garden and becomes her protégé. Later he has a process of rehabilitation helping the locals in minor works and becomes very popular in the island. When he saves the building Café du Nord and her owner from sinking in the sea, his popularity increases and nobody but the governor and politicians of the council wants his death. Neel marries Eleontine Jeanne-Marie, but sooner he is informed that the ship Marie Galante has just left Martinique bringing a guillotine. Now the Governor and politicians need to find an executioner in the population to execute the sentence.La Veuve de Saint-Pierre is a beautiful dramatization of a story of rehabilitation and intolerance. I do not know whether this event is partially true or not &#x96; there are references in Internet to this story but in sites that I can not trust &#x96; but this movie is wonderful. The story and screenplay are engaging and very well written with powerful lines; the direction of Patrice Leconte and the performances are top- notch, with Juliette Binoche extremely beautiful and elegant as usual and showing a magnificent chemistry with Daniel Auteuil; the cinematography and costumes are wonderful. Based on my adjectives, it is unnecessary to say that I loved this movie. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) A Viúva de Saint-Pierre (The Widow of Saint-Pierre) "},{"Title":"Another great film by Patrice Leconte","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neel Auguste (played by Kusturica) is condemn to death for a murder on the little island of Saint-Pierre, which was, and still is, a territory of France. The guillotine (commonly called «la Veuve») is the instrument of death in France at that time. But the island doesn't have its «Veuve» and one is to be sent from Martinique. In the waiting, the convict is kept in prison at the captain's (played beautifully by Daniel Auteuil) residence. The captain's wife (Binoche) is convinced that the murderer deserves a second chance and she's working towards that goal. In a typical American-style movie, the two would have fallen in love and ended up in the same bed. But not in this movie where Binoche is shown more as a humanist. I gave it a 9. "}{"Title":"The Guillotine, the Governor and the Humanist","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good movie, good acting and a very accurate subject so close to American coasts... (St Pierre is a French island off the coast of Newfoundland).This is one of the best anti death penalty films I have seen. A mix of the cowardice of civilian authorities and the pettiness of outposts officials who stick to principals and decisions just because they do not want to loose face... killing becomes a way to wash the humiliations of their crummy existence and low wits.A interesting movie to be shown to all the governors of all the Republics where death penalty is still in use...  "},{"Title":"Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil try to prevent the execution of Emir Kusturica","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Widow of Saint-Pierre is a profoundly anti-capital punishment film. Equally, it illustrates man's depravity and social injustice while also showing man's capacity for dignity, courage and redemption. The images are striking in their contrasts of an isolated but very beautiful French island territory near Newfoundland with ships that arrive and a military that is controlled by the politics of Paris and by military rule. This is film with very beautiful images, and they include those of Juliette Binoche, who plays the wife of the Captain who heads the troop of soldiers on the island.We are shown nature in the wild, the sea and waves, the snow, and the favored horse of the Captain (Daniel Auteuil) let run wild, and these contrast with the geometrical images of the gray buildings, the masts and the other structures, all constructed by man. They are like the constraining rules. When the Captain rides his steed, back straight, it is a symbol of control.The widow has several meanings. One is the guillotine, another geometric thing built by man and symbolizing the social-political power that rules and constrains, through killing and fear of being killed. By the movie's end, the more conventional meaning comes into play twice over.Auteuil trusts his wife, supports her, and consequently, she is free to rehabilitate Emir Kusturica, who has been found guilty, and properly so, of manslaughter or murder, because at any rate he has been sentenced to die, once a widow arrives and an executioner can be found.There is considerable suspense even though we know and feel that a tragedy is being depicted. Indeed, the tragedy is worse than we expect.The tone of the film is restraint and dignity for the most part. There is deep conflict but not obvious anger. The clashes are expressed more by remarks and situations than by crude shouts or fighting. Even raising of voices is not notable. People are playing within the rules of politeness, but the effects are just as deadly as if they were not.The courage is deep within those who are facing man's justice and military justice. Their strength is internal based on a belief in love and the actuality of it. This they draw upon.The film shows an antagonism between the ordinary people's idea of justice (not executing a rehabilitated Kusterica) and the community's leaders and French authorities. "},{"Title":"Inexorable fates","Date":"7 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A kind of glum historic film that is possible when you don't feel historically very proud of the world you accomplished, the Second Republic specifically stressed to provide a continuity that connects to the present, centered around a woman who tries to move that world to be a better man, who knows there is capacity for change, even if all the evidence is to the contrary. She divides affections between two men, being foremostly loyal however to the one we wouldn't expect. It's a credit to the film that it doesn't devolve to the illicitness that we may predict early on. Something else is at stake here, a kind of committed love that goes beyond pleasure.Both these men are resigned to the fates, in contrast to her, and will assist her only so long as the game is still dangerous, thus worth playing and having a stake on, accepting in the end however the final turn of the cards with a stoic bravery that is deeply masculine; the conviction to a supreme order of things, a universe that is inexorably moved from without.Everyone else is really small by comparison, petty governors or rowdy villagers, these three are the grand figures that will echo with some human tragedy. A man is sentenced to die, we know this early on. Until bloody justice arrives from Paris, he gets to cultivate beauty, to lift burdens. The other, the husband, resolves in the meantime to humiliate the cowardly arrogance of powers that be.The woman is the most precious here, the most spirited but vulnerable, played by Juliette Binoche with tremendous ease. She will have to handle loss, we can tell this much early on. "},{"Title":"Not Your Ordinary Costume Drama","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beautifully photographed, scripted, and acted, The Widow of Saint-Pierre pits individual responsibility, redemption, and forgiveness against pettifogging, career-hugging minions of France's shaky Second Republic. Set in 1849, on a group of tiny islands off Newfoundland -- France's last bastion in North America -- the film draws us in with the earthiness of the locals, the stops-out independence of a military captain and his beautiful wife, and the quizzical behavior of a condemned man. It carries us to the conclusion on the strength of the drama, a familiar one of enlightened values endangered, of modernity oppressed. Although the costumes are lovely, it is not remotely a costume drama or a feminine romance. This is the Dreyfus Affair, a half century before the fact. Ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Is this man too good to be true?","Date":"2 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Juliette Binoche plays the wife of a military officer in a remote island town in 1849 Newfoundland who becomes devoted to the cause of saving the life of a condemned murderer.  I was torn between admiring `The Widow of Saint-Pierre' for not taking the obvious route of having the captain's wife fall in love with her protege and run off with him (e.g., `Mrs. Soffel), and a feeling of letdown that it was avoiding opportunities for more vivid and realistic drama.  That there is an attraction between the two is made clear, especially in the highly charged, yet muted eroticism of the reading lesson scene.  This film was based on a true story, but I couldn't help wondering if the actual killer was as saintly and devoid of guile as he seems in this movie.  Among other things, he resists his attraction to his benefactress, although she would probably be more than willing to sleep with him, saves the life of a village woman whose house has slipped its moorings, and passes up an excellent chance to escape because he doesn't want to get anybody in trouble.  He impregnates another woman, although it appears to be true love, and he then does the decent thing and marries her.  One could accept that a criminal could be redeemed, but here he's a little too good to be true, reinforcing my suspicion that the characterization was meant more to reinforce the filmakers' anti-capital punishment stance than as a reflection of his actual personality.  Daniel Auteil as her husband is stuck playing a character whose emotions remain largely inscrutable.  The film would have us believe that there is no jealousy or resentment in the husband as his wife dedicates her life to rehabilitating and saving the condemned man under his charge.  Ultimately, the captain gives up his own life for both of them, but I kept waiting for a significant sign that he had some inner conflict about doing so.  After all, he is a career military officer sworn to uphold the law as it is.  Who knew that underneath he was a bleeding heart liberal!  This film is interesting and absorbing up to a point, but ultimately, it's also bland and overly complacent dramatically.  "},{"Title":"Parallel Lives","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Beinvenue a St Piere, a French outpost off the Eastern shore of Canada. On this small island, Ariel Neel Auguste (Emir Kusturica) awaits Madame La Guillotine for having killed a man in a drunken brawl. A burly brute of a man, Ariel's quick thinking saves an islander from certain death when a house being moved slides down a hill.Ariel's charm wins him the regard of Madame Pauline La (Juliette Binoche), wife of Captain Jean (Daniel Auteuil), the commander of the island's garrison. Islanders are divided on the issue of execution; most would like to save Ariel. Madame La sends Ariel, now a trusted prisoner, on a mission in a small dinghy. The idea is that Ariel will escape into nearby British or American territory, but Ariel true to his parole faithfully returns and even helps bring Madame La Guillotine ashore.Yugoslavian born Emir Kusturica plays the French islander the commoner Ariel Neel Auguste with a sensitive gentility, persuasively tough and docile, hardheaded and obedient.As Ariel waits execution, tables turn on Captain Jean. He's ordered home to Metroplitain France. Officially he's a guest of the fleet Admiral. Actually with political unrest at home Captain Jean faces the firing squad. He too is told of the many opportunities to escape, but steadfastly follows orders right up to his execution by firing squad.Daniel Auteuil plays the tough-fisted French Captain with the practised arrogance of an officer used to getting his way.I'm not entirely sure a motion picture though full of violence or threats of violence would be fully understood by an American audience. The parallelism between Captain Jean and the commoner Ariel is far too delicate for audiences which are addicted to shoot-em up high speed police chase lines. "},{"Title":"Very Unconventional Relationship Triangle and Setting","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Widow of St. Pierre (Veuve de Saint-Pierre) is a very unconventional relationship triangle, with resonances of Dead Man Walking. Juiliette Binoche is much more interesting and complex here than she is in Chocolat as a Lady Bountiful who is pushing redemption with more than a tinge of sensuality.Daniel Auteil who usually plays hapless contemporary men at first looks as out of place in a period costume drama as Harvey Keitel does, but he brings the intellectual and moral sensibility of the 20th century to a true story from an earlier one.Love and devotion--to a spouse and to duty-- are quietly played out against sophisticated political gamesmanship of a small town. The cinematography in Atlantic Canada is beautiful; the pregnant pause close-ups are as claustrophobic as living on the island outpost. It was partly filmed at one of my all-time favorite historic recreations at Louisbourg in Cape Breton, Newfoundland. (originally written 3/18/2001) "},{"Title":"Don't use American voices","Date":"8 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a big fan of foreign films, especially those with Juliette Binoche. And the night before, I had seen Daniel Auteil in The Closet, which is hilarious.  He is an excellent actor too.  However, while watching The Widow of St. Pierre, I was horrified from the start of the movie, when Juliette Binoche's mouth opens and somebody elses voice comes out!Juliette Binoche is a magnificent actress, but like many actresses, her voice is what brings a special quality to the film.  It is what makes her who she is, part of why I like her.  Why would I want to watch a movie with Juliette Binoche in it, if someone elses voice will take her place.  The whole unique part of foreign films is reading the lines, there becomes a technique to the tennis match of wobbling head up and down.  I don't mind because I am getting a good quality movie, which most American movies have lost.  But I must have my real voices, otherwise it is like watching an old Japanese Godzilla movie!!  While the voices may be in sync with futuristic technology, this movie still felt like a Godzilla movie.  You have ruined this movie, whoever is responsible and I demand that you remake another video with subtitles, so that I can watch it once more.We Americans cannot get enough of new and improved.  But all that means to me, is it tastes worse and has more preservatives!! "},{"Title":"I'd managed to miss all of Leconte's previous films, and I'm now annoyed with myself for doing so.","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An earlier writer was right - this IS cinema de qualite, fifty years after.  For those who don't know, cinema de qualite was a phrase coined by one of the New Wave critics (I think it was Truffaut, but don't quote me) to express contempt for what he and his colleagues perceived to be the overly glossy, empty product typical of 1950s French cinema.  Yes, well.  The New Wave fizzled out after producing little of value, and the 1950s (no doubt its faults were real enough; Truffaut probably came close to seeing every single French film of that decade, so in one respect he'd be in a position to know) is looking more and more like a golden age, so maybe the phrase cinema de qualite is about due to be reclaimed.  Quality cinema, without the sarcastic sneer.There are many lush camera pans over bleakly attractive scenery, which is good (not bad) in itself; but the main point is, Leconte USES the scenery.  We don't doubt for a minute that this is the farthest-flung province in the entire French empire.  The sea is rough (which partly explains why the murderer rows back to face execution when every oar stroke is an effort, AND it looks to him as though he's doing the cowardly thing, the effort becomes unbearable).  Every section of the island not actively occupied by civilisation feels as though it doesn't belong to civilisation - even though it's so desolate it doesn't belong to anything else, either.  In short the story clearly belongs here, and nowhere else.One of the great things about this film is the way it shows people acting (in a plausible way) on desires which it's easy to overlook or underestimate the force of.  The husband trusts his wife's moral judgment, and is prepared to act on it.  The murderer feels as though he's living under a just sentence of death and does what he can to redeem himself.  The islanders are all pragmatists at the start they believe in the value of retributive justice, but as the sheer uselessness of retributive justice becomes more obvious with each passing day, for MONTHS, the belief collapses under the strain of holding on to it.  It's partly due to Leconte's skilled use of location that we're aware of the effect the mere passage of time has on people.  One of the best films of 2000, if you ask me. "},{"Title":"Spectacular","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I loved this movie! It moved me, made me laugh and cry and appreciate love, hate, and compassion. Juliette Binoche is the narrator of this story, she is the one who presents the events from her perspective, but incorporates other into it. This movie has wonderful symbolism that is expressed in so many ways. Whether it is a horse, a ship, or people marching, the different expression of movement and the implication of each and everyone of those is vividly portrayed. Also Binoche's view and adoration of her husband and her compassion to the prisoner is so real, so touching. At times, the viewer along with the narrator seems uncertain of feelings expressed toward Jean and Neel and the camera plays with the viewer's mind allowing him to suspect the worst and be pleasantly surprised. This movie has a very gloomy setting, but really the feelings expressed, the magnitude of love is so powerful that the dull surroundings do not strain the viewer. I thought this movie was phenomenal because it expressed the best of human nature in such real ways. It showed that not everything is black and white, not everyone is jealous and vengeful and finally people do have a sense of obligation and honor. I would strongly recommend this movie to anyone who is up for a serious, beautiful and sad movie.   "}{"Title":"A superb exposition of the anti-capital punishment case.","Date":"23 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Patrice LeConte colors this intelligent film in subdued hues in taking on the somber issue of capital punishment.  Juliette Binoche portrays Pauline, the sympathetic wife of the local garrison commander on a bleak French Island off Newfoundland.  A man who has brutally killed another is sentenced to death, but the village must await the arrival of a guillotine and executioner.  Those are the rules.  As Pauline takes the cause of the murderer, Neel(Emir Kusturica), as her own, he wins the affection of the small, insular community with his good works.  But the hide-bound, dour council members of the village insist they must carry out their duty. Pauline's husband, Jean (Daniel Auteuil) supports her every device to seek Neel's freedom.  The sexual tension among the three is palpable; the danger that the fundamentalist Pauline poses to her husband sits on the film like an enveloping cloud seeking to blur this lucid discussion of the difficulties posed by capital punishment cases even where the prisoner is clearly guilty of a brutal crime. All of the acting performances are sterling, well contained and bearing the weight of the fatalistic outcome.  For those who like a bit of intelligence in a beautifully acted and directed film, notwithstanding the sad story, this is a film to be seen. "},{"Title":"Nice Contemorary Disussion","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If  &#145;Thirteen Days' is a picture that President Bush, USofA, praises as an example of good warring and political enterprise, and &#145;Traffic' is a film that the rest of us think can help resolve an American drug addition problem, then &#145;The Widow of St. Pierre' must certainly be the film that toys with issues of capital punishment, human rights,  and the prison system in general.There was a line in the script, spoken by Le Capitaine at a point when his fate is pretty much sealed as he takes a moral and compassionate stand in a challenge to those that govern this French island.  That line stands out in my mind and goes something like this  The person we send to prison is never the person that we execute.The point therein is a pestering contemporary topic and social dilemma of this wonderfully written and directed film  should prisons be a tool towards rehabilitation as a primary task, with punishment as something much lower on the list of bureaucratic to-do's?  Or is it the opposite or something in between that gets adjusted at whim in an attempt to be politically polite to those in power who can demonstrate being 'hard on crime'?Those are the thoughts that I took with me after today's morning screening (actually across the street from the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences in Beverly Hills  which I think appropriate!!)  "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Juliette Binoche gives a riveting performance as Madame La, the wife of a Captain of the guard on a small French-owned island(Saint Pierre)off the coast of Newfoundland. When a man  (Emir Kusturica) is found guilty of a senseless murder and sentenced to death, the execution is postponed until a guillotine can be sent for. Meanwhile Madame La becomes interested in his fate, hoping for his rehabilitation. Daniel Auteuil gives another brilliant performance as her devoted husband. Well acted and beautifully filmed, the film is a pleasure to watch. "},{"Title":"A moral tale","Date":"24 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" BEWARE OF SPOILERS!In this French language film (with English subtitles), Juliette Binoche plays what some today might call a bleeding heart liberal, maybe even a head-strong bleeding heart liberal. Her name is Pauline and her husband Jean (Daniel Auteuil) is the Captain of a troop of soldiers on the island of St. Pierre off the coast of Newfoundland. The year is 1849. One night two of the local peasants get drunk and have an argument about whether a certain man of the island is fat or just big. As a joke they go to his cottage and rouse him from his dinner table with calls of fat! and big until comes out to investigate with a knife in his hands for protection. In the ensuing confrontation one of the men holds the big guy from behind while the other (Ariel Neel Auguste, played by Emir Kusturica) knocks the knife from his hand, picks it up, and in a kind of madness cuts the man open to see--as they later testify at the trial--whether he is really fat or just big.As it happens, Neel is condemned to death, but can't be executed because the law requires that he be beheaded and there is no guillotine on the island, nor is there an executioner. Since he can hardly run away from this snowy island, Pauline wants him out of his cell and at work helping her around the house, maybe as a gardener. Jean, who loves Pauline extravagantly, agrees and Neel becomes Pauline's protégé. She wants to reform him and teach him to read, etc. The tension in the film builds as her good intentions run afoul of the island's governing authorities. Through it all Jean stands steadfast by his wife in a most heroic way.I won't say anymore about the plot. What interests me more is the motivation of Pauline in helping Neel. Is she motivated by generosity of heart or by her desire to be a person doing good? This is an ancient question. Do we do good because that is our nature or because we are fulfilling a desire to be good? Furthermore, is Pauline's heart filled with human love for Neel or does she in fact have a yen for him?Director Patrice Leconte gives us plenty of reason to be skeptical. When Pauline is sitting practically on Neel's lap while teaching him to read, the camera closes in on their fingers as they trace the lines in the text. The fingers get closer and closer together until they touch and even mingle a bit.Cut immediately to a scene through a bedroom door two naked figures in vigorous sexual union. At first we can't see who they are, and it is hard not to imagine that it is Pauline and Neel in adulterous embrace. However, it is Pauline and her husband, Jean. In another scene the bored women of the island are seen talking about how close Pauline and Neel have gotten and how this must inspire Jean to be a better lover; but in fact we can see that what the presence of Neel is doing is lighting a fire under Pauline.Captain Jean is an entirely admirable character who loves his wife. Neel is also admirable in that he loves Pauline but doesn't make any moves on her. He becomes something of a hero when he saves the building of a café on wheels being moved from crashing. She is of course the most talked-about person on the island, the source of most of the gossip. As we watch the film unfold there is a sense of doom coming. We know something terrible is going to happen; we just don't know what or to whom.In the final analysis I guess we can say that Pauline--who, in the framing device, narrates the events from memory--got not what she deserved&#x97;for no one deserves what happened to her; nor can we attribute what happens to some kind of fatalism. Instead the tragedy can be seen as the direct result of her compromised behavior. Or perhaps we can make a more generous interpretation and say that no good deed ever goes unpunished.This film can also be seen as a tract against capital punishment since Neel is basically a good man who made a bad mistake. He is clearly a worthwhile member of the community. He is also repentant even to the point of believing that he must pay for his sin in accordance with the law. See this for director Patrice Laconte who has a nice touch with historical period pieces and directs with the kind of attention to detail and story that rank him among the very best auteurs of the French cinema. I also highly recommend his Ridicule (1996) and La fille sur la pont (1999).(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Patrice Leconte's most conventional film.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" When I watched (for the first time) Patrice Leconte's The Hairdresser's Husband, I thought that such an incredibly poetic film could only be followed, in the author's career, by a list of admirable films. Unfortunately, The Girl On the Bridge and, especially, The Widow of Saint-Pierre showed I was wrong. His films have changed from very personal Mediterranean comedies (which he masters overwhelmingly) into commercial features, loosely framed in a more conventional French tradition. The Widow of Saint-Pierre deals with two subjects capital punishment and passionate love. While the film does not offer any deep insight into the first (the only message is forgive the murderers if they are nice), the second is deceptively shown as a collection of (allegedly meaningful) ellipses and unjustified behaviour (which, undoubtedly, is the main concern of the film). The actors as a whole are not convincing there are baddies and goodies portrayed in an irritatingly conventional manner. Surprisingly, even Daniel Auteuil's performance is objectionably flat. In brief, find an excuse when your friends go to watch it.  "},{"Title":"Too dull, and Binoche is wasted","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" One man kills another senselessly on the French island of St. Pierre off the coast of Newfoundland and is sentenced to be executed by guillotine. Unfortunately, the island has no guillotine and has to import one from Martinique. The murderer will live for several months before it arrives. In the meantime, the wife of the army captain, played by Juliette Binoche, takes an interest in the murderer, played by director Emir Kusturica, and helps him become a better man. By the time the guillotine arrives, the people of St. Pierre no longer want the execution. But the government is insistent, as it would make them look bad to their French superiors. It's a great premise. Unfortunately, Leconte does little with it. It's fairly boring through most of its run, and its points are obvious and not especially interesting. If the film was specifically meant to be anti-capital punishment, it cheats too much. The man Kusturica kills has no character, no family, no one who loves him. He's killed basically because he's a fat nobody and he's quickly forgotten. After the incident, Kusturica is basically a perfect gentleman. It's not too hard to argue against executing this fellow. Juliette Binoche, one of my favorite actresses ever, only barely gets to demonstrate her considerable talents. I do like her wardrobe, though. "},{"Title":"Worth renting, don't watch the dubbed version!","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a nice little film--not great, but nice--and on a grading scale, I'd give it a B or a B-.Two points to add to what's already been said.First, for those of you thinking of renting this movie (I rented it on DVD), DO NOT WATCH IT WITH THE ENGLISH DUBBING (available via the Special Features - Audio section of the DVD).The dubbing is horrible; voices sound dubbed, rather than seeming to come from the actors themselves.  Worse, I guess in order to make the words seem to match more closely with the movements of the actors' lips, the English dialogue is (IMHO) significantly different from the French!  I watched the movie with English dubbing first, then in French with English subtitles. There is actually one point in the movie where someone asks, Why did so-and-so do that?  The answer is completely different depending on whether you are watching the English or French translation.The movie is best watched in French--hearing the actors' real voices works so much better than hearing the dubbed voices--with English subtitles, if you need the translation.Second point  I was disappointed that no backstory (with respect to Le Capitain and La Capitaine) was forthcoming.  I thought that the unfolding tale hinted at some sort of secret, something in his (and maybe her) past, that would shed more light on their current actions.  In short, I felt that the couple's motivations and character were not sufficiently explored. And if this was because the movie wasn't particularly *about* motivations and in-depth character study, then I actually think that I would have preferred more overtly expressive actors.  Enigmatic looks (IMO, that's what they were) without explanation don't really work for me.Having said that, the movie was still a cut above your ordinary film, and worth the viewing. "},{"Title":"No Smoking meets Hairdresser's Perfume","Date":"18 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Two men, both struggle with love of the same woman and through her, honorable nobility. Everything is done visually. The problem of life here is abstracted from the problem faced by a filmmaker.And we have the two directors, Kusturica and Auteuil as surrogate for Leconte, who actually directs this film about the passions of directing.Leconte is as his character, formally schooled, part of an academy and associated dogma Minimalist, visual in a slick, geometric lush way. Deals with actors as part of a regiment. Clean.And Kusturica is as his character, unschooled, intuitive, multidimensional, pragmatic, directly but calmly emotional. Deals with actors as part of a fishing crew. Gritty.They both commit to the same film -- the same woman -- each weaving their own fingers into different parts of our visual mind. There are rough spots were the story takes us to a blunt sequence of saving a house. (How much more gracefully Gillian Armstrong did this with `Oscar and Lucinda'!) And a distracting subplot concerning the immigrant executioner. The horse business is mishandled because of problems with the camera. Alas.So things to seem to grind toward the end. But this has as perfect a beginning as one would wish for every essential element is conveyed without the mechanical exposition usually used. And how effective! Leconte is economical, so presenting the emotional Captain unemotionally is natural. Introducing us to Neel as lost coming from the fog, then being `saved' by entering a wandering, fishy, dirty brotherhood is perfect. He plays it as if he is bursting with energy, but showing none of it.Binoche is one of the few women alive who can stand as icon for the French ideal of art sensual, innocently, purely noble -- translucent heart, stubborn honesty. The camera doesn't have to pull any tricks here. That red dress is an amazing color.This is very intelligent filmmaking, very cerebral (most of the time) visual storytelling, absolutely self-referential tragedy on the nature of art.See it. Better yet, see the first half and spend the next few months wondering. You'll thank me for keeping you from becoming a widow. "},{"Title":"A Story of Salvation","Date":"26 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" On a dark night, in the mysterious fog, in a small village on an island off the coast of France, two very drunk men knifed a fat man, just to see if he's fat or just big. The men are caught and questioned. One is killed in an accident, while being sent to jail. The other, sentenced to hang, is imprisoned. But, when it poses a problem to hang him, the law begins to reconsider. You see, they don't have a guillotine and who knows when one will get there. In the meantime, he is released, pending execution, of course. And, suddenly he becomes a model citizen, saving the church from near demolition when being moved from one place to another, and saving the life of someone leaning up to it. This plays out like one of those quaint little British films where their lives were pretty quiet until something fanciful and unique happens to spruce up their lives. The prisoner is of course put back in jail from time to time, but it's the military captain's wife, played by Juliette Binoche, who takes to him and is very sympathetic to his situation. The moments they share, when she visits him in jail, are very personally felt. But, her husband, the captain, is put in a very awkward position. As other reviewers have said, this movie deals with a person's salvation, his worth to himself and to others. A movie you just have to see to believe. I didn't think I was going to like it, as I had put off watching it. But the combination of the town's officials talking amongst themselves about their plight and the heartfelt connection between Juliette and the prisoner balance each other very well and make the movie a very moving and humorous experience, one you'll not forget anytime soon. But then who is the widow of Saint-Pierre, you ask??? "},{"Title":"Very well acted & made love story BUT overly long.","Date":"24 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Patrice Laconte a writer/director who gave us the superb film Ridicule,misses here.This is a very interesting love story, excellently acted & brilliantly made. To be truthful, as much as I liked what I was seeing, I was bored.the movie was at least 20 minutes too long. There was not enough story to warrant a 112 minute film.The magnificent Juliette Binoche is the star,she is the wife of the commander of a garrison on this island off Newfoundland, then under the French flag.Daniel Auteuil one of France's best actors is the loving husband.& as usual proves he is.Emir Kusturica a fine actor from the Balkans is the condemned prisoner.His crime was in reality manslaughter, BUT in 1849, it was considered a capital crime punishable by the guillotine.Plot machinations put put him & Juilette together. I will not tell you what happens.As noted above the acting is excellent so is the production. I just wish it was shorter.Ratings *** (out of 4) 84 points (out of 100) IMDb 7 (out of 10) "}{"Title":"Good story and themes with amazing acting.","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film will be a little slow for some American tastes, and the performances, which are uniformly good, may seem a little pretentious. But this marvelous film with its solid plot and timeless themes make it a good movie. What makes it a great one is the acting of Daniel Auteuil and, to a lesser extent, Juliette Binoche.Many Americans are unfamiliar with the acting of the French actor, Daniel Auteuil. I have seen him in at least 20 films, in a variety of roles, and he is an accomplished actor, perhaps the most accomplished of our time. He has a difficult role in this film that requires a kind of underplaying and a certain stiffness in his performance. But he brings off his part magnificently.The main theme will provoke empathy and reflection in the attentive viewer. This haunting film, which really deserves at least two viewings, will stay with you and shadow your own ideas of morality and right and wrong. See it. "},{"Title":"a movie of redemption","Date":"10 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a wonderful film. It captures characters in a profound dilemma and shows a study of the bureaucratic mind that will crush a truly good man for the ends of both personal advancement and political correctness. It is as much a statement on the evils of mindless bureaucracy as any I have seen. It is also a fine story of personal redemption and the decency that can allow it to thrive. I could not but think of such works as Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment or such films as Schindler's List, because I am fascinated by the portrayals of seemingly ordinary people put in situations of fundamental moral choice. "},{"Title":"Historical French Canadian Ambiance","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The Widow of St Pierre is set in 19th Century French Novia Scotia or Newfound Land. The premise of the story is of a sailor who, on a somewhat drunken escapade with a colleague, murders a man and is arrested, found guilty and sentenced to death - The only crux of course is that there is no guillotine nor an executioner to carry out the execution and so a request must be sent to France for the necessaries to carry out the sentence.In the meantime the prisoner is detained at the states pleasure in a cell in the local police captain's (Daniel Auteil) home. The captain is a quiet independent man dedicated to his job, who loves his wife more than anything and will do anything she asks, so when Madame le Captain (Juliette Binoche) takes sympathy on the prisoner, reckoning that everyone deserves a second chance, her wish is granted and the prisoner is soon helping her with her greenhouse and doing good deeds all over the island.The real turning point comes when the prisoner stops a runaway cart saving a villagers life in the process, and soon the majority of the ordinary folk are adamant that this man has truly repented and that the sentence should no longer be carried out. However the guillotine has been dispatched from Martinique and the authorities are adamant that the will of the Republique be served.The climax of the film deals with the conflict and tensions between the ordinary people and the authorities along with the developing relationships between the prisoner and Madame and The Captain (and of course the gossip and innuendo surrounding the relationship) and how the whole thing resolves itself. It is one of those pleasant films dealing artily with duty, steadfastness, honour and dignity and it's carried off nicely albeit perhaps a little stretched out and gloomily in the end.None the less I'd give it 6/10 for ambiance and the acting of the main characters especially Auteil (Previously best known as Ugolin from The classic Pagnol Florette Movies) who, like a good Bordeaux, is only improving as he ages. "},{"Title":"freedom is stronger than sex or death","Date":"7 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The story is about a group of people waiting for a guillotine to arrive, but when understood in historical context it is about life after the guillotine. That is to say, by a series of layered conflicts the director Patrice Leconte shows us how the modern French attitude toward freedom developed, beginning about 1849. Originally, it was a mere idea which the administrators of the Reign of Terror thought could be imposed by chopping off the heads of aristocrats, and which the post-Napoleonic monarchists thought could be elimnated from popular memory by chopping off the heads of oridinary people. But the reality of freedom, shown by Leconte to be as much a part of the romantic relationship of the Captain (the luminous Daniel Auteuil) and Mrs. Captain (Juliette Binoche) as their erotic attraction to each other, is something beyond the power of the guillotine to prevent or create. Juxtaposed against the moral ambiguity of the situations in the story are the film's primary colors. The colors are lovely. All but two scenes are softened by a dominating hue of either golden, inside light, or the red of Mrs. Captain's dresses, the doors of her husband's prisons, the under-vests of the officials or the glowing skin of the local ladies and children, or the blue of the frozen ocean and its fish, sometimes assisted by the soldier's uniforms. Therefore, the unambiguous forces in the story are shown in gray. There are two dark gray/light gray scenes; one with Mrs. Captain standing by a window, the other being a view from the ocean of the town as the ship approaches with its deadly cargo, the guillotine. Michel Duchaussoy's performance as the essential Bourbon colonial is stunning. Emir Kusturica, the notorious Yugoslavian rebel, distinguishes both himself and his role by the obedience which characterizes his portrayal of Neel. Condemned for the senseless slaughter of a man who gave him a job, Neel must himself be slaughtered before we can understand the origins of France's modern devotion to freedom. The role of Mrs. Captain -- Captaine La -- foreshadows that of Mary Gray in Albert White Eagle's play-turned-movie, Chairs. The sets are perfect; one doesn't notice them until the film is over.Mary Cadney, Oklahoma City  "},{"Title":"Redemption The Widow of Saint-Pierre","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although The Widow of Saint-Pierre explores metaphors of imprisonment, freedom, and exile, the film is very much the director's (Patrice Leconte) philosophical and impressionistic illustration of the human soul's journey in search of redemption.  The director's use of camera movement along with the composition of the film's land and seascape clearly expresses this idea.The story takes place in 1879, in a small fishing village, Saint-Pierre, off the coast of Newfoundland.  Characters, Neel Auguste (Emir Kusturica) and Louis Ollivier (Reynald Bouchard) are two fishermen who while in a drunken stupor commit a brutal and senseless murder.  Island soldiers, under the command of a new Parisian Captain, Jean (Daniel Auteuil), quickly apprehend the two men.  During their trial, remorsefully, Neel and Louis give an honest account of the murder and as a result, Neel is sentenced to the guillotine and Louis to time in prison.The landscape of the town is very hilly and rocky and as the two convicted men ride shackled in the back of a wagon to their respective fates, the camera violently shakes as it pans across the stoic faces of various town people.   This camera movement is giving an inner account of the two men's fear and the hilliness of the town is suggestive of the precarious existence of the poor town people of Saint-Pierre.  While in route to prison, a vengeful mob kills Louis and because Saint-Pierre doesn't have a guillotine, Neel has to wait three months for one to arrive from Martinique.During that waiting period, the captain's wife, Pauline (Juliette Binoche), helps Neel work toward redemption through a series of good deeds, sobriety, and education.  Pauline takes on Neel's case like she takes on the overall harsh and barren landscape of the island, with a passionate love for life. The director conveys this idea by Pauline's attempt to grow flowers in her lifeless and infertile backyard.  And, also in the way he films her, fearlessly treading across a snowy desolate landscape, with Neel pulling a sled, struggling to keep up with her.Surprisingly, Neel isn't the only character seeking redemption through cryptic dialogue and knowing glances, we know that Jean and Pauline were sent to Saint-Pierre in exile; but, the circumstances regarding this matter is purposely made unclear in the film.  However, what is very clear is their ever growing love and devotion for one another, symbolically illustrated by what appears to be the only green and fertile area on the island, a place where they go to lie on the grass and talk about Neel's pending doom.  This oasis-like area on the island is also metaphorically suggestive of their redemption as well.The Widow of Saint-Pierre gives a blatantly bias opinion in regard to the death penalty; however, the film asks and to a certain extent answers tough questions regarding rehabilitation versus punishment.  The director's use of the film's seascape symbolically illustrates Pauline's passionate feelings on the subject, in a scene where Pauline and Neel are in a cove on the beach and she fanatically urges him to escape, while water violently crashes up against sharp protruding rocks.Like the fog that periodically blankets various scenes, The Widow of Saint-Pierre is a complex and mysterious film, which understands more so than it seeks to be understood.  It understands that sometimes even `good' people do things that defy logic.  It understands that forgiveness doesn't come cheap and it understands that when we aid in the redemption of others, we redeem ourselves.  "},{"Title":"An outstanding movie!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  French Canadian film based on a true story of a senseless killing by two drunken fisherman in the middle of the 19th Century. Setting is the French island of Saint Pierre off the coast of Newfoundland. Juliette Binoche is superb as Madame La Capitaine portraying the compassionate wife of the military commander (Daniel Auteuil) on the island.  He is also in charge of the prison where the convicted killer, played by Emir Kusturica, awaits his death sentence.  He must wait because the town has no guillotine and must get one from Martinque. Here's where Binoche carries the show and demonstrates her significant capability. An excellent story with superior performances that keep viewer's interest to the very end.  It was very well worth watching even if I couldn't speak French.  "},{"Title":"Love At Its Deepest","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this movie 4 times.  What so unusual about that is, that I am for capital punishment.  Based on actual events, this movie recounts the transformation of a man sentenced to death by guillotine or in French slang widow.    While he awaits to be executed, he performs community service for an army captain's wife.There are two love stories I found in this movie.  The most obvious one, the captain and his wife.  He has so much faith and trust in her, that even as people rumour about his wife, he defends her to the bitter end.  The other love story is that of human kind.  Madame La, is fully aware of the horrible act the prisoner has committed, but she has enough guts and gumption to prove that behaviors can change.This movie leans towards anti-capital punishment but it does not preach that at all.   Madame La, like Dead Man Walking's Sister Helen Prejan, is capable of seeing through even the worst evil, and finding compassionate remorse in their fellow human beings.  I don't necessarily agree with them but I must admire them for they truly understand the best and worst of human nature. Maybe that's why I watched it so many times. "},{"Title":"He does not even have to f*ck us to make cuckolds of our husbands.","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" She won an Oscar for The English Patient, and was nominated for Chocolat, but until you see this film, you have no concept of the incredible range of Juliette Binoche.The conviction, and pending execution of Neel Auguste (Emir Kusturica) for murder is but a subplot. This is really a love story between The Captain (Daniel Auteuil) and his wife (Juliette Binoche).You see it in their joking with each other, their affection, their passion, and the way he concedes to her requests (What my husband wants is up to me!).She wants Auguste to help her in her garden, and assist in the community while he awaits execution, which cannot proceed until a guillotine arrives from France to the island.He becomes a hero to the townspeople, and is even planning to marry after getting a local girl (Catherine Lascault) pregnant. The town council is alarmed at his growing popularity and fear that he will be too loved to execute (One man gets accused, and another gets punished.). The Captain continues to stand by his wife and ignore the governing officials, as the prisoner is his responsibility.The council even had to intimidate an immigrant (Ghyslain Tremblay) into taking the job of executioner, as no one on the island would do it.They ended up sending The captain back to France to be court-martialed to get the execution to proceed.Patrice Leconte, who gave us My Best Friend, Girl on the Bridge, and The hairdresser's husband, among other fine film, hits another home run with this one. "},{"Title":"Interesting but slow-moving tale of a man's possible redemption...","Date":"16 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Can a man who is guilty of murder (EMIR KUSTURICA) possibly be spared from the guillotine by a French women (JULIETTE BINOCHE) whose husband rules the French island of St. Pierre and has sent for a guillotine to shipped for the express purpose of beheading the guilty man.And so, while all the islanders agree that punishment is the only option, the Captain's wife takes a shine to the ruggedly handsome, strapping fellow (who resembles a young Jean Gabin). He turns out to be vulnerable and sweet beneath his outward rough appearance and she sees that he can be rehabilitated if she's given the chance to work with him. That's the essence of the story, and unfortunately the resolution is never really firmly established but remains rather ambiguous.All the performances are of the highest order, especially Juliette Binoche and Emir Kusturica. Their chemistry is palatable and keeps the viewer hooked to see what will finally happen.Well worthwhile despite a certain slowness in the telling and sure to appeal to those with a taste for the artistic. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I must say that this is one of those films that really stuck with me for weeks after watching it, both for its evocative cinematography as well as its acting and mood. I must take issue with a previous reviewer who called this movie preachy or too liberal. The central moral dilemma in this film is precisely that we cannot understand, much less judge, a human being by a single action. It is true that Auguste commits murder, but what the director then sets up is the largely unspoken debate as to a man's worth to society. One can of course argue both ways, that the law must be enforced no matter what, or that his contributions to the community are worth more than his death. It isn't preachy at all, because the film doesn't tell us what to think, it's up to us to reflect on this. Life isn't black and white, despite what our politicians would like us to believe, it's shades of grey.  "}{"Title":"Wow","Date":"23 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is what a real love story should be.  Jealousy and distrust does not even enter into their minds, even when we feel like it should.  They don't always make the right choices, but the captain is what every real man should aspire to be and his wife is the same for real women.Incredible acting all around, outstanding film.  Not everyone will get it, but if you know what love is about, you have an innate trust in the human spirit and you don't need lots of guns and explosions to make your movie, this film will leave you completely satisfied. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and heartfelt drama that not many saw (Contains some SPOILERS)","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  RATING  ****/****The Widow of Saint-Pierre, a beautifully conceived, brilliantly acted film, opens with a wide shot of a single being in a lonely room. Slowly, the camera moves in, and as we get closer, it becomes all to clear that this woman is the one described in the title. Her sadness is radiating, and already piercing to the audience who has yet to know her.The year is 1849. On the islands of Miquelon and Saint-Pierre, two drunk men commit murder. Their reason? They want to find out if the man they murdered was big or fat. The one who did the deed, Ariel Neel Aguste (Emir Kusturica) is sentenced to death, the other is given life in jail. There is one problem, however. Neel was sentenced to death by guillotine, but on Saint-Pierre there is no guillotine and no executioner. The leaders of the town do not want to look like fools, therefore the execution is put on hold until a guillotine can be found.With this much, a mood of gripping suspense is already set up. Almost the entire film is spent waiting for the guillotine (or the widow, as some of the townsfolk call it) to arrive, which takes months. In these months, Neel befriends the Captain Jean (Daniel Auteuil) and his wife (who is playfully called Madame La (Juliette Binoche)). He gains the sympathy of the entire town (and us). He does an incredible amount of service in Saint-Pierre and even saves a life. This makes the gradual arrival of the widow all the more ominous. Neel is sharing some great times (he even gets married), and we know that it must come to an end. All of Saint-Pierre becomes involved in a crusade to get Neel's execution cancelled, and it comes incredibly close to working. But what is so powerful about Saint-Pierre is the relationship between Jean and Madame La. Their love for each other is undying, but their bodies are not.I have seen a million movies with faux romances, giving a measly love triangle to grab us instead of letting the characters follow their natural course. I never thought that an affair would take place in The Widow of Saint-Pierre, and thank heavens director Patrice Leconte stayed true to the times and abandons any thoughts of sex between Madame La and Neel. Madame La loves her husband. I believe this is what the film was really about; Madame La and the captain being brought down in a whirlpool of political confusion. Both have full sympathy for Neel, but if Madame La does anything about it, she will endanger her husband.The acting in Saint-Pierre flourishes. Juliette Binoche, who was charming in Chocolat, gets to show her true talent in this film. If you have only seen her in Chocolat, give this film a chance, for she truly gives one of the finest performances I have seen all year. Daniel Auteuil and Emil Kusturica are also perfect, both being able to evoke sympathy while staying noble.The Widow of Saint-Pierre is another film that will make you loathe capital punishment (also see Lars von Trier's Dancer in the Dark). It is also a poignant work that is romantic without being contrived, sad without being melodramatic, and epic whilst still staying true to itself. Its the kind of film that is a rarity in the business today, one that will attach you to its characters and not allow you to think even for a minute that their final days together were wasted. This is the kind of film I wish Hollywood could produce. "},{"Title":"Good film, great performances","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film a lot.  The story, based on real events, is tragic and beautiful.  Juliette Binoche, IMO one of the finest actresses around, plays the wife of the captain in charge of a jail.  She is determined to save the murderer housed there awaiting execution.  Daniel Auteuil is absolutely wonderful as her husband, who loves his wife beyond all reason and common sense.  It is performance that most stands out. "},{"Title":"All about passion and conviction","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie expresses in a very special and interesting way what a passionate love can achieve. The strength of a  men who stick to his ideal regardless to the fact that it may cost him life. The conviction of a woman who strongly believe in redemption. The corrupted side of politics which exists since it was born. All this is mixed in a tale that, despite of its slow pace, makes you want remain in your chair desiring for a happy final that you know has no place in the story. The widow of Saint-Pierre can be regarded as one of the best French movies of all times. Excellent photography. Beautiful colors. Reasonable plot. Do not miss it 8 out 10. "},{"Title":"Beautiful performances in a not too great movie","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Widow of St. Pierre is an interesting movie indeed and it is worth watching in case you are not the young at heart (which are few) that would love Shrek or have decided against Pearl Harbor.  It tells the story of a man who got drunk one night and killed a respectable person in the town and is condemned to die.  But before he does, he starts to actually get some sense into him and is repentful.  So, he becomes somewhat of a local celebrity which offends the old timers in town, but delights the wife of the town's captain (Juliet Binoche, a delight as always). The performances and a fine script are what make this movie watchable and thought provoking, thought at times the film makes sense when it shoudln't, and vice versa.  Not totally an awesome feat of a movie, but it's still a worthy pick as one of the best foreign films of the year.  A- "},{"Title":"Absorbing","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a wonderful movie, full of quiet passion.  The Widow of St. Pierre is a beautful and haunting film that tells the story of a man committed to death on a small French fishing island that does not have a guillotine and how he learns to repent his crime and becomes a useful member of the community.  the judge obsevers, We committed a murderous brute and we're going to top a benefactor.  There is another story of the marriage of Le Capitaine (Daniel Auteuil) and his wife Madam La (Juliette Binoche).  Of their love and understanding for each other.  The play between these two actors is something to see, they just look at each other and you can see their feelings for one another.  She feels for the prisoner and her husband sympathizes with her feelings and understands her.  The director Patrice Leconte has done an admirable job portraying the time, place and atmosphere.  Emir Kusturica who plays Neel, the murderer, Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil all play their parts with a quiet understanding for their characters.  I think this must be Juliette Binoche's best performance.  This is a beautiful, disquieting movie and I highly recommend it to those who like an intelligent story, well told. "},{"Title":"cinema de qualite fifty years after","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A costume piece, high-gloss cinema de papa, with lots of pseudo-creative camera work trying to make us forget it. The potentially interesting story is told sentimentally and superficially, never probing the ultimate ironies (sexual, moral) of the relationship among the three principals. The secondary characters are mostly mean-spirited caricatures rather than real people--nor is our sympathy for the murderer (the only character with real substance) tempered by any for his victim. Lots of loud noise and sea shots straight out of an MGM pirate epic, but the obvious reference is the French 50s, with Darrieux and Philipe replaced by Binoche and Auteuil. An objectionable (and wholly unrealistic) feature is the insistent use of vulgarities, as though 19th century men--and even women!--spoke in polite society the way one might in a brothel. It's hard to believe a French director could get such a kick out of the word merde. "},{"Title":"An absorbing, thought-provoking, handsome film.","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found The Widow of Saint-Pierre thoroughly worthwhile, and was startled to learn, from another comment, that the original director had dropped out of the project. The film definitely takes a position on the issue of capital punishment, one with which I am in agreement--a factor that does affect my attitude. However, that predisposition is not the basis for my enthusiasm for the exceptional acting (Daniel Auteuil is an artist whose work is always deeply satisfying; he deserves greater recognition in the U.S.), the seamlessly evocative atmosphere, and the involving plot. The love between Auteuil's character and that of Binoche was beautifully brought out, and I found the relationship that obtained between both of them and the prisoner was fascinating. See this film, by all means!  "},{"Title":"A warm movie set in a cold landscape","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Neel Auguste is sentenced to death by the guillotine for the murder of a peasant on the island of Saint-Pierre, Newfoundland. Only problem is there is no guillotine on the island. The instrument is sent for, and meanwhile Neel Auguste is put to work for Madame La, the wife of the captain in charge of the prisoners. She starts to teach the convict to read, and they become friends. He turns out to be a good man, and when he saves the life of a village woman, nobody wants to see him killed. But then the guillotine arrives... If anything sums up this movie, it is loving detail. Patrice Leconte has put three warm-hearted people in an icecold landscape and shows how much they care for each other in small things fingers accidentally touching, a look, a smile.Treat yourself and go see it! "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Patrice Leconte surprises me again with a great movie. Juliette Binoche is simply marvellous. The story flows incredibly natural and I felt trapped since the first minute.Together with Yvonne's Perfume and The Hairdresser's Husband, we have the perfect Leconte's trilogy. "}{"Title":"Cruel justice by mid 1850 in France","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One must admit that the world should see more new French and Italian films, which notably differ to those coming from Hollywood. Yes, they are slow in their sequences, not as fast and simple as several Hollywood films, but the quality is there, the style is another thing and it is just a matter to get used to them. This is a very good film, where a convict becomes a kind of protegé of the captain of the French island. The convict notices the admiration of Captain's wife and the captain also noticed it, but left the things going as they were. A guillotine has to be brought to the island to kill the convict, but it was hardly difficult to find out a person able to manipulate the guillotine. Finally the captain, under the strong influence of his wife, decided not to allow this 'crime', he was arrested and later judged and killed. The convict was also killed. The captain's wife saw how difficult it is to survive in a 'civilized' society when you fight for good causes and the wealth for all.    "},{"Title":"Love, Redemption, Character -- NO WAY!","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is just a propaganda piece against the death penalty. Apparently a good one, since most people bought into its nonsense.I wanted to see this film because of its St. Pierre setting. Few in either America or France know that in 1849 as well as in 2012 there is a French colony in North America. The St. Pierre and Miquelin Islands just south of Newfoundland. And yes, most of the movie was filmed there.Anyway, one night one of the citizens is sitting in his home by candlelight, eating his soup, minding his own business. In a few moments he'll have his guts carved out by two men to settle an argument as to whether the victim was fat or large. Such a reason to slaughter an innocent man! When one of the murderers is condemned to death, the execution is postponed in order to get a guillotine and an executioner. The wife of the Captain adopts the condemned murderer as her pet project. In the short-run, her meddling will permit the convict to become a local hero, when he saves a woman's life; but in the long-run her determined self righteous actions and that of her husband will result in the husband facing a firing squad --- with righteous indignation, of course -- and the convict having his head chopped off.Juliette Binoche then becomes a self righteous widow. Loaded with indignation, she vows to be the faithful widow until her death -- or until her next pet project comes along. Gag me!The story turns common sense 180 degrees on its head, yet many viewers loved this mess. "},{"Title":"Average if somewhat odd film with great images and acting.","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First of all let me say when I hear Patrice Leconte I think about Ridicule, which to me was one of the best films I've ever seen, so I am biased for the director. That being said, I hardly recognized his work here. The characters were cold, their emotions either over the top (Pauline/Madame La), subdued to extremes (Jean, the captain) or simply idealized (Ariel Neel Auguste). What I liked most about this film is the way that traditional societies are depicted. Besides the beautiful lighting (the scenes at the stables, with the snow and the sea) and correct music (when the captain listens to violin music, there's a dissonant background melody, hinting at what will come next subtly) I felt common sense was missing from the story from the start, with such unusual circumstances of a captain taking for a victim just because... he loved his wife so much? But how could he not realize he was undermining his position in a traditional society?I agree with the IMDb reviewer rps-2 that it's a morality tale and a melodrama (all things surrounding the famous guillotine are tart and repetitive). I think that makes its point (yet another plea against death penalty) fade in the fog of the plot. The Governor's last scene is another case in point.Overall... I liked having watched it. But I'd never buy it!PS Try to watch it on a big wide screen, the landscapes are probably lost on a 21' TV screen like the one I saw it. "},{"Title":"raises some good questions","Date":"14 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Focusing on murderer Neel Auguste's (Emir Kusturica) redemption while awaiting his execution, La Veuve de Saint-Pierre (called The Widow of Saint-Pierre in English) raises some good questions. The townspeople are forced to ask themselves whether or not it's a good idea to execute him now that he is making up for it. The movie never gets preachy, it sticks to asking the questions and shows that there's not necessarily a ready answer. Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil play Pauline (aka Madame La) and Jean (aka The Captain), respectively, overseeing Auguste's penance. All in all, this is a movie that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"well-acted and very watchable--though probably NOT for every taste","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It seems to me that this movie was made as an attack on the death penalty. While I have no problem with the use of the death penalty, I strongly agree with the major contention of the film. That is, once a person is sentenced, by the time they are put to death a lot of time has passed and they may not be the same person--and may no longer deserve to die. In the case of the film, the delay was BRIEF compared to our modern penal system, as the delay looked to be about two years. During this interim time, the convicted man did so much to help those around him that there was little will, except among some idiots in the local government, to execute him. The film is very interesting and gives us insight into life on the isolated island of St. Pierre (a French possession near New Foundland) and because the story, it seems, is based on a true story! I liked the film because it dared to be different, had something to say and featured excellent acting and dialog--and this combination definitely doesn't happen very often. "},{"Title":"The Fog of Eroticism; starring Juliette Binoche","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Setting Island of St. Pierre off of France (part of French Republic) in the year 1849-50.Plot A guillotine named the widow is being brought over to the island from France to execute a man who at the beginning of the movie got so drunk he killed a man without any deep human evil as motive. The problem is St. Pierre is a gentle community and has no executioners that not even any of their sailors would bring any to the island. No executioner, no head. Madame La (Juliette Binoche) is such a gentle soul living there who believes the man is good and useful to the community but also hidden under the surface is innocently sexually obsessed with the man before she even really meets him which is what much of the community thinks she is leaning toward, especially some bored debutantes which are like counterparts to Juliette's character. Her husband is the warden of the penitentiary (Daniel Auteuil) under Paris headquarters but technically has jurisdiction because they are not in Paris so he allows the condemned to be at his wife's disposal because he supports her and they love each other, which is seen as signs of weakness by the ferocious Paris French Republic putting pressure on the local Republic making such questions arise do humans make the law or does the law make us? Surely nobody in St. Pierre not having endured the repression of France needs to make examples by collecting heads except for the cowardly governor and admirals who are paid to appear strong. Of course there's a quote (i forget who it belongs), and i'm paraphrasing saying real strength is having the power to destroy, but choosing not to. Madame La's lust for the condemned is no exception to this rule--her love having conquered all. "},{"Title":"A fine film. Pity about the misunderstood English translation of the title","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  None of the reviews of this fine film, with which I broadly concur having seen it on its original release in Paris in the spring of 2000, appear to note the error in the American release's translation of the French title. La veuve indeed means widow in French. It is, however, also French slang for the guillotine, roughly akin to the American slang of `widowmaker'. The title, in French, is an elegant pun which should have been translated as `The Guillotine of Saint Pierre' although this still loses the impact of the original French.These sort of misunderstandings are quite common in American translations of French film titles. Think of Berri's `Gazon Maudit'  which became `French Stick' entirely missing the delightful sexy pun in the original French and Beneix's aptly titled `37.2 Le Matin' which, for some completely mystifying reason, became the bowdlerised `Betty Blue'.Then there is arguably one of the best, and intellectually cleverest, films of all time - Ridicule - also directed by the excellent Patrice Leconte which is virtually meaningless in English. If you understand French watch it but forget the sub-titles since they usually entirely miss the numerous intricate jeux-de-mots.  "},{"Title":"This is why I have so many cable movie channels","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are looking for a movie about love, honor and human decency this is your movie. Unfortunately, there is also jealousy and petty vindictiveness displayed by some characters but they only help enhance the actions of the three main and some of the lesser characters in the story. You find yourself forgetting that the prisoner, Neel, has been sentenced to death for murder but, considering this is based on real events, you realize that others, more closely related to the events, had done the same thing. All I can add is just watch the movie and see for yourself. However you feel at the end it will certainly be time well spent. A wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Sometimes good people do bad things","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  (Subtitled)  Historical French movie about a man, who in his drunken stupor, murders someone, and is sentenced to the guillotine, but has to wait until one is shipped from the homeland to their colony.  He ends up being a well-liked townsman, who saves a woman's life, and helps all in need, so the colony doesn't want him to be executed.  You have to be in the right mood to like this.  C+ "},{"Title":"Not a classic Leconte","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a dramatic and stylish account of the relationship between 3 characters living in the tough world of St Pierre in the 19th Century. Neel Auguste is sentenced to death by guillotine (la veuve) but there is no guillotine on the island.  They must wait for it to arrive and in the meantime Auguste is rehabilitated through the patronage and protection of Madame La (Binoche) and her husband (Auteuil).This is a well constructed and shot movie but it lacks the spirit of Leconte's more personal films (The Girl on the Bridge, Monsieur Hire, The Hairdresser's Husband).  Leconte introduced the film at a preview screening in London that I attended and explained that he was not the first choice director.  The script and cast were already in place when the director dropped out.Leconte does a good job but as a 'director for hire' rather than 'auteur' this work is something of a disappointment. "}{"Title":"I don't like being told how to think and feel + Kusturica ruins it","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie takes place in 1849 on St. Pierre. It is about a murderer who committed a murder in a drunken state not really knowing what he was doing. Such a person might get 8 years or something these days. But you have to remember that in 1848 you were sent to Australia in chains if you stole a loaf of bread. The wife of the captain in charge of holding the condemned man feels he should be rehabilitated and let loose. The whole movie becomes a treatise on unfair penal sentences.My problem with the movie is not that I think the man deserved to be executed, but rather the one sided manipulative propaganda approach used by the director.The movie degenerates into endless obvious manipulation. Every facial expression in every crowd is controlled to show the appropriate emotion. There are constant cuts to the ship bringing the guillotine. Suddenly everyone loves this guy no one will be the executioner etc... It is not believable.A huge part of the problem is that the actor playing the condemned (Emir Kusturica) is a disheveled large hulking unattractive middle aged cave man who just doesn't work in the role--negative charisma? Kusturica's chemistry is just wrong (maybe bad acting?)--for some reason there is absolutely nothing sympathetic about him walking around with a plaintive look. A younger more handsome man who could act could very well have made the movie work.The Captain and his wife are Gods descended from some morally superior heaven we should all aspire to.The whole message thing is just too heavy handed. The part in the beginning where they throw rocks at the prisoners is more like real human nature. This movie is terrible which is a pity.I liked Patrice La Count's movie-- M. Hire-- and decided to watch more of his films unfortunately the others are also too much socially relevant treatises but this is by the far the worst one. REDICULE at least had large parts of it that were entertaining this film had nothing of the sort---unrelenting politically correct hammering against the death penalty etc etc etc...It is a pity because the actors and Le Conte bring a lot to this--however no doubt about it Kusturica ruins it. He should stick to directing.DO NOT RECOMMEND! "},{"Title":"A Solid Work About Love's Sacrifices","Date":"7 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was captured by the simplicity, the substance, the emotions, and the relationships in this movie.  I always have found Binoche to have a great presence on the screen.  The movie is riveting because of what it accomplishes in making people think about responsibility, compassion, sacrifice, and consequences. "},{"Title":"Ok","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is solid 7 out of 10.  I felt as tho we weren't given enough details of the story, before joining in on the movie.  I think if there was flashback or two, or if the movie began about a year or two before the actions took place, the current situation would have meant more.  I didn't feel I knew any of the characters, so I was not able to really care all that much to what happened to them.  Acting was suburb, and the premise was right on. No sugar coating in the ending, and the costumes and feel of the scenery brought me to the 1800s.  Overall, it was good, not great. "},{"Title":"Widow's Pique","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" As a filmmaker Patrice Leconte has yet to disappoint me despite his eclecticism - I went to a large video/DVD outlet specifically to purchase his 'Tango', a delicious black comedy that neither Francis Veber nor Billy Wilder would be ashamed of, and whilst doing so came across this title at a giveaway price which means simply that I bought it sooner rather than later, having already seen and admired it on its initial release five years ago. It's about as far from Tango as it's possible to get but then Leconte's schtick is that he has no schtick and changes from film to film. I first heard of St Pierre when, as a kid, I discovered Damon Runyon and read his short story 'The Lily Of St Pierre' which is not, I suppose, a million miles away from this story. Leconte has shot a wonderfully stately opening in which we move ever so slowly towards Juliette Binoche, standing at the end of a long gallery and occasionally looking out at something below. As we approach her she begins a voice-over flashback of events in St Pierre and we naturally assume she is still there but how wrong can you be. Her story is the stuff of melodrama involving a gentle giant who indisputably murders a man before our eyes then undergoes a rehabilitation that stops just short of sainthood. The problem is that St Pierre is what vaudevillians used to call 'a wide part in the road' and lacks both a guillotine and an executioner which leaves military commander Jean (Daniel Auteuil) one one side and the town council on the other. The council want to play it by the book and keep Neels (Emir Kustarica)in chains in his 4 x 2 cell whilst Jean (and not least his wife Pauline (Juliette Binoche)want to cut him a little slack. As time passes Neels proves not only a superlative handyman but an all-around good egg so that when the guillotine finally arrives no one and his Uncle Max wants to see Neels get it where the chicken got the axe. In Hollywood chances are he would not only have got off but would have rode into the sunset with Binoche and the good wishes of Auteuil to speed them on their way, but this, thank God, is France so EVERYBODY gets it in the neck and in a final masterstroke Binoche is revealed to be not in St Pierre but in Paris watching as Auteuil is executed by firing squad in the courtyard beneath her window - a scene that echoes the end of Casque d'Or when Simone Signoret watches from an upstairs window as Serge Reggianni is also executed. Cavillers will claim that Neels IS a little too good to be true and find the nurturing metaphor in which Neels helps Pauline grow flowers/plants in a barren landscape laboured but overall there is far more to enjoy than to condemn here not least thee superb performances. "},{"Title":"beautiful and evocative","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this because Daniel Auteuil was in it.  I didn't realise that it was a canadian film.  Juliet Binoche is the main character, she is lovely and ethereal but if you don't care for her I would avoid the movie as she's in nearly every shot.It reminded me of The Piano, same sort of high quality historical drama.  Not the most exciting of movies, but interesting and watchable. Not the most memorable of movies, but pleasant in its own way.  It's quite slow, but it's beautifully filmed.  It really does have a mid-19th century feel. What more can I say - you'll either find it sensitive and enlightening, or be bored to death.   "},{"Title":"Dark, excellent tale of good intentions gone wrong.","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  An excellent account of French bullheadedness, with only the baddies coming out on top.  Refer to the Franco-Prussian war, the Dreyfus affair and Pierre Boulle's early novels for other examples.I wish the lighting had been a little brighter when I was asking myself which woman was having such a great time in bed with the noble murderer.  I guess it must have been the Captain's wife, since we were left in no doubt about the other woman.Be warned that nothing explodes in it. "},{"Title":"Boo....death penalty...barbarism legitimized","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This gives a wonderful picture of a man who commits murder while drunk, then gets rehabilitated by his own efforts and the wife of the jailer/commandant of the police in Canada. It is a great movie, even though there are some incongruous points, such as Why would the wife be building a greenhouse inside the jail courtyard? How could the convict get the time to impregnate a local village widow? Nonetheless, the movie is beautiful.Please see this movie.  It is a wonderful plea to get rid of the death penalty as an act of murder. "},{"Title":"Shouldn't have been made","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Shallow and unconvincing. Although it strives to examine finer virtues of human character it fails to produce any significant emotional response. Characters are undeveloped to an annoying extent. At times it appears that the director did not know which way to go with their development. Leconte never seriously probes their depths and motivation. Intended to glorify subtler elements in human nature the movie irritates with its sketchy characterization and thin, pretentious plot-line. After seeing this movie and Girl On the Bridge, it is quite a mystery to this reviewer that Patrice Leconte seems to be the darling of the American film critics. "},{"Title":"Beautiful looking but to liberal!","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can watch Juliette Binoche in anything and she's certainly watchable here but I could not shrug off the fact that the condemned prisoner awaiting execution killed a man for no reason. After his trial and sentence to the guillotine he becomes known and liked in this small community. In fact, his popularity becomes troublesome to the officials that are arranging the execution. Binoche's character adores him right from the start and states, Good men sometimes do bad things. Thats what the film is trying to say and thats fine but I do believe that the makers of this film want us to care about the condemned man and be against his sentence. This part of the film is where it lost me. I couldn't forgive him no matter what. It kind of reminded me of Dead Man Walking in that manner. I must say that the locations are truly beautiful and it looks wonderful. The scenery and cinematography are the best things about the film but I just couldn't shake off the liberal point of view that was shoved down our throats. Nicely made and acted but way to preachy! "}]