[{"Title":"Unoriginal but hilarious","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"57 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Despite the fact that this film is a totally unoriginal and predictable retread of a dozen `losers to winners' sports stories, it is so hysterically funny that I didn't even care.  The story is thin at best.  The NFL is having a players strike and scabs are called in to finish the season.  Our heroes are low on ability but high on desire and peculiarity.  The quarterback, Shane Falco (Keanu Reeves), once had a promising career, but he fell apart psychologically when his team was pummelled in a college bowl game and he was labelled a player that folds in the big game.  Of course, while visiting the NFL, Shane falls in love with the head cheerleader (Brooke Langton) who never dates players (except of course this once).All this is merely a mundane excuse for a raucous and silly comedy that has some sidesplitting moments.  To enjoy this film you really need two things. You need to love football and you need to enjoy slapstick, banana peel comedy.  I realize that this limits the audience considerably, but for those who qualify (and I am one), this movie is a scream.Director Howard Deutch (Pretty in Pink, Grumpier Old Men) did a great job on the football sequences.  He hired 45 professional football players (Former NFL players, Canadian Football League, etc.) to do the football scenes and sent the actors to a three-week football camp.  The action looked real because it was real.  The players were told to play and hit the way they normally would.  Of course, the plays were choreographed, but they were real football plays.The comedy was lowbrow, outrageous and crass, with a great deal of physical comedy.  The cheerleader scenes were a riot, especially the cheerleader tryouts.  The scene where they started pantomiming sex acts to distract the opposing team was priceless.  There was also sharp-witted football humor that required more than just a passing knowledge of the game.There isn't much serious that can be said about the acting.  Keanu Reeves tried to play an earnest comeback and romantic role amidst all the foolishness and it really didn't fit with the rest of the film.  However, he was an excellent athlete.  He did most of his own on-field shots and looked very believable as the quarterback.  Gene Hackman was good when he was making snappy wisecracks, but his inspirational `Hoosiers' imitation was misplaced.This film really belonged to the supporting actors like Orlando Jones (Clifford Franklin), Michael Taliferro and Faizon Love (The Jackson Twins), Ace Yonamine (Jumbo Fumiko), Rhys Ifans (Nigel `The Leg' Gruff) and all the cheerleaders who made the comedy work.  Jon Favreau gets a special mention as the crazy S.W.A.T. officer turned linebacker who took the wild man role to the next level.This film won't be fun for everyone, but it will have certain people falling off their chairs.  I rated it an 8/10.  Subtract two points if you aren't amused by slapstick and boorish behavior, and another two if you aren't a football fan.  For the rest of you, be prepared to split a gut. "},{"Title":"Entertainment for the fun of it","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was made purely for entertainment.  What a breath of fresh air. With all the extremely dramatic, be it important, films being made lately (Life is Beautiful,etc), it's nice to watch a film that is just entertaining.  The supporting cast was amazing, as an ensemble they worked together as a team should.  And Keanu Reeves gave a wonderful performance - he is often under appreciated as an actor because he is attractive - but he gave a solid performance.  Gene Hackman was good - that goes without saying, but I think this is the first time I've ever seen him portray a character I actually liked.If you enjoy a good laugh, this a movie you would likely enjoy. "},{"Title":"Expected storyline, but completely unexpected hilarity","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  To work, comedy has to be unexpected. And that is just what makes The Replacements work so well. Oh, not that the storyline is unexpected, for from it. But the actual comedy embedded in that plot is often delightfully quirky and quite unusual in this extremely good-natured and entertaining film. The very first scene, for example, takes place in a completely unexpected setting and proceeds in a really odd-ball way.As it is most times, Keanu Reeves acting is subtle.  In this film you have to watch those eyes that are so eloquent when he's discouraged and listen to those little expelled breaths that convey so well (and so humorously) his state of mind when he's near the girl he's finds attractive.  It's all there, and more, if you watch closely.  Reeves is completely believable as a man who needs a second chance to do something he loves--play football. It's like he's a different person on and off the field--and that's exactly what the movie was trying to convey.  The development (redemption is only too slightly strong a word) of Reeves' character is excellently portrayed. That struggle to overcome provides a good solid center around which all the hilarity revolves and becomes funnier in contrast.Gene Hackman and the rest of this ensemble cast did a great job--everyone has his or her moments.  If the movie has a weakness, it's the romance. Not that Brook Langton and Reeves aren't good in the clinches--they have a definite chemistry. But it seems like there should have just been one scene between them with some real substance.The Replacements also succeeds well as a football movie.  The great photography and sound; the inventiveness of the script in dreaming up unusual and funny, yet still plausible, game events; and the evident attention to training for and depicting the physical moves, all add up to a movie which sports fans will relish. And yet, the football plays, are presented so clearly that even someone who's not a knowledgeable football fan can understand everything that's happening, even the first time.Comedy is tough--it's quite an achievement to have folks in the theater laughing for most of two hours. And that's certainly what the audience did when I saw The Replacements. As well as cheering out loud for the home team, clapping at the end, and coming out feeling like dancing to I Will Survive like they did in the movie.  As well as feeling like we can survive and be ourselves--just like those scrappy, eccentric replacements.  "},{"Title":"A must see laugh a minute movie, that make you feel good!!","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"39 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is one of those movies that you'll pick to go see for a few reasons. Gene Hackman, Keanu Reeves (Wow), football, babes,& yada yada. I went to see a sneak preview, so it didn't really matter to me if it was going to be good, because I didn't have to pay for it. Well, I would pay to see it again!! Not only is this movie beyond funny, real funny, the story is terrific, acting wonderfully strong , the dialogue so real, and it leaves you wanting more. Gene Hackman can do anything, so him playing a coach, and choosing him for the role was right on the mark. Keanu Reeves, what can I say. He's so easy on the eyes. ALL you want to do is watch him play the role as quarterback, (as if he was one), and enjoy looking at him being FALCO. The chemistry between him and Annabell is so cute & mushy. It's a movie for anyone who wants to laugh, is rooting for the under dog, likes football or not, or who just wants to go to a movie and be completely entertained!! W.B. has truly captured what it is we all go to the movie for. I can guarantee you, when you see this movie, not only will you walk out wanting to see it again, but you'll tell anyone you know, to go see it and have a BLAST!! This movie is a winner! "},{"Title":"There is no tomorrow for you, and that makes you very dangerous people.","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"28 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Those are the words of coach (Hackman) before the final regular season game for the replacement players, filling in for the striking regulars.  The never-been QB (Keanu Reeves) must try to lead them to victory.The Replacements is primarily a good screwball comedy, in the vein of, but significantly better than, Best of Show and The Waterboy. Some may even take a message away, about the importance of teamwork, belief in oneself, true love (QB and the head cheerleader). But that is all secondary.I rate this one highly for pure escapism entertainment, but also with good acting by Reeves and Hackman, and some almost-believable football action, heavily interlaced with goofiness.  The lap-dancers turned cheerleaders, who totally distract the opposing team. The tag-team vomiting during the huddle, after the Japanese sumo wrestler eats too many eggs before the game (I gotta beef up!) The cop who, like in the Waterboy, can get enraged (Coach says, I want you to get me the ball, and he does.) The Welsh kicker who is wirr-rrry strong and smokes a cigarette while kicking. The I will survive dance in jail, after the barroom brawl with the 'regulars.'To make a good screwball comedy, the writer and director have to walk a fine line and here they do it well.  John Madden and Pat Summerall, playing announcers, are genuinely funny. The DVD picture, and Dolby Digital 5.1 sound, are up to standards.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, fuzzy, feel good movie.","Date":"13 July 2002","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I haven't bothered watching professional football since Joe Montana retired but this movie got me interested again.  While I can appreciate the comments of other reviewers that it is a formula movie and has many inaccuracies when it comes to the football action it is pure and unadulterated fun.  The bottom line is this movie is downright funny, from start to finish.  The cast are absolutely wonderful and the casting director did a brilliant job of bringing this gang together.  Gene Hackman of course is perfect as the coach.... I'll pull you off the field you spoiled son of a bitch.... Rhys Ifans absolute perfection as Gruff (after a **** you remark from Jimbo) You'll have to find your dick first Shamu, to the shoot em up bros from the hood, to get me the ball, get me the ball  The acting was absolutely wonderful in this movie.  I have to admit I didn't like the guy that played Martell but perhaps that's because I wasn't supposed to like him, perhaps it shows what a good job he did.  And Keanu, dear, sweet, so maligned Keanu, I read a reviewer once who said of Keanu's acting that it is almost transparent and in this movie it is, he doesn't eat scenery he just does his job, low key, perfectly in character, and for those who know anything at all about acting all you have to do is watch his eyes.  He has a Harrison Ford like quality of being able to express a wealth of emotions with his eyes and in this movie he pulls it off perfectly.  I also read somewhere that during the making of this movie it was discovered that Keanu really did have an arm and at one point threw a 69 yard pass.  I have seen this movie in excess of 20 times and will no doubt see it 20 more times, it is the best feel-good movie I have ever seen.  When I want drama and suspense I will watch The Green Mile when I want simple, comedy that just leaves me with a huge grin I will watch the replacements.  Oh yeah and I just want to kiss the person who put Keanu in a No. 16 uniform *S*   "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"28 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I have to admit, my boyfriend had to drag me to this movie, and I went along with it, telling myself that at the very least I could spend the next couple of hours admiring Keanu's cuteness, even if he isn't the best actor. BOY was I suprised! This was a really funny, really sweet movie that made me laugh and laugh. Keanu's acting was better than I've ever seen, the supporting cast did a GREAT job. I go to a LOT of movies, and it has been a long while since I've seen a movie that i enjoyed this much, so I really encourage you to give it a try. "},{"Title":"Take it for what it is","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  It's a sportsmovie. It's got every sports cliche in the book I look at you and see two men. The man you are and the man you ought to be. But, hell, who cares? It's the Major League of football movies. Sure, it's not gonna win an Oscar, but it's entertaining. A good movie to kill 2 hours. You want drama in a football movie, check out Any Given Sunday. You want fun, mindless entertainment, check this out. Props to Keanu Reeves for learning to throw like a genuine quarterback.  "},{"Title":"I laughed until I cried!!!!!!!","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"34 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  It is about time they put out a movie that you can watch just to feel good about something and have a good laugh. The last movie that was close to this was Major League which this was very similar to, but there were some aspects that made this better. It was the most unique roll I have ever seen Gene Hackman in and it was a very refreshing one at that. Even the music set the tone perfectly. You will love the closing, naturally I do not want to give it away but the music in the closing scene of the movie was just perfect in setting the mood and emotion. I could watch it over and over.Thumbs up on this one guys!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Replacements ROCKS","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements is more than an it does for football what Major League did for baseball kind of movie.  Replacements is funnier than that film, for one thing. It's more in the league of Slapshot with Gene Hackman providing the weight that Paul Newman brought to that film. Also, like the hockey scenes in Slapshot, the actual football sequences are really bone crunching. While there is a lot to look at in Replacements, like Keanu Reeves (who is also really good in this role, playing it for drama amid all the wackiness) getting the hell beat out of him, or like the replacement cheerleaders carted in from local strip clubs to really get the fans pumped for the game (is this what the XFL is going to be like?), this movie works as more than all that stuff.  More than the sum of it's parts, as they say. Replacements has a good heart. Bottom line, I'm going to see it again.  "}{"Title":"Absolutely awful.","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I was under the impression that this movie was supposed to be a comedy. But nobody in the theatre was laughing. It's the first movie I've ever walked out of. I used to be a big fan of Keanu Reeves. Makes me embarrassed to think that I used to stand up for him when people said he couldn't act.  "},{"Title":"Replace the Film With a Good One.","Date":"1 September 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Replacements (2000) Dir Howard Deutch / Cast Keanu Reeves, Gene Hackman, Orlando Jones, Brooke Langton, Jon Favreau Same old junk with a different paint job. It suggests ignorance on behalf of those whom the team will eventually prove wrong. Gene Hackman plays a football coach who decides to assemble a team of players who have dropped out of sight. There is a football strike and he views this as an opportunity for others to shed their light. Among these are a maniac cop, a convict, a gambler who can kick, two big black bar bouncers, a sumo wrestler, etc. Keanu Reeves is sought after as a quarterback. He served a nasty defeat but Hackman still sees potential. Recycled and dreary with director Howard Deutch doing his best but after making The Odd Couple 2 he needs all the help he can muster. He also directed Pretty in Pink and Some Kind of Wonderful (which doesn't describe this film). Hackman is wasted as the coach who will whip these players into shape. Orlando Jones is far too talented to be stuck in a film that requires no thought. Brooke Langton's role is obvious in that she is basically a romantic prop. While Varsity Blues made this same sort of film entertaining and funny, here is a film so deserving to be toss onto a football field so that it might be stumped on by every single player. The screenplay is in bad need of replacing. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Embarrassing even to watch. Seen it all before.","Date":"15 August 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I'll be honest and say that until I read some reviews on here, I didn't realise that this was supposed to be a comedy. I will also qualify this review by admitting that I have no interest in American football and am not familiar with the game, rules, history or teams.I am, however, familiar with the formulaic story of a bunch of sporting misfits come good under the guidance of an inspirational coach (Hackman) - having seen it repeated seemingly a dozen times. The truly talented player who missed out on the big-time (Reeves) is able to clarify what is really needed to the other meatheads in the team. I'm sure you can see where this is leading.This 'comedy' brings nothing new to the table and makes the support cast even more irritating and unlikeable than usual vehicles of this type. The cheerleaders are gruesome and (obviously) too stupid to spell out the name of team they're cheerleading (is that a verb?) for.The head cheerleader (and waitress/bartender) loves footbaall but doesn't date players (unless it's Keanu Reeves) in the same way that the waitress never dates pilots/soldiers/political advisors blah blah. The prolonged gaze they share across the bar is as close as the movie gets to comedy - and I suspect that that was unintentional.And a special word for John Favreau, who as everyone knows, has gone on to excel in all fields of movie-making. This is one of the most stupid and annoying characters ever to have inhabited a sporting movie. Ifans comes a close second.All in all, its all been done before - and a lot better. There's a lot of shouting, a lot of pointing, a lot of shouting 'let's go' and commentators amazed at the things they are witnessing on the field. They should have asked me - I could tell them exactly what was going to happen from the opening frame. "},{"Title":"** Horrible football film","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Fairly funny film that clunks along from scene to scene, never building up any comedic momentum but nonetheless manages to be humorous sometimes. Mostly the film is weighed down by Keanu Reeves' dull performance as a scab football player during a professional players' strike and Gene Hackman's tired bit as the coach who thinks he's seen it all. Nothing inspired ever happens, even the football scenes aren't very exciting, and then the film ends up with a finale about professionals and their love of money over the game that is so out of place and oh-so-self-righteous in a bad way that I wanted to slap the writer. Brooke Langton makes a sparkling star debut as Reeves' love interest, standing out from a cast of known character actors like Orlando Jones and Rhys Ifans (Notting Hill) who are basically riffing off the personas we know them already for.  "},{"Title":"I got a headache!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Before going to see this movie I thought I'd seen the worst of the worst movies. I mean I've seen nearly half of the movies in IMDB's 100 worst movies of all time (Police Academy 6, Werewolf, and yes even Troll 2). However, never have I wasted the money to see any of these horrible movies in a movie theatre-until now. There was nothing positive about this movie. It wasn't funny. The plot flopped in the first 20 minutes. The acting was mediocre. Originality and a decent dialogue seemed to be missing. And worst of all it seemed to never end. I literally got a headache after it was over. Trust me, this is one movie you should avoid seeing. But if you don't believe me, go ahead and see it...just bring some Extra Strength Tylenol!  "},{"Title":"Every cliche in the book","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film is actually quite amazing in two ways.  First, there is the use of the cliche.  I wracked my brain trying to think of some sports movie cliche that they missed using, but could not think of a one.  The team of misfits, the evil professionals who refuse to accept them, the hidden talents, the soccer kicker who would be a great football player, the love interest that has nothing to do with the story, the fickle fans, and even the classic bar fight.  They are all here.  In fact they are the entire story.  Just take every sports movie cliche you can think of, toss them in a hat, and dump them on the ground.  Instant script.The other amazing thing about this movie is it's predictability.  It's common that you'll be watching a movie and have a good idea of what is going to happen next.  In this movie, you always know everything that is going to happen.  The script telegraphs every move.  Don't expect to be surprised, it won't happen.What's really strange is that you will enjoy watching this movie.  The antics are funny, the cast is wacky, and the cheerleaders are fun.  Don't expect to be surprised by anything other than this fact and you'll walk away happy you saw The Replacements.  "},{"Title":"The best football movie of the summer...","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements Professional football takes a turn for the bizarre when the players go out on strike - rather than suspend the season, the owner of the Washington Sentinels asks his coach to cobble together a team of replacement players to carry on.Football on the big screen has been approached from almost every conceivable angle humorous (The Longest Yard), love story (All the Right Moves), sport as metaphor for life (Any Given Sunday) and pathos (North Dallas Forty) are but a few examples.   Essentially a composite of all the above, The Replacements, is loosely based on facts - the fictional Sentinels represent the Washington Redskins whose replacement players did quite well - the NFL however would not allow the film to use the name of any real teams).If I remember correctly, (keep in mind that I'm not a sports fan and it was a long time ago) the NFL strike of 1987 was due to player dissatisfaction with the salary cap and the subject of free agents.   The utter ludicrousness of multimillionaire sports figures pleading poverty is summed up in an interview with the striking quarterback for the Sentinels who says Well $5 million might sound like a lot of money, but I have to give 10% to my agent. Just then a colleague pipes up And do you know how much it costs to ensure a Ferrari?!?   The frightening thing is that some players actually believe this stuff.Reeves, not known for his dramatic flair, is believable as Shane Falco (it is after all Reeves' third outing as a gridiron grappler), a forgotten quarterback who blew a promising career with one bad game .   Brook Langton, Reeves' love interest, is gutsy, subdued, and cute, but not obnoxiously so and. reminded me of a young Lauren Holly (before she became bitter.).  The supporting cast does an excellent job, but I particularly enjoyed the casting of John Madden and Pat Summerall whose officiating lends an air of realism to the proceedings.I do however have two misgivings about the movie the trailer I saw this evening gives away some of the best parts of the movie (a trend that I've noticed is getting worse) and what is the preoccupation with football players vomiting (it played a role in Any Given Sunday)- I don't find it particularly amusing.That said, , The  Replacements is uncomplicated, funny, and takes a few well aimed shots at professional sports.  I recommend it to anyone in search of some light entertainment - just don't pay full price. "},{"Title":"moms leftovers- good , but you know what to expect==not waterboy","Date":"23 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" i wasn't going to review this movie , as it is just mediocre, not great but not terrible, and then another reviewer compared this to 'Waterboy///// not happenin, .... i laughed so hard to water boy, ...watched it a million times , i was twenty minutes in to this movie-the replacements- when i realized that i hadn't really laughed yet,what shocked me into serious land was how the writers brought in the love angle--you watch it and tell me if you could have written that better-cliché'-- , i like all the actors in it , they all did a great job, however , i think that the writing is just way overdone ---this movie idea has kinda been done--i just knew every punchline before it came, --one cliché' after another -- so , as another reviewer stated, this is a good afternoon , popcorn movie ---- But DON'T EVER-- think that this is in the same comedy classic movie category as water boy--who is funnier as a leading role , Adam sandler or Keane reeves?-- and the great tell ... this movie does not make it to my re-watch file "},{"Title":"An OK movie with funny moments","Date":"27 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Saw this movie last night, and I thought that it was all right. Not great, but not a waste of an evening. My biggest complaint is the predictability of the dialogue and plot points - you know from the moment you sit down in the seat exactly what is going to happen in the next two hours. But there were a few highlights - notably a very funny dance sequence (you'll know what i mean). The best part of the movie, for me, was the character played by the 7up guy (yeah, sue me, I don't know his name). That actor was consistently funny (unlike others) and made an otherwise '4' movie a '5'. "},{"Title":"heartwarming,funny","Date":"31 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" i enjoyed this sports comedy/romance.i found it funny,touching and engaging.it's not one of those bust a gut funny movies,it's more of the pretty good chuckles variety.it's one of those feel good kind of movies,where you just can't help but root for the guy and girl to get together.even the action bits(mostly comedic football action) are good.Gene Hackman and Keanuu Reeves are the headliners,but i found Brooke Langton to be very good in her role.it's nice to see Hackman and Reeves in a lite movie,rather than the intense movies they're usually known for.at the end of the movie,i felt pretty good.at the very least,you might forget about you problems for awhile.for me,The Replacements is a 7/10 "}{"Title":"This movie ripped off Necessary Roughness","Date":"26 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" First off this is a pretty good flick. Keanu Reeves gives a decent performance and the rest of the cast does well within the course of the movie.The movie plot itself is a complete rip-off of the 1991 movie Necessary Roughness starring Scott Bakula.From needing to start a team over, in this movie due to a pro strike, in the other due to college violations to the old quarter-back with the 'what-if' syndrome, even the love story portion.This flick just updates and changes Necessary Roughness from a college football movie to a pro-football movie. "},{"Title":"definitely not a gem, but...","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" ...then why do I keep on returning to it ? I've seen it on TV a couple of years ago. Then one month ago , looking through Reeves' filmography, I remembered it. Bought the DVD, and just can't stop re-watching it rather often. and I wonder why...it's not only the soundtrack. not only the clichés. not only the oh-so-predictable plot. actually, if one has seen a few sports movies , already knows the whole plot/action/scenes in advance... maybe it's the simple and enjoyable fun... OK, not the most intelligent type of humor, but at least it's got its moments... and the whole cast is just too fit for the movie. a good antidote against the everyday problems of life. at least in this movie somebody gets a second chance. it's not intelligent, but sure is entertaining. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I had never heard of this movie before I saw it. Maybe something to do with the fact that Movies about American Football hardly ever reach UK cinemas. I bought an American DVD copy and think it's the most entertaining comedy I have seen in years. The usual story of the underdogs who must defeat the best team.(You can guess the rest.)The fast flowing humour as well as plenty of action makes this a must see for anyone. Not being  biased in anyway, I think rising Welsh star Rhys Ifans puts in an excellent performance as Gruff and I loved the humour about the character he plays being Welsh. It's about time the U.S adknowledged the fact that the U.K makes up 4 countries and is not just England!!! The rest of the cast is excellent too, the performance of the movie has to go to John Favreau who totally steals the show as the crazy SWAT team leader who floors anyone that's in his way. Orlando Jones makes an impressive and very funny performance. Keanu Reeves and Gene Hackman are the credited as the main stars, however the supporting cast in my opinion provided all of the laughs.You have to see this film, If I haven't convinced you yet, try this, I think American Football is the most boring, stupid, and idiotic game ever invented.(They only kick it occasionally, so why is it called Football?) BUT I still loved this movie.  "},{"Title":"Hackman's Presence Again Raises the Bar","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" In the tradition of SLAPSHOT and THE LONGEST YARD, THE REPLACEMENTS was a charming and laugh-out loud sports film about a group of scabs for an on strike, fictional pro football team brought together by a long out of work coach (Gene Hackman) and long ago disgraced quarterback (Keanu Reeves) coaxed into a comeback. There's nothing new or original here and the film is, for the most part, pretty predictable, but what makes the film special is the presence of Gene Hackman and the stylish professionalism he brings to the role of Jimmy McGinty. Hackman underplays the role so beautifully and allows the over the top performances by Jon Favreau and Orlando Jones among others, to shine in the appropriate moments without ever allowing himself to be pushed in the background. Hackman is so adept at doing this that you don't even see him doing it. The casting of Hackman as Jimmy McGinty was a stroke of genius because it brought an element of class and charm that would have otherwise have been missing and made this just another slapstick sports comedy, but Hackman's presence and charisma takes the film to a more quality level. "},{"Title":"It' Decent. And yeah, I can live with that.","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Replacements has been criticized for not being entirely accurate when it comes to football. That's not the point of this film though. It wasn't made to be an Oscar contender. It was made for sports fans who want to see a fun story and laugh while watching it. The Replacements delivers on both these aspects. The story's backdrop is a strike among the professional football players with four games left in the season. Jimmy McGinty (Gene Hackman) is brought in to coach the Washington Sentinels and bring in a group of replacement players to finish out the season. The unconventional McGinty picks players that others might not have deemed NFL worthy. The list includes wide receiver Clifford Franklin (Orlando Jones), linebacker Daniel Bateman (Jon Favreau), kicker Nigel Gruff (Rhys Ifans), and quarterback Shane Falco (Keanu Reeves). Most of the players McGinty picks haven't played football in awhile, but he believes that they have something the spoiled professionals don't, which is heart. The film goes on to tell the story of these replacement players and their fight to get into the playoffs. The players have to come to terms with their fears and learn to trust each other in order to do this. And they have their cheerleading squad, led by Falco's love interest Annabelle Farrell (Brooke Langton), to help them do this. Shane Falco leads the squad in a way that isn't classy or inspirational, because that just wouldn't be their style. And that is the style of the film. It doesn't go out with the aim to be a story that will move you to tears, except maybe through laughter. The film is one to watch when looking for a light hearted story that offers some laughs. "},{"Title":"Fun, feel good and predictable, with miles and miles of heart","Date":"10 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I don't know much about American Football, but that didn't detract from my enjoyment of this film. Whilst it is primarily a sporting comedy - and there's a lot of laughs - it also has some serious point and Gene Hackman's presence adds gravitas. Apparently Reeves took a substantial play cut to get Hackman in the film and there's good chemistry (father/son) between the two. Reeves plays the film for drama and character and does a good job, bringing his famed physicality and dedication to character with incredibly dry humour (lovely comedy timing when he gets grass in his grill). The majority of the laughs come from the antics of the rest of the team, especially Rhys Ifans as the wiry Welsh chain smoking kicker, and Jon Favreau the SWAT team psychopath! Great physical comedy and for an adult film with a high-school peer pressure feel, it's suitable for young adults with not too much bad language and the love interest doesn't resort to explicit bedroom antics despite having a Hollywood leading man. Reeves was well cast - quiet, a commanding presence and perfectly happy throwing himself around. Gene Hackman of course was brilliant, dry and witty and the perfect coach to a bunch of wannabe, has been, washed up scab football players called in during a players strike. Brooke Langton (head cheerleader Annabelle Farrell) was really convincing and sweet. All great performances and despite it being predictable and a little cheesy it's great feel-good watching. Hey where else do you see Keanu singing Gloria Gaynor's I will survive and doing the electric slide?? "},{"Title":"Really good sports movie","Date":"3 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" As far as football comedy movies go this is fairly high up on my list. It's most definitely a comedy but still had real moments for the characters with real issues to overcome. Not an exact match but I kind of view this as the football version of Major League. You can tell the characters have real chemistry together and could be actual teammates with how well they interact with each other. Really enjoyed hearing John Madden and Pat Summerall doing the commentary of the games, my favorite football announce team ever by the way.The story itself is your usual loser overcomes the odds sports movies but even with that I didn't care because of how funny the story was. "},{"Title":"A champion in the realm of sports films! So funny, so honest!","Date":"9 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Jimmy (Gene Hackman) has been offered a less than stellar job. Its the late eighties and the professional football league's players are on strike. It will be Jimmy's job, if he accepts it, to coach a crew of scab players for a team called the Washingon Sentinels. Unconventional anyway, Jimmy signs on, but, only on the promise that he will be given total control from the owner (Jack Warden). It is so. From there, Jimmy starts to assemble a team, which includes a once promising quarterback, Shane (Keanu Reeves), a Welsh kicker (Rhys Ifans), a slow-witted-but-mighty tackle (Jon Favreau) and so on. Jim evens gets a lineman who resembles a sumo wrestler. Naturally, the players are pelted with eggs when there bus arrives at the stadium and doom is predicted. Even the regular cheerleaders honor the strike, so the new leader (Brooke Langton), has to recruit her own squad, picking ladies from the local strip parlor, since no one else can dance. So, it begins. Before long, the Sentinels are doing well, surprising even John Madden and Pat Somerall, who cover the games. Also, Shane has eyes for the head cheerleader but she is a tough sell. However, the lady may protest too much. Then, too, rumors abounds about the return of the official players. How will this rough-and-tumble season go? This adorable film is a champion in the realm of sports films and BEYOND. It is very, very funny, from the cheerleader who can't spell to the footballer (Favreau) who can run folks over but has to have strategies explained numerous times. If you are looking for a demeanor elevator, this one is first rate. Its also very honest in its look at the world of football, romance, and human nature in general. Kudos to all responsible. As for the cast, this is definitely one of Reeves' best movies. He is strikingly handsome, humorous and turns up the heat in the kissing scenes. Whew. Hackman, Warden, Orlando Jones, Langton, Favreau, Ifans and ALL of the others do superior work as well. In fact, they are all too comical for words. Also fine are the costumes, sets (Reeves lives on a houseboat), script and go-for-broke direction. Turn off the daily rerun offerings and replace them with a showing of this great flick. The Replacements is a minor classic. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" a great movie you just cant call it a comedy. its real fun. what if a few football rules are broken here and there??? If you are looking for some quality time then get yourself the DVD...relax...and have a good time The cheerleaders are have done a great job So has Falco the main quarter-back. The soundtrack is very well chosen and thought of properly. Each song coming at just the right time. Rate the movie after you have seen it. It deserves more stars. The dialogues are really good. Especially in the end about great men.  Greatness no matter how brief stays with men forever. The song every breath you take by police when Falco goes to see anabelle at the bar. And yes Brooke Langton is the most amazing role ever. "},{"Title":"Great football comedy, That's quite amusing, with fun performances and  some funny football action!","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is a great football comedy, that's quite amusing, with fun performances and some funny football action!. All the characters are cool, and the story is good as well, plus Keanu Reeves is simply amazing in this!. The cheer leading auditions were quite funny, and I thought this was pretty well made and written as well, plus Gene Hackman is wonderful in his role as the coach!. I tend to enjoy most Football movies because I am a fan of the sport, so this one was no different, and I thought Brett Cullen played the dick real well as the greedy QB Martel! plus Reeves and Brooke Langton had very good chemistry together. All the characters are extremely likable (except Martel), and while it won't have you falling down in laughter or anything, it will manage to keep amused through it's running time, plus while the ending is predictable it still was pretty cool!. It is somewhat underrated and I thought Reeves was perfect for the lead role! plus if you don't take the football action seriously, you should enjoy it!. This is a great football comedy, that's quite amusing, with fun performances, and some funny football action, I highly recommend this one!. The Direction is great!. Howard Deutch does a great! job here with very good camera work and just keeping the film amusing and at a fast pace. The Acting is a lot of fun!. Keanu Reeves is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, had very good chemistry with Brooke Langton, was funny, had a pretty cool character,had lots of charisma, and just did an amazing job overall (Reeves Rules!!!!!!). Gene Hackman is outstanding as the Coach, he was very likable, surprisingly relaxed, had great screen presence as always, and while this was no Hooisers he still did an outstanding job!. Brooke Langton is stunningly gorgeous and does excellent as the cheerleader she was very likable perky, had very good chemistry with Reeves and seemed to be enjoying herself, I liked her lots!. Orlando Jones is funny as Franklin, I enjoyed his performance. Faizon Love and Michael Taliferro are funny as the Jackson brothers I liked them. Ace Yonamine is funny as the sumo football player. Jon Favreau is great as the psycho type Bateman, he was funny. Rhys Ifans steals a lot of the scenes as the chain smoking kicker I loved him!. Brett Cullen is very convincing as the dick QB, and did his job well. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "}{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"10 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The true story was much more interesting than this fictional, clichéd version. Washington did do well with a team of replacements during the strike season, but they didn't bring in a new coaching staff, they didn't play the last four games of the season, they didn't play misfits like sumo wrestlers and convicts and they didn't hire new cheerleaders. The replacements did beat a Cowboys team that had several returning pros on the field. Winning the strike games helped the post-strike team get into the playoffs (and win the Superbowl).I'd like to see a semi-documentary of the real events, ending with the replacement players watching the pros win the Superbowl, and imagining themselves in the game. "},{"Title":"A movie thats a Comedy but at its heart is a great sports movie","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Yes, The Replacements was and is a comedy but deep at heart it's a great Sports Movie about a 2nd chance. The funny and goofy Washington Teams of Replacement players are funny yet deep inside the movie Gene Hackman (the coach)and Kuene Reeves(Falco) go very deep into their characters and provide us a glimpse of what a 2nd chance can do to a man. Together the quick humor and the deep inner story of a coach and the player he gave another chance to will make u laugh and think at the same time. To anyone who does not want to watch this movie because it appears to be a goofy comedy, actually it is a great sports movie about 2nd chances. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This is a highly underrated film.While not Oscar quality by any means, it is one of the most motivational productions I have ever seen. To sum up my mini-review, I thought it was so good that I named my Scottish Terrier puppy Shane Falco. It doesn't get much better than this.I've seen Keanu Reaves in many movies, and you can say all you want about the Matrix, but the Replacements is his most memorable performance in my mind.And what can I say about Gene Hackman that hasn't already been said? He was the coach after George Allen's heart. Perhaps my opinion is jaded because I was a loyal Washington Redskin fan when I lived in metro DC during the infamous football strike, so I remember well the Replacements. Well, they were great, but these guys were even greater.J.S. in Florida "},{"Title":"The best football comedy around","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" My head was up and down with laughter while watching this movie. This movie was inspired off real events. It begins when famous football players go on strike, and it is up to Jimmy McGinty(Gene Hackman) to put together a new team of players to continue the football season. He gets Shane Falco(Keanu Reeves) a washed up quarterback in hopes to lead the team to victory. But the problem is there are a bunch of misfits, and putting them together as a team is not going to be easy. I like this movie next to Wildcats. It has awesome football scenes, as well as great laughs. The movie is a good classic in its own wright. If you are a big football fan I suggest watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Touch Down","Date":"18 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Shane Footsteps Falco is a disillusioned football player who believes his dreams have all but dissipated. Once a red-hot All American prospect, Shane now regrets ever believing that the NFL would draft him. However, fate takes a strange twist for Shane when during the 1997 NFL season, a player's strike leaves the fields (and stadiums) empty, leaving team owners scrambling to fill uniforms as fast as possible. When the Washington Sentinels bring back the contentious and self-retired head coach Jimmy McGinty to seek out players who will play with their hearts rather than their wallets, he picks Shane to lead his mismatched crew of outsiders through the strike. To everyone's surprise, the ragtag team goes on an unprecedented winning streak as they discover in themselves the ability to hope for more than they ever thought possible...maybe even the playoffs, which has been denied to the Sentinels for seven years. Starring Gene Hackman, Rhys Ifans, John Madden, Orlando Jones, Jon Favreau, Brooke Langton, Gailard Sartain, Keith David, Keanu Reeves, Jack WardenDirector Howard Deutch Release Date August 11th, 2000 MPAA Rating PG-13 Studio Warner Bros "},{"Title":"Easy-going fun","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Story of temporary replacements for pro football team, recruited when regulars strike during playoff drive. Keanu is cool as quarterback who has trouble getting beyond his last performance, a major melt-down in a college bowl game; Hackman is great (as always) as coach who has little time to put team together from scratch. Langton is fetching as Keanu's sometimes girlfriend. Credibility of film survives despite usual hokey Hollywood on-field action. Can't the technical advisers for football movies EVER say Gee, that wouldn't happen in a real game? Apparently not, but forgiven here because of the charm of the cast. This one has a certain trite moxie, and is otherwise tons better than its contemporary, the wretched Any Given Sunday. 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"it's cool to know there's no tomorrow","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" It's a great movie. These players are not just some rich, famous stars that have their noses up sky-high. there are guys with hearts, fears ( spiders on the field ) , and know how to have fun. and they make us laugh our asses of along with it. it's designed so good, that there isn't a replacement you don't find irreplaceable. and it's fun to see them rough-play even against each other. but in the end, they're like a big family - they stick to each other, they trust each other, and would do anything for their fiends.very good fun, for both women and men )p.s. by the way I'm a girl and i just love the sport, so don't rely on that thought. "},{"Title":"Cliché Done Well","Date":"21 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Actually trying to write a review of this movie would be pointless -- we've all seen this exact same movie made dozens of times before. The underdog team of misfits, rallies together, plays with heart, overcomes the odds, bonds etc. etc. etc. Its a giant cliché.But you know what? Its a cliché done well this time. There's nothing original here, but this is one of those times, as in The Longest Yard or Major League, where it actually works. Maybe its the superior cast. Maybe its the great chemistry between the male and female leads. But for whatever reason, this movie grows on you. Even after predictable element after predictable element comes wandering on by, its just hard not to like the film and get sucked in. Its just a light feel good film with its heart in the right place -- I felt stupid for being manipulated by the oldest tricks in the book, but when I let go of the cynicism for a moment, The Replacements brought a smile to my face.  "},{"Title":"Fun football comedy","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  THE REPLACEMENTS (2000) *** Keanu Reeves, Gene Hackman, Brooke Langton, Jack Warden, Jon Favreau, Orlando Jones, Rhys Ifans, Michael Jace, Ace Yonamine, Michael `Bear' Taliferro, Faizon Love, David Denman, Troy Winbush,  Gailard Sartain, (John Madden & Pat Summerall as themselves). (Dir Howard Deutch) Sports comedies have always been a staple in the genreBaseball both professional (`Major League') and pee-wee (`The Bad News Bears'), ice hockey both professional (`Slap Shot') and pee-wee (`The Mighty Ducks') and the one sport that seems to stand apart, football, both professional (`The Longest Yard', `North Dallas Forty', `Necessary Roughness' and the climactic game in `M*A*S*H') and pee-wee (`Wildcats').  In the latest, familiar yet pleasantly amusing, neither are on display.The eponymous characters are scab football players assembled in the wake of  professional football players strike and centering on the fictitious team of The Washington Sentinels where its team owner (Warden) re-hires an old crony of his, Jimmy McGinty (erstwhile actor Hackman having a ball here), who assembles a ragtag assortment of athletic questionability under his own terms for the remaining four games of the regular season. McGinty recruits the rawest possible motley crew including a street-wise shop clerk/ running back (Jones of tv's `MAD TV'),  a slightly demented cop/defensive tackle (Favreau in a ridiculously funny overkill with mad dog ferocity), a convicted felon/wide receiver (Jace), a deaf receiver (Denman), a sumo wrestler/noseguard (Yonamine), gangsta rapper bodyguards/defensive ends (Taliferro and Love) and Welsh soccer star/indebted gambling pub owner/kicker (Ifans, best known as Hugh Grant's scruffy roomie in `Notting Hill'). Heading the pack to glory is quarterback Shane Falco (Reeves), a former glory boy whose career to the big time was sidelined by a disastrous Sugar Bowl that everyone and his brother apparently saw witness to his debacle.  Falco has the most to lose as McGinty takes him under his wing and providing a lot of pep talk to have his one token of good luck to enlist the unlikely team to victory. Also on hand is the head cheerleader Annabelle Farrell (Langton, a hot-looking newcomer who comes across nicely in her scenes with Reeves) that catches Falco's eye and heart and proves to be his biggest supporter and self-confidence booster.  She has her hands full in auditioning her own assortment of misfits, largely exotic lap dancers showcasing their scandalous off-side and holding penalties of their own. The film is a pleasant surprise in such a hoary genre leading to The Big Game and the stock villain, this time the real football team on strike and causing trouble for the regular guys taking their places.  But Reeves comes across as an amiable leader, often taking pause before going into action which is what all quarterbacks should have in spades  confidence and durability to get the job done.  His teammates may lack in presentation but definitely have what Hackman calls `heart' that rings across the hi-jinks ensuing. Ifans steals the show as the chain-smoking (even on the field) place kicker Nigel Gruff and Jones has a stand-out scene incorporating Gloria Gaynor's girls-only (until now) anthem `I Will Survive' in a prison's holding cell after a bar brawl that becomes the team's signature. Written by Vince McKewin with great characters intermingling and some nice rock music choices by director Howard Deutch (including The Rolling Stones and Bachman Turner Overdrive to name two) for the bone-crunching high adrenalized game sequences, the comedy mirrors its protagonists dilemma making you forget their predecessors by sitting back and enjoying the show.  "},{"Title":"This is one fun movie!  (spoiler)","Date":"18 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't care what anybody says, i love this movie. It is a simple yet very funny and sweet movie. Keanu Reeves does a great job as the average joe turned hero. The pros are money hungry people who have lost the love for the game. So they strike and that is what this movie is about. They put in replacements to play instead of the pros with hilarious results. Somewhat it is similar to the traditional fairytales. The players have one thing they do great. One is very fast, one is fat, one is crazy and so on...Favorite moment When one of the players take out his gun and shoots the porsche. The actor i liked most in this movie is Rhys Ivans as the smoker who can kick like crazy. I rate this movie 9/10 "}{"Title":"Major Leage with Football","Date":"8 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Them ingratiates are there for a fun if not to original film.   The problem is that they stuck so identically to the formula of Major League (Ok Bob Euker saying Juuuust a bit outside ) and Maddens lines could be interchangeable.   The evil owner who just want to make a buck, the Prison throwback players, the has beens and the never were.   throw in some really stupid lap dancing cheerleaders / strippers and you sadly have a stinker. At least give some resolution for the characters it spends time developing.Give me 2 hours with people, beat them up make them look like it was all worth it then pull the wool out from underneath.What a waste. "},{"Title":"It seems to be underrated and unrecognized","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I read one review on this site about this movie saying that the movie was a horrible waste of the talent used in making it.  I can not understand how that person came to that conclusion.The Replacements is a football movie at its base.  Everyone knows the formula where an underdog team (really for any sport) rises to the challenge, and everyone ends up cheering for them.  Well, this movie isn't far from that formula, but it has more than that.  What it has is hard to describe.  I don't want to say that the characters are really deep, but they did have good character.  Each of the main characters brings something to the story that is interesting.What the movie has most of all that is hard to put into words is its good nature and humor.  I laugh out loud at some parts.  I smile at others. And I can watch the movie over and again.  Not everyday of course, but when I would like a good movie that is fun and leaves me feeling happier for having watched it, The Replacements fits the bill quite well.  It is a movie well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Conventional","Date":"30 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I usually have a bad predisposition to movies which have as a central point American football. Let me be straight forward I don't like it and the movies about it usually suck big time. The Replacements did get a chance just for the interesting actors...and because of one more fact. This whole sport can't be serious. At least I don't want to see it being serious if serious means Any Given Sunday-eyes flying on the field. To present a pretty serious problem in a comedy seems all right in this case. If it only weren't so conventional and unspectacular.SPOILERSThe story is a total miss. Everything so predictable, everything so obvious and...simple. Not only the story but the characters too. There's nothing more to them than one sees in their introductory scenes. A convict here, a cop there, a sumo wrestler next to them and you've got the whole picture. All there is to them are their professions. Everything is like a big window you can see very clearly through it. Actually all there is to this movie is the soul. Something which Any Given Sunday most certainly didn't have. Something which can support a whole movie filled with boring and forseeable things. This movie most certainly isn't great but it's ok. Unlike AGS. Sorry, I just have to keep comparing it with that movie, because it's the most recent one I've seen which regards the same subject. The actors are...well, actors. Nothing very special too them and nobody impresses. It keeps being nice though to see funny faces. So, as a final conclusion watch this if you really don't have anything much better to do...or if you want to hear some smart things and maybe learn what stands before what. As in heart before money...but hey, that's something we all know. Right? Probably a 6.5/10 Take it as you want.  "},{"Title":"I laughed too hard","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I laughed so hard during parts of this movie, I nearly cried.  Keanu Reeves gives a good performances as Shane Falco, a washed-up football quaterback who can now play as a replacement on a washed-up football team with other replacement players.  The rest of the football plaers are great and I loved each and everyone of their performances.  It's hard not to laugh at the parts of the movie.  This came out around the time of Remember the Titans, sadly I have to say that Remember the Titans was better.  This is still excellent.Overall the movie is hard to get better and the entire movie is a great comedy.  I recommend this to everybody.  Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"So funny!","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is a laugh out loud, fun ride.  I loved this movie.  I don't know why it wasn't a bigger hit.  They must have had a lousy marketing team.  When I saw it in the theater, the crowd was really into it.  Everyone was laughing and cheering for the team.  When the credits rolled, there was a tremendous round of applause from the audience.  That's just something that doesn't happen everyday.  You don't have to be a sports fan to enjoy this movie; but if you are, you will.  Definitely worth a trip to the video store. "},{"Title":"Football,Slams,Tears and Laughter, The Replacement has them all!","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I wouldn't get tired of watching this movie! I don't like football personally but after watching this movie, I think football isn't bad after all! Nice cast for each personality portrayal! I'm glad I bought a copy to watch it from time to time! Not a waste of money! "},{"Title":"Major League Meets Football","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If you liked Major League then you'll like The Replacements.  This movie was much better than I thought it would be.  It had a lot more humor than I was expecting.  The movie is helped a lot by Gene Hackman.  Even in roles that are not demanding he comes through with a fine performances.  There are no roles in this movie that demands anything of anyone.  It appeared to me that everyone had a good time making this film.  There are no deep messages here but it is fun and entertaining.  You won't be bored watching it.  An entertaining film. "},{"Title":"Great Comedy - Good storyline","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  lol you have got to see this film, it's funny as hell and is well acted with a good storyline. Some well known actors in this too - Gene Hackman, Keanu Reeves.Watch this you won't be disappointed ) "},{"Title":"Another 'Major league' movie...","Date":"1 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  When replacement players took the second chance, they didn't run away... they faced it. it was so touching... i have seen the movie 'major league' 12yrs ago and 'the replacements' was the very same movie, i thought. it's about challenge and glorious victory of outsidersno one loves, respects them including themselves, but they never give up and go forward for what they ought to be... frankly, i feel like one of them now and that's why i love this movie more than ever.   "},{"Title":"One of the ultimate feel-good movies","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Well, here we go, another utterly predictable movie about a bunch of sport misfits that prove their critics wrong. Not a chance! The movie does not aim to be a masterpiece. Its sole purpose is to make one come out of the cinema and feel good about the world.Excellent cast, funny characters, a roll-in-the-isles kind of humour; what more can one ask? "}{"Title":"Not So Orginal","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I liked this movie better when it was called Necessary Roughness. Don't get me wrong.. it's still a good movie and I really like a lot of the actors it's just not a very orginal script. It's enjoyable just don't go see it if you didn't like the story the first time around. "},{"Title":"It is not who you were; it is who you step up to be.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  During a pro-football players strike, a savvy owner hires an unconventional coach(Gene Hackman)to keep the season alive with a rag tag motley crew led by Keanu Reeves. Reeves' character must overcome his own demons before helping the replacements find short lived glory. This is comic relief, but not comparable to baseball's MAJOR LEAGUE.Some hard hitting action on the field gives this flick reality. At times you can feel the pain. You don't have to know anything about or even like football to enjoy this movie. Beware of splittin' a rib laughing.Supporting cast includes Orlando Jones, Faizon Love, Brooke Langton and Gailard Sartain. "},{"Title":"For everything holy, please make a sequel!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Anyone who's read two words of any of my other reviews knows that I am being sarcastic(Hmm...I'm developing an ego).  In response to the person who said, Turn your brain off and enjoy the movie, I can only warn that that act is not going to be enough.  In order to appreciate this visual disturbance, you need to surgically eliminate all the judgemental parts of your brain and sedate yourself with a heavy drug--Soma tablets from Huxley's book Brave New World would be preferable.That random dancing scene was just a little repulsive.  Why?  Why are they doing that?  That type of crap belongs in a horrible soft drink commercial. On that subject, the 7UP man had such a fruitful career ahead of him, but he had to go an ruin it by accepting this role.  And Gene Hackman in a Knute Rockne look-a-like role?  During the making of this movie, he probably had to go home and vomit everyday before he cried himself to sleep.  Keanu Reeves, what in astro-turf/this movie is going on with you?  You were so slick in The Matrix, but now you are back to your old robot self.Ofcourse, there is a worthy scene with the cheerleaders, and Pat Summeral is in this film, and he's not drunk!  Rent it just for those two directorial accomplishments. "},{"Title":"Simplicity at its finest.","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was simple. Sure, I'll admit that. But sometimes thats what you need, right? The plot had nothing new, nothing spectacular. It was pretty much character driven. Keanu's acting (we all know what everyone thinks of his acting) was really good (in my humble opinion). If you need a movie that doesn't make you think to much, or you just want a good laugh, this is the movie to see.  Especially if you like slapstick. Not that the dialog isn't witty. It is. See this movie.  "},{"Title":"It's Wirey!","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is the best film that I have seen in the last few years.  It is both funny, thrilling and well put together.  You don't need a knowledge of American football to watch it. The sound track matches the film exactly and is in it's self a fine piece of work.  Go see it now. "},{"Title":"A fun movie, not a documentary","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Will somebody give the morally and artistically repugnant-esque critics some valium?  This movie is meant to be amusing, not a documentary of the '87 strike.  Sure, it's formulaic and relatively brainless; though it may be based on a true event, this isn't the equivalent of a vaudeville version of Schindler's List. It's not even Field of Dreams.  It's just lighthearted fun.   I think too many people take the fact that it's based on the NFL strike WAAAAAAAY too seriously; remember, guys football is JUST a game. And this is JUST a fun movie.   "},{"Title":"Glory lasts forever","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is based on the NFL strike of 1987, that is the year I also became a big professional football fan too.  I was very excited when this movie came out.  I really fell in love with all of these characters.  From Bateman, Gruff, Franklin and Falco this movie is a winner.  You will start to root for these guys and the soundtrack is just perfect.  My friends all love this movie too.  Keanu Reeves is the star but doesn't try to carry the film, which I think is a good thing.  Gene Hackman and Jack Warden play a relationship that reminds me of a Jimmy Johnson and Jerry Jones type.  I have seen this movie about 10 times and it just gets better.  Brooke Langton plays Keanu love interest.  I highly recommend this film to any twentysomething who grew up watching professional sports or maybe just finally getting the interest today.  On a scale of 1-10 I give it a 9.5 and I give it a huge thumbs up too!!!!Pain heals, chicks dig scars, glory lasts forever!!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Entertainment at it's best.","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Was this movie great? Nah...  Was this movie entertaining?  No doubt about it!  It may never win an award for social redeeming value but it's entertainment at its finest.  Brooke Langton was fantastic and has that look that could drive a man crazy and want to take her home to meet momma. Keanu was Keanu, giving his all as usual. Considering the predictable ending the supporting cast of his fellow football players made the movie happen and truly enjoyable even to non-football fans. "},{"Title":"Great Fun!","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I got really surprised of this movie. Sure you know how it's going to end and you've seen most of it before, but thanks to a great cast and a really funny script you don't care. I recommend it to anyone who wants a great evening but don't want to use their brain too much. Check this movie out! "},{"Title":"Football has-beens and never-weres briefly make the pros","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is a howler if you don't let the professional movie critics sour your outlook. Apparently the fil-um critics think the 1987 football player strike deserves more serious treatment (why?). Gene Hackman, who has been quoted as saying he tries to play every scene as if it will eventually define his career, is, as usual, utterly believable no matter how little real drama there is in this fine comedy. Keanu Reeves is, of all things, believable too, and even drops his usual Valley Girl accent. I never thought I'd see him actually tone down his presence for a role - maybe he spent some time watching Hackman perform. Anyhow, the two play off each other beautifully. And as for one critic's sour you won't need to take the blue pill to forget you've seen this remark, I don't think I will ever forget the sight of the entire replacement team, including three members built like sumo wrestlers, do a not-quite-synchronised electric boogaloo while singing I Will Survive in a police lock-up following a brawl with the striking real players. This is a fine, funny movie and the critics should take a lesson from it in not taking themselves so damned seriously. If you haven't seen it yet, do yourself a favour and rent it. "}{"Title":"What a Hoot!","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film is amazing and really showcases the very excellent KEANU REEVES as 'Shane Falco' in a great way.  This guy is so dedicated to his craft and really makes a realistic 'Quarterback Hunk' in my opinion.  He's FALCOTASTIC!!According to the DVD special features it really was him out there making the plays and getting 'hit' as well.  GO FALCO!!I also love the ensemble cast and they are really great characters and you can tell they had fun making this movie.  I especially love ORLANDO JONES as 'Clifford Franklin'.  He has a great talent for comedy and mostly improvised.The DVD of this movie is first rate and highly recommended.  The soundtrack is excellent too, so go and buy...GOOD WORK MR DEUTCH! "},{"Title":"Unassuming Time-Waster","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I guess I was underwhelmed, but you know, it's a likeable film with few pretentions and some chuckles along the way. Amazing watching an actor with Gene Hackman's gravity and chops slumming with a non actor like Keanu Reeves (is it me, or is his voice breaking?) and the rest of the jock-actors hired on for authenticity. Gene could have sent in his performance as an e-mail attachment (maybe he did) and Rhys Ifans is funny, as he was in Notting Hill. To give flat affect Keanu his credit, he seems fairly athletic and carries off the football scenes reasonably well. The day after I first watched it, my kids wanted to see it, and I sat through it again without complaints. That's got to be worth something. "},{"Title":"A Movie with Heart","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I've seen this film now three times. I am not a football fan, but if any film would ever make into one, this would be it. I've read most of the other comments on The Replacements on IMDb, and the prevelant theme is unoriginal. OK, I agree somewhat- the plot of losers to winners has been done before ad nauseum. It's a sports movie, not a documentry, and given it is a comedy, with a feel good theme, the plot has to be generic.So what?The plot merely exists to allow a series of gags to be set up. They are made that much more hilarious by the absolute charm of all the characters. Keanu Reeves is perfect, and I came away from this film with new respect for the skill with which he brings off his role. Shane Falco is a leader with heart, and to make the audience beleive that, the actor has to have heart too.When I saw The Replacements for the first time in August (in a real theatre), I was struck by two things first, how it delivers on every level on the same turf that Any Given Sunday failed, and second, why this film did not do well at the box office.Professional sports should not be taken too seriously. It is, after all, a form of paid entertainment. The Replacements reminds us that if the players are not having fun, how can the fans? Any Given Sunday took itself as seriously as a Viet Nam War film. I wonder why?I don't know why The Replacements failed at the box office. Keanu Reeves still, aparently, does not have the box office clout to carry a film. The Matrix succeeded because it was a classic and people recognised that. It was not a star vehicle. The Replacements is an ensemble film that, I think, should appeal to a more mature audience. Unfortunately, most film goers in the summer are kids. I suspect that marketing is the major reason why this film did not make the $200 million plus it richly deserved.It is a very special film indeed that conveys the feeling that the actors had an absolute ball making it. I'd like to say thank you to Howard Deutch and his Gridiron Dirty Dozen. What a blast!   "},{"Title":"There are great movies and then there are Great movies.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  There are great movies and then there are Great movies. Some movies are really good, at the end you say to yourself, That was a great movie.  And then there are those movies, maybe one in a thousand, that at the end you think, man I want to watch that again, and not in a month or even tomorrow, but right now.  Keanu sure does pick winners these days. I havent smiled so much in a long time, and not boy that was funny smiling, though there was a lot of that, but true feel good smiles, It's been a while since I've seen Gene Hackman play a good guy role, good to see him in an role that lets him show that the Everyman can be inspired to greatness. Director Howard Deutch, who brought us Some kind of wonderful, and Pretty in Pink, truely knows how to touch that place inside us that makes us human, something that can care for more than what do I get out of this.  I am surprised that this movie has not done far better in the ratings, but I suppose the fact that it is a sports movie somewhat limits it.   Also it is nice to see a soundtrack that fits perfectly, as David Bowie's song say's, We all can be heroes, if just for one day. "},{"Title":"Cheesy and Predictable.....but fun","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  So what if I had the entire plot of the movie figured out before I even had the box at the checkout counter at the local video store.  Who cares if every line of dialogue was as cliche as it gets.  This movie is still fun, enjoyable and worth a few laughs even though it won't win any awards for originality.  In an age filled with unnecessarily crude and often violent comedies, this relatively wholesome football movie is a welcome and refreshing change.  I have no problem admitting that I enjoyed this movie and found myself submitting to laughter on several occasions. This is not to say that the movie is without faults.  I have never been a big fan of Keanu Reeves' work, and here he did nothing to gain my approval.  This actor has to be the most wooden and uninspired performer of my generation.  He injected such little emotion into his character that it appeared someone was holing a gun to his head to make this film.  The rest of the cast worked well together with the characters played by Jon Favreau and Rhys Ifans turning in quite amusing performances. And let's not even get started on all the glaring football errors.  I watched the film with a devout football follower and every 2 minutes he was yelling something at the screen about 5 yard penalties and players removing their helmets in the huddle.  Even I, a novice fan, know that the pro season doesn't finish on Thanksgiving Thursday.  And what kind of football fans cheer the replacement players and boo their returning star quarterback....I don't think so!  Not even Hollywood can make that one fly.  The film would have fell together more effectively if screenwriter McKewin had more than just a passing knowledge of the game.  In spite of its' faults, and the large serving of cheese, this film is surprisingly watchable and worthy of a rental on a night when there's nothing good on the tube.   "},{"Title":"Good storyline and meaningful","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Guys, I didn't expect much when I rented this movie, because I rented it with scary movie, but after I watched both, REPLACEMENTS is a much better movie than I expected, even though the storyline isn't original or creative, but it is not easy to find a non-boring movie with a moral behind it. For all non football fans, you will still enjoy it because I am a hockey fan, not football fan, to be honest, this is even better than remember the titans, definitely a movie to keep if you like to think. Too bad this is not a very popular movie, this is a simple movie with a good storyline and morals.  "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious, a GREAT movie","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was hilarious. It had drama, romance, comedy, and a little action thrown in. I saw it twice in the movie theater, and both times I found myself laughing uncontrollably. The whole audience was laughing. One guy in the audience was laughing so hard that I thought he would pee in his pants! My stomach hurt after the movie because I was laughing so much. It may not have the deepest message in the world, but it did have a good message. No matter how many disadvantages you have, you can still succeed. And like Gene Hackman said, You know what separates the winner from the losers? Getting back on that horse after you've been kicked off. I also love the romance and Brooke and Keanu's relationship in the movie. It didn't show them in bed or anything. Instead, Keanu was a bit shy around her at first. I thought the whole love story thing was really romantic. The whole cast was great and the music rocked also.=) "},{"Title":"Scores a touchdown but no extra points.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements are a motley bunch of misfits and pro-football scabs who manage to create some funny moments on and off the grid-iron. Hackman is always good and Reeves works in his not too challenging center stage role. The film treads with minimal success into romance, can't quite conjure up the goose bumps the climax aims for, and doesn't work in the philosophical with it's clichés about winners and losers. However, the comedy does work in a big way on the field. A fun watch for football fans. "},{"Title":"A Definite Rent-me, if you missed it the first time.","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Finally, a movie in Which Keanu Reeves doesn't Say Woah that was worth seeing! In this film, washed up QB, Jimmy Falco (Reeves) gets a second chance at pro-football, with a rag-tag bunch of misfits. With a strong supporting cast, which includes Orlando Jones, Jon Favreau, and the incomperable Gene Hackman. This movie is one that is definitely worth watching when it comes out on video, that is, if you missed it at the theaters. I, myself plan on purchasing it right away on DVD, and if I say that, then you know it's gotta be good... "},{"Title":"Short and to the Point","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is outrageously funny!  I can't think of a movie that made me laugh so much, so hard, and throughout the entire thing.  The entire audience was laughing so hard...really...I mean it.  A great cast in a truly hilarious show!!  Fabulous editing and good tunes, too! "}{"Title":"Funniest movie since American Pie","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I can't say I really wanted to see this from the trailers I saw, but this movie is very funny. The whole theatre was practically rolling on the floor. I laughed so hard it hurt.go see it, you will like it. Don't expect a deep plot though. "},{"Title":"Replacements Scores High!","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Have you been `holding' on to see a good sports movie? Because you know that some of the latest ones have `interfered' with all the rules on what a good movie is supposed to be like. I do have to tell you that we have just `received' a pretty good one. That would be `The Replacements.' It `centers' on a bunch of replacement football players. It is a simple movie, but don't be `off-guard' by that because the movie is very entertaining. It stars Keanu Reeves as the scab quarterback and Gene Hackman as the motivating coach. However, what `sweeped' me to my feet was the comedic performances of some of the supporting players such as Jon Favreau and Rhys Ifans.  Their performances were of `first-string' caliber. So get your those loose `nickels' and `dimes' and `runback' to your local movie theatre so you could sit your `tight end' down and watch this fun football flick. Game over! **** Good  "},{"Title":"   Excelent movie for laughs without being total fluff","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Sure this piece isn't the deepest thing that ever entered the theaters but hey, before you judge a film on it's moral implications and deeper meanings, think of this What genre is it? and What is this movie intended to do? The movie is quite cute, and very well done.  I am generally not that big on Gene Hackman (he's a good actor I just don't always care for his films) but was pleased by the light air of amusement he brought to the role.  Keanu Reeves may not be the world's most expressive actor (and being a guy I don't worry about whether he's cute or not) but he just seems to fit the bill a lot of the time.  Anthony Hopkins is a tremendous actor, but that doesn't mean he'd make a good quarterback (well, you never know with him), but Keanu Reeves just plays it quite naturally, athletes can often be a little stiff, especially one who is slightly alienated.  The supporting cast was great, and each brought that little bit of zeal to their role instead of resting on the laurels of being famous.  Think of this, how many successful movies made stars instead of used them (In a word Star Wars).  This has light comedy, an undertone about the snobbish attitudes of modern athletes, without worrying about any kind of specific finger (all the teams are fictional).  It had classy humour (no fart gags and other crass things meant to be humour) and not-so-classy humor for those who need that sort of thing (in a word, Cheerleaders).  So overall you didn't come away a greater person for the effort but really, all that matters is did it entertain and did you come out a HAPPIER person. "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise!!","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  OK, normally I'm the person who complains about too many cliches or lack of originality in movies, but I really enjoyed this one. Maybe it was because absolutely everyone else in the theater was laughing. Maybe it was because my friend was almost in tears laughing. Whatever it was, I was almost rolling on the floor during some scenes. Keanu Reeves' performance wasn't groundbreaking or anything; in fact, it was kind of dull. Gene Hackman was the typical I love you guys but I'm ready to kick your butts if I need to coach. All the supporting people were typical sports movie cliches. But it all just worked!! I especially loved Orlando Jones as the fumbling receiver. I never knew that a movie about football, one of my least favorite sports, could be this good!  "},{"Title":"Pleasantly surprised","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I'm skeptical of most sports movies, most are clichéd and unoriginal. But The Replacements soon had me laughing, and it kept me laughing throughout the entire movie. Keanu Reeves is normally a terrible actor, but this was, by far, his best performance (though that's no great feat). Brooke Langton was simply radiant; beautiful, smart, and sexy. The supporting cast was very good, especially the fellow who plays the Welsh kicker, he provides the best comic moments. I also like the fact that there was no reference to any existing NFL teams. All the team names were generic. A nice touch. All in all, this one should have you laughing a lot. "},{"Title":"Keanu Scores Big Time","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  When professional football players go on strike, the owners decide to continue on with the season by putting together teams made up of the best players they can find.  The owner of the Seattle franchise, O'Neil (Jack Warden), hires former coach McGinty (Gene Hackman) to take charge and field a team that can take them to the playoffs which, with four games left, is within their grasp.  `The Replacements,' directed by Howard Deutch, are guys whose careers had been cut short or sidelined for one reason or another, and now because of the strike are given a rare opportunity in the life of an athlete  A second chance.  But it's more than just a shot at the brass ring; it's a chance to heal, to shed the stigma of loss, failure and disappointment they've all carried with them, in one way or another, since their playing days abruptly and prematurely ended.  For quarterback Shane Falco (Keanu Reeves), it's being able to shake the memory of a grueling forty-five point defeat in the Sugar Bowl, which has seemingly defined him since, plaguing him even during his very brief pro career.	Reeves does a great job with Falco, convincingly conveying the discontent lying buried beneath the surface of this man who has had to move on with his life, though unable to tie up the loose ends with which he obviously has yet to come to terms.  And it's that lack of closure, that intangible feeling clinging on to his soul that makes Falco such a strong character; there's something in his situation that most people have experienced, to one degree or another, whether it's a sense of failure or alienation one may have suffered, that makes him someone with whom you can readily identify.  It's what lies at the core of the story, and through Reeves' performance and Deutch's direction it becomes easily accessible, and it's one of the strengths of the film.  This movie, after all, is about so much more than football; it's about character and spirit and, as McGinty says at one point, heart.  And that's what makes these guys play like there is no tomorrow.  Because for them there is no tomorrow; once the strike is over, who knows what will happen?  For now they have today, and for many of them just being shuck of `yesterday' is enough to give them new life. 	Especially memorable in supporting roles are Jon Favreau (Bateman), Rhys Ifans (Gruff), Orlando Jones (Franklin) and Brooke Langton (Annabelle).  Rounding out the cast are Brett Cullen (Martel), Faizon Love (J. Jackson), Michael Taliferro (A. Jackson) and Ace Yonamine (Fumiko).  While the movie fails to avoid stereotypes altogether (O'Neil), Hackman, as McGinty, is the absolute epitome of the `coach,' and `The Replacements' is entertaining and uplifting while putting the game into perspective and making a statement about greed and human nature.  There are moments in this film that are not so much predictable as inevitable, but the climactic game will have you on the edge of your seat; it ain't over till it's over.  In the end, you realize that it doesn't really matter who wins or loses, because you'll come away feeling maybe a little bit better about yourself and life in general; and call it what you will, that seems like a pretty good deal to me.  I rate this one 9/10.                   "},{"Title":"The Little Keanu That Could...","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Okay, enough has been said about how this is a typical sports movie.  For someone looking for a feel-good flick in a multiplex full of blood, gore, psychotics, cheerleaders and geriatric adventures, this movie was a winner. As the wife in a married couple who doesn't normally enjoy spectator sports, I can honestly say that you don't have to be an NFL fan to enjoy this movie. Keanu and Gene's performances seemed effortless and I think I caught them actually enjoying their jobs. The addition of some new faces was a good move, and the chemistry, like the story, felt as though it was building naturally until the very end.*spoiler*Don't go slamming good All-American fun and games; we need to laugh all the way home sometimes, and the little lift that we got from seeing a good guy finish first is worth more to me than the ticket price.  "},{"Title":"Yes, it's cheesy, but yes, it's funny...","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  No, I did not go see this movie for any of the following reasons 1) my boyfriend made me; 2) Keanu Reeves; 3) something else I wanted to see was sold out.I went because I felt like going to see it and from what I saw of the tail end of the preview I caught, I thought, hey why not?  And I laughed sometimes til it hurt.  So did most of the other folks in the theater.Yeah, it's cliched, but who the hell goes to see a movie like this expecting to see Oscar-winning performances?  You want grit and drama, go see Any Given Sunday.  Me, I was cracking up over the movie, and no, I was not drooling all over Keanu Reeves (truth be told, I went coz I like Gene Hackman, who doesn't?)And I only wish I knew (since I've never seen him before) if the guy who plays the deaf player is really deaf... (yeah, I know sign language, for those who don't know, he explains that his father taught him how to play). But that's another story.Go see it, ladies, never mind it's about football, and while Keanu Reeves doesn't hurt, there's enough other goodlooking guys to make it worthwhile, and guys, well, there's the cheerleaders (hooray to Brooke for being a halfway intelligent and attractive woman!)8/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty Cool","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Some people aren't giving this movie enough credit. Yes it is another football movie. But with style. The jokes are funny and not repeated, a little bit of action and of course Keanu Reeves. I really don't enjoy the game of football that much. But this movie was quite a nice change of pass.A loose take off on the 1987 football strike. when football players decided that they don't play unless they get paid, replacement players are brought in. Yes the movie is predictable and can't be compared to other movies, but it's light hearted and doesn't take much to think about. Definitely worth see.I will survive "},{"Title":"Cute Movie","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I went to see it with a bunch of old married women and we all loved it.  We cackled throughout the movie. Guys will love it too....especially the dance scenes with the cheerleaders.  If you are a fan of Keanu Reeves, you will really like him in this. "}{"Title":"Funny flick!","Date":"26 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I went in there expecting to see the Bad News Bears plays football, but what I got was a very funny movie. Not really for young kids, but adults will definitely laugh till they cry. And yes, no matter what role you put Keanu Reeves in, he will always be Ted Theodore Logan. Rock on! "},{"Title":"Heroic, Romantic, Keanu Reeves","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Keanu Reeves as a football hero?  About as likely as that slacker dude from Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure becoming a major action hero in a flick about a speeding bus.  Or that pale prisoner in Bram Stoker's Dracula making it big in a sci-fi movie about something called The Matrix.  Believe it when you see it, because Keanu makes one great football hero.After a humiliating loss at a past Sugar Bowl game, Shane Falco is a retired quarterback recruited by coach McGintey (Gene Hackman)to finish out the season for the Washington Sentinels, whose real players have gone on strike.  Shane winds up leading a ragtag team, which includes Jon Favreau, of Swingers and Orlando Jones, of Make Seven, Up Yours.  Shane also falls for the bartender/head cheerleader (Brooke Langton).  What strikes me about this movie is how sweet it is.  It is genuine filmmaking that's entertaining and romantic.  Reeves has a great rapport with Hackman and his teammates and a good chemistry with Langton.  I love how the real football players come off as whiny, money-grubbing babies.It's a must-see.  Highly reccommended.             "},{"Title":"Ole! Ole! Ole! Ole!","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Here's some unsolicited advice for anyone who's dead tired after a day of hard work and who wants to be entertained without having to think too much.  The Replacements worked for me!  Sure, the plot and motifs were predictable, some of the jokes were overdone, and Keanu Reeves as quarterback Shane Falco was as wooden as Pinocchio's stunt double, but the key word here is entertaining.  Much of the enjoyable parts of the movie came from the replacement players and their antics.  For instance, Jon Favreau was hysterical as an ex-cop who charged at everything red...a far cry from his role as Eric the Clown on Seinfeld.  Gene Hackman and Jack Warden played their roles well as the respective owner and coach of the Washington Sentinels, but both their roles left you asking Where have I seen this before?  The same could be said about Brooke Langton, but I'm sure most men watching the movie would have no qualms about seeing her on a repeated basis. "},{"Title":"very funny","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I went to this movie because there was absolutely nothing else to do. However, just 5 minutes into the movie I didn't regret my choice. It was very funny. Orlando Jones(the dude with the big eyes) and Rhys Ifans (Notting Hill) were absolutely hilarious. I would recommend this movie to anyone who is looking for a light comedy. It cheers you up! You'll also be more appreciative of the disco hit I will survive by Gloria Gaynor and that great dance that goes with it! Trust me, not even Keanu Reeve's bad acting could ruin this film!!!  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Folks, this movie was awful. Many comments listed here speak of laughing out loud but I only groaned out loud. There is not a streak of realism, the jokes are lame, and the characters are simply caricatures of old sports stereotypes.The premise is so flawed. Does anyone really believe the on-strike multimillionaire players would hang out in the parking lot like high school thugs on the playground? And the director couldn't even get the basics correct (the team starts its first drive ever on the twenty yard line, gets two delay of game penalties, and we then see the ball marked on the EIGHT yard line). Picky, I know.Bull Durham and Caddyshack are funny sports movies. Varsity Blues at least had realistic football imagery. The Replacements, on the other hand, is for the brain dead masses. It was the closest I have ever come to walking out of a movie. "},{"Title":"Hot Hot Hot!!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I'm not a big football fan, but I thought this movie was hilarious and Keanu Reeves is Hot, Hot, Hot.  This is definitely not an oscar contender, but the movie was funny, and had heart.  A bunch of football wannabe misfits takes over when the pro-football babies go on strike.  You know it's gonna be a feel-good movie and it didn't disappoint.  I thought the scene in the jail was hysterical and the cheerleaders were a hoot.  Don't see this movie if you want some deep, thought-provoking cinema experience, but do see it if you want to watch something that will make you laugh and want to  root for the underdog.  OH, and did I mention that Keanu was hot, hot, hot!!!!? "},{"Title":"This is the best sports comedy yet!","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  For the Keanu Reeves fan, this is the perfect flick...plenty of screen time for the Lebanese sex symbol.  This movie starts out with a great cast, besides Reeves, there's Gene Hackman, Rhys Ifans, Jon Favreau and the 7up guy who's obsessed with Gloria Gaynor.  This movie was obviously a lot of fun on the set, and the jokes, although raunchy at times, surely kept me doubled over.  Once again, the true colors of today's sports stars are shown, and everyone loves to hate the pros.  Anyone who's looking for a laugh should definitely spend the $6.50, but remember the PG-13 rating.  I'm sure part-time strippers are not the greatest role models, even though they're hilarious as the Sentinels' cheerleaders. I don't want to say too much, because it will spoil the film, but this is definitely a must see! )   "},{"Title":"Major Surprise","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I won't say I got dragged kicking and screaming to see The Replacements, but I was NOT enthusiastic about watching Keanu Reeves wooden-facing his way through a tired loser-to-winner plot.After one hour, I was laughing hard enough to cry.  The cheerleader routine in the San Diego game is one of the funniest things I have ever seen.This stealth comedy is the first really funny treatment of a bunch of losers recruited to play sports since Bad News Bears.  It is a delightful comedy and delivers what Major League only promised.  I recommend it highly for a good laugh. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  It's a fun movie that is well done and for that I gave it a 10! It was much more enjoyable than I anticipated.Good sound track too. It will have you tapping your feet and smiling or laughing from start to finish. Go cheer on the team and Coach McGinty (Gene Hackman). "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is no Oscar contender...but who cares? It's a movie to enjoy and laugh with, and have fun. It's like the Major League of football. A lot of the players were very funny, including the sumo wrestler, the wimpy loudmouth Orlando Jones plays, the two huge black brothers, and most especially the crazed lineman who goes into bull mode whenever he sees red! They are balanced out by the more subdued but still entertaining performances by Keanu Reeves, Gene Hackman, Brooke Langton and the guys who played the deaf player and the Christian player. Most of the material is predictable but the cast is great and they provide plenty of humorous moments. "}{"Title":"A continual good laugh.","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I can't figure out where the heave sex, nudity and swearing come from that are listed.  We heard one swear word and noticed no nudity and a few lap dancing jokes and sexy cheerleaders are all we can think of that might be counted as sex.  Maybe there was something we didn't notice but it sure shouldn't be described as heavy.   I was amazed at how clean the jokes were and it was great to laugh so much even without understanding football very well.  "},{"Title":"WOW! WOW! WOW!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"       It's very rare for me to rate a comedy a ten, unless there truly is something that jumps out at me and really gets my attention.  Well, this rare gem is called the replacements.  It starts Mr. Reeves leading a group of second-string football players while the original players are on strike.  Not since Nutty Professor II, American Pie, and even South Park (big screen version), have I laughed so hard, numerous scenes were very well written and the timing was dead center, making them down right hysterical!; Not to mention classic elements of sorrow, love, regret, and triumph all were intertwined into one great story that the whole family will love. Careful though, some scenes intended for adults only.Overall Rating 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Loved This Movie","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I truly do not pay much attention to the phrases used by any of the critics when referring to Keanu Reeves or Gene Hackman because I love them both! Keanu will always get bad press no matter what role he is given, and Gene Hackman goes without saying is one of my all time favorite actors.  This movie was funny and entertaining! I love this versatile young actor Keanu Reeves, and looking very closely at him I see a lot of wonderful and promising newness. He has a flair that I find very refreshing and in this movie it show the shyness and humbleness that is just not seen in the movie industry any longer. The Replacements does not promise to be any more than it is, a comedy football movie.  I loved all of scenes, the music everything about it appealed to me. Kudos to Keanu Gene Hackman and the entire cast. I will be watching! "},{"Title":"If nothing else, they sure will be fun to watch.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is just that, fun to watch.  Cleverly written and acted with a great cast, this movie thoroughly entertains.  I cannot remember the last time I went to a movie and laughed so hard I cried.  And I wasn't alone, this movie literally had the theater rolling with laughter.  People were slapping their knees, laughing out loud, and even clapping at times.This movie is an underdog makes good, feel-good, movie, but not sappy or syrupy.  I did leave the theater feeling good and having the best laugh I had in a long time.  Now that was worth the sneak preview and I will be going back on opening night to watch it again, something I rarely do.I highly recommend this movie. "},{"Title":"Major League on the football field","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If you think about it, a lot of this film owes a credit to the baseball comedy Major League which showed a bunch of nobodies on a loser team who pull through.  If you think about it (after seeing this film of course), The Replacements is just that formula on the grid iron.  Still, just because it is copied doesn't mean it isn't fun.  It is.  I just wish there was a little more originality to it.  The characters work though, which is a big help. My favorite was Jon Favreau as a crazy tackler who will attack if he sees red.  Not exactly your model football/sports film like say, Any Given Sunday was.  But it also isn't a waste of time and talent.  Which is not un-fair. B+ "},{"Title":"You know, it was fun","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I was surprised at my own reaction, but The Replacements was a real fun. It is formulaic, predictable and all that, but without asking for much it delivers inobtrusive entertainment. A standard Hollywood story of a pack of underdogs, packed with locker room humor and cute, strippers-turned-cheerleaders girls - perfect recipe for a rainy summer evening. Well, come to think of it the story isn't that standard (don't worry, you'll still have the girls and the jokes). The underdogs - they stay underdogs, they don't get litesabers or turn out to be some crack team of Australian football players. So you don't get one of these hard-to-believe Hollywood plots, as in dozens of other sport movies. It's ain't your dad's Dirty Dozen, not even Madden's Dirty Dozen. As it saz in the movie, the guys really have no tomorrow - they are there just as the replacement players, so they might as well just have some fun. Did they? I dunno. I did. Then I went and rented Fireworks again, to polish my taste buds )  "},{"Title":"AN ENJOYABLE MOVIE WITH A LOT OF LAUGHS","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I was not expecting too much when I went to see the preview of Replacements, but it was an enjoyable two hour, especially if you like football as I do. The story is rather familiar, but is well done with mostly a cast of unknowns.  This will not get any awards but is lighthearted entertainment. "},{"Title":"A little predictable, but a good comedy","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  While this film may be predictable, it does have some really good comedy, and gives the audience exactly what they want.  Good performances from Reeves and Hackman.  During our preview, the audience was acting as if they were actually at the stadium during the football game. "},{"Title":"Predictable but fun","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This was a very predictable movie but had some good stars and was pretty funny. It's a feel-good sports movie and even if you hate football (I do) it's an enjoyable film. Gene Hackman, as always, is excellent. Keanu Reeves play his typical role, but he's likeable. The supporting cast offers up all the laughs, though--they're great! On a scale of 1 to 10 I give it a 6; low only because it seemed like just another football movie in some parts. "},{"Title":"Incomplete pass","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I feel bad for ripping apart a movie whose heart is in the right place. But cliche is cliche, and this movie's full of them.  I know that deep down, there was a heartwarming story there about heart and guts and love of the game, but it never really came out the way it should have.  Most characters were little more than two-dimensional stereotypes.  Substorylines picked up out of nowhere and were dropped just as suddenly.  Almost every popular song from the last decade is thrown in somewhere as a way to move the plot along, but it's an obvious attempt to disguise the lack of story.  The funniest moments are blown in the trailer, and the climatic will-they-or-won't-they scenes are all too often interrupted by needless shots of cheerleaders, well after their subplot has played out.  Keanu's big motivational huddle speech is a slogan I read on a T-shirt 10 years ago.  Even John Madden and Pat Summerall are reduced to cariacatures of themselves; Madden is allowed- make that forced- to rattle off all of his trademark lines, but only for the sake of the schtick.  The football strike is a story perfectly suited for an underdog movie, even a funny one.  All of the elements were there.  But instead of landing in the same category as BULL DURHAM or CADDYSHACK, this one ends up being as forgettable as BASEKETBALL.   "}{"Title":"Great","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I love this movie. I think that it is kind of unoriginal but good none the less. The fact that it shows that even though you are a replacement or a substitute on a team it doesn't matter because it is what you take away from the experience. Also if you love to laugh this is a must see on your list movie. My favorite scenes is the jail scene. Great scene! I don't think that anybody who has seen this would hate this and i don't think it is possible either. It is a fabulous must see movie that belongs in the top 250 movies with the godfather and hairspray and grease and all those other fabulous movies in the world. Great movie. Love it. OMG! "},{"Title":"Everyone I know loves it; critics hated it","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Once in a while a little film comes along that gets panned by critics and instantly disappears into the dust. Then it pops up on TV and becomes a favorite with a lot of viewers.I managed to not even notice the 2000 release of The Replacements - it came and went that quickly. But I did catch it on cable recently and found that while it does follow the usual clichés of sports/comedy movies - inspirational coach, washed up player becomes the hero, romantic sub-plot - it has some very very funny moments, and overall, is an extremely enjoyable film. I've talked to other people who have all said, Oh yeah, I loved that movie, really funny. I won't rehash plot and details - there's too many other reviews that have done that already. What makes this movie fun to watch are the truly goofy, off the wall scenes that you don't find in other sports movies - loved the jailhouse line dancing scene - the memorable characters and their interaction with each other, and the bone crunching game sequences. The comic characters don't seem cartooney, like they did in Major League. They play off each other and seem like slightly broader versions of real people. The out-of-shape chain-smoking Scotsman with the kicking leg of steel, the sumo wrestler, the ex-con, the cop with anger issues, the butterfingered comedian - they are goofy and hilarious, but at the same time completely believable.Keanu Reeves' stoic face and delivery works to great effect here - he is a guy who has repressed a lot of fear and humiliation, but responds to the looseness and friendship of his teammates. Gene Hackman, who of course is always great, plays it perfectly. He has the clichéd role of the inspirational coach, but he always has a twinkle in his eye, like he appreciates both the absurdity of his job and the issues that have kept all his players from achieving success in the past.This is a very fun film that - surprisingly - actually delves into some deeper issues. What keeps us from becoming successful if we have all the tools? How do we regain will to succeed, inner drive and belief in ourselves once we have lost it? What makes a team a team? It is to this film's credit that these underlying themes don't keep it from being entertaining and laugh out loud funny at times.If you know and love football, you will enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"Seen it 100 times....","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Okay, so no mention of Oscar nominations....but who cares??? This movie is hilarious from beginning to end and I love it. I turn all my friends on to it too when we all need a good laugh. It's a cute story, completely hilarious, and you find yourself cheering along....Personally, I think the writing is brilliant because of it's hilarity...it was never meant to achieve high accolades by the critics or the academy, but by the audience, but guaranteed, if you like a rip-roaring, funny, heartwarming underdogs-do-good story, you will like this one. (Oh, and the comment earlier about how this movie glamorizes scabs over organized employment...c'mon, don't take everything so seriously.)There are so many parts of this movie that make me roll with laughter that I can't pinpoint just one, but I have to say, my sons eyes popped out of his head when the Cheerleader strippers did their Bad Girls cheer, just like the guys on the other team, I couldn't help but laugh.Don't watch it if you expect Oscar worthy material, but if you just want to have fun, this is a perfect flick.... "},{"Title":"The ideal sit back and relax-comedy","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I think it's pretty obvious you don't have to choose The Replacements if you're interested in seeing a unique and/or innovating cinema experience. The Replacements perfectly delivers what you expect...A good hour and a half of pure fun and laughs. It's a delightful little comedy with decent acting performances, hilarious situations and terrific quote material. The film uses all the typical clichés and about every character is stereotypical, but maybe that's the charm of it all. We get to see a textbook Sumo-wrestler, a blond cheerleader who can't even spell right and even the vulgar Welsh guy who smokes and curses on the field. The script is so utterly predictable and the feel-good message is shoved down your throat shamelessly, but still you can't resist to keep watching. There's a terrific light-hearted atmosphere hanging around the entire movie and sometimes, that's just all it takes to be satisfied with a movie. Keanu Reeves is a heck of lot more watchable in these type of comedies than he is as an action hero and Gene Hackman is great as usual. Even though he's clearly directing on automatic pilot, he never fails to impress. There are also good side roles by Jon Favreau, Orlando Jones, Rhys Ifans and even Art LaFleur ( it's been a while since I last saw him ).Naturally, the good guys win from the arrogant bullies, the development of the love-story was unavoidable as well and the use of typical Football-songs - like Rock 'N Roll part 2 - bring a smile to your face. The Replacements is the kind of movie that requires a few beers and popcorn...than you've got yourself a good old-fashioned brainless viewing.   "},{"Title":"In my opinion...","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was on the big screen, and then it had its run on HBO and is now running practically every weekend (sometimes 2 or 3 times each weekend) on TBS. Well, it may not be a great film, but I watch it every time it's on and for some reason never get tired of it! There's some endearing quality to it, I guess... "},{"Title":"Worth to be watched more than once...","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Overall, you will remember Remember the Titans (interaction of each member), and Jerry McGuire (true spirit of sports) when watching this movie after the twos.Why this movie is worth to be watched more than once 1. Like other sport movies, you will find friendship, teamwork, sportsmanship, overcome previous failure, and doing the impossible. So .. you will enjoy the game.2. It's always interesting to watch someone (in this case, the coach) collecting different people with different skill to build the winning team, and how the skill is applied in the story.3. You will not bored. The story is flowing quite fast (only a few unnecessary scenes), lots of laughable moments and good songs.If you are film critics, perhaps you will find this film is 'usual' or 'light'. The plot is obvious, there is no intrigue/twist. Acting is so-so since characters are only revealed as much as this film needs.But overall, it is very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Entertaining enough, but for American sports fans.....","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Not bad, I suppose.....at least the Americans like their bastardised version of football.  Can't see the attraction myself....all strength and ego, but no real apparent skill.Oh well, at least the idea of getting ex-lapdancers as cheerleaders was a novel idea! "},{"Title":"It has Keanu Reeves, it couldn't have been better!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Yeah, the Replacements didn't have many hits with the public, sincerely, I don't know why, the movie is not lifetime changing, it's just really funny, and there's more Keanu Reeves. He is by far my favorite actor (and the favorite of every sane person), he delivers once more a great acting, which I am used to, and he is not conceded as many untalented actors in Hollywood (Richard Gere, Hugh Grant, Will Smith...). The replacements have a thin story, which may have been done many times before, only this time, was done better, it is clearly, the best football movie ever. It is very fun, you will certainly laugh at it, and it's also interesting, because the characters all of them have depth, all of them have a cause to fight for. It's worth watching, not one of those you see and get hugely disappointed, I would give it a 7, but Keanu Reeves makes it an 8! Go on Keanu, Hollywood is in your hands, have fun, we will always be here to watch your movies! 8 out of 10!    "},{"Title":"Cliche' Machine","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I have never seen a movie that relied on so many cliches in my entire life. The coach who wants to run the team his way, the owner that only cares about winning, the QB with the great arm but a confidence problem, the receiver who is fast but can't catch, the insane linebacker who happens to be a cop is teamed with the convict who is released from jail to play football, the tight end whose deaf, and the real QB who is arrogant.  Trite nonsense whose only redeeming quality were the stripper/cheerleaders.  In two words formulistic crap.  "},{"Title":"Watchable at best.","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I can't believe all the good reviews for this movie on here. Sure, some formula driven movies can be fun, but this movie doesn't possess even an inch of originality! Almost every frame of this movie is a cliche. In all fairness, it is watchable and some of the jokes are amusing, but it's all been done countless times before, and better. ** (out of four)   "}{"Title":"Enjoyably mediocre","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  *The Replacements* actually isn't that bad, just, you know, enjoyably mediocre. Sports movies are sports movies, and this one has Keanu Reeves as a football player, Orlando Jones, an Irish guy who says, Bollocks! a lot, a Sumo wrestler, two big black bouncers, a very adamantly focused ex-army guy, an attractive love interest with nice cleavage (hey, she's in a cheerleader outfit for half the movie...), a load of strippers-turned-cheerleaders, and Gene Hackman, among other things. It's hard not to be pleased. And it even gets a bit of a nice feel-good message at the end. And it's fun. All in all, it's a good movie to just turn off your brain and enjoy. "},{"Title":"What a gem!","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I could watch this movie over and over.  Heck, I did watch this movie over.  And I am not a sports fan by any means. This film has a lot going for it  Gene Hackman is wonderful in a powerful role as the coach.  Keanu is so good you are not bored just watching him sit on a park bench. There is some great chemistry between Keanu and Brooke Langton. The supporting cast is excellent, with the cheerleaders stealing a large chunk of the show.  And what a sound track! It's a treat to watch. "},{"Title":"What a ripoff!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  For some misguided reason, I thought this movie would be something besides a cut-and-paste montage of football movie cliches. How wrong I was.Most of the time, I can just forget about a bad movie a few minutes after viewing, but this one made me angry. The lack of originality, the sleep-walking performances by Reeves and Hackman, and stock characters that have been worn out by football movies from Semi-Tough to Any Given Sunday made me feel like a complete sucker for renting this one.Some advice for Hollywood - no more football movies for ten years. By then, there should be some new material to mine. In the meantime, try curling, archery, synchronous swimming, equestrian or anything besides football! "},{"Title":"Unassuming Time-Waster","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I guess I was underwhelmed, but you know, it's a likeable film with few pretentions and some chuckles along the way. Amazing watching an actor with Gene Hackman's gravity and chops slumming with a non actor like Keanu Reeves (is it me, or is his voice breaking?) and the rest of the jock-actors hired on for authenticity. Gene could have sent in his performance as an e-mail attachment (maybe he did) and Rhys Ifans is funny, as he was in Notting Hill. To give flat affect Keanu his credit, he seems fairly athletic and carries off the football scenes reasonably well. The day after I first watched it, my kids wanted to see it, and I sat through it again without complaints. That's got to be worth something. "},{"Title":"really bad","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I rented this not for the football but for Gene Hackman. He does as good as he can with what he is given here, but the flick really stinks. Starting out with a decent premise - team is close to making it to the playoffs when the players go on strike - the movie soon becomes completely predictable. I kind of lost interest when the sumo player threw up in the huddle (we couldn't see it coming when he was stuffing himself with boiled eggs before the game, could we?). Keanu Reeves should be able to make a decent name for himself as soon as he takes a couple of acting lessons. Best part by far was the erotic routines of the cheerleaders, but you can get better in any decent porno flick. Avoid this one. (Incidentally, I was surprise to find Jack Warden here; I thought he was dead. I'm still not sure.)   "},{"Title":"Copy of Necessary Roughness","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film was merely a copy of Necessary Roughness. But it was not nearly as good. Lack of originality.Worth watching on HBO or renting for .99 cents, but dont waste your money at the theater.  "},{"Title":"Whoa...","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Based of course, on the infamous 1987 NFL players' strike, The Replacements feels as if it should have been made in 1987.  Featuring the mind-numbingly stereotypical gaggle of misfits and outcasts, this film definitely leans more towards Major League forgettability than Bull Durham loftiness. And mind-numbingly-stereotypical might be the summary on this turkey. Take a moment and consider every possible sports cliché you can. Got 'em all? No? Well, the makers of The Replacements left no cliché stone unturned, believe you me - capped off with the most inane rah-rah speech ever put to celluloid (voiced soullessly by what-the-hell-am-I-doing-here Gene Hackman). By now you're gettin' that I didn't appreciate this thing, and maybe you're wondering well, what about Keanu?Yeah, what about Keanu? Here's a hint Remember what Mark Hamill did between Star Wars movies? For a film trumpeting the merits of second chances, Keanu clearly takes a colossal bite out of his at the Hollywood A-List (having secured it of course, with The Matrix, he is in full Johnny Mnemonic mode here). Of course, with two more Matrix movies on the way, Keanu can quietly cash his check and move on. It makes one wonder though, that this is the same bloke in Little Buddha. Maybe the guy does have some acting range after all.Incidentally, the only saving grace maybe, was Jon Favreau as the bull-in-the-china-shop sack machine, even though he reminded me of what's-his-name from the Police Academy series. Steer clear, men. Football season is only a few weeks away. "},{"Title":"Funny, classic irony flick...","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Finally, A movie that makes sport films worth seeing again. Keanu Reeves is a great actor to play this character - kind of a pretty boy, but with some tumultuous hauntings of the past. Gene Hackman has always been a great comedian, and he hasn't lost it. A lot of the scenes are the kind you want - the classic revenge irony, and funny quips, as well as a fully qualified cheerleader team. Also, watch out for Martel, the ex-quarterback. He is such a jerk. Overall, great for laughs, fun, and a good time. "},{"Title":"Dumb, cliched movie","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A fairly dumb, cliched sports movie is hardly a sin, it's a hard genreto innovate in given that sports in general are pretty much chockfull of cliches, so I have some sympathy.  But The Replacementstranscends dumbness almost to the point of being entertaininglydumb.  One of the key points that no one else (to my knowledge)has commented on is the degree to which the movie savagesorganized labor by glorifying the scab football players.  The irony isthat almost all the people responsible for producing the movie aremost likely members of organized labor (screenwriters, directors,actors, Teamsters, etc.), which helps them maintain a verycomfortable lifestyle, yet none apparently had a problem glorifyingscabdom. Quite a head-scratcher.  "},{"Title":"More acceptable than a substitute film","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsThe Replacements is an engaging comedy/drama that details a disasterous time for the NFL in 1987 when a top team's players went on strike  over a pay dispute,and some second-rate substitutes were called in to make it unsuccessful.Keanu Reeves is his usual plain but relateable self ,while Gene Hackman gives an inspiring performance as his coach.There's also a kinky looking blonde who provides the male viewers with some pleasant titillation,and Rhys Ifans plays impressively to form as a Welsh lager lout in debt to some racketeering mobsters.But the one main thing dogging the film like any other film about football is watching the football scenes themselves.The game of football is based around unpredictability and sudden emotion charging surprises,and never before,nor likely ever,will seeing it acted out be anything other than painful to watch.*** "}{"Title":"Hackkman and Reeves must be cringing","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Replacements is the kind of movie they should be showing in film school. We can all look at Chinatown, Don't Look Now, Witness, Bringing Up Baby, Tokyo Monogatari, ET, Tootsie or Crimson Tide and see why they work well. It would be more of a challenge to take a heap of dung like The Replacements and say, Right, fix that. They ticked off all the boxes; a reluctant hero steps up for one final chance at glory and redemption. Mentored by a grizzly old coach, supported by a wacky but loyal group of peers, he battles adversity, wins the game, and gets the girl. It could be Major League with more heart, or Bull Durham with more laughs.Except it doesn't work. It isn't funny (I felt for Gene Hackman trying to wring a laugh out of mis-pronouncing 'wiry', I just wanted to go up and pat him on the back, say 'never mind, mate', buy him a beer...), and there is zero drama. The prison dance routine to 'I Will Survive' probably takes the prize for worst scene of all. I think they tried for a pastiche, aiming at camp, but it is just... so bad. It is like watching one of those cabaret circuit stand-up comics dying slowly on stage, determined to make it through his routine despite the rising indifference of the audience. This is an absolute train-crash, bombed out horror of a movie, a real lesson in 'How Not To.' It does for the sports genre what Wing Commander did for sci-fi. I hope someone one day gets to record Hackman answering the question Why?. The other actors can at least say, I wanted to work with Gene Hackman. What on earth is his excuse? "},{"Title":"Pain heals, Chicks dig scars, Glory last forever","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements works good as a Comedy and as a good drama fight for the underdog.  The humor really made me chuckle a few times.  It's not knee-slapping, but there might be some fanny-smacking clowning around. Orlando Jones contributes to a large portion of this humor.  Brooke Langton really knows how to make a guy smile, and feel good about himself, and does an excellent job as the female attraction.Gene Hackman and Keanu Reeves really work well together, and you get a feeling that they could really be pals.  I like Reeves in almost every movie he's made.  He comes cross quiet, and very cool, but a force to be reckoned with, and this is one of those times like the Matrix's, Point Break, Hardball, Speed or even A Walk in the Clouds.  And on top of that, Keanu is also Ted the goof in the Bill & Ted's Adventures.  This shows what a versatile actor Keanu is, and that he has a good sense of comic timing.This is one of those movies that no matter how many times I've seen it, if I come by the TV and find it on, I just must sit down and watch it one more time.  You'll just have to watch for yourself.  I'll bet you come away with a feeling like this movie has heart.The most quoted line in any movie is probably when Shane Falco tells his Win one for the Gipper speeches and says Pain heals, Chicks dig scars, but Glory last forever. "},{"Title":"To finish out the season","Date":"7 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Washington professional football team which is NOT named the Redskins for this film seems on the verge of a championship, but then the players in the NFL pull out and go on strike about two thirds of the season through. Naturally this does not sit well with the football public or the general sports public for that matter. No one can figure out why these well paid athletes want eight million as opposed to seven million. Owner Jack Warden who seems to be modeled on the legendary Redskins owner George Preston Marshall like his peers hires The Replacements to finish out the season. It's an interesting collection of has beens, and never wases that coach Gene Hackman has to work with. It calls for a different kind of coaching than one would normally expect, but somehow I think Vince Lombardi would approve of Hackman's methods.Chief recruit is Keanu Reeves a one time golden quarterback prospect who screwed up his own prospects, I'll not reveal how. But Reeves sees this as a shot to show what he could have done. As the most professional of this group Reeves is essential and he lets neither the team or the audience down. He also has head cheerleader Brooke Langton in his corner giving his morale a needed boost.This replacement Washington team develops a style of gonzo football like the Charleston Chiefs gonzo hockey in Slap Shot. It's what makes The Replacements the fine entertainment it is.I do have to say that I remember when baseball had a lock out and tried to negotiate with their players under a threat and did hire replacements in spring training. I still have memories of watching those spring training games with that set of replacements for the Mets in this case. I'll not forget Ralph Kiner and the rest of the Mets announcers just sounding in agony describing the game.Those replacement Mets just never got into the spirit of The Replacements. "},{"Title":"It's interesting because it's a comedy without real comedians at the lead role","Date":"13 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The story is pretty much the same as many other sports comedy movies, which are about the long shot at beating the overwhelming odds and pressure while at the same time uniting a very differentiated team. The romance angle is nicely put just as the sweetener and didn't go influencing the bigger story so much, despite the usual victory kiss. What makes this movie very interesting for me is that Keanu Reeves, Gene Hackman, and even Brooke Langton are not necessarily comedians, though they play the lead and significant roles in this movie. The backing by the seasoned comedy actors like Orlando Jones nicely completes the comedic angle that the movie needs. "},{"Title":"Pain heals, chicks dig scars, glory lasts forever","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The grandchild of The Longest Yard (1974), Bad News Bears (1976) and Slap Shot (1977), The Replacements (2000) stars Keanu Reeves as a member of the Washington Sentinels, a failing Amerian football team. Filled with misfits, mavericks and rejects, this team is led by Jimmy McGinty (Gene Hackman). No points for guessing how this story unfolds.Though formulaic, The Replacements is fast, funny and never pretends to be anything other than popcorn. Reeves, likable as a dim-witted underdog, would star in Hardball a year later, another sports comedy. Brooke Langton co-stars as gratuitous eye-candy.7.9/10 &#x96; See All The Right Moves and North Dallas Forty. "},{"Title":"light weight football movie","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Shane Falco (Keanu Reeves) is a former star college quarterback who washed out in the pros. Eddie Martel (Brett Cullen) is the star quarterback of Washington Sentinels who is more concerned about himself than the team. Then the players go on strike and Jimmy McGinty (Gene Hackman) is hired to shape up a new team of replacement players. They need three more wins out of their final four games to get into the playoffs. It's a mishmash of wacky personalities. Shane falls for the head cheerleader Annabelle Farrell (Brooke Langton) who has to come up with a new group of cheerleaders. Rhys Ifans is the wiry kicker. Jon Favreau is the angry defensive player who loves to hit. Orlando Jones is the jokey player.It's a pretty light weight football movie with a bit of rom-com. Gene Hackman is slumming it a little to give this some substance. It has a few good jokes. The stripper cheerleaders are cute. The players have just enough wackiness. Keanu Reeves is still that likable lead. It's formulaic and somewhat watchable. At least, director Howard Deutch has the skills to use the formula even with a song and dance in jail. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"9 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I love this movie.. and here's why first of all it's based on a true story even though the No Fun League ...NFL will never admit it,, 1987,, 4 plus years removed from a total work stoppage, this time the players get greedy, and of course want more money,, they want their share of the pie, that the NFL is holding onto. Keanu Reeves plays Footsteps Falco.. gotta love that nickname,, he is a QB that had an awful game at the Sugar Bowl lost 45-0 and has since went into hiding,,, Gene Hackman is wonderful as coach Joe McGinty,, together the two just give such a wonderful performance,, the cheerleaders in this movie,, are like the best iv'e ever seen,, pretty, sexy,, and seductive,, catch some of their moves during the game. what I like best about the movie is the more than accurate portrayal of the game itself,, the play calling,, the locker room stuff.. in the real NFL Washington did have a player on work furlough from prison,, this is a must see movie,, especially for a football guru or you re casual fan,, and even if you're not a football fan you will be after seeing this movie,, thumbs up . "},{"Title":"A bit about The Replacements","Date":"25 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Pretty interesting story about second handed rugby team. BUT, most interesting fact is that team wasn't professional rugby players, but people who were in jail, just a normal people who work their job, like in good old days of amateur sport. Since first team got in strike, they had to somehow continue their championship. Like always, every beginning is hard, they had to meet each others better. They were always fighting and arguing about nothing, but when they met each others better, realize that they got lots of stuff in common, they started playing better and better. But they weren't normal rugby players, they were amateurs, people who work their job and play sport for fun, that is strange in sport of 21th century, isn't it ? Nowadays sport is all about money, there's no more joy or anything more, money, money, money. Well those people didn't care for money, they played for fun and they actually reached something. They reached play-off for their team. At the end they weren't been stalking by commericalist for signing contact for some sneakers or anything else, they just celebrated it and went to their home. They all reached some experience that they will remember for whole their life, that movie should be an example of how sport should be nowadays...The scene i liked the most is this one http//www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxe-5lJ6R6o&feature=endscreen. Whole team finished in jail and they decided to sing song called I will survive. Probably the best scene in this movie... "},{"Title":"Losers can be winners too.","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Although this movie is about scabs, and the people who enable them, the movie is surprisingly upbeat, although not necessarily amusing. The movie is about people being given a second chance, although in this case at other people's expense. The movie also is about how a good coach can turn losers into winners and how it is often impossible to differentiate the two. Keanu Reeves is wonderful in the principal role of Shane Falco, a washed up quarterback, who is brought back from oblivion to enjoy a moment of glory. Brooke Langton is positively charming as the cheer leader who literally cheers on Falco. However, the strongest performance is by Gene Hackman who plays Falco's coach and who has to make a decision which puts his moral courage to the test. "},{"Title":"brings a smile of happiness and contentment every time!","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I have seen this movie in excess of 20 times and will no doubt see it 20 more times, it is the best feel-good movie I have ever seen.When I want drama and suspense I will watch The Green Mile when I want simple, comedy that just leaves me with a huge grin I will watch the replacements.- by user Theoriginaltruebrit truly portrays what this movie is aboutyou watch movies, to relieve yourself of the routine exhaustion and take a break off from the daily hassles and stress and boredom and have a good hearty laugh and a good time. This movie is one of those movies. You sure as hell will laugh many times throughout the movie, its a feel-good movie, and you will definitely love that song I'll survive after you've watched this moviePerfect movie if you just wanna feel good and be happy for an hour and more,just don't forget ordering a pizza or make yourself some pop corn and have chilled beers.. Man this movie rocks!Now the user Theoriginaltruebrit may have seen it 20 times (good for him! I'll definitely break that record!) but i've seen it only around 6- 7 times and I'll be seeing it more.. often now and then whenever it comes on Star Movies or HBO or WB (hollywood movie channels in India), and that my friend, is the feeling you have after watching such a movie.I mean even a movie like Iron Man i've seen repeatedly but only in parts. This movie i can see wholly, no kiddingAlso i want to say why i rated this movie 9/10 Its got awesome characters,each with their own very unique idiosyncrasies that would grow on you, and you will love the overall development/progress in the movie. Even the cheerleaders were hot! Most of all, Gene Hackman was perfect as the coach. He reminded me of this teacher i had in school, and he totally understood us students, taught well too, but used to be so total fun but strict and motivating when need be. The 'right-guy', who leads you on the path of glory.See, it is a light weight, lightly humorous movie, and if you don't get it or expect laughs like you will from,say, The Mask,or Dumb and Dumber,then forget it. Its awesome the way it is. You will get it if you watch it.For me, i say its a must watch! "}{"Title":"if you know nothing about football, this might work","Date":"1 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Well, you can get a chuckle or two out of this film, maybe even find some inspiration or cheer for the underdog, but for people who know ANYTHING about football, this moving is just one mistake after another. Whomever edited this thing should be drummed out of Hollywood. Just go to the goofs section and that might begin to list all the continuity and factual errors. Players on the field, then off the field in the next shot. Jus the problems with how the structure of the team is built makes no sense. Why fire a coach and hire a new one during a strike? Why no backup quarterback? Why are players playing both ways? What is a QB doing on a kickoff team? it goes on and on and drives me crazy. "},{"Title":"Pig Skin Saga Without the Gipper","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I'm not a foot ball fan of any sort, but I love The Replacements, a film about heart and scabs in the NFL. Keanu Reeves is Shane Falco, a Ohio State QB who fumbled the big game and his career on national TV. Gene Hackman is Jimmy McGinty, a retired coach who inspires his team by respecting their talent and ability to rise above their former selves. With end Jon Favreau, running back, Orlando Bloom, and head cheerleader, Brook Langdon, they are the little team that could. As his team tries to develop into players, the NFL prima donna players who walked off the job over money taunt Falco for his never was status. Brett Cullen is the striking QB who taunts Falco, while his team mates accidentally sack him as well. Poor Falco can't win for trying, but the lovely cheer leader rubs his bruises with sweet potato lotion and everything is better. Comedy abounds in this film with lap dancing cheerleaders from the Pussykat Klub who can't spell the team's name during cheers, and wonderful running jokes with Favreau (Bateman) and Hackman (McGinty) as the coach who needs him to get the ball. Whether line dancing to I Will Survive or smooching during the final play, this is a great family and Saturday afternoon film for anyone who finds the ritual and riot of professional football simply beyond comprehension. "},{"Title":"For Fun & Profit","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Keanu Reeves, Gene Hackman, Orlando Jones, Rhys Ifans - and what would an NFL movie be without Pat Summerall and John Madden? This is a US pro football movie made for fun and profit. And a bit of sex provided by Brooke Langton.It's a straightforward and deliberately unrealistic conceit a football team go on strike, so Jack Warden uses Gene Hackman to round up a Con-Air team - and you basically know how things will turn out.There's ample room for stereotyped characters, prefab comedy situations, and dozens of eminently predictable subplots. Also you're drowned in standard NFL muzak. It's totally brain dead, but then again they say US football is supposed to be totally brain dead, so it's no big loss, is it?Langton plays the head cheerleader who rounds up her crew from a unique place. Naturally she will have nothing to do with players, even quarterbacks (Keanu). You hear it but you don't believe it. How will this one turn out? Gee, that's a difficult one. Wait for Gordon Sumner to sing and you'll find out.Directed adequately by Molly Ringwald's Howard Deutch and written by Vince McKewin who hasn't made as much of an impression as a writer as he has as a guest star on TJ Hooker, V, A-Team, and Knight Rider, the movie in a word is 'OK'.It's not great; it's not Gone with the Wind; but it's not the worst sports film you've ever seen either. Give your local pizzeria a call, sit back and try to not think too much about it.And try to not get too annoyed by Pat Summerall and John Madden. Or US football - remember what Kate Beckinsale said about the game. "},{"Title":"Between February and Sept.... something to watch","Date":"23 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This movie hints at reality and spins around the edges of believable! The Replacements offers little more than a good story about screw-ups overcoming adversity and making their 15 minutes of fame convincing. And who knows &#133; somewhere,sometime, there may have been a coach or owner who scanned a list of possible players as diverse and ill suited as these characters were and thought, what the hell, I can make some of it work! The actors played their parts well, and all gave just enough intensity to make it partly believable. The addition of Madden and Summerall was a nice touch, especially if you are a fan of that broadcasting duo! All in all a fun movie taken as a fun movie! A diversion for the offices&#133;. "},{"Title":"Not without its charm, but hardly worth more than a single viewing","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" First off, I hate most sports, and for the most part strongly dislike movies that are, in one way or another, for one reason or the other, based in sports. So maybe I shouldn't really be rating this movie... let alone reviewing it. But here it goes, anyway. The plot is decent, as is the pacing. The story is the usual losers-turned-into-winners, and the film sticks so much to the formula that it holds absolutely no surprises. The film is based on - and revolves around - a bunch of clichés and stereotypes. The humor is mostly overdone and lame, but there are exceptions. Not many, but they exist. The acting is decent; Jon Favreau and Keanu Reeves(and, of course, Gene Hackman) give pretty good performances. The characters are all paper-thin, walking, talking clichés and stereotypes. I have seen few other movies that have managed to fit in all of the major stereotypes; featured is the black guy who's a 'gangsta', the weak black guy who pretends to be 'gangsta', the Asian guy, the annoying British(oh, sorry, Welsh) guy, etc. You name it, this film's got it. What it doesn't have, however, is very much to offer, though a little humor that's doesn't entirely suck is included. But apart from that, the film is pretty much a dud. Even die-hard fans of the sub-genre(crude sports comedy) and/or the actors in it should probably find another film to spend time on. This has very little to offer(and nothing new at all) and isn't particularly memorable. I recommend only to huge fans of the sub-genre and the actors. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"15 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  ***   SPOILERS WITHIN   ******   SPOILERS WITHIN   ******   SPOILERS WITHIN   ***There is not one original idea or event in this movie.  It is one big cliche from start to finish.  You see everything coming light years away.  Yet, for some reason, I like this move.  A lot.  I think it's the charisma of the actors, injecting some fresh energy into tired retreads.  Maybe it's the cheerleaders' distraction technique (you ain't going to forget it any time soon).  I don't know.  I guess I'll just have to keep watching it in order to figure it out.  Oh darn. "},{"Title":"The Redeemers","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" For a bunch of wash-outs in the game of football, a second chance at living their dreams just seems too unreal.  But an NFL football coach for the Sentinels, Jimmy McGinty (Gene Hackman), gives them that chance.An odd cast of players comprising Keanu Reeves, Orlando Jones, Jon Favreau, and others replaces a bunch of spoiled rich football stars who are demanding more money.  The result is the struggle of group of talented has-been guys whose personal conflicts are the only thing that keep them from being winners.  The chance to be on a NFL football team is their last chance to redeem themselves and their dreams.This film not only has great acting but also good football, and an incredible cheerleading team (for you guys).  In the end reminds us of the glory of the game and the victory that comes with achievement.  It is the stuff that stories are told about for years to come.  My vote 8/10. "},{"Title":"OK, nothing special","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The title says it all. Football players are on strike and veteran coach Hackman has to field a team of misfits and irregulars, including a very misplaced Keanu Reeves. Hackman I can understand in a film of this sort, which is a throwaway, sports-oriented entertainment dramedy. Hackman has done this sort of film several times, and acquits himself nicely. But Reeves simply doesn't belong here, as charming as he may be to the young ladies out there. In fact, the only reason young ladies would ever see this film is because of Reeves. Hmmnn... "},{"Title":"A good, lighthearted look at Football","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Unlike Any Given Sunday (which was a pretty good movie), this movie takes a light-hearted look at the way Football (American Football, not that communist soccer crap that is played by gutless men) is played and coached, without taking itself too seriously.==========================================================> The Replacements is about an old coach, Jimmy McGinty (Hackman) who is tasked to put together a winning football team consisting of replacement players while all the starters are on strike. Shane Falco (Reaves) is selected to lead the team to victory, while trying to shake his reputation as a college QB who snapped under pressure.=========================================================> Like I said, this movie is very light-hearted. There is very little character developement/back-story, aside from Shane Falco (Reaves). It is also not realistic in the least (The melee scene in particular). But it is very funny throughout.The acting is pretty good. Hackman is great as Jimmy McGinty, the kind-hearted coach who struggles to make his team win. Reaves does a good job as well, though doesn't look like a QB very much (Too short, not big enough). Orlando Jones (Clifford Franklin) is hilarious as an extremely fast receiver that cannot catch a ball to save his life. All the other parts are well played.The action on the field is pretty realistic, though there are more spectacular jumping plays etc than in most games. But all and all, fun to watch.I never really noticed the soundtrack. Nothing original, but nothing bad either.All and all, a great light-hearted comedy about the way football is played, and the people who play it. "},{"Title":"Replacements a complete Sham.","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film is contrived to make you hate pro athletes and resent their inflated paychecks even more than you already do. The film is terrible. What makes it worse is the mean-spirited social implications of such a stupid project. This comedy is loosely based on the 1987 NFL strike, according to Gene Hackman. While substitute scabs are portrayed as innocent performers, all professional football players are supposed to be greedy jocks. No one should condone ANYTHING filmed that falsely illustrates what happened in 1987. The recruitment of replacements was a incredible charade by the NFL. They actually counted those lunatic fanatic strike games in the final standing and they can be looked up in the record books. It was one of the most surreal periods in sports history that was broadcast by the networks. It is not surprising to see Pat Summerall and John Madden perform cameos in this film. One strike game that was shown on ABC Monday Night Football featured a strike performer who pleaded guilty to murdering his wife the very next year. Lewis Bennett doesn't remind me of Shane Falco at all. There is no established actor who should have participated in this travesty. Keanu Reeves, Gene Hackman, Orlando Jones, and the rest should have their faces rearranged. The reason is that hired replacement performers are not cute in any vocation because they seriously threaten job security. It is hard to believe Hackman and Keanu would take on this project, only because of the obvious hypocrisy. The people who are more overpaid than pro athletes are movie star, who happen to be memebers of that Screen Actors Guild. It would be nice to see those guild actors being replaced by hired performers who can't act. Box-office movie actors earn far too much for films that can entertain the vast population and teach them nothing. Movie stars don't deserve the money and Hollywood deserves it much less. The economy of entertainment is the only excuse.  "}{"Title":"Winners want the ball when the game is on the line...","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Good movie.  It is an obvious knock-off of Scott Bakula's Necessary Roughness but it has some original elements to distinguish itself.  If you are a football fan that is waiting between the Pro Bowl and the Draft, this is good entertainment to fill the time.The premise to the movie  The NFL is on strike, and replacement players are brought in to finish the season.  The names of the real life football franchises were changed to, what I suspect, avoid litigation from the NFL.  The Washington Sentinels hire one of their former head coaches (Gene Hackman) to field a team of replacement players and make them winners.  Interestingly enough, John Madden and Pat Summerall play the commentators, and they do a pretty good job.  The writers had a flair for coming up with their lines to be consistent with how these two usually banter with each other during a game.Hackman puts together a roster of either NFL has-beens or never was's.  His crown jewel is a QB by the name of Shane Falco, played by Keanu Reeves. Some of these lines are directly ripped off from Unnecessary Roughness, yet they find their places just the same.I liked how Falco gained his following during the span over a few games.  And gained the respect of his teammates.  Definitely a feel-good movie.  The romantic plotline is good too, although it is quite obvious from the get go.The addition of getting replacement cheerleaders using strippers is entertaining too, some hilarious moments here.Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Okay, but this time the Keanu effect fits. . .","Date":"16 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"    In this movie Keanu is in full blown I know kung fu mode, but it was okay to me this time.  You know why?  Because it FIT this movie. And if it fits, then it doesn't bother me that much.   Football and movies are my two favorite things.  The football is pulled off very well visually in this movie, from the uniforms down to the players movements.  It doesn't look that staged, even though we all know that it is.   Having someone like John Madden in the film also helps in the football credibility department, and I just love that he and Pat don't have a problem making fun of themselves.  Orlando and Jon are extremely funny and Brooke Langton is extremely gorgeous in this film, and I'll never ever forget the infamous cheerleader scene with Heather, Dawn and all of their stripper friends.  Classic.   Um, what am I missing?   Oh Yeah!  The acting?  Doesn't really matter in this movie.  It's good.  Check it out. "},{"Title":"A wake up call for professional sports","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was terrific.  I dunno how people could pan it, as it was a well done movie.  Based on the underdog taglines like it's predecessors of ROCKY, RUDY, and Mystery, Alaska it proves that anyone can have a shot if they had the desire.  But the movie is more than that.  The biggest point of it, was to shed light on the greed of professional players.  To often, they forget where they come from and only desire the material things.  This movie was a wake up call to all professional sports, as it shows that there are people out there that would play for nothing because they (Quote Jimmy McGinty) Have heart, and the love of the game to just play.  A great movie for anyone that loves triumph.  10 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Great movie, but doesn't beat 'Titans'","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  ***Starring Keanu Reeves, Brooke Langton, and Gene Hackmen.When a professional football team goes on strike, it is up to the replacements to fill their spot.  The replacements were there to just finish the season, losing record and all.  But they all do better than they seem, and must lead their team to the playoffs.The movie has some great fun with the characters.  Reeves does good as the quarterback who ends up leading his team.  This is a great and funny movie, but it doesn't beat the other football movie that opened around that time, Remember the Titans. "},{"Title":"Johnny Utah takes more acting skill suppressant pills and then puts on a football helmet","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  In this film, Keanu Reeves reprises his role as an anthropomorphic park bench, a role he's made famous in such films as 'Point Break', 'The Devil's Advocate', and 'The Matrix'.  This time, that loveable bench straps on a football uniform, and gives his woodiest performance yet.It's not hard to believe that women would want to see the hot stupid popular actor play the role of the stereotypical hot stupid popular guy on film, and I'll admit that seeing stripper/cheerleaders had to be a huge draw for the guys as well.  What's confusing about this phenomenally bad film is that people not only could stomach the entirety of it, but that they've actually praised it in public without fear of retribution.Once the true horror of this film's inevitable, clichemobile plot became obvious to me, I could only manage to occupy myself by guessing successfully what the next scene would bring.  It was like a choose your own adventure book on the silver screen, only I kept making all the wrong choices, and the movie kept going along with them anyway.  Imagine being a NFL cheerleader and saying this to motivate your colleagues  Hey girls, those football players are striking.  I say we go with them!  Sure they make millions, and we make $10 an hour, and there are hundreds of thousands of high school seniors who would be glad to take our place, but if we strike, it'll make for much more interesting professional stripper replacements when the owners of the team find it strangely impossible to find any new cheerleaders! I'll note that the run-on quote I wrote up there delineates basically what happened in the movie, and, you got it, it makes no sense whatsoever.Speaking of choices, should actors be given BAC tests before they're allowed to sign up for a movie?  Gene Hackman must have been near comatose when he signed his career away with this masterpiece.  He may have gone for a rip as a copy of the great Bear Bryant in his role as the motivational speaker/football coach, but this wasn't the movie to do it in.  Gene Hackman is a good actor.  He knows character, he knows expression, and he knows a good film when he sees one.  I'm guessing somebody did this to him for revenge or something.Lets go back to Keanu Benchy Reeves for a second because he's so disturbing.  Did anybody else notice that despite playing a character who was down in the dumps, gets the shot of his life, finds love, rallies his team to the championship, and learns to have confidence in himself, his face has the same expression during the entirety of the film?  Holy line-reading mannequins, Batman! I've got it!  He really died after Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey and was embalmed and allowed to posthumously continue horrifying us on film!What this basically all means is, if you really like movies which skillfully tread that tightrope between being funny or being meaningful in any way, then you're going to likely refer to this as the greatest movie you've ever seen.  Were such attributes actually seen as positive in the film business, then this might actually be the greatest movie we've ever seen.The fact is, football players dancing and singing, Keanu Reeves accidentally playing his most serious role ever (ironically during a comedy film), a guy repeatedly dropping a football, and a hot cheerleader making out with a park bench that's draped in a football jersey aren't funny at all.  Just because a movie has a motivational soundtrack doesn't mean you're supposed to feel for this group of cops, felons, and eccentrics.  I liked Rudy.  I liked Major League.  This movie was just atrocious.Oh BTW if you said This movie was great! I highly recommend 'Down Periscope'.  It'll knock your socks off. "},{"Title":"FUNNY story about team work","Date":"22 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  GOOD, FUNNY, AND FRESH story from Mr.Reeves and friends. I really like seeing film about good team work. Beside the story is not boring and the love story is short, that is what make me like this movie.Mr.Reeves can't never played fun, he is actor who good play in serious and romantic films. But not bad can see him dance.This team is from many people from different personality but they have one faith, ISN'T THAT BEAUTIFUL? When world is much with fight, we still can trust someone and we call it with FRIEND. "},{"Title":"not bad not bad at all","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  after working on this film for over 430 hours i was much surprised at its completed product. when i seen it at the theater during the opening week i was surprised after all the bad reviews it had received. overall acting was pretty good and the movie kept moving to keep the interest of the viewer. as one or several have said, this is a film that you can watch several times and still get a laugh. coming from the fanatic fan waiving dollar bills at the cheerleaders, don't miss this one. gregcool.com  "},{"Title":"Mr Talent strikes again!","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Keanu Reeves is allegedly the star of this film, which you'd have expected to be a straight to video classic.  Some films don't deserve a cinema release, and this is so average and uninspiring that it doesn't either.Trying to turn a bunch of rejects into a grid iron team that can take on the world sounds uninteresting.And it is. "},{"Title":"this movie is NOT based on the 1987 strike!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I see a lot of people, not just here, but elsewhere complain about mistakes in the movie because these people think the movie is set in 1987.  It is not.  The only connection to the 1987 strike is that they both used replacement players.  Nothing else fits.  For example, the 1987 replacement season lasted only 2 games.  This one lasted longer.  As if that isn't enough proof, here is a more obvious one.  When Shane Falco is diving and picks up his All America Trophy, it say 1995 All America Team on it.  1995!  Seriously, with all these sites talking about mistakes ni movies, some people watch a movie only to nit pick, rather than enjoy the movie.  (Most of the time, these nit picking observations are completely wrong, or at least very explainable.)   For those that watch a movie to be entertained, rather than to make themselves feel superior, they will find that this movie is a pleasant surprise.  Certainly not the best comedy of all time, or even of 2000.  But well worth the time spent watching it. "},{"Title":"Very very funny movie","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I'm so glad I found all these reviews of the Replacements as I thought I was the only person on the planet who really loved this movie. Maybe like some other Brits who posted, I don't watch or understand American Football, but just enjoyed the comedy. Maybe others were expecting an authentic Football movie. Jon Favreau stands out the most as Bateman, (I still keep laughing about his first run out when he takes out the cheerleaders) but the whole cast is superb. Gene Hackman could never disapoint, and I've been a big fan of Rhys Ifans since his first big UK film -Twin Town (check it out). Then you also have a brilliant Orlando Jones, a gorgeous David Denman,... in fact the whole cast was excellent. It remineded me in some ways of The Full Monty -  a very funny, feel good movie.  "}{"Title":"Good movie - Worth a look","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I found this movie very enjoyable and Funny.  Being British I just don't 'get' American Football but it still didn't stop me from thoroughly liking this movie.The storyline is funny in places and a bit predicable with it's usual fairy tale ending but even that wasn't taken too far.  I had seen 'Any given Sunday' and really liked the movie and enjoyed it in particular the camera work. The replacements is that plus jokes.The cast is excellent with various different characters, of which some are funny and some not.I recommend that you see this movie if you want a sports movie with a few jokes thrown in. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and moving.","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  After seeing this film I had a really good feeling inside.  I'm a fan ofGene Hackman and he was really good in this movie as the PaulBryant/ Tom Landry-esque coach who comes out of retirement tocoach a group of handpicked players from all walks of life.  KeanuReeves is good in this movie but not great b/c the writing made upfor his lack of humor and acting skills.  Keanu acts really tenselyand tight sometimes , much like he needs to loosen up.  JonFavreau is hilarious as the cop/linebacker who has a viciousstreak as he's been trained to kill while working with the task force. Plus there's a hottie cheerleader played by Brooke Langton who isdrop dead gorgeous and she plays Keanu's love interest in thefilm.  This movie is based on the actual NFL strike of 1987 andalso portrays how the egos of professional athletes sometimesbecome inflated to the point of combustion.  The track to end themovie heroes by the wallflowers was not only a perfect song forthe moment, but a defining statement of who and what they were.7 stars "},{"Title":"silly but enjoyable","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Highly formulaic, often crude, but often very funny comedy begins in the midst of a professional football strike by high-priced prima donnas who lack the funds to support their lavish lifestyles. Hackman is a former coach recruited by a franchise team owner to get scab players to finish the season and try to lead the team to the playoffs. Broad comedy ensues as a group of zany ex-players are brought together to try and develop the chemistry needed to succeed. Obvious and goofy to say the least, but the cast is good, the characters are engaging, and the film is often very funny. Jones, as a speedy receiver with no hands, and Favreau as a demented linebacker, have some of the best comedic moments. **½ "},{"Title":"A fun movie, but not as good as the team it's based on.","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I enjoyed The Replacements. It's pretty silly but still a lot of fun. Gene Hackman, as the coach, is good -- as he always is. Keanu Reeves is just right as the replacement quarterback, and Brooke Langton is terrific as the beautiful, sexy-but-wholesome head cheerleader. The fact that she and Reeves' character fall in love is predictable but nice.I would like to note, however, that this movie is very-loosely based on a real replacement team that played for the Washington Redskins during an NFL players' strike. Despite the fact that the real Redskins were the only NFL team that did not have a single player who crossed the picket line during the strike, their replacements won all three of their games and helped the Redskins make the playoffs where they ultimately won the Superbowl. The Redskins' replacements finest game was their last one -- an improbable victory over a Dallas Cowboys team many of whose regular players had crossed the picket line.So enjoy The Replacements as a comedy, but please don't forget what the Redskins' replacements actually accomplished in real life. "},{"Title":"Great quotes, greater fun, the greatest laughs.","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is an excellent example of fun entertainment.  This is a must for any sports nut who agrees that many players have become primadonas and have forgotten what the game is all about.  This was a great movie, despite Reeves. "},{"Title":"Always a good laugh","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I wanted to see this movie when it was in theaters, but I just never got around to it.  Then I wanted to rent it, but never rented it either.  Guess you can say I'm lazy.  So when it came on HBO I turned on the tv, sat down, and watched it.  I actually liked it.  Okay, it's not the best movie out there, but it's so funny and a good love story.  I hate Keanu Reeves' acting skills.  I always flash back to Bill And Ted's Excellent Adventures.  But in this movie he actually wasn't that bad, and he wasn't monotoned like usual.  Brooke Langton is my pick for best actor in this movie as Annabelle, the cheerleader who Shane Falco (Reeves) drools over.  I just think she was stunning.  Gene Hackman was also a very strong actor in this movie.  For a good laugh go rent The Replacements. "},{"Title":"Odd Over-Achiever.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Films like The Replacements are not supposed to be good, but this is a major exception to the rule. Gene Hackman stars as a professional head football coach who must bring a rag-tag bunch of players together to win during a players' strike. The film is somewhat based on the NFL Strike which took place in 1987 when replacements suited up for three weeks. The ensemble cast is good as Keanu Reeves and a very attractive Brooke Langton make stand-out performances. Orlando Jones (the guy from the 7-Up commercials) adds a load of laughs as well. An enjoyable little film. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"better than expected","Date":"14 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I thought this would be another idiotic and insulting comedy. Fortunately, it turned out to be much more than that. This film was just hard for me not to like. Its funny of course, but that's not what made it so likable. The cliched story of underachievers beating the odds is what makes it enjoyable, probably because of the similarity to Stallone's Rocky. Its a story of second chances, being an underdog, a bit of good vs. evil, with a solid balance of humor. It works if you like that sort of thing, die hard sports fans would probably disagree. 3/4 "},{"Title":"A must for Keanu fans!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This was the ultimate feel good movie for me.  I have watched it dozens of times and still laugh out loud and catch myself smiling each and every time. The music was great.  My only disappointment was when I bought the soundtrack and a lot of my favorite songs weren't on it.  Otherwise, no complaints for this great movie.  "},{"Title":"Best movie of the year","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I have watched this movie at least 6 times, and will watch it probably another 6 times, it was that good. Keanu and Gene Hackman and all the players were excellent.  The dance scene in jail was oh so good.  You would not be sorry to get this DVD.  You will just love Keanu. Its his best movie since Speed and Matrix.    "}{"Title":"very funny","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I am always a sucker for sports comedies, and I happened to love this one as well. When football players go on strike, the owners install replacement players. Keanu Reeves is the replacement quarterback for the Washington team, and he does a terrific job for the team. Reeves plays the part well, too. I found myself laughing continuously throughout this well-made film.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Cracked up","Date":"10 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  A very well written, well directed, and even well acted movie. My wife, not normally a football fan, even watched some football this weekend after seeing The Replacements. I think this was out of gratitude for the belly laughs she got from the movie. This is standard broad farce and cheer the underdog, 'B' movie fare, just very well executed. My favorite scene, after the one where the cheerleaders distract a few people, is when our hero has been rejected by the heroine but we hear his self-talk -- all in football jargon -- to press on and win the girl.  "},{"Title":"A fun and enjoyable film","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Finally a football movie that gives the viewer what they want, football.  Yes, The Replacements is a stupid, unrealistic movie, but it's not meant to be taken that seriously.  It's a comedy overall, but also features some great football action with hilarious performances by John Favreau and Ryhs Ifans.  The thing that surprised me is that it's actually pretty well written.  For a film that doesn't try to achieve any kind of social commentary, it's screenplay doesn't dip into the melodrama of Any Given Sunday, or the cheesy themes of Rudy.  Of course, there is a love story involved, but by making the woman not just a cheerleader but actually very knowledgeable about football, it allows her to interact in the story and not just be the token babe.  Keanu Reeves, who I normally ridicule relentlessly, is at his dunderheaded best in a role that seems to suit him almost as well as his character in The Matrix did.  I was surprised/delighted to see Gene Hackman in this film; he gives it a center of gravity around which all the other characters revolve.  Overall, not taking itself too seriously is the greatest asset to this movie.  Just having this quality, from which many other films could benefit, gives it a light-hearted feel that's just plain fun to watch. "},{"Title":"A perfect mixture of comedy, action and lovestory.","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Love, action, comedy. This movie contains all this and I like such kind of movies. The characters were well plaid from Gene Hackman to Keanu Reeves and all other actors/actresses. The soundtrack is great too. Especially the scene in the prison when the Sentinals dance with the song I will survive is a real nice moment of this movie. I'm glad to have bought the VHS and I will buy the CD-Soundtrack too. "},{"Title":"Nandesuka!!! FUNNY ASS MOVIE!!!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was soo funny!! I laughed my ass off espcially when the Sumo guy was on, I know how that Sumo(Jumbo) guy feels when people see asian their first intent is if their Chinese but noo, there are a bunch of kinds of asians! Next time you see an asian atleast for once ask them if their JAPANESE and not Chinese man! Hahaha, anyways back to the movie... The best thing about this movie is the cast which makes you actually want them to win unlike other sports movie with teams that just fights all the time and no fun. This movie is hilarious and even a great story! It has everything... Drama, Romance, Comedy (especially)... You have to see this movie if you haven't!Overall rating 9/10 "},{"Title":"funny feel good film","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Took the girlfriend to the movies and this was the only thing we could see that was worth watching. It pretty much just rolls on from the word go. Liked the plot, music and gags. Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Much better than you'd think for a straight-to-video film about American football","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I think it was a mistake to make this a straight-to-video film in the UK. It was probably done that way because films about U.S. sports often bomb over here. But Channel 4 have been showing the NFL on UK TV for many years, and besides, this film is as much about team spirit and getting a second chance at life as it is about football. It's a good light-hearted comedy -- and by good, I mean it doesn't go all out for gags in the Naked Gun fashion, it's more that the comedy arises from a bunch of very different guys (and gals) trying to work together.I watched the Director's Commentary on the DVD, and it became clear that the film was chopped to smithereens in the cutting room -- among scenes that were lost were (POSSIBLE SPOILERS START HERE) large parts of the first meeting between Keanu Reeves and Gene Hackman, a locker room scene with Rhys Ifans where he tries to encourage the guys with a Welsh song which is all about getting killed (sounds like some Scottish songs I know -(), the fact that Martell placed the tripwire in the tunnel before the opening game, and even an entire character - a striking player who crossed the picket line and became a replacement - who never made it into production. (SPOILERS END HERE) As a result, one or two minor plot lines in the film go nowhere, and some of the characters are more stereotyped than I'd like. However, the commentary also makes clear some production successes, notably Gene Hackman's ad-libbing, and the second unit who shot 17 football plays in 9.5 minutes at half-time in a Baltimore Ravens game! All credit to these guys for producing a film that isn't an all-time great, but is well worth picking up for a lighthearted evening's entertainment. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining feel-good comedy","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements is everything Any Given Sunday could have been, but wasn't.  The casting is excellent -- Gene Hackman gives his best performance in years, and the Keanu Reaves role is one that he can do, the ever-popular loser with a heart of gold.  Even my wife, who hates football, loves this movie.  'Nuff said.  "},{"Title":"Made us laugh","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Wife agreed to watch this one with me, just because she is a good wife.  She doesn't really enjoy football, doesn't like Keanu Reeves, and is not a real Gene Hackman fan.  She enjoyed the movie.  She said that it was funny.   Hard for me to praise it anymore than that.  I, on the other hand, am a big football fan, a fan of Gene Hackman, and enjoy watching Keanu Reeves. I really enjoyed the film.   Would recommend this one to anyone that asks. "},{"Title":"Silly, Predictable but Fun","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  My summary says it all.  This movie is a pleasant time killer for when you just want to relax and turn your mind off.  Not a Oscar winner by any means, but not a dog either; and Brooke Langton is certainly not a dog.  Finally, Gene Hackman's acting always adds a few points.  Enjoy! "}{"Title":"Maybe you have to be British to like this.","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I found it odd upon reading other comments that a lot of people don't like this film. For some reason they call it simple, cliched and obvious. Well I hate to break it to you, but it's a sports film... and a comedy, and didn't really need any depth. I don't really care if the acting was bad, or if the characters had no depth, i never noticed as i was too busy laughing.Since i'm in the UK, i only saw this film on video. And it was the funniest thing i'd seen in ages. I even went straight out and bought the dvd. Me and my girlfriend absolutely loved it. Of course humor is pretty personal, so i guess some people maybe don't find it funny. We did - mainly down to Rhys Ifans (who is welsh...as am I), but the rest of the cast were funny to.So don't expect a clever film, 'cos it aint, but it is funny. Very, very funny. But maybe you have to be british to fully appreciate some of it. Especially references to being 'world champions', now that is funny.    "},{"Title":"Very funny, if not terribly original.","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Boy, there are a lot of good actors in this movie. Obviously Keanu isn't one of them but he's in the movie anyway. He does a good job of being opaque (wooden?), and it's OK because his character calls for him to be a washed-up jock and to play football, so it's not important that he can't convey subtle emotions. As usual Orlando Jones is very funny, as is Rhys Ifans (previously seen in Notting Hill as basically the same character, except this time he's an athlete instead of a couch potato). The whole replacement team is full of amusing characters, and the cheerleaders are *really* funny. Lots of individual original jokes and situations but the plot follows the typical underdog sports movie storyline. A great rental. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Yes, I know it's all been done to death before, in all sorts of ways.  The losers get together to win something.  To start with their fighting amongst themselves, and then through something they become a team, and at the end, of course, they win!  Well, I have to admit to being something of a fan of happy endings and feel good movies, but The Replacements was a lot of fun to watch.  It's not only a happy ending feel good movie, it's very funny, and the soundtrack rocks!  The characters are great, and I quite like Keanu Reeves, he does the 'babe' character very well. )  Way to go guys! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Fun and a Grossly Underrated Film","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I had avoided this film until it was shown on HBO because my two favorite reviewers, Roger Ebert and Leonard Maltin savaged it (both gave it only 2 stars out of 4).  I was surprised by these ratings.  This movie has many wonderful NFL inside jokes and dramatizes beautifully the stupidity of NFL owners, the selfishness of NFL players, and the greed of both.  I suspect that those reviewers who underrated this film fell into one of two camps  (1) they could not stand the entirely unsympathetic depiction of the regular players who went on strike in 1987 because those reviewers believed that anybody who stands for labor solidarity should be treated kindly on film or, (this is more likely)(2) they know nothing, let me say that again, nothing about sports in general or the NFL in particular and they simply didn't get it.  7 out of 10.  Recommended. "},{"Title":"A cliche of a movie but fun to watch...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  There's not much in this movie that would be considered original, but the characters and some funny moments make this movie very fun to watch.  Though Keanu Reeves didn't do anything different, he was needed to be the straight guy for all the wild personalities around him.  The treat was seeing the gorgeous Brooke Langton and her cheerleaders.  Their scenes were some of the better and funnier ones in the movie.  Overall, I'm glad I waited until this movie came on cable.  If you want to see a funny football movie, watch Necessary Roughness.  If you just want to see something silly and fun, The Replacements fits the bill. "},{"Title":"It's good - honest!","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements came straight onto video here in the UK so I was expecting a mediocre movie at the most. What I got was a surprisingly good and funny movie with a catchy soundtrack. I'm mystified why the film did not do better at the box office although I can understand it being relegated to video here in the UK where American football movies never do well.If you don't expect too much then you will probably enjoy The Replacements. So switch off your brain, sit back and let Keanu et al entertain you. "},{"Title":"Mildly entertaining","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If I didn't know an extra in this movie, I probably would not have gone to see it.  Since this is not my genre, you may like this more than I did. The action and plot hold interest for the most part.  I got a laugh or two, but overall I thought it was bland and not very well done. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as it could have been!","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  From the trailer I thought this movie would be really funny! Unfortunately it isn't as outrageous as they would have had you believe. The Replacements can't really decide if it wants to go for the lighthearted, fun humor the trailer promised or gross-out shtick. Keanu's performance stinks, but what else would you expect from the man? "},{"Title":"Where's the movie?","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Extremely formulaic schlock about has beens and never wases rising to the occasion to win enough remaining games as replacements to get their fictitious football team to the playoffs.  Gene Hackman and Keanu Reeves, in particular, seem to go through the motions.  Romantic subplot extremely juvenile as are the lockeroom and bar room antics displayed by both the replacment players and the overpaid athletes they scab. A couple of genuine funny moments, but you've seen it all before.  Compare this to Unecessary Roughness or the Longest Yard, which are both far superior, and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Replace the bad plot and bad acting and you might have yourself a movie...","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I love football. I love Gene Hackman. I love to look at Brooke Langdon. Yet somehow even all of that wasn't enough to save this piece of drek.They may have hired real football players to appear in some of the game scenes and used real plays, but that didn't help offending anyone who knows anything about football. They make some terrible football errors, like when they call a time-out to keep time from running out, but they had just thrown an incomplete pass. Ugh.I don't like Keanu Reeves much at all, but he honestly wasn't that bad in this film. He did a much better job that several reviewers here gave him credit for, and he did look fairly believable as the replacement QB. (The actual starting QB, played by Troy Winbush, didn't even remotely resemble anyone who could ever play a touch-football QB, let alone be the #1 QB in the NFL...)Gene Hackman, who I think has done some great films, was barely passable in this film. He just didn't seem to even really want to be in this film. (Which was a good call, considering the finished product...)Brooke Langdon is a super-attractive lady, and doesn't disappoint in her cheerleading outfit. But even that can't save this movie.About the only scenes that were funny at all were the cheerleading sex imitation cheers to throw the other team off its game. However, since in the real world cheerleaders wouldn't go on strike with the players (who the hell came up with that plot hole?), it wouldn't have happened in any replacement season.In summary, 'The Replacements' is a football movie that is so far out of bounds, you shouldn't even try to catch it at the video store. (Sorry about that.) -)  "}{"Title":"...and here goes falco...","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  this little film has a lot of action and fun. it's a lot like necessary roughness with a more believable cast-acting and agewise.keanu still surprises me. when i think that he's been acted out, that he's played all sides, he pulls something out of his hat. he trained and beefed up for this. gene hackmen's tough father figure is great. he love's his guys and it shows.the soundtrack (if it has any of the songs IN the film) is great.  "},{"Title":"a guilty pleasure","Date":"12 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  the replacements was a pleasant surprise it was predictable with the story but that didn't seem to matter as a football movie it was 100% better than that lame any given sunday.this movie showed some of whats wrong with todays game over inflated egos not respecting the coach, no teamwork, a meddlesome owner.but that was what was great you really got a good sense of being a part of team in this movie,I am not saying this is the greatest sports movie ever but it left me with a good feeling thats all you can ask for "},{"Title":"has it all, the best about sport in years!!!","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements is really a movie for you to sit down lay back and just let the characters take you along the story. This film has comedy, drama, romance, but most of all, it has a very deep message, believe in yourself. The story was awesome, some characters were dramatic, such as Anabelle(brooke langton) and Shane(keanu reeves) and Jimmy (gene hackman) but sometimes at the same time the actors know how to give you a laugh, they dont overact, they make it just  perfect. keanu reeves is completely believable as Shane, so are the rest of the actors. the rest of the actors(replacement player) just made me laugh out loud. more films should be made that carry this kind of message, even though this one used violence it did it really well. my fav 2 scenes are where anabelle is in the bar with shane, and when shane says to anabelle  you give me strength. what a cutie!!!! really, its a must see!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not original in the slightest sense of the word, but good acting and entertaining comedy make this weak story at least a little bit better.","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements, as I am sure hundreds of people have noted already, is yet another football movie. There have been only a few football movies which were very well made and resulted in quality films (Unnecessary Roughness was fairly well-done, and especially The Program, probably one of the best), but it seemed that The Replacements was an effort to either revive that genre (which is pretty much worn out) or to cash in on its past success. The story is loosely based on and an updated version of the 1987 pro-football strike (I doubt that the bullet riddled Porsche was a 1987 model), but the majority of the film is made up of an unimaginative story about replacement players. Almost the entire movie was put together using scenes that were disturbingly familiar to scenes from other films. For example, the actual replacement players were introduced exactly the same way that the 'replacement astronauts' were introduced in Armageddon. The actual football scenes require no imagination at all, and could have come from anywhere, and the cheerleaders were a tasteless element of the film in the tradition of BASEketball. Besides that, how about the ending? (spoilers) The team needs heart in order to win the big game, coach McGinty (Gene Hackman) says to the television reporter. He is obviously sending out a message specifically to Shane Falco (Keanu Reeves), the team's 'star' replacement quarterback. How touching. Needless to say, Falco decides to head down to the stadium to save the day, and boot the pro quarterback who had recently re-joined the team. Falco walks into the locker room at half time, everyone cheers, they go on to win the game. Does that sound familiar at all (Remember when B-Bobby Boucher showed up and the M-M-Mud Dogs won the Bourbon Bowl, do ya?)? Yeah, so Falco saved the day in true Waterboy form, and the movie ends just like every other football film ever made has ended.Despite the lacking story and the many unlikely events that take place (Is that your ride? Yeah. BAM BAM BAM BAM BAM!!!), The Replacements was barely saved by some surprisingly good acting. I was sick and tired of Keanu Reeves (until I saw The Matrix, where he delivered an excellent performance), and I expected a disappointing turn from The Matrix to a routine football film, but he was very convincing as the disillusioned quarterback who is suddenly faced with the chance to reverse his shabby reputation. Even Brooke Langton provides a good depiction of the only original cheerleader who is suddenly surrounded by strip club airheads and has some pretty good on-screen chemistry with the monotonous Keanu. The Replacements is a fairly good football film which doesn't really do anything that hasn't been done before, but at least it wasn't as terrible as Varsity Blues. It is worth watching to see the underdogs beat the odds and come out on top (yet again), but don't expect any plot twists. If you've ever seen a sports movie, you know the basic structure that they follow, and you'll know what's going to happen from the very beginning. "},{"Title":"A football movie I like!","Date":"27 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I have to admit, I am definitely NOT a fan of the sport, and usually movies to do with it, but I actually enjoyed this movie.  I volunteered to go with my 29 year old sister to see this (because she loves Keanu), and it was a laughing riot!  I especially liked the characters Jon Favreau and Orlando Jones (the infamous 7UP guy) played.  The ensemble of the cast actually works and blends very well, despite their differences in looks and behavior.  Keanu Reeves displayed pretty decent acting as the teams leader.  It was hilarious, as a comedy is meant to be.  The soundtrack is also incredible!  How hilarious is a bunch of guys dancing to Gloria Gaynor's I Will Survive?  Twice?  Very.  I can't wait until the CD is released.  On a final note, you can be a football junkie or not, and still enjoy this movie, which is good to appeal to a bigger audience.  I personally think that this is Keanu's best, next to Speed and The Matrix.  A must-buy for any fan on video. "},{"Title":"A refreshing change from most comedies...","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Judging by some of the other comments I've read, I must be one of the few who prefers actual humor and irony in my movies as opposed to the recent spate of over-raunchy jokes on bodily functions and obesity.  I actually found The Replacements to be a solid, enjoyable comedy.Sure, it's a bit formulaic.  But it's less obtrusively offensive than most of the innovative new comedies which have been released recently.  The sports scenes are solidly done, injecting the suspense which is often felt when watching actual games.  Of course, given the status of the movie as a Hollywood flick it was bound to come out with the underdogs on top.  Watching the team get there is half the fun.Solid camraderie, fairly good characterization, actual humor (as opposed to Ewwwwwww! *nervous laughter*), and an excellent soundtrack all work together to make this a great, enjoyable film.  Catch it at the theaters... at matinee, if possible, but it's still worth it for full price anywhere but California.  One word, in closingCheerleaders! "},{"Title":"Not bad-Not good","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements has every cliched sports movie trick, from the washed up quarterback getting one last shot to the coach who wants players who have heart.  It's not a bad film, but it's not a really good one either. Keenu Reeves, who I am personally not a fan of, was well cast here and did a believable job, in fact, most of the people in the film are pretty well cast. The film isn't really that funny, except for a couple scenes (cheerleaders distracting the opposing team, Jon Faveau's character...) and Reeve's quarterback still isn't that good, yet his teammates and coach think he's the greatest (I really didn't understand that).  But Gene Hackman as the coach...I was just waiting for him to repeat his Hoosiers speech ...I love you guys.  There are lots of plot holes here (why are Madden and Summeral covering every game? Are the lowly Sentinals on prime time every week or are these guys the home team announcers?) but overall, if you like football or any of the actors, you might find this film entertaining. "},{"Title":"Funny, and highly entertaining","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film the replacements starring Keanu Reeves is a very funny, interesting, and entertaining film. A great cast was chosen. this movie never lets up. go see it. you will enjoy it. 7.5/10= ***1/2 "},{"Title":"Terrible Soundtrack!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Worst music soundtrack ever! Yuck! Any Given Sunday had a great soundtrack with hard music for an hard sport. But The Replacements soundtrack is like a....day at the beach with dance music and a lot of geek song (like at hockey arenas). It's a shame... Worst music soundtrack ever!  "},{"Title":"Just one time...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The underdog sports genre, ah, how you have been so loyal...and exploited.  The same formula over and over again, a group of misfits, outcasts, and that one has been veteran.  Thrown in with an unconventional coach with rough edges who has heart in this team, which is currently a joke.  Of course, the team starts to play like one and turn some heads, maybe these guys ain't so bad, they often say.Well don't expect director Howard Deutch to steer Vince McKewin's script based on the 1987 pro football player's strike.  The Replacements follows every cliche in the book but still manages to please that demanding audience...stop laughing.  Keanu Reeves pulls all of his acting talents out of the bag for this football comedy, ok I am sorry I couldn't finish writing that sentence without laughing.  Anywho, Reeves stars as Shane Falco, a quarterback with the cannon but always chokes when the big game is on the line.  Falco now cleans barnacles off the bottoms of boats.  Everyone doubts Coach McGinty (Gene Hackman) with his choice of QB but yee have little faith.  McGinty was hired by the Washington Sentinels teamowner (Jack Warden) to throw together a team of replacement players, hence the title, to finish off the rest of the season because the pros want more dough and are at the picket lines.  Well you know where it goes from here, the team has to win that almost impossible amount of games to make it to the playoffs to prove their talent isn't a fluke.Though it sounds like I am tearing The Replacements a new one, I actually had a lot of fun watching it.  It's a hilarious sports comedy with those zany characters and one incredibly attractive cheerleader, Falco's love interest Annabelle, played by Brooke Langton.  Thanks Keanu for tapping those infamous comedy roots, dude.All in all, everything The Waterboy should be and claims to be but way more.8.5/10 "}{"Title":"Fun football movie.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Welcome to the only fun summer movie so far.  Of course it's silly.  Of course it has a happy ending.  Of course everyone is very buff except the fat funny guys and the crazy dude.  Of course no one can/does act.  But you love it anyway.  It does take a few swipes at professional players who seem to love money rather than the game and amoral owners who also love money more than the game.  Of course the movie makers paid enough money to shoot in a professional football field.  And it is a beautiful production with great choreography both on and off the field.  Have fun!  "},{"Title":"reminds you of when sports weren't just for the money.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I thought this was hysterically funny. It has heart. Remember when sports were played by men and women who loved the game, NOT just for the money. This movie will remind you of those times. For one gleaming moment you and I are pro athletes. "},{"Title":"Really Freakin' Funny","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This was a great movie, the first hour makes you laugh non-stop the second hour is some great football, it was a perfect mix. Keanu Reeves acting was actually good, no really, he did a great job as Shane Falco, the washed up college quarter back. The rest of the cast added the humor and energy the movie needed. Jon Favreau's character Bateman, a SWAT team member who acts more like an attack dog definitely was one to watch. This was just a great movie that, go see it, buy it, whatever, I promise you will enjoy it... "},{"Title":"Suprizingly Funny","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The Replacemts turned out to be one of the funniest movies I've seen in a while. Although most of it is stuff we've seen a million times before, it still makes you howl and there is alos a little bit of a serious overtone to it. Although it is a good cast, the acting isnt great. Gene Hackman was good in his role as the coach, but they didn't need him or Al Pacino for that role. Same with keanu Reeves as the quarterback. However, there was some good chemistry between the charecters. One other good thing about this movie is it is an example of a true PG-13 rated film, meaning it's not objectional enough to be an R but kids under 13 shouldn't see it unless they are very mature. There are some pretty racy jokes in it. Although a predictible and unoriginal movie, it was still a lot funnier and a lot better than I expected. *** stars(out of 4)  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly GREAT!!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I really wasnt expecting much from this movie, but was very surprised when I saw it.  This movie was very funny and had a little bit of everything. Action, comedy, a little romance, and some skin.  What a total package of a movie.   "},{"Title":"One of the best feel-good movies of the year!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie is getting a unwarrented bad rap from some critics. I went into this not expecting much (I'm not a football fan), and came out pleasantly surprised!  This movie did not have a dull moment.  It was filled with many humorous moments, excitement, and a love story with a lot of chemistry between the two characters.  The movie was uplifting in many ways and I would definately recommend it to anyone over 13.  (Younger kids would like it, but there are a few scenes which warrant the PG-13 rating).  "},{"Title":"If only the Superbowl could be this good...and this funny!","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Slightly similar to Unnecessary Roughness with Scott Bakula, this movie is even better. Just one of those feelgood movies that will have your funnybone acting up on overtime! I cannot remember the last time I laughed so hard at a movie...any movie in a long time. This one is for the whole family...everyone will enjoy it!!! "},{"Title":"A little flat","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is a summer fluff movie.  Nothing spectacular, but not bad either.  The plot is basically identical to Major league except with football players.  The movie is about the team getting along with each other so they can win some games.There were a number of things that could have been done to improve this movie.  For one, more scenes showing actual football.  Each games consists of about 4 plays concentrating almost entirely on keanu and jon favreau.  Oh and half the footage for the football games concentrated on the cheerleaders.  Especially annoying during the final game (cheerleaders, half a play, cheerleaders, other half of the play, cheeleaders, sideline scene, cheerleaders, etc).Since it is so light on the football and action, and overall not impressive wait to see this one of video. "},{"Title":"Two thumbs up - it'll hold your attention and make you laugh.","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Having seen a lot of sports movies, I wasn't sure if this film was going to be different or not. On some levels it was, and on other levels, it was formulaic and (somewhat) predictable. This didn't make it any less enjoyable, as it held my attention for the full length of the film. Since all the other reviews detail the plot, I'll dispense with a plot synopsis and tell you that it was a good film, even with the excessive language. I took my 12 year old son with me to see it (PG-13) and it's every bit a PG-13 film. The Puke scene in the huddle had us laughing as only a kid watching a puke scene could laugh! If you take The Longest Yard, The Bad News Bears, and a couple of other good sports flicks, you have The Replacments. The comedy kept us laughing, and you find yourself rooting for these wannabe professional football players. I found myself tapping my foot with the soundtrack music (BTO - Takin' Care of Business appropriately came blasting out when the team finally started clicking as a team). It is entertaining, and I found myself wincing at some of the hits on the field. Scary Movie? FORGET IT. This film is a much, much better way to spend a couple of hours. Pony up your money to see it. Out of 10 I'd give it a solid 8.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I've seen a few football movies over the years and most of them don't really entertain me that much. The last one was `Any Given Sunday' and that one turned out to annoy me more than entertain me. `The Replacements' I liked.The story is simple. Professional football players go on strike and the team brings in replacement players to finish the season. That's it. There's no subplot or tricky twists that try to make the movie more than it's out to be. Mind you the replacement players turn out to be either misfits or just guys who never made it to the pros but then, that's the charm of the movie.The movie focuses on the characters and the situation they're placed in but it's not entirely testosterone filled (although there's quite a bit of it). There's humor laced throughout that I really enjoyed and it wasn't a two hour movie filled with swears every second word. In fact, I don't even recall hearing any now that I think about it. Keanu Reeves plays the replacement quarter back and it seems that as he gets older his acting becomes better. I still occasionally find it hard to not associate him with `Bill and Ted' but I do respect the fact that he's always gone after different roles. I've rarely seen Gene Hackman give a poor performance and he doesn't disappoint in this movie. He's done a few other `coach' type roles so this shouldn't be anything difficult. There were a couple peripheral actors that really did grab the spotlight when they had it. Rhys Ifans plays the Welsh kicker and he definitely draws a lot of laughs. I first saw him in `Nottinghill' as `Spike' and he definitely is one of the character actors that's hard not to like. Orlando Jones plays Franklin and plays him well. He's very hard to ignore when he's on screen.Overall, I liked this movie and would recommend it to anyone wanting a good laugh but don't come to me and say that it was predictable&#133;what else were you expecting from a football movie?  "}{"Title":"Thoroughly Entertaining","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Of a triple feature, this was the best one of the three.  It was the middle one.  It was really funny.  The movie is a light-hearted movie that doesn't care who it steals from, nor what happens, as long as it entertains.  And entertains it does.  I am not the type to fall for generic, run-of-the-mill type movie, yet I liked this movie.  It was a tamer version of Major League football style.The Plot  Major League with a dash of Any Given Sunday.  The players are on strike, and the team has to come up with a winning group of losers.  Next, the players have to win three out of the only four games left in the season.  In the meantime, the owner has chosen a coach that he had fired years ago.The acting Your regular cheeze0ball comedy acting.  Nobody is going to win any Oscars for the range of emotions shown in the movie, but at least the acting was pretty good.*Spoilers Ahead**Spoilers Ahead* So, why did I like it?  The strippers as cheerleaders was stolen from the cruder BASEketball.  Yet they worked to make me laugh.  The overly aggressive football player made me laugh hard.  The three fat guys getting mad at each other was funny.  The bodyguards (same people) worked, and even the overplaying of I Will Survive (I saw Coyote Ugly last, and it had the song right at the beginning, what made the song get its comeback?) worked for its humor.  The movie just clicked.  Not that I would see it over and over, but it was a really funny movie that I highly recommend to anyone looking for a not-so-crude laugh (and there were some crude ones, I'm not saying that it was saintly, but next to Me Myself and Irene...), and some good escapism, see this one.8/10 "},{"Title":"One of the best football movies since Rudy.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements was a nice and refreshing movie.Probably one of the best I have seen since Rudy.Keanu Reeves and Gene Hackman both give great performances along with a good job of supportive acting from the rest of the cast.Also there is definitely a good deal of eye candy on the sidelines.Although the ending of the movie was a little predictable and not too well written it was climactic.Over all I felt this to be a very good movie and was worth the money I spent to see it.    "},{"Title":"Hysterical football comedy","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements is a very funny, very entertaining comedy which is loosely based on the real-life NFL strike during the 1987 season where the real players went on strike and replacement players were brought in to take their place. Keanu Reeves took a break from action movies to do comedy here and in The Replacements he stars as Shane Falco, the replacement quarterback for the fictional Washington Sentinels. Oscar winner Gene Hackman also gets to show off some of his comic side as the Sentinels coach Jimmy McGinty who recruits these mostly off-the-wall players, and it's great to see long-time veteran character actor Jack Warden still around as he portrays the Sentinels owner Edward O'Neil. The other replacements players are an assorted bunch of oddball characters a store security guard who's very fast but has butterfingers for hands; a Japanese sumo wrestler; a soccer player from Wales who becomes the field goal kicker and who's usually smoking (even on the field); a cop who's turns into a absolute tackling nut on the field; a wide-receiver who's deaf; and a rapper bodyguard duo. There's also focus on the cheerleaders, where two of them are exotic dancers. Not to mention the head cheerleader takes an interest in Falco. The Replacements is a silly and predictable movie, but I didn't mind because it did make me laugh and I laughed alot while watching it. Plus, the entire cast does a pretty good job. It's nice to see Reeves and Hackman get a chance to do comedy again (Reeves starred in the two Bill & Ted comedies; Hackman did the nutty 1996 film The Birdcage). Old pro Warden has a few good moments as the team owner, and the actors who play the other replacement players are a riot. I didn't find The Replacements all that original but since it's so funny most of the time I didn't care. It's the funniest football comedy since The Waterboy. ***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie about getting a second chance","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the better sports movies I have seen.  It has a great cast of seeming misfits, losers, usetobes, and wannabees.This movie is a fictional account about football players going on strike and the owner brings in a new (used to be) coach, Gene Hackman.  Hackman then sets out to bring together a bunch of players whom, for several reasons, he would like to see playing football.  Of course, these guys come from all walks of life and have little if anything in common.  The task at hand is to mold them into a football team and get them into the playoffs in four games.Keanu Reeves is the one selected to be the quarterback for the team and, with the help of Hackman, establishes himself as the leader of this group of misfits.  He does an excellent job and for someone who never played football I think he did great.Hackman, as usual, is great.  He had established himself as a great basketball coach in Hoosiers.  This time he gets to coach football.  I think it establishes that leadership can be great no matter what the circumstances if the man is a true leader.  Hackman definitely is.Everyone will love this movie.  It is humorous and it will bring a tear to your eye.  It is inspirational and points a finger at what professional sports has become, the quest for fame and money.  These guys, the replacements, are playing for the love of the game, the desire for combat, and the desire to win.  It also points out that we have lost true leaders and established in their place, managers.There are plenty of beautiful women and the girl who is Reeves' romantic interest in this film is a real beauty inside and out.One of the more humorous scenes is when Hackman tries to get the replacements to deal with any fears they have.  Instead bringing up the fear of being hurt or the fear of losing, the guys start talking about their fear of spiders, as if the other fears had not entered into their small brains. "},{"Title":"de ja vu","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I think I've seen this movie before. I can't remember the title, but it might have been Wildcats, Necessary Roughness, Major League, Teen Wolf, Teen Wolf Too, or The Mighty Ducks. You'd never expect professional football players to miss plays because they're watching the unexpectedly sexy cheerleaders. And yet, apparently it happens.  "},{"Title":"Ifans and Cullen were terrific!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I went to see this movie with some reservations, as I don't follow football but needed a good laugh.  It was definitely worth it.  Keanu Reeves was fine, but the real stars of the movie were Gene Hackman, Rhys Ifans, Brooke Langton and Brett Cullen.  Hackman was very comfortable and familiar in this role, and Ifans was hilarious.  I hadn't seen Langton since her Chicago Hope days but she worked well with Reeves and gave some depth to a scarcely-written character.  Brett Cullen played against type as the arrogant quarterback who goes on strike, and really steals the movie. He's much better known for playing the good guy, as he did in SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT and APOLLO 13, and seems to relish the chance to get nasty here. His interview in the opening moments of the film is hilarious, and he just gets better from there.  His performance alone is worth the price of admission.  One caution about this film - take the PG13 rating seriously (language, nudity) and leave the kids home. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Comedy","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements is a fun and funny football comedy that will leave you in stitches. During a NFL players strike each team hires replacements players to finish out the season. The Washington Sentinels are the main focus team of this film. They need to win three out of the next four games to reach the playoffs, so they hire a retired coach (Gene Hackman) and a rag tag bunch of players (which features Keanu Reeves,Jon Favreau,Rhys Ifans,Orlando Jones,and Faizon Love) to try and reach their goal. Keanu Reeves leads this bunch as Shane Falco, an all-American quarterback in college, who ruined his career in the '96 Sugar Bowl when he lost the game by 45 points. Gene Hackman goes back to his Hoosiers days as the coach that's street smart and been through it all. He's good and he does respect to his Hoosiers performance. Keanu first film after The Matrix has him playing a gifted quarterback who can't get it done. He pulls off the football star well and his humble guy approach comes off well in this film. But the man that everyone will be talking about is Orlando Jones. The people who didn't get see him shine on Fox's Mad TV will get to see what he can do in this. If you were to put Eddie Murphy, Martin Lawrence, and Chris Rock together you would get Orlando Jones. He is naturally funny and steals the show here. This film is very racy for a PG-13 film. There are lot of crude humor, swearing and gross jokes. I saw this at the first sneak peak in late July so I'm not sure if they edited it or not but that version I saw had a lot I didn't think they could get away with in a PG-13 film. Maybe the MPAA has finally come to their senses. The Replacements is a feel good and hilarious football comedy. Check it out.                  "},{"Title":"Loved IT!!!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was absolutely fun.  It didn't have any raunchy humor or repeated sex jokes that seems to be the norm lately.  I am not a sports fan at all, but all through the movie, I was laughing very hard.  The ending is a tad predictable, but oh well.  It was a funny, feel good movie and definitely worth seeing!  The sound track absolutely ROCKS and it makes you realize how vital music can be to a movie.   "},{"Title":"A good, funny movie, with mediocre acting.","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This was an OK movie. It had its scenes. But I guess I went in with my expectations a little too high. Don't get me wrong, it was good, but something was missing. I wished that it wasn't all football, and that there was more of a romance between Brooke Langton's and Keanu Reeve's characters. Oh well, not all movies are perfect. The strippers/cheerleaders were a nice touch. My rating 2 out of 4 "},{"Title":"A decent sports comedy","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  The Replacements is a strange mix of reality, slapstick comedy, and plot lines you've seen a hundred times before that mix to form an engaging, though not spectacular comedy. Their is some decent football action, and some big laughs.Aside from the fact that 80% of this script seems to be lifted more or less directly from the 1991 Scott Bakula vehicle Necessary Roughness (whose script wasn't that original itself), this movie at least had a kind of glitzed up feel that most football movies like to avoid. It didn't get down and dirty in the trenches, like so many movies before it. You'll have seen many of the gags before, but they're well-done, and there is the added bonus of Pat Sumerall and John Madden doing what I assume to be a satire of themselves (how else to explain such Madden quotes as, He caught the ball! He doesn't usually catch the ball, but he caught the ball!Only two things really irked me about this movie #1 - why the need for replacement cheerleaders? I understand they wanted to take a slightly racier angle (something lifted from Baseketball, but used to much greater effect here), but it isn't as if cheerleaders belong to the NFL Players Association. Also, the movie has the strike occur with 4 games left to go in the season. The strike on which this is based (in 1987), happened at the beginning of the year, as do all labor disputes but baseball's. This is presumably to add the dramatic effect brought on by the hunt for a playoff birth, but that's never really present, so it I think it just would've seemed a little less silly if this was all occurs at the start of the season.Decent acting, good football scenes, the occasional big laugh, and nothing you haven't seen a hundred times before. But still worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Pleasant Surprise","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Honestly, I wasn't expecting much of this film, but there are a lot of funny moments (I haven't laughed this much at the movies in a long time). You will quickly find yourself rooting for this ragtag group of underdogs. Like others who have left reviews, the preview crowd I saw this with laughed uproariously throughout the film and applauded every touchdown. Lots of fun and a nice way to spend two hours. "},{"Title":"Really funny movie - no need to know much about football","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining with lots of laughs throughout. you don't need to be a big football fan to enjoy this movie. All of the replacements were very funny and I especially liked the soccer player who was the flat mate in Notting Hill.  I saw The Replacements at a sneak preview and people actually clapped at the end of the movie.  Sounds like I wasn't the only one who liked the movie. "},{"Title":"Funny Football.","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  THE REPLACEMENTS is the funniest football film that I have seen since THE LONGEST YARD with Burt Reynolds.  I have always enjoyed movies about sports, in fact I find them more entertaining than the real thing.  Yes, they are predictable, but at least I know who the people are.  You can sort of call this a football version of the baseball classic, THE BAD NEWS BEARS. The professional players of the Washington Sentinels decide to go on strike during the season.  The team owner, O' Neil (Jack Warden) doesn't want the team to quit during mid-season, so he relies on coach McGinty (Gene Hackman) to help find the team some replacement players.  McGinty can find the replacement players, trouble is that each of these players has a excellent quality and a negative quality.  There's Shane Falco (Keanu Reeves), a excellent quarterback who is still living in the shadow of his horrible defeat of the Sugar Bowl game some years ago.  Bateman (Jon Favreau) is a tackle happy defense player, the only problem is that he will also tackle his own teammates.  Gruff (Rhys Ifans) is a excellent kicker, but he has a attitude, drinking, and gambling problem.  And there's Franklin (Orlando Jones) a superior runner, one of the fastest, it's just that he can't catch anything.  McGinty has a few weeks to get this team into the finals, while the strike goes on. I enjoyed the humor of this film, since that is what is important for this film.  It does have some new jokes for the sport, and like I said it's the funniest football film since THE LONGEST YARD and the climax of M*A*S*H*.  And speaking of M*A*S*H*, the cheerleaders led by Falco's love intrest Annabelle (a very pretty Brooke Langton), is the most dinginess and funniest cheerleaders since then. The acting is also fine, I got past the Keanu Reeves slow talking character.  It's not one of his best like PARENTHOOD and MATRIX. But it's far better than MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING and JOHNNY MEMONIC.  Gene Hackman gives a wonderful performance as the football veteran who enjoys his replacements more than his regulars since the replacements play the game for the love of it, not the money.  And I also enjoyed Jon Favreau as the energetic tackle guard who is always excited.  Rhys Ifans is also funny as the slobbish Gruff, if you enjoyed him in NOTTING HILL, you'll enjoy him in this film.  And Faizon Love and Michael Taliferro who play the Jackson brothers are also very enjoyable. This is a decent sports film, director Howard Deutch (of PRETTY IN PINK and GREAT OUTDOORS fame) did a much better job with this film than his previous effort, the dreadful ODD COUPLE II.  And for lightweight summer entertainment, this film does give that to the audience.  This in no INSIDER or AMERICAN BEAUTY, it's just a enjoyable film.  So for those comedy and sport lovers out there, this is a nice treat. **** (out of five) "},{"Title":"A two point conversion!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Just like in football,  you know when they are going to do the two point conversion, and as with this movie,  you know what the basic plot outline is.  But when the two point conversion works in Football, as in this movie, its exciting and fun to watch.  You don't expect it to work, but it does.I saw the premier on the 27th and wanted to wait till a few days later before I write a review. I wanted to let my thoughts on the film settle a little.   I loved this movie,  it was a lot funnier than I thought it would be.  While some of the acting was a little over the top,  it usually worked. The acting by Hackman was great.  Then again,  when is Hackman not great.The attitude towards the striking players was a little shocking,  but I felt it was right on target. The romance was a little lame,  but it was kept a little light by some clever comments. Is this the funniest or best sports movie I have ever seen?  No!  But it is  a very entertaining and fun movie that I would pay to see again.  I gave this movie an 8 out of a possible 10. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie - Definitely Worth Seeing!","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Saw a preview screening of The Replacements Saturday night and thought it was a funny, lighthearted movie that leaves you feeling good after it's over. The cast of characters were great together and the story, although somewhat predictable, was heart warming.  The audience that I was in laughed quite a bit and applauded at the end.  If you are looking for laughs and a movie full of heart - this is the one to see. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, well written, well acted","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is a very funny movie. Gene Hackman is perfect for the role of the coach and Keanu does a good job of making you want to root for the underdogs. The camera loves Hackman in this film and you will enjoy the football scenes and the hard hitting. The dialogue is hysterical and the actors that play the scabs are hilarious...Rhys Ifans, Jon Favreau, Orlando Jones; you will be laughing the enire movie. The theater I saw the sneak preview in was packed and everyone was cracking up the entire movie.Course, the reason I went to see it was for Brett Cullen, who played the spoiled rotten jerk, Eddie Martel, the team's All-Pro Quarterback that goes on strike. Brett is awesome in this movie and you will love to hate him. This movie is worth the money! "},{"Title":"I Agree!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Totally a go see it movie. I know not one thing about football, but found it very easy to follow. This PG-13 movie was a real delight. Script was good and funny, direction was excellent. In love with Keanu? Enough close ups to make it worth your while. A huge football fan? You will find it very entertaining and funny. I saw this also at a sneak preview and awaiting opening day to see it again. This movie will be a DVD keeper when it comes out. It's a relief to see something that can relax you in the theater for a change.  "},{"Title":"This is an awesome movie!","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I just saw that movie at a Sneak Preview and i must say that this movie is great. I think it's one of the best summer movies this year. It has a lot of great laughs and Keanu Reeves and Gene Hackmann give great performances. Howard Deutsch directed all those football scenes superbly. I highly recommend this film to everyone who like either Keanu Reeves or great movies. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny movie with lots of heart.","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is a surprisingly good movie, with lots of laughs and lots of heart. The ads make this seem like a very dumb jock movie, but there is actually lots of humor, and the core of the story is about these replacement players trying to redeem themselves, gain respect, and attain personal glory. The story is of course predictable, but it's a very enjoyable ride nonetheless. "},{"Title":"Laughing, cheering, and applauding","Date":"29 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Reporting in from Kansas City where the premiere of The Replacements just finished showing. We loved it!! The audience laughed out loud a lot, cheered frequently, and applauded often.Keanu was wonderful, as usual. (Hey, you Keanu bashers, give it a break.) Shane Falco is another one of his endearing roles; he is sweet, smart, and plays the game with heart.The focus is on football, rather than the love interest. I heard one woman remark on the way out of the theater that she didn't think that she would ever like a football movie, but this was certainly the exception. I see this as the date movie of the year, appealing to both men and women.The remainder of the cast is wonderful. What a group of funny guys. Favreau is crazed, Ifans, well, he's Ifans. Just like a real football team, these guys have specialties, only in this case it's comedy.Oh, I almost forgot...he's hard to spot, but look for Keanu dancing in the jail cell scene. My, my, that man can move to the Electric Slide!!Enough for now; I want to replay the movie in my mind. It's going to be a long 6 months or so until it's out on DVD. "}{"Title":"Just another predictable football movie","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Too bad I wasted 7 bucks to see this superficial football flick. In the style of films like Major League and Necessary Roughness, The Replacements lacks the effort and thought needed for a good screenplay. I'll admit, there was some decent action (on and off the field) and a few humorous moments. However, the majority of the movie just wasn't entertaining. This was due to a predictable plot and some very absurd overacting. It's unfortunate that such a good cast of characters couldn't have done a little more with this picture. "},{"Title":"Football movie in the Guilty Secret category","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The football season approaches and I searched around for football movies that make a difference. But I can honestly say for me The Replacements with Keanu Reeves and Gene Hackman occupies a special status in the football-movie heavens. I've watched it many times and have been thoroughly amused even inspired on each occasion. So what's the appeal? Probably that it's more escapist fun with a lot of very cool music, clever humor, and wicked choreography than you find in more realistic portrayals. ... For my complete review of this movie and for other movie and book reviews, please visit my site TheCoffeeCoaster.com.Brian Wright Copyright 2007 "},{"Title":"A Football Players Delight!","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Score one for the anti-statistics sports fan. This movie should be played in every locker room of every football team at the beginning of every season. Yes I am (or was) a football player and I still love to watch the game because I can tell you the outcome most of the time according to the spirit of the team - You've got to have heart! - a reference to Cole Porter from 'Anything Goes' - 'Miles and miles and miles of heart!' is the message of the movie.You don't get to be a professional player without top skills and top conditioning but you don't win games without a damn good reason 'winning one for the Gipper' - 'get into the playoffs' - 'They hurt us last time' - whatever.But aside from the message, this is just good fun. Strip-tease cheerleaders, John Madden comments, romance. If you like football at all, don't miss this movie. Oh, and by the way, if you are a John Favreau fan at all, like I am, you really must see it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"8 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I first saw this movie like six years ago and I thought it was okay. Then about three years ago I saw it at a store and picked it up for like 9.99. I brought it home and I watched it and i realized how great this movie actually was now that I was old enough to understand it. Great acting by Keanu and the supporting cast was amazing. Orlando Jones as supporting cast...how can you go wrong? All the stories behind the replacement players are funny. They vary from an ex-seal to a convict that is hilarious when he first arrives. Gene Hackman places a phenomenal job as the head coach. Well this movie is a definite go out and buy film, the little price you pay will have you laughing through out the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Cheesy but worth watching....","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" I first caught the tail end of this film whilst on holiday in Mexico and I was getting ready to go out to eat. I ended up watching the end of the film to see how it turned out and went out later in a real feel good mood.This film is cheesy, in an American 80's way but it's surprisingly good, so good that I looked it up when I got home and bought it. Keanu is great as a inspirational American football player and Rhys Ifans (the guy in grey Y-fronts in Notting Hill) is fabulous too.Gene Hackman is good as the coach and it will leave you wanting to know how it endsHonestly, watch it, you'll love it. Great ending too...... "},{"Title":"Probably not the worst film I've seen this year","Date":"29 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Mediocre is my recollection of it. I'm amazed that it is so popular with you all, so I'm gonna have to watch it again to make sure. so many people can't be wrong, surely. Maybe it's coz I'm not American so all the pomp and ceremony over that (to me) sporadic and ridiculous game is lost on me. Anyway, i'll give it another chance. In any event, maybe screwball American comedy isn't my genre. I really don't want to talk about that movie any more so the 10 line rule IMDb have is a bit of a nuisance really. I started to going to the gym about 2 months ago and I never had any problem with eating whatever food I liked without putting on weight but now I can't look at a chocolate bar without my gut popping out. I also think that people who go to the gym have prematurely ageing skin. There, 10 lines at least. "},{"Title":"Something worthwhile","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" A sports movie with any other group of Movie Stars would be considered boring. Yes, i understand that right from the get go The Replacements has a lot against mainly being that its a sports movie and its in danger of being the same old thing that you have seen over and over again when the same triumph over adversity storyline is rolled out. When the NFL players go on strike the owner of the Washington Sentinels former NFL coach Jimmy McGinty (Gene Hackman) to put together a team to see out the season which he does assembling pulling together a rag-tag team of players from all walks of life The Replacements has the right mix of acting talent for it to seem Cool. With the likes of Gene Hackman as the coach , Keanu Reeves as a washed up Quarterback given a second chance, Jon Favreau a man looking for a legal outlet for his violent tendencies, Rhys Ifans as a man hoping to save his bar and Brooke Langton as the sexy cheer leading captain you just know your in for something that will not disappoint you and maybe even have the cynics out there cheering.And remember, Pain Heals, Chicks Dig Scars but Glory lasts foreverLuke Farrell AJA 8000366 www.themovieboards.com "},{"Title":"A great (and funny) sports film","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The best thing about this film is that it works on two levels As a sports film showcasing underdogs rising up to a challenge (not unlike the real replacement players themselves did), and as a funny, funny comedy. The football moments were very entertaining in and of themselves, although Hollywood had to inject the usual amount of unreal scenarios (come on... a 65 yard field goal!). Still, the action moved well, and having Madden and Summerall was a good touch. As far as the comedy, the entire film was well paced and the ensemble was filled with great performances (Jon Favreau, Orlando Jones, even Gene Hackman showed some comic timing). My son (14 years old) AND my mom (76) both love this film! That's gotta be some sort of record!5 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"A Football Film With Heart and A Fat Chinese Guy","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" A football team (Washington Sentinels) owned by that guy from Problem Child (the grandfather) goes on strike, so the owner must replace the coach and players with new players. The coach (Gene Hackman) picks a lineup that excels in every way, a group he's had his eye on for quite some time (which really makes no sense if you think about it and realize where he's picking people from, but ignore that).I think there's nothing about the plot an the twists that aren't completely predictable. I've seen many movies like this before and probably will again in the future. The only difference here was the cast.Keanu Reeves delivered a less than stellar performance. He has been known to have good roles (I really enjoyed The Lake House), but he is also known as a really bad actor, and this role really added to the latter. Gene Hackman is a final actor, and was fine in this role... unfortunately it didn't require him to do much besides wear a suit and hat that were forty years out of date.The cheerleaders were, well, decent. Many people have said the cheerleaders are hot (and are supposed to be because of some of the questionable scenes and the fact they're playing ex-strippers). I don't know. The head cheerleader was attractive in a motherly way and one of the cheerleaders was remarkable, but overall they were bland or looked like mental patients. If you're into the dumb blonde thing, maybe they're for you. Personally, I think they could have been written out entirely.The team (besides Reeves) was perfect. The Welsh kicker was interesting and made me want to rent Trainspotting, the Chinese guy was hilarious in his quest to gain more weight. He also set up John Madden for his only good line in the film about a Fat guy dance. (Seriously, does anyone really need to see more John Madden?) The x-con was alright. Orlando Jones had a weak backstory, but he's a goofball actor and is given too much screen time in all his films (please stop giving him roles).Overall, a patterned film that was entertaining but not really one that stands out. I'd even rather watch Varsity Blues if I wanted a football film. This one has heart, but unfortunately lacks originality. "},{"Title":"If you voted for Bush, you'll like this movie","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" Very very simple-minded movie for people who think it's funny to see a 500 pound sumo-wrestler turned fuball player throw up his hard-boiled eggs. Everything is a cliché and strictly by the numbers. Gene Hackman is a great actor and must have needed money bad to take the roll of the coach who when asked what the team needs said heart, we gotta have heart. Keaunna Reeves is the star and he's OK and there's a bunch of cheerleaders who are fantastic babes.One cliché they didn't use that surprised me is when the Q-back told his lineman to let a certain dirty-playing defensive player come thru the line. Mild spoiler. In the great movie the longest yard prison Q-back burt reynolds drills the ball right into the guy's crotch and it was hilarious. I was sure they'd re-enact that famous scene, but instead the QB just hit the guy in the helmet with the ball!! So they avoided the cliché but also the humor. I give this movie a D+. "}{"Title":"Is it a comedy or a drama?","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  (Spoilers)This movie isn't a comedy drama.  It's either a comedy or a drama.  Not both.  At first you think it's a comedy.  But then it turns into a drama.Keanu Reeves isnt' too bad in the film.  But Gene Hackman must be bored.  It's basically a retred of The Hoosiers.  Just a different sport.The ending is horrible.  They tried to give us a Vision Quest ending that doesn't work in this film.  Basically there is no ending.6/10Quality 6/10 Entertainment 5/10 Replayable 5/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated and Worth the Watch","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  While first glance caused many to take The Replacements for just another football movie this couldn't be farther from the truth. The Replacements is far more than a sports movie, it's a movie about fitting in, finding love, finding yourself...and yes...sports too.The main strength of this movie is the characterization. By the time this movie is over you find yourself knowing and caring about every character in the film, something which most movies with a big cast usually fail to achieve.Now with all that aside, I can now tell you the main selling point of The Replacements...it's a truly feel good movie. If you're down this movie is guaranteed to put a smile on your face, if you're sad it will make you laugh.I tried not to get too deep into specifics here because even informing you of one scene could deprive you of many laughs. All I can say is I highly recommend this movie to both sports fans and non-sports fans alike. As said before, well worth the watch and a shame to miss. Rating 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A variation on a theme","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  OK this is a blatant rip-off of Any Given Sunday (starring Al Pacino) but this doesn't mean it's bad! In fact the humour and different storyline make it something of a little pearl. The cast is sound and the script is well written. It is, however, a film for the blokes. The Chicks dig scars speech from Keanu Reeves and the cheerleaders see to that! Superb film which is well worth a viewing! "},{"Title":"Been there","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  For guys who have at one point in life strapped on shoulder pads. For all the girls who wished to be cheerleaders or date the quarterback. Fun movie.It makes the Exorcist look more like The Blair Witch Project when you compare the puking scenes!Eggs anyone? Its a must see film for old jocks. C'mon..John Madden, Gene Hackman?...how can you go wrong? Soundtrack is great.....get me the ball has replaced fetch in my household! If you didn't make the team...You will SURVIVE! "},{"Title":"Same old story","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  How many times is Hollywood going to keep presenting us with the same story?  This movie is a remake of Major League, except with football players.  You start out with the same goofy scenes of out of place, hardly athletes who couldn't make it in the pros and now have some other type of job.  (Along with the token law breaker who has jut gotten out of prison.)  They all fall into typical movie stereotypes.  Yawn.  Add that to the token has been (played by Keanu Reeves) who blew it in a game many years ago and refuses to get back into the sport, despite Gene Hackman's convincing argument.  Oh no, he is content instead to sit on his fishing boat and wallow in misery.  We've all seen this story before.  Of course he changes his mind.  Now this group of merry thieves is going to band together, play football, and save the day, despite the antics of the striking 'real' football players.  Yawn again.  This movie might've been better off a Movie of the Week.This movie is mildly humorous at times, but the problem is that there isn't anything new here.  Keanu is a shrewd businessman, getting 12 million to make this middle of the road comedy.  Why Gene Hackman and Jon Favreau decided to sign up is beyond me.  I wouldn't recommend this at all unless you have absolutely nothing better to do.  As for me, I was stuck on a plane, so I watched it until the grueling end.         "},{"Title":"This Film truly is awful","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  It is cheesy (not the good cheese) and has some horrendous acting in it.  The script is downright stupid and completely silly.  It may have been more effective had they not made the movie slapstick.   "},{"Title":"Great potential...comes up a dud.","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't care how cute the masses of teenaged females in America find Keanu Reeves; he is easily the worst actor of my lifetime! And his negative contributions are enough to blow this movie, which has a decent script, right out of the water.  Reeves delivers every line in every movie with the same droll monotone. Get a life (and some acting lessons), K! Oh heck, you made a cool $5 million, so who cares about us fans.Miss this one like the black plague. It should be on T.V. soon enough. "},{"Title":"Major League in pads","Date":"19 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Someone decided to take Major League, rename the characters, and take out the excitement.The result is The Replacements, a typical sports movie staring Keanu Reeves. The movie begins with a Professional Football Players strike, right in the middle of a game.  The owners decide to finish the season using replacement players.From there we get recycled scenes from such movies as Major League, The Longest Yard, Major League again, Necessary Roughness, Varsity Blues and even more Major League.How many times can you see the same c**p and keep watching. And to top it off, we are treated to  the Big Game and Fantastic Finish that makes every bad sports movie complete. "},{"Title":"As memorable as a single-point convert","Date":"9 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Taking in The Replacements is a bit like spending a sunny Sunday afternoon inside the house with a six-pack at your side watching one of those mid-season NFL games between two of the more anonymous teams in the league.No matter how hard the players may play, it's still a meaningless affair in the overall scheme of things, to be forgotten almost as soon as the television is turned off. But you still watch the whole game anyway because hey, anything is better than mowing the lawn.Likewise, The Replacements seems to have been written by Hollywood's equivalent of the coach with the crew cut and a divine belief in a solid ground game. This movie is so predictable that if these jokes were passes and the audience so many the defensive backs, some career days would be made in the interception department.Starring Keanu Reeves, Gene Hackman, and Brooke Langton, The Replacements is about a group of misfits hastily thrown together when the regular players on Washington Sentinels join the rest of spoiled millionaires that make up pro football in going on strike.Reeves plays Shane Falco, a gifted quarterback who received a big black mark when his college team lost the Sugar Bowl by 45 points. Unable to shake the reputation as a loser, Falco's chance at pro football has evaporated and he now makes a living scraping barnacles off the bottom of boats.Only one man has any faith in Falco -- coach Jimmy McGinty, played by Hackman, a man who knows talent isn't measured simply by the number of zeros on the paycheck. Forced out of the game by a refusal to placate a pack of prima donna players, McGinty is coaxed back to the sidelines by the Sentinels' owner with the promise that he'll be able to coach the team his way.McGinty assembles a cast of characters to fill out the team. They include a psycho-eyed linebacker who now makes a living chasing down bad guys as a member of a SWAT team, a wide receiver currently in jail for using his speed to rob corner stores, a tight end who can catch anything he touches but was never considered pro material because he's deaf, and a Welshman with a fondness for the pub life, Nigel `The Leg' Gruff, who can kick any ball, round or oval, as far as the field is long.What follows is a straight-ahead story about a bunch of underdogs who attempt to defy insurmountable odds and realize a playoff position for the Sentinels, even though it means defeating Dallas in the final game of the season -- a team that is not only the reigning world champions but also one on which all of the regular players have returned.There's the standard on-field incompetence turned into a new style of playing the game, the obligatory bar room brawl and night in jail, and the love interest between Falco and the head of the cheerleading squad, played by Langton.This movie gets no more inventive than play-action on second and three, but there are some cute moments -- most of them to do with the reactions elicited from fans and players alike by the Sentinels' cheerleaders, a group of bubble-headed strippers from a club out by the airport who put their exotic dancing talents to use.For those who want nothing more than a few chuckles, The Replacements, safe and largely inoffensive, will deliver. But once you've left the theatre, remember to look back at the marquee if only to help you recall the title of the movie you just saw. "},{"Title":"The Replacements **","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  	Why? That's all I have to say. Why? Reeves, is a bad actor, I'm sorry to fans of his, but he's not a good actor. Secondly, there are two funny scenes in this film. Wasn't this supposed to be a comedy? Anyway, here's the plot for you who wants to waste two hours Washington Sentinels have just gone on strike. The owner (Jack Warden) decides the bring in legendary coach Jimmy McGinty (Gene Hackman) to get replacements players. Among the replacements are Reeves, Orlando Jones (from the 7 Up commercials), Jon Favreau, Rhys Ifans (the crazy flap mate from Notting Hill), and Michael Bear Taliferro. And of course, there's a love interest, played by Brooke Langton.	There are a few funny scenes, among them are cheerleader try-outs and the replacements dancing to I Will Survive. But, other than that, it's not funny. There is some childish humor that I might have laughed at if I was, like, 5 years younger, but nothing solid. Plus, it's a sports movie so you can very well predict how it will end.   "}{"Title":"A plea!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Please Hollywood please, enough is enough. How many sports movies do we have to watch before they are done. Some are good and have meaning but this? um, no. It is supposed to be sad and have meaning in its own way but in order to get to that you have to sit through pointless jokes and strippers who became cheerleaders, which may be amusing to some people, but not to me. Actors in hollywood, if you get a script for a sports movie, look carefully, read it. The last two great sports movies had a large gap, one in 1993-Rudy, an excellent dramatic work starring Sean Astin, and 1998's Waterboy, which was great, funny and had meaning to it thanks to leading man Adam Sandler and his great supporting cast. All I am trying to say here, is Hollywood, NO MORE MEANINGLESS SPORTS MOVIES PLEASE "},{"Title":"my eyes lie, so my ears","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  i can't believe. i have to remember well the director's name to avoid any next movie. Why Reeves, after the Matrix, accepted this ....., after Pointbreack or Devil's advocate as My own private Idaho he accepts this stunning zero. Ugly like Battlefield earth worst also of every other. The .... of the year I hope to see again a good K.R. in The watcher  "},{"Title":"Replacement Parts","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This film reminded me of Frankenstein's monster.  It's made up of discarded jokes from dead movies with a defective brain thrown in.  Except for possibly the hero, Shane Falco (Keanu Reeves), the characters are cringe-producing stereotypes. There are hulking gansta-rap body guards who play offensive guards on the field (get it?).  There is a Japanese sumo wrestler with a goofy Asian accent, a barmaid with a heart of gold, a blonde airhead cheerleader, and a deaf guy.  The players on strike are all spoiled millionaires, toward whom, it seems, one is supposed to the feel the kind of populist resentment you hear on sports radio call-in shows.  Many of the gags are familiar.  There is barfing in the huddle that gets replayed on Sportscenter and a man who celebrates football glory by tweaking his nipples (remember Nipple Ring Man from The Waterboy?).Although the film is loosely patterned after the NFL's strike-interrupted 1987 season, the less you know about football the happier you'll be.  In the world of The Replacements, the final game of the season takes place on Thanksgiving night.  Just before this big game, with the playoffs on the line, the team fires its most valuable player to make room for a single former striker who mysteriously decides to join the scabs he has spent the whole movie harassing.  Getting rid of the best players for no reason happens only in baseball, remember?   The weather presents another riddle. The film is set in the Northeast in late November, but I could swear that every day was the middle of August.  Al Gore must have been right about that global warming thing after all, and maybe The Replacements is a prequel to Waterworld.One of the most puzzling scenes takes place near the end of the film. Sipping beer on his houseboat, the dejected Shane Falco watches on television as his coach gives an inspiring interview while trotting off the field at halftime.  Somehow Shane covers the distance from his boat to the locker room in the time it takes the coach and the players to get there themselves.  They either did some very slow trotting or Keanu reverted to his Matrix alter ego, Neo, and made time stand still.All this could be forgiven if The Replacements was either funny or original. But in time-tested Hollywood fashion, the film merely combines the elements of other money-makers.  The pitch could easily have been It's the Bad New Bears meets Major League, with Gene Hackman reprising his coach-who-gets-a-second-chance role from Hoosiers.  The practice of repackaging the leftovers from earlier films hints at timid studio executives who prefer stale but bankable ideas to original but untested ones.  Good comedy demands either brains or originality, even if it's just gross-out body fluid humor.  This reanimated corpse of a film delivers neither. "},{"Title":"a decent bit of football entertainment","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  i was supposed to see a sneak of Nutty Professor II, but too many people showed up and i got turned away.  luckily, i noticed there was another screening taking place - i managed to sneak my way in, and it turned out to be The Replacements.  now, i am in NO way a Keanu Reeves fan, but despite his presence and some suspect plotting, this is a pretty fun film.  there are some good laughs, and i think Rhys Ifans is hilarious, so the humor was a pleasant surprise.  i'm not much into American football, but the action on the field was fine, they attempted some different things which is always good, and they managed to avoid a few of the standard cliches, if not all of them.  on the whole, i enjoyed it more than it bothered me, which for me to say about a Keanu film is something indeed.  check it out, but turn off the movie-plot-deficiency-detector part of your brain beforehand, your enjoyment of the picture will be much the better for it. "},{"Title":"Racist casting, bad acting, stale humor...crappy movie.","Date":"13 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" This story is based on Tony Robinson, a star UT Vol quarterback who's off the field exploits landed him in jail following a great college career. During the NFL strike of '87 he engineered one of the greatest sports upsets of all time by leading the Redskins to a 13-7 victory against the Cowboys, who had already returned they're star players to the field. It was a big deal at the time not only because of the upset, but because Tony Robinson was a black quarterback in the NFL at a time when you hardly ever saw black QB's. Of course, the Skins won the Super Bowl that same year with Doug Williams at QB, the first black QB to play in the big game. However, Hollywood whitewashed this story like it does with so many by casting a very white Keanu Reeves to play the role. If this was a movie about replacement surfers, Keanu would be perfect. However in this stinker, he's horrible. This could have been a great comedy with a light hearted inspirational tale. Trust me on this, it's not. "},{"Title":"unoriginal, not funny, painful to watch","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  This is a very unoriginal cross between Major League and Necessary Roughness, with less believable characters.  Characters have no depth and Keanu Reeves has the same expression on his face throughout.  I don't think that Gene Hackman has more than a couple pages of dialogue in the entire movie.  But then he doesn't need to, the entire movie's one big cliche.  The ending can't be ruined, because you can see it coming 90 minutes away.  Just all-around bad. "},{"Title":"Too Bad The Actors Didn't Go On Strike","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I think that Gene Hackman is a fine actor. How anyone convinced him to get involved with this turkey is beyond me.When I heard about this movie I actually thought that a movie based - even loosely, as this one definitely is - on the NFL players strike of a few years ago might be interesting. I still do. It's just that this one wasn't. The thing played out like a comic book, full of characters who I'm sure insulted the integrity of those who were the real replacement players a few years back - and I haven't even mentioned the strippers who took over as cheerleaders? (This was a part of the strike I must have missed!). There were a handful of humourous moments, but nothing really uproarious (except perhaps the we're the guards shoot-up outside the stadium, as replacement players and strikers confronted each other.) The movie was marred even more by a boringly predictable plot, with an ending that was telegraphed at least an hour before the movie came to an end.The best I can come up with for this one is a 2/10. "},{"Title":"Bad Beyond Belief An artistically and morally repugnant film","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Let me preface my remarks by saying I am a huge sports fan and an aficionado of the sports film genre... therein lies the problem... I can't see ANY virtue in a film that attempts to glorify the untalented scabs who were replacement players during the 1987 National Football League players' strike, one of the sorriest chapters in the history of a sport full of sorry chapters when it comes to employee relations.Do we see anything about how labour unions protect the benefits of workers who suffer debilitating injuries on the job -- certainly a reality in a brutal game like football?  No - instead we see the self-absorbed millionaire QB, all to make 'The Replacements' all the more endearing and lovable. Pretty much every scene in the film betrays the director and producer's complete lack of knowledge about the sport (particularly so during the scene where the Washington Sentinels recover an onside kick - uh, you can't advance the ball after recovering it). And cheerleaders don't have unions, so the scenes of Annabelle (Brooke Langton) auditioning for replacement pom-pom girls didn't serve any interest except to laugh at people who don't conform to some Hollywood-homogenized standard of beauty.Bear Bryant is probably spinning in his grave after seeing Gene Hackman imitate his coaching attire, although Hackman manages to come out of this with his dignity intact, no mean feat.   Honestly, both people who enjoyed Rodney Dangerfield's Ladybugs can breathe easy, because we have new undisputed champeen for Worst Sports Film Ever. "},{"Title":"One of the most unrealistic football films of all time","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  How disappointing! An opportunity to make a movie about the 1987 NFL strike and it was wasted. There are five inaccuracies in the first five minutes of the movie. By the way, guys, you can actually have more than one quarterback on a professional roster.  "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, Unsurprising, Complete Tripe!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I would suggest that you not waste your money to see this movie, even if it's only the $2.50 it'll cost to rent it.  This movie was completely terrible, from it's grossly sexual and stupid depiction of women to its stunningly unoriginal plot.I laughed once during the whole movie!  The rest was just ridiculous and disgusting.  I am so sick of people making movies like this.  Will they never learn?  Everyone wonders why women are so insecure, why they're so concerned with their appearance, and why they complain about being treated as less valuable members of society.  This movie answers all of these questions.  Films like this reinforce negative gender roles.  It's completey sickening.  One would think that, in this day and age, stereotypes like those found in this movie would lessen.C'est la vie... For a good movie, watch Ms. Congeniality! "}{"Title":"The sound of one hand clapping","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  How's THIS for originality a down-on-his-luck team owner recruits a bunch of 'wacky' and 'lovable' losers and misfits (are there any other kind?) who 'miraculously' band together and not only make a team...they make (sniff) a family. But since this a man's movie, full of p**s-n-vinegar (yeah, they wish!), they're not supposed to be so much of a family as a bunch o' buddies, lest anyone accuse them of being weak (hell, no!) or pansies (god forbid!) In the annals (for the illiterate, that has nothing to do with anyone's butt) of cinema, there have been a good number of sports-themed comedies Bull Durham, Slap Shot, The Bad News Bears, just to name a few, and while they, too, may hardly have been original, they at least WERE what comedies are SUPPOSED TO BE funny. In the course of nearly two hours, there wasn't a single honest-to-goodness laugh. Hell, there wasn't even a moment that brought a grin! The hard part (other than why this was made in the first place) is where to lay the blame; the possibilities are endless. Let's start with Keanu Reeves there's a reason why he's in not featured in too many comedies and that reason is the guy just ain't funny. And let's face facts he can't act. Here, he is comatose, expressionless, with line readings that can only be called robotic. And do YOU see HIM as a quarterback? Talk about miscast! Next is the writing - no cliche is left unturned will the former quarterback (Reeves) join the team? will he fall in love with the token female in the movie? will there a be a character who is hard-drinkin' and a wise-ass? will there be a sensitive moment when the coach tells the quarterback that he's the only one who really loves the game? I could spend hours telling of every overworked theme that's made its way into the movie; the sad part is that that would still be more entertaining than this dreck. And how 'bout those supproting players...not only do you get THREE - count 'em THREE! - blubbery fat guys (numerous shots of their bulging bellies - isn't that funny?), but two are black and the other's Japanese, which provides countless laffs as they bounce racial slurs back and forth. Boy, there hasn't been THIS level of hilarity since the OJ trial! And, fresh from his annoying 7-Up commercials, Orlando Jones is featured in a role that is, essentially, the girly-boy not only does he hide during the inevitable barroom fight scene, but he's also pretty fond of I Will Survive; still, to prove he's all man, the filmmakers provide a few shots of him dancing suggestively with some blonde floozy. (Minus the dirty dancing, it could easily be Stepin Fetchit.) Jon Favreau portrays a the kind of character usually given a name like Killer or Meat the snarling - but wacky-n-lovable! - he-beast. He is, in one word, an embarrassment. Not for a single moment is he believable. The worst fate is reserved for Gene Hackman, who is slumming here; he performs every scene lackadaisically, as if his heart just ain't in it. I certainly hope he was paid handsomely. I certainly hope it was worth it. Continuing to put the blame where it belongs, special mention must be made of the director, Howard Deutch, a man who hasn't helmed a worthwhile film other than Grumpier Old Men; as with his other attempts at directing, this film is jumbled and at times incoherent - often, it's downright confusing as to just where this film is going (answer nowhere) and what he's trying to say (the only clear message we get is this rich=bad, poor=good, exemplified by the cartoonish pro players who go on strike to earn more millions and the even-more-cartoonish scabs who make up this motley crew whom we're supposed to be rooting for). Whole scenes go absolutely nowhere, a problem not exactly helped by editing that appears to have been handled by someone blind wielding a garden shears; numerous, useless shots seem thrown in blindly to pad an already-too-long movie. And then there's the photography this is one UGLY looking film! I think there was an attempt to give the film a somewhat 'gritty' look but it serves only to make all involved seem vaguely unwashed. No, they look - well - skanky. (Which I suppose is only fitting for a story about a bunch of losers.) Keanu comes off the worst either he's gettin' a little long-in-the-tooth or it just looks that way; throughout the entire affair, it appears he's just come off a long, long bender. Which might be a pretty good idea, now that I think about it; maybe if I had a few stiff drinks I could forget I wasted my energy on this c**p. "},{"Title":"Orlando Jones saves this movie from being a complete waste of time!","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  If it weren't for the very talented and very funny Orlando Jones, this movie wouldn't have been worth watching, but thanks to lots of great scenes with Orlando Jones, the movie is somewhat worth renting even though I wouldn't buy it or anything. This is another one of those predictable sports comedies with a thin script and bad acting Orlando Jones is the only one who seems to know how to act here. The movie would have been better if the filmakers were able to rise above the sports comedy genre and either spoof it or change it. Instead of doing that, the filmakers bring us the same old stuff in this comedy that is only mildly amusing in some spots. "},{"Title":"Cheerleaders on strike for multi-million $ players???!!!","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Since when?  I always thought that cheerleaders were already up there in men's favorite fantasies.  I probably would have thought it was funnier that they used strippers for cheerleaders(because they had experience dancing) a week ago.  That was when I went to my first NFL game live.  There were DOZENS of Viking cheerleader wannabe's at half time joining the actual ones in a routine.  I know an ex-Viking cheerleader.  She was paid just over minimum wage.  There's no way in hades these dozens of women wouldn't provide more than enough willing to cross picket lines to please the NFL and themselves.  There's also no way that cheerleaders that barely get paid would strike with multi-millionaires.  As a woman, I find it sick that I'm supposed to feel sorry for a bunch of fictitious former players whose characters probably all get paid more than real life cheerleaders.  All this movie made me do was get more ticked off that any job women actually WANT is barely paid for.  Never mind all the stuff that I thought most men would think was completely stupid in this movie.  I didn't like it at all.  I probably would have had a small charge out of it prior to seeing all those wannabe cheerleaders and finding out what my acquaintance made and the restrictions placed on her by the NFL.       "},{"Title":"Johnny Utah and Lex Luthor go to the NFL","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" If you want a boring, contrived hackneyed piece of garbage that doesn't have a single laugh in it...then this is your movie.If you want to hear such eyerolling and retching dialouge such as Pain heals and chicks dig scars but glory lasts forever...then this is your movie.If you want to see a movie in which women are portrayed as sex objects and bimbos...by all means, THIS is your movie.If you want to see Gene Hackman and Keanu Reeves go through the motions while slumming it...then this is your movie.If you want to see a half decent Howard Deutsch movie, go and rent SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL.If you want to hear a great rendition of Gloria Gaynor's I WILL SURVIVE, go and rent MAN ON THE MOON and watch Tony Clifton sing it.If you want to see a movie about plucky and scrappy underdogs who go from the doghouse to the penthouse...go rent Major League.If you want to see a good football movie....leave this stinkbomb on the shelf and go rent ANY GIVEN SUNDAYAVOID THIS MOVIE LIKE THE PLAGUE!  "},{"Title":"Total Waste of Time!","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I saw this film on the advice of a friend but little did I know that he has no taste in movies.  The movie is filled with every cliche possible. It's so stupid it will make you very angry that they spent so much money and wasted two hours of your life. If you want to see a worthwhile sports comedy, check out Slapshot, with Paul Newman.   "},{"Title":"Absolutely awful--what are these big stars doing in this trash heap. 1/2* (out of four)","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  THE REPLACEMENTS / (2000) 1/2* (out of four)By Blake FrenchI have always thought professional sports players make way too much money for what they do.  I hoped The Replacements would make a strong statement about their greed and selfishness. You're being paid to play, a coach explains to his replacement team, and I want you to remember that, because the men whose places you've taken forgot that a long time ago. With dialogue like that, we can explore a funny, biting satire about a social issue. The Replacements isn't the movie I was hoping for and it does not make a stand on greed or anything else. It's a poorly constructed, shamelessly contrived sports comedy/drama/romance about how a football team can win a big game. It's also about love. The main star, Keanu Reeves, who has done much better than this, falls for a less than charming cheerleader/bar owner. We learn this in one of the film's first sequences, where the two love birds stare into each other's eyes as boastful romantic music explodes on the soundtrack. This is the kind of movie where the music sets the tone for the scene instead of the scene setting the tone for the music. Without the music, this movie would not have any tone. Not that the music makes much difference. It still has no tone. It's difficult making a decent sports movie because it must involve the audiences in the story both on and off the field. Oliver Stone could not even do it successfully in Any Given Sunday, but he did a lot better than this. Howard Deutch (The Odd Couple II) does not stand a chance with this sheepish, cheap screenplay by Vince McKewin. The movie does not even know about the technical aspects of football. Although I would not know a football from a bowling ball, here are a few factual errors the fine folks at the Internet Movie Database discovered· The team has to hire new cheerleaders when the players go on strike, presumably because the cheerleaders are unionized as well. However, we never see any cheerleaders on the players' picket lines.· Falco leaves the team when Martel crosses the picket-line, but most NFL teams carry at least two but usually three quarterbacks in case of injury--Falco would only move to second string, and it would be the second or third string quarterback cut.· According to NFL regulations, a quarterback (or any other player) is not permitted to remove their helmet in the huddle. Falco does this several times throughout the movie.· During an extra point attempt, the clock is running. In real football, the clock is stopped during extra point attempts.Gene Hackman gives the movie it's only light as veteran coach Jimmy McGinty. His team, the Washington Sentinels, must win three of their last four games to make the professional football playoffs. A player's strike occurs; those greedy SOB's want more money, as if five million a year isn't quite enough to cover the cost of agents, layers, and insurance on Ferraris. McGinty agrees to hire replacement players. They've all played football somewhere, not all of them in the pros. But they all have something unique to bring to the game. We're gonna take those people and try to put together a winning team. If nothing else, they should be fun to watch, he explains.Scene after scene, The Replacements proves itself incompetent and foolish.  The scenes jump between angry players, romantic struggles, and football games. The film spews much unfitting humor into the mix. In once scene, a woman recklessly drives through oncoming traffic at high speeds. This is a contrived, recycled visual joke that isn't developed or expanded upon. It didn't work in Speed 2 Cruise Control and it doesn't work here. The Replacements also attempts for laughs through the cheer leading team. This is also a shallow sight gag; it does not advance the plot nor does it cover an important niche. There's even a running joke where the football players sing and dance to a popular alternative music number. It makes you wonder what you did to deserve such painful torture. I have been reviewing movies for over five years now. I write four to five film critiques per week-many negative. Even after doing this for so long, and sitting through so many terrible motion pictures, it still deeply discourages me to screen a movie as bad as The Replacements, when I know this kind of material has potential. I not only feel sorry for the unfortunate viewers who sit through this junk, but also for the filmmakers whereas it takes a lot of time and effort to make a movie, regardless of how bad. This was a waste of their time as well. I question why actors like Reeves and especially Hackman would accept such roles. In one scene, a character states  I've seen monkey-s**t fights at the zoo that are more organized than this. One could also say the same thing about this movie.  "},{"Title":"Bar none the worst movie of all time history","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  Dear sweet lord, i didn't think a movie could be so devoid of anything reedeeming.  Between the horrible acting performance turned in by Keanu Whoa Reeves and the blandest, most predictable plot line ever, the Replacements does not entertain for a single solitary second.  It is unbelievable that with such a rehashed, recycled plot, that the writer/director could still manages to leave so many flaws in the film. Rule # 1 if you are going to write a film about football, at least know some rules, at one point in this abomination of a film the Washington Sentinels need to retrieve an onside kick to stay alive, of course they in fact do this and they advance the ball forward NFL rule the kicking team can not advance the ball if they recover it on an onside kick.  Directly after this Shane Falco, yes the quarterback is on the field on an onside kick, tackles his own man and then calls a timeout NFL rule the clock stop after the return man is tackled.  These are just a few mistakes to harp on, but i wanted to point out that the basis for this film is football at least the director could know the rules.  The football flaws pale in comparison to the atroscious characters in this film.  Every single characater in the entire movie is a stereotype, example Orlando Jones character is the incredibly fast guy with no hands, ala Little Giants, there's the drunkard, smoking, welsh kicker who is scrawny but still a badass, there are of course some of the gansta african americans, a sumo wrestler!, the religious nice guy who only wants to catch one touchdown, and low and behold he catches it and shatter his knee on the play, it brings a tear to my eye.  I gurantee if this idea was given to a drunk, semi retarded monkey he could of in fact produced a far more original, believable, and entertaining film than the nimrods who came up with this horrendous comedy.  The only thing slightly comedic in this whole film was the fact that an esteemed actor like Gene Hackman would agree to taked this role.  0/10 the worst movie ever.  If you like football don't see it, if you like Keanu Reeves don't see it, If you like sports drama don't see it, if you like comedies don't see it, if you like movies in general don't see it, if you like performing mystery science theatre over a pile of crap film, by all means see it. "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad.","Date":"29 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  I don't understand how it's possible to write such a God awful movie. Who would ever think that large men dancing around in jail singing I Will Survive is funny? Keanu Reeves, while eerily charming, gave what seemed his worst performance yet since Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. If you take Major League, make it about football, add some plot holes, bad jokes, and even more horrible acting, you have the flaming pile of feces that is The Replacements. "},{"Title":"Gridiron Scabs","Date":"17 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":" The premise that this is a feel good movie is completely destroyed by the fact that 'our heroes' have essentially crossed a picket to attain this status. They have a name for that where I come from. I don't care that it is overpaid sports 'stars' that are the supposed villains here. That is not an excuse, it's sets a bad example and I wouldn't be a all surprised if the funding for this one came from a large corporation or employers federation eager to plant the seed that strike breaking is indeed the all American way. Anyone who thinks that should take a closer look at the workers movement in the states and perhaps a good starting point would be the origins of May Day itself. Keanu's million dollar smile can't hide the maladaptive motives of this movie. "},{"Title":"Needs Replacing","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sport","Review":"  How horrible when you see good talent wasted. But I suppose the percentages are against always doing well.Here's the 4th most common hackneyed plot ragtag sports team makes good. But why Hackman and Reeves?My theory there really aren't that many good projects for actors like this they are good working actors, who can deliver the goods, but they are not box office openers. So they can stay busy, but none of the choices are driven by their preferences. They do some serious projects, some that promise better pay, and some like this that just look like fun.Reeves and Hackman walk through this, I hope having their fun. Perhaps only three weeks' commitment was needed. I hope it was worth it for them. It wasn't for me. "}]