[{"Title":"Interesting premise, poor presentation","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"34 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Though it poses a good moral dilemma, `Skulls' is presented in such an implausible way as to render it crippled at birth.  Luke McNamara is a small town boy of modest means attending an Ivy League institution that is never really named but is obviously Yale.  He is hoping to be called for membership into the Skulls, a secret society of great status and power. Members of this society have the doors of power, wealth and influence thrown wide to them.  This is a dream come true for Luke, who spends much of his time fretting over the hundreds of thousands in student loans he is incurring.  When he discovers that one of the members has committed a felony, he is torn between his desire for wealth, his loyalty to a friend, and his conscience.Writer John Pogue (`U.S. Marshals') has conjured up a good moralistic tale, but it is so full of ridiculous premises that it becomes laughable.  This is supposed to be a secret society where other than the members themselves, no one knows who the members are.  Yet, Pogue and director Rob Cohen present it in such a way that they may as well be advertising their identities on TV. The building where the secret meetings take place is prominently marked with a Skull, and only members have keys to the building.  So, Duh, anyone seen entering the building must be a Skull.  New members get brand new $50,000 automobiles and $100,000 in cash, as if no one will notice this sudden burst of good fortune.  The new members are branded on their wrist and we are supposed to believe that they will never be seen by anyone without their wristwatch on.  The list of inconceivability goes on ad nauseam.The acting is generally quite good.  Joshua Jackson (`Cruel Intentions', `Urban Legend') is excellent as Luke.  He plays the part with just the right combination of idealistic zeal and moral grounding.  He gets great support from Paul Walker (`She's All That', `Varsity Blues') as Caleb Mandrake, the spoiled rich kid trying to step out of his father's shadow.  Craig T. Nelson gives a wonderfully nefarious performance as the chairman of the Skulls and Caleb's father.Maybe secret societies exist, and maybe they don't.  The fact that no one is sure indicates that if they are more than mere myths, they are a lot more secret than depicted here.  I rated this film a 6/10.  It is an interesting idea that loses credibility in the telling. "},{"Title":"Silly but fun","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK the plot is old hat (a secret society that rules the government and covers up a murder or two) but the movie is entertaining.  The plot is relatively intelligent and fast-moving; the cast is uniformally good--even Joshua Jackson!; there's no graphic gore (or nudity); and the action scenes are well-done and exciting.  Not a great film by any means, but a fun, action-filled, entertaining two hours.  Just don't think about it too much afterwards.  "},{"Title":"As secret as a presidential affair","Date":"31 October 2000","Score":"25 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls is a thinly veiled allusion to one of the purportedly most secret of all secret societies, Skull and Bones, the Yale group to which George Bush (the former president) belonged. You know all about those secret societies; they breed smart, rich young men who will put other smart, rich young men in power, and then those men will put other smart, rich young men in power, and so forth and yadda yadda yadda. You can find out all sorts of things about Skull and Bones online, and I suppose there's a chance some of those things are actually true. But for the purposes of this movie - and this review - suffice to say that The Skulls is a small group mostly made up of rich white kids who get paid scholarships, free cars, free women, the whole works. And what does this secret society ask for in return? Unbound loyalty, of course. Unquestioning and absolute loyalty, kind of like the Mob, really, only the Mob is more overtly criminal.The story focuses on Luke, a townie at Yale University. Luke wants to go to law school, but the tuition's a little high. He's parentless and low on funds, so of course he's prime pickings for The Skulls. Will he join them? Darn tootin' he will, despite the protests of his best friend and this hot young blonde he likes. They try to reason with him, believing their friendship is stronger than his need to be a lawyer, but they're wrong. If they were right, we'd have no movie.So he joins, and wouldn't you know it, all kinds of bad things happen to poor Luke. There's murder, there's corruption, and gosh and golly, our boy just doesn't know who to trust. More twists than a Poe novel; the only problem is, they're not believable twists. If you're cynical about this kind of movie (as I am), you'll laugh out loud many times, both at the acting and the dialogue. The worst offense is in the timing, quite frankly. At no point are we led to believe that this society could be a GOOD thing. We know immediately it's bad. See, I think to be truly sinister you need to wear a mask of credibility. If I already know how bad you are, I won't be as afraid of you or as startled when you actually do something despicable.This is a real chucklefest, in the same vein as Final Destination, Urban Legends, I Know What You Did Last Summer (both movies), and even the Scream movies, which I didn't care for (but I know many of you did, so whatcha gonna do). You have an attractive cast spouting incredible lines in unbelievable situations. The old moviegoer in us wonders what Jimmy Stewart or Gregory Peck would have done in this movie when they were younger (and, in Stewart's case, alive), but that's probably a philosophical debate best left to denizens of the old critics' home. As for me, I'd say pass on The Skulls - it's as hollow as its name might imply. "},{"Title":"People judge this film too much","Date":"29 October 2000","Score":"10 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls is not art. In fact it's pretty bad but some films are just made to entertain. I'm a firm believer of that. When people complain about this films plot, acting, etc, i just go come on guys give it a break. The movie does what it was made for. it entertains its core audience. Teenagers. I'm a teen and i enjoyed it for what it was even if it wasn't the greatest film ever made.The plot is intriguing but a  little unrealistic. Luke Macnamara wnats desperately to be apart of a secret society known as the skulls. But he soon realizes that being in this society comes at a price.The plot begins with some intrigue but falls short after awhile and that's when you realize that this film is just there to entertain and yo shold just sit back and enjoy the ride. The acting is actually pretty good. joshua jackson is a telented actor and i bet if he got a better script he could go places. Leslie Bibb is the best because she displays the most emotion. She's very good. Paul walker is the weak link. he needs acting lessons.so guys don't go into this movie looking for a great script or anything like that. just be prepared to be entertained. i most certainly was. "},{"Title":"'Secret Society' Film Is So-So","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"22 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those pretty entertaining-yet-not memorable stories. It's about a secret society in an Ivy League school and a subsequent cover-up of a murder. There is a neat little twist about a half hour before the end of the film.The college kids in here are no-name actors but all credible not offensive or annoying. The film is nicely photographed. Apparently, the film was successful enough to spawn a sequel, so that infers this has enough going for it to check it out if you haven't watched it. It's okay, but don't expect anything super. However, I have a good friend who thinks this movie is super, and he's usually very critical. "},{"Title":"Perfectly competent teeny thriller","Date":"31 May 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Mix schlocky but hilarious Hollywood hack dialogue with equally schlocky but hilarious Hollywood hack plotting, and you get a potent 1-2 sucker punch to your intellect...I call it...THE SKULLS. A delightfully silly movie, it moves briskly through semi-serious conflicts and silly conspiracies, and all with the the intelligence of your average CBS movie of the week. But it has a sense of momentum that you can't escape, and soon your on a ride that combines equal parts laughs and smiles, nothing too grim, but a (for what it is) fanatical devotion to its own plot devices. The maguffin of the Skulls society is their rule book, a device that comes to charming use late in the movie. William Peterson's senator reminds Joshua Jackson repeatedly that every conflict, every ordeal, can be solved within the rule book...and indeed within the world of the Skulls, this book does hold all the answers. Dropping hints here and there as to how it'll all end, the movie has a charming level of mystery, no more sinister or thrilling than The Da Vinci Code, but thankfully much less serious in its handling.One of my favorite scenes is one of the stupidest. The chosen boys are given a grand reception with the many distinguished alumni on a remote island that at times resembles Alcatraz and Hogwarts School for Wizards. The boys are given expensive diving watches (an obvious product placement) and then dressed in tuxedos where they shake hands and shift uncomfortably in their cumberbunds...until the director inexplicably cranks out Creed onto the soundtrack (Can You Take Me Higher no less!) and then this huge door opens and out walk whatever waif models were hot in 2000. And they strut out as if on a runway, no sense of acting in any of their faces, and it's pure schlock...and I love it!Rob Cohen went on to XXX and then tanked with Stealth, but this shows what people in Hollywood saw in the guy. The film is fun, never too heavy, and perfectly suited for a fall evening with your none-too-intellectual school friends OR consumed in 12 minute intervals on TNT. It's plotted swiftly and compellingly enough to justify its running time...another honor not bestowed on The Da Vinci Code. Basically, it's perfectly mindless, harmless fun, with a better than average cast who seem to revel in the camp of it all. Enjoy when you got nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Skulls is a very intense movie that keeps the watcher interested. This movie does not really have many qualities that would qualify it is an award-winner, but over all the movie is very interesting and is Definitely worth watching at least once. The deleted scenes included on the DVD are also worth watching, but you understand why they were cut. Joshua Jackson and Paul Walker were both very sharp in this movie, but some of the acting was a little poor. Through out the movie some flaws or holes could be found, yet all-in-all they did not affect the story line very much. In general The Skulls is an entertaining movie and I would recommend it. "},{"Title":"Feeble","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Someone in the videostore advised me to see this film. Now I understand that this probably was a joke. Skulls is terrible. It is not even funny for it's flaws. The acting is lousy though you must feel sorry for the actors because the screenplay is even worse. The story itself is a cliché blue collar student gets an invitation to join some fascist fraternity which seems to secretly run this planet. The fraternity exists for about two hundred years but it's rituals are shallow and do not go beyond driving expensive sportscars, having sex with supermodels and quoting the fraternity rules from a bible-like book which seems to be a mixture of Mao's Red Book and Hitler's Mein Kampf. The blue collar student completely dropps his old friends from the white ghetto - who conveniently for the story happen to be video-editing experts and own a surprisingly sophisticated mixing studio for the white trash they so unconvincingly try to portray- but becomes remorseful when his formal best (black) friend get's murdered by his new Buddy's dad who is president of the fraternity but also a high court judge and a total maniac. When the hero tries to uncover the cover-up he briefly ends up in a mental institution but is saved with in a day by this senator - who is also a skull's member- and by his girlfriend who earlier in the film made a MacGyver like paint spraying robot. The film drags on to a most ridiculous ending. One of the rules of The Skulls sacred booklet states that you are entitled to challenge a fellow Skulls member for a duel with ancient guns. Till death that is. So we see our hero in a duel with his formal new buddy, the buff but thickheaded son of the Skull's president. This troubled young bully kills his dad, the maniac judge, instead of our blue collar hero. The end. "},{"Title":"Dangerously Close for 2000","Date":"20 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's another totally refreshing flick for 2000 that joined Final Destination and a few other films. Certainly something different, (I know I say that a lot) here's one quite intriguing. Secret societies do exist, I'm convinced of that. The boosted up take on this one, makes it a dangerously super exciting flick. An elected and privileged few on campus students, who are part of this secret society, known as the skulls, their logo, literally branded on the hand, can have anything their heart desires, hot flashy woman, elite women, and big balances in their ATM, only it comes with a price. Luke McNamara (Joshua Dawson's Creek Jackson, stepping up into film with the lead role) is one of those few, where soon his close room mates and friends, who are becoming distanced from him, caution him earlier, on the dangers of this infamous group, especially his male buddy, who's pretty suss, and ultimately pays with his own life, later, while doing some snooping around. The performances are genuinely are good in this, notably Craig T Nelson, one of the founders of the society, and William L Petersen, a southern mayor and willing member, where soon as the movie enters more dramatic states, where questions need to be answered. Paul Walker isn't too bad either as Craig T Nelson's troubled and schooled son, bossed around by his father, where he befriends Jackson, in a so so, but spirited performance, where a very dramatic standoff ending ensues, it's all so seriously thrilling, and that's what The Skulls is. It's another product of new styled films, we need, as we drift into the millennium, as this impressive pic, bound of course to spawn sequels, does us proud. Go see it. "},{"Title":"Too Pompous","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  ***** MILD SPOILERS *****According to the caption at the start of this film this is actually based on fact . You see at least three presidents of the United States have actually belonged to the secret guild featured here . Well if that`s the case then the producers should name names because it`s only fair to the electorate that they know that the leader of their nation is part of a conspiracy.The first 20 minutes of THE SKULLS is taken up with Luke a college cook and sometimes student learning about a secret college fraternity called  The Skulls  . So far so good in a film that will appeal to teenagers doing higher education , but as soon as the secret society is revealed you might not have to read too far between the lines to think the film is pointing fingers in certain directions . A father and son are members of the skulls a secret fraternity that likes to prove the courage of its members by starting wars . Father ? Son ? Hey you don`t think ....? Not only that but there`s a middle aged southern senator who likes to have sex with girls young enough to be his daughter ! Well that can only mean it`s..... Alas these witty pokes at real life politicians are total flukes because instead of witty humour we`ve got a film that`s taking itself seriously when it should be splashing the audience with subtle satire . That`s the problem with conspiracy theorists - Their ideas are bizarre and they lack a sense of humour , very much like this film      "}{"Title":"Skulling","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The acting was OK, but the story was uninspired. The funniest thing that I noticed was that the entire story was constructed on pacey's ability to Row.From the onset, his rowing prowess was eagerly demonstrated on the waters. Throughout the tense, dramatic, visually stunning moments, that had me gripped, the proceeded to flash up Pacey's training on the Old-skool rowing machine, with stunning out-of-focus camera shots.Then, just to put the icing on the already over iced, lump of icing, the end of the movie showed our hero dawson no sorry, the fat one, Pacey, Skulling to freedom, from the Skulls.For those of you unfamiliar with rowing terminology, SKULLING is the art of rowing a single, small boat, with 2 oars, by yourself.It appears to me, that this rowing progression, is an anti-mirror to his progression through the elite SKULL group. As he left the SKULLS, he himself became a Skuller...I mean, What the hell! All in all, the only part I liked was the wicked guitar song..(taste by lorna vallings) God bless, A Fan "},{"Title":"There are no spoilers, this movie spoils itself","Date":"27 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's clear, just from my 10/10 review of this movie I have terrible taste. But I mean it. Please read my other reviews and don't trust a word. Seriously, this movie is a quintessential bad 90's movie. And I love it. Suspend your reality for 2 hours and watch this movie. Joshua Jackson as THE athletic star of THE crew team at an Ivy League school (unnamed, but I think winking and nodding with the jerseys with Y on it say it all). I've never seen such a scrawny crew member in my life. Paul Walker as an IVY LEAGUE student. SUSPEND REALITY. It's worth it. Paul Walker is one of my favorite actors of all time because he cannot silent the surfer boy inside himself. These two men, coupled with fraternity bro dialog, it has everything. Remember, skulls are forever. Skulls are soul mates. We are watching you all the time. You get 20g's and a car. An implied racially charged storyline. Did you know, that if you really wanted to find out who was a skull, you JUST have to take off their watch. I spent the last 2 hours giggling like a little school girl and I couldn't be happier. There is nothing real about this movie but I don't think that's the point. Twelve years after its release, its laughable at best, but it will put a smile on your face the whole time. "},{"Title":"For a secret society, they're not very good at keeping secrets","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Another film that just makes you more afraid and non trusting of secret societies, makes you wonder if they will ever make a movie that praises these groups. Well, we have The Skulls which I watched today and I have to say that I wasn't so sure to trust this movie. We've seen the whole don't trust anybody plot a million times before. Joshua Jackson was so popular with his Dawson's Creek era and I wondered why they would put him in a lead role, pretty much for the money. But I gave the movie a fair chance and wasn't too disappointed. It's very predictable and has some flaws to it, but overall it does provide entertainment. The story has been done to death, but beggars can't be choosers in this Hollywood.Luke McNamara is a college student with aspirations to eventually become a lawyer. He attends Yale along with his girlfriend Chloe and his best friend Will. Luke's friendships hit the rocks when he is invited to join a secret society known as The Skulls. As a member of the Skulls, Luke is partnered with Caleb, and the two quickly strike up a friendship. Eventually Will, who has been conducting research on the Skulls for some time, discovers their secret ritual room. Will gets caught in the ritual room by Caleb and in the ensuing struggle he falls and is knocked unconscious. Caleb is ordered to leave the room by his father, after which one of Litten's cronies breaks Will's neck. The skulls manage to move the body and make it look like Will committed suicide in his dorm room. But Luke knows there's more to the story than it looks.The acting is alright; for the most part Jackson does a decent job in the leading role. But they could have had someone who was a bit stronger considering that every line that Jackson said in the end was made for the trailer pretty much. Paul Walker, again, more used because he was just the hottie of the time, he was OK. No major stand out performances, Craig T. Nelson is the most cartoon villain I've seen in a while. The only thing that was missing was the lightening in the background as he's laughing manically at the Skulls meetings . But the film works on the story pretty well, it keeps the tension, even though there are unbelievable moments. I seriously love how this secret group is possibly going to be apart of the CIA or FBI one day, part of the government top secret, yet doesn't realize that when they murder someone, they should check the room for security cameras. But the scares are captured with Joshua not being able to go to anyone to find help for his room mate's murder. It's hard to say if I would recommend this film, it's just alright and average. I think there are some good moments and bad one's, it's certainly flawed and made for the teens, but I think the adults could find something good from the story. It just needed a little more work. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A good Thriller","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Well this film is one of the best of the year 2000.Why?Because it has a good plot , I enjoyed the action scenes and is a very intelligent story.  Joshua Jackson plays a boy who enter in a secret sociaty The Skulls where he has marvelous cars , beautiful women and many other pleasures. But everything has a price ,so the pleasure turns in a psycologic thriller where the character prays to get out of the group.Behind the group there is a  murder that is connected with Joshua's friend.  The film is very enjoyable ,of corse that there are some mistakes in the plot, but that's O.K!!We understand!!  Just watch the movie like a good distraction , don't judge everything ,be nice with this one.  8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Joshua Jackson gets more than he bargained for when inducted into a secret society","Date":"25 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Skulls is about the disillusionment of Yale student Joshua Jackson when he's inducted into a secret society over 200 years old. A better done story built from this basic plot is The Brotherhood of the Bell (1970), starring Glenn Ford. Another related movie but much further afield is Seconds (1966). All these movies are neo-noirs. The Skulls uses a much younger cast, and they can't and don't by themselves create the right atmosphere for such a movie story. Their director didn't develop enough maturity and seriousness in the effort. Its older hands include Craig T. Nelson and William Petersen.This movie develops some tension after awhile, but it has a strong tendency to keep falling flat. The main fault of the movie is the clumsiness in the story's development. It's very slow in getting to its main plot point. It doesn't really handle the character development smoothly and effectively. The actions chosen to reveal character are not sharp enough; the actors are not strong enough to overcome these script problems. The plot becomes one note. The subplots are not integrated that well into the main story.The IMDb rating of 5.6 is correct in suggesting a below-par or rather lukewarm picture. This is too bad because the idea of it is good. It just doesn't blossom into a real suspense winner. Part of this is attributable to slack directing. "},{"Title":"too much and too ridiculous","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Luke McNamara (Joshua Jackson) is a working class college student struggling to come up with the tuition to pay for Harvard Law. He's an elite rower and hopes to be pick by The Skulls who supposedly pay for tuition. He's in love with Chloe (Leslie Bibb) but reluctantly to show it because of her family wealth. He gets picked by the Skulls and steal a rival mascot with Caleb Mandrake (Paul Walker) as a test. They are put together as soulmates. His membership in the Skulls causes a split with his friend Will. Caleb's father Litten (Craig T. Nelson) is the chair of The Skulls. Senator Ames Levritt (William Petersen) is a member. Will steals Caleb's key and breaks into The Skulls. Caleb catches Will. Later Luke finds Will dead after a supposed suicide. Detective Sparrow (Steve Harris) investigates.Will's reaction to Luke after he got into The Skulls needs to be explained better right from the beginning or else it feels too abrupt. It's not like Luke didn't explain why he needs the Skulls. That scene almost destroys this movie single-handedly with the overacting. Luke is a much more compelling character if he's concentrated on the tuition. When he seems to be too greedy, he loses that rooting interest. Then it just gets too much and too ridiculous. It is an excessive story about excess. "},{"Title":"Bone Head Movie.","Date":"29 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Skulls (2000) Dir Rob Cohen / Cast Paul Walker, Joshua Jackson, Craig T. Nelson, Leslie Bibb, Christopher McDonald Ridiculous thriller that tries to take itself seriously but hardly avoid being a joke. The Skulls is a secret society of complete morons. Those chosen are drugged and awaken in coffins where they await assignments to prove worthy a Skull. The results are a life of luxury, expensive cars, a rule book, and acceptance to the college of choice. The Skull mark is burned on their wrist and covered with a wrist watch. Paul Walker and Joshua Jackson are chosen as soul mates but it is obvious that they will be pitted against each other by the film's end and it is all about as suspenseful as a game of tag. Laughable setup trudges into formula with only a conclusion to aid it when conviction is brought on. Directed by Rob Cohen who has proved capable of a variety of projects, many of them bad. Among his directing credits are Dragonheart and Daylight. Asides from Jackson and Walker living the life of total bull here, there is wasted supporting work by Craig T. Nelson and Leslie Bibb. While many recent thrillers are laughable, this pretty much takes the cake on stupidity. While a thriller about secret societies can be interesting, this one is by the numbers and about as funny as a game of Checkers. It is a laughable teen horror film that should be locked in a coffin and never surface again. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Unimaginative and Contrived secret society plot","Date":"22 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The biggest problem with The Skulls is that it's un-memorable. It isn't terrible but doesn't offer any surprises or thrills either. Basically it's about a three best friends (Joshua Jackson as Luke, Leslie Bibb as Chloe and Hill Harper as Will) who attend college together. Everything is fine and dandy until Luke gets invited to join a secret society on campus known as The Skulls. He makes new friends (most prominently Paul Walker as Caleb) and doesn't want anything to do with his old ones and if that wasn't bad enough, the secret society turns out to be pretty sinister.The plot starts off promising, with Joshua Jackson and Paul Walker's characters bonding (due to their new connection in the Skulls) coming in and disturbing the friendship that is set up between the likable characters in the introduction. From then on the film doesn't really take any chances and goes for the easy route, with standard evil secret society stuff, a predictable murder mystery and a shoehorned love story. Some of the plot points are ridiculous and contrived; like vaults of incriminating security tapes (despite a clearly corrupt leadership that readily disposes of damning evidence), a plot to send a whistle blower to an insane asylum (instead of simply killing him when we've seen that the Skulls have no qualms about killing people) and a problem that in the 21st century could easily be solved in a few minutes (using news media or the internet). For younger, less discriminating audiences this might be entertaining but if you've ever seen any movie with a secret society or cult, you've seen this film before and probably better. (On DVD, November 18, 2012) "},{"Title":"Reasonable, but a little dated","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" In the late 90s a lot of supposedly mysterious themes were explored in movies. Urban Legends, ghosts, nuclear power, vampires, the list goes on. In the Skulls, teen movies decide to take a look at secret societies.The film stars Joshua Jackson as Luke McNamara, a young rower who wants to study for a law degree. But as a poor townie, it's going to be an uphill struggle to finish, unless a secret society known as the Skulls decides to make him a member.Of course they do make him a member. The first thing we learn about secret societies is that they endorse the buddy system, and Luke is paired with Caleb Mandrake (the late Paul Walker), a boxer. Luke's room mate Will, decides it would achieve something to break into The Skulls secret chamber, and does so. Sadly all it achieves in doing is annoying Caleb, who pushes Will down a ledge, knocking him out. Caleb's father and Skulls big-wig Judge Litten (Craig. T. Nelson) tells his son he'll take care of it and orders some subordinates to kill Will and make it look like a hanging.Luke is pretty shaken up about his friend's death, but not as shaken up as Caleb, who believes he killed the man. The rest of the movie is pretty much Luke working out what happened to his friend with help from another senior Skull Senator Ames Everitt (CSI's William L. Peterson), and love interest Chloe (Leslie Bibb). The ending is pretty satisfying without delivering anything unexpected.The Skulls is a bit ridiculous at times, but it does work reasonably well in its own right. There's enough going on to keep you interested and the performers are all invested enough in the story to put out a sincere product. It is very much a product of its time, but fans of the era should check it out if they are looking for a trek down nostalgia lane. Not essential viewing by any means, but worth checking out if it comes on cable. "},{"Title":"Boneheads . . .","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 'The Skulls' is a movie so unbelievably ridiculous that you keep watching just to see what idiocies the movie will have the nerve to come up with next. Here is a thriller so predictable that you find yourself counting down the seconds until the line 'It's over' is uttered (and not by the audience).Joshua Jackson stars as a poor college kid named Luke McNamara who works in a cafeteria, rides a bike and is the star of the Varsity rowing team. Those seem to be his only activities because the college in this movie is one of those Movie Colleges where no one ever goes to class and everyone looks like a blue jeans model. The name of this institution is never mentioned even though it takes place in New Haven and the school logo is a big 'Y'.The school has its very own secret society named The Skulls (obviously suppose to be Yale's Skull and Bones but changed probably to prevent a lawsuit). Luke is tapped for The Skulls via a phone call that has him running from one phone to the next and drinking water that renders him unconscious.The following scene had me falling out of my chair laughing, The Skulls new recruits wake up in a watery basement each in their own individual coffin (which are laid on their own individual island) where they arise in their new lives. Then they have The Skulls logo burned into their wrists and are given the rule book. They are also given a new sports car, a new watch (to cover the branded logo) and a hooker at their pledge party.The Skulls' clubhouse looks like something out of a Cecil B. Demill biblical epic with stone walls and columns and arches and that strange 'Y' hanging over the proceedings.Luke's best friend Will (Hill Harper) gets too curious about The Skulls and steals the clubhouse key and rule book from, Luke's pledge brother Caleb (Paul Walker). This leads to Will's death which we can see coming because 1.) he's too nosey and 2.) he is the black guy in a movie that requires someone to die.Luke begins inquiring about Will's death, which is followed by the inevitable warning not to get too nosey. The death is ruled a suicide but when he finds evidence that it was murder at the hands of one of the club's head honchos, Luke is drugged and sent to a mental institution for psychiatric evaluation.I wasn't all the surprised that the movie contained a car chase but I swear I slapped my hand to my forehead when the movie ended with Luke and Caleb agreeing to pistols at ten paces on the campus grounds (they have a concrete porch intricately carved just for the proceedings).My mouth was agape during much of The Skulls, not so much for it's sheer stupidity but for it's willingness to tack on even the most ridiculous plot point. This is a movie that really does leave you asking 'Y'. "}{"Title":"Good","Date":"30 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I wasn't really sure if I'd like the movie. As another reviewer put it, The Skulls is not art. In fact it's pretty bad but some films are just made to entertain. If you haven't seen this film for quite some time, then I highly suggest that you do see it soon. There's really no way to classify or categorize this film. The film is dark, brooding, intense and most of all depressing. Great performances help to enhance this amazing story of friendship and violence. It's an amazing work and everything I had hoped for. The real centerpiece of the film is its acting. This film was nearly perfect, but sadly still not made for everyone. I award it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Plot becomes easily unbelievable but the evil vaguely hinted","Date":"30 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This contains a spoiler I don't expect to see a Hollywood movie about a secret society as prominent as Skull and Bones to have the reality of the loss of morality that entails such membership, and the resulting cruelty involved in interpersonal relationships which parallel the outer violence the creed of War entails, but at least there is a Hollywood movie that touches on this subject.The plot engrossed me up to the point of the murder/accident which was made to look like a suicide. The players involved in the cover- up appeared sad and sentimental about what had happened. I think the actual reality would be much more sinister. There would be callous indifference to the death and it would probably have been more like murder than an accident. An outsider who violates the privacy of the inner sanctum of the ritual chamber will get suicided, and not in an accident. This was indeed hinted at, but made to look viewer-friendly as if the people involved in the cover up were sorry and sad. It might have been more realistic and thus the film more believable if the people who put the body into a fake suicide might be smirking and gloating in their power, since that is most likely the honest and real response. It would have shown the cruelty and violence inherent in such an organization. In addition, that bribe offered to the hero, with a prepaid law school acceptance into any law school as a get out of jail free card would greedily and easily have been taken up and the glittery party would have continued for all involved. That would have shown the absolute lack of morality and concern for other human beings that this type of power does to the human spirit. Instead the movie relied on a well-used formula of the mundane hero resisting evil on the path to righteousness. That does not reflect the actual state of morality in the US nor in the fight to be accepted into the halls of power. "},{"Title":"Bland and predictable but still interesting to watch","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" predictable, i saw every thing that was going to happen. But most people want that in movies so there brains do not have to go out side of the boxThis movie is about a secret group and controls things the old fashion way. I do think this movie could have been a really good movie with a lot of changes, some better actors and plot changes. But lets but all that aside and be a normal person watching a movie, it was good.... it was not bad by any means. Would i tell some one to watch this movie? yes, i think that every one should see it at least once. This movie was made over 10 years ago, if you think of all the others movies coming out at the end of the 90's this was really pretty good.Watch it! Don't expect the world! "},{"Title":"Not too fast nor too furious","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, first off I don't understand the real purpose of this secret society. I understood, they are secret, they have some authorities in the group, but what is the main point of having a secret society?The story's development isn't bad, the story is quite engaging, but we never really know any of the characters. Caleb Mandrake, is he a bad boy or a good guy? And Will, the guy who 'accidentaly' died? Why did he want to tell everyone about The Skulls, maybe for money? Comparing The Skulls with the other teen films of 99~01, I believe this is a weak movie. Nothing much really happens and all the happenings are a little pointless to me. Also, it's not very plausible that Caleb would shoot in his own dad instead of shooting in a friend. Not to say how bad Paul Walker used to act in this period. It's a miracle he went from this to Fast & Furious franchise.It deserves six stars because it's quite original and entertaining, but it's no big film in any aspect. "},{"Title":"Look at this movie's poster, and you'll know the main problem of it !","Date":"20 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The intention to show this supposed community, and utilize it in a thriller where the poor good guys beat the rich and influential evil guys, is great apart. The script is smart with breathless succession (It's written by John Pogue who wrote U.S. Marshals, a very good action thriller, 2 years earlier). I love (Rob Cohen)'s work in anything. He nails the right way to tighten things on screen, with all the senses of the word. The humid colors, the narrow cadres, the hot pace&#x85;etc. they are all his elements to make an exciting time. This movie is no exception. But why I felt that it was like fancy dinner party with only cheap rusk to serve ! (Joshua Jackson) can't be the lead. He's uncharismatic and uninteresting to the max. Among the ones chosen for the skulks who were entering the center for the first time/namely the movie's extra, he was the least noticeable. I'm no fan of (Tom Cruise) but the young him should have been more fit for such a role (a la he did in The Firm once). Further, although looks are deceiving but by a look to the movie's poster you'll grasp that (Paul Walker) was catchier than (Jackson). It's an irony wasn't for the sake of the lead, his persuasion, or our interaction with him.(Hill Harper), as the friend, is one annoying actor who many viewers thank god that he got killed earlier in the movie. He was in bad corner too concerning the way his role was written. The character, so hastily, hates how his friend becomes a Skull, for no logical reason (I got the feeling that he was gay, loving his roommate secretly, refusing that he goes to another class and another friend !). As you see the bad writing perfected with the bad acting to produce something between bad and laughable !(Steve Harris) as Detective Sparrow was a joke. He looked like another student yet fatter, doing his job usually or badly ! Long story short, save the old actors (Craig T. Nelson and William Petersen), this movie has a major casting, and acting, problems. But maybe it was all due to a lack of budget. Notice well that there was no sex scene between the lead and his love, since &#x96; naturally &#x96; there are no bankable stars in the first place. So, it tells you that (Rob Cohen) wanted to make this movie anyway, despite the small production, and with small stars. Yes, the presence, or not, of sex or nude scene can tell you a lot about a movie's production these days !The emphasis on the yellow color was terrible. I know that (Rob Cohen) wants us to live that sick phase of the lead's life, however not to the extent of making us sick ourselves! I noticed that many directors many times intend to use this color in specific exaggeratedly in their movies or TV shows lately. Is it a way to prove how artistic their work is? Is it a way to cut down the budget ? Is it a way to hide defects in the image ? I really don't know. What I do know is too much of something is bad enough !Generally, it's a very good thriller with different atmosphere and major casting problem maybe caused by the budget. I wanted to say to hell with the big names, but this cast forbids me. It's obvious that The Skulls just needed more skills to be more effective and, why not, believable. "},{"Title":"Could've been worse...","Date":"27 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Skulls is a decent mystery/drama that has some intensity, keeps you interested, and moves well enough. But in the end though, you feel like there should have been, well... more. It has a similar feel to Enemy of the State but fails to strike you at home, for the struggle comes to the privileged membership of an elite college, and not to the ordinary man (although they do their best to make Joshua Jackson seem as normal as possible) The acting is fair, bordering on good. Paul Walker, does his part justice and the veterans of this cast- William Petersen (in one of his last films before CSI) and Craig T. Nelson both give the film credibility but the characters are restrained as to not overshadow the youngsters. Leslie Bibb is somewhat limited as her character's dialogue and use is at times asinine. Director Rob Cohen built a movie exactly for the PG-13 rating, using actors mostly known for TV teenage dramas, he does not over complicate things for the sake of the age group it's aimed for. Still, when all is said and done, the fact that it played it safe made certain that this movie did not fall on it's face. If there is one thing I take away from this movie, it has a classic last line delivered by William Petersen- but you're gonna have to watch it to find out. "},{"Title":"Totally Lame","Date":"9 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I never expected this movie to be well-written or have good acting. I knew I was going to be watching something poorly done. It looked like trash, but maybe it would at least be fun. It isn't.Joshua Jackson is invited to join the secret society, The Skulls, based on a real network that supposedly includes many powerful, influential people. The kids who enter into this world as college students will have many doors opened up for them as they enter the workforce and maneuver through life's challenges. Except that Joshua Jackson's character, Lucas, starts to feel morally conflicted about some of the things that happen.I think I was hoping to see the decadent or possible sleazy side of having these advantages. I would have enjoyed a movie in which a decent kid gets overwhelmed with having easy access to money and power, and watch it all spin out of control. Except that this movie keeps everything very tidy and PG. The main plot point is set up when Lucas' best friends infiltrates the secret society to do an expose, and ends up dying accidentally. The cover-up does not sit well with Lucas, and the movie turns into a routine thriller as he tries to make things right with the full power of the corrupt Skull network rising against him. I say that the movie is routine because it does things that we have seen in so many other movies in the same genre.So it ended up being pretty boring, never really getting crazy or trashy enough to be memorable. I thought it was a waste of time, even for a teen-themed action thriller. I wouldn't even recommend it for an evening when you had nothing better to do, because there are plenty of movies that are fun and easy to watch. You don't have to subject to yourself to something that offers no pleasure just because you have time to waste. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Joshua Jackson plays a very smart student who is eager to get into law school. Then he is approached by Paul Walker's character who manages to get him to join a secret society only for the smartest of the smartest students known as The Skulls. It seems that everything is going well but then things start to get much more darker.On the face of it, it seems like a brilliant idea for a movie. A good breakaway from the typical teen movie. However, it didn't really make good use of the potential it had to be a great movie. The story was made too thin than it should have been and some other details including character development and about this secret society itself were left rather sketchy.I believe that if these details are elaborated on then this would be a much better and more memorable movie than it actually is. "},{"Title":"Not the greatest, but worth a look","Date":"11 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Skulls was definitely an interesting concept, and contained some truly intriguing moments however good writing alone could not save this film. The bad acting (especially by Jackson and Harper) overshadows what could have been otherwise great moments in the film. However as a whole the acting did not affect the integrity and overall quality of the film. It truly does make one wonder, what this film could have been, had they actually attempted to cast better actors. The film was good, but left more to be desired. Its still entertainment and a viewer could do much worse than this movie, however they most likely could also do much better. Unless you have nothing better to watch and have two hours to waste, you should try your hand at another movie. The idea alone of The Skulls as a secret society was most likely what spawned the sequels, not this film. "},{"Title":"The Skulls conjures up more boredom than paranoia.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Skulls qualifies as bone-headed Hardy Boys hokum. This sophomoric suspense thriller about a covert society at an anonymous Ivy League University that grooms handpicked undergraduates as tomorrow's titans lacks both subtlety and suspense. As a Mafia-style fraternal organization, The Skulls remains so hush-hush that its elite members have created their own book of rules, and those rules supersede the rule of law. This clandestine clique rewards their chosen few with fast sports cars, loose willing women, and fist-sized bankrolls. Ultimately, The Skulls preaches that neither wealth nor power is worth forfeiting either for your freedom or dismantling your morality.Although he is a financially-strapped, blue-collar orphan that works several jobs to pay his tuition, Lucas McNamara (Joshua Jackson of TV's Dawson's Creek) finds himself thrust into the limelight when he leads the school's sculling team to its third championship.On the basis of Lucas's superb athletic skills, the Skulls recruit him for their ranks. Suddenly, Lucas thinks he has the world by the tail. Everything looks rosy until the Skulls catch his best friend, Will (Hill Harper of CSI New York) an aspiring investigative journalist, snooping in their inner sanctum and murder him. Will's words echo in Lucas's ears If it's secret and it's elite, it can't be good. Imagine a synthesis of The Firm and Enemy of the State, and you've got a rough idea what scenarists John U.S. Marshals Pogue and director Rob Daylight Cohen had in mind. Sadly, The Skulls never lives up to its potential. Pogue's muddled screenplay contains more holes than a skull. First, what wealthy, discrete, 200-year old group with major political influence would botch a homicide as horribly as these cretins? Second, how could a society so obsessed with their own secrecy allow an outsider to steal a member's keys and invade their privacy? Nothing in life is perfect, so the filmmakers had to contrive loopholes in the powerful, deadly, and inescapable web woven by the Skulls.Desperately, Lucas appeals to his scummy friends from the wrong side of the tracks, and they help him steal the society's surveillance videotapes. Meanwhile, Lucas' soul mate in the Skulls, Caleb Mandrake (Paul Walker of Into The Blue), incriminates Lucas for Will's murder. No sooner has Lucas given the cops the tape with the murder on it than it disappears. Things grow even more complicated when the Skulls pack Lucas off to a psychiatric ward where they plan to let him drool to death.Everything in John Pogue's predictable script occurs just too easily. The exception to the rule is the opening boat race where an oar snaps and lucks runs against Lucas's team. Afterward, The Skulls sinks fast. An atmospheric initiation scene where the inductees gulp a knock-out potion and they awaken to find themselves emerging from coffins as reborn is more absurd than symbolic. The society brands them on the wrist and gives each an expensive wristwatch to conceal it. Some secret society, huh? In his first starring role, Joshua Jackson&#151;looking like a young Mel Gibson&#151;gives a good account of himself, but The Skulls conjures up more boredom than paranoia. "}{"Title":"I'll admit it, I rented it for Paul Walker","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While his character was believable, I could NOT take Joshua Jackson seriously in this film at all. He reminds me too much of Joe from Blue's Clues. Overall the movie was OKAY...wasn't too thrilled with it, but hey, at least I got to see Paul Walker! ;).6/10 "},{"Title":"Another movie that insults viewers intelligence","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Isn't there anyone annoyed with the ending of this movie?  The detective claimed to have been following the good guys in order to get the evidence he needed.  Yet, while he was supposedly following them, there were several times where they were almost killed and only survived through luck.  Yet we are supposed to believe that the detective sat back and watched all this, allowing the innocent victims to almost die (apparently, he was willing to let them die to get the evidence) in order to get his evidence. Too many movies do this.  They want their viewers to forget about everything that could have and really SHOULD have happened, because everything worked out in the end.  Sorry, but I have too much common sense for that. "},{"Title":"Liked This Film","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like this Film Alot It has a Cast Like Paul Walker (The Fast And Furious and Fast and Furious 2) Josh Jackson (Urban Legend Dawsons Creek). The Man Who Wrote This New what he was on about. Hill Harper(In Too Deep) Does a Great Job and So Does Lesile Bible. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I liked the movie. Specially the club. It's not a club, it's more like an religious cult. Scary. I liked that. That was cool! Wish I could join one... It had a nice logo also. Skull. Very cool! Awesome! The movie itself was ok. But the cult was the thing you know... "},{"Title":"nice film, but they good have done more with it!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  the skulls is a pretty original movie, but what my problem with this movie is that it is not worked out nicely. they could have done a lot more with it. it starts a little bit slowly, but that is not the problem. that comes in the end. when you're finally in the movie it goes suddenly to quick and ends..... that is not so good, and of course the perfect ending for a sequel. the skulls 2 i have seen it and is worse than the first part. take for instance the slogan on the cover  the most sexy thriller of the year. what do they mean with that, those couple of breasts shot from way to far? i hope not. this film is perfect to rent when you have seen everything in the video-store (including the adult movies, those stories are probably even better than this movie). so that is my review for the skulls 1 + 2. greetings from gijs  "},{"Title":"Fine directing, superb acting, and wonderful cinematography...","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  make this a worthwhile moviegoing experience. The writing is also extraordinary for what many call a teen thriller, but no, this is easily one of the tops when it comes to conspiracy type films. Joshua Jackson is very well crafted as a character as well as Leslie Bibb. Need I mention Paul Walker's best performance to date, although his fear was quite provoking in 'Joy Ride.' But still, there are shows of squibbled lines in the film, but I could barely see them. Everything is believeable as it gets and the suspense and love is worthwhile. The relationship is a bit more 'loving' than the usual moronic engagements made in such films like, 'Pearl Harbor' or 'She's All That.'  "},{"Title":"half of the plot is unclear... a movie to understand with half of your head","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First of all, I found that movie amusing and fun. It was much of a tale with some moral stuff in it the clumsy, shy baby-face who is bright and strong, but not in the same manner as the average hero in most thrillers. Unlike many movies starring an almost-superhero, this one is visibly not perfect in everything. This is a good point.But I see this movie as a big, long introduction with too much not-well-details. Great potential, though. When I saw the trailers, I thought this movie was about a secret society in some way similar to the Millennium Group (Millennium TV series), which is a society formed by some senators and high-class people from the U.S. government, CIA, FBI, etc. What I see now is some kind of religious institution, with mysterious rituals in a gloomy place. This is similar to a sort of dungeon and dragon real-life experience, which is definitively not serious, but presented in a serious form. I still don't understand what is the goal of the skulls, why it is considered secret, and what advantage would it bring to become a skull, except to feel powerful. It makes me remember my childhood clan, bun in the adult's world, hehe!In few words, this film is a perfect example of a very simple plot with way too much superfluous details which the story cannot afford an appropriate explanation. I won't say that this is an awful movie, but in my opinion, this movie is not in the form it should have been (like a policeman wearing a fire-fighter suit.) "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved the movie. It was very well made. The plot and characters were well developed. Their was suspense, romance, mystery. A movie for all genre lovers. A must for all movie lovers. I must mention that Leslie Bibb was great in the movie.  "},{"Title":"Not great but not bad either","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw The Skulls mainly to see if it was as bad as everyone says . It wasn't.I doubt The Skulls will make the AFI's next best of the century list in 2100,but although not great it was not bad either. Some of the dialogue was bad.As for performances,I was less than impressed with Leslie Bibb and thought William Petersen could have been better. Joshua Jackson,Paul Walker and Hill Harper were all good. I did think Craig T.Nelson was good as the main villian. I give it 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Travesty","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Once again, the filmmakers in Hollywood have found it necessary to torture poor innocent souls such as myself. This time it comes in the form of The Skulls. I didn't want to see this movie. My boyfriend made me watch it. I knew it would suck. I just really didn't expect it to be this bad. If you really feel the need to see this film expect... 1. to have suicidal thoughts 2. to have homicidal thoughts, either for the director, Joshua Jackson, or Paul Walker(who?) If you really feel the need to see Joshua, rent Cruel Intentions. At least it has a few redeeming qualities. The Skulls makes I Know What You Did Last Summer look like a Best Picture winner. "}{"Title":"I don't see what the big deal was","Date":"16 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's been a year since I've seen this movie but I remember the experience all too well. The only good thing about the experience was that I watched it with 3 of my friends and we laughed at how idiotic the whole thing was. I don't know much about secret societies but shouldn't they be secret? Everybody in the movie knew what the skulls were, who was in the club, and where their secret hideout was. This whole movie was filled with holes in the plot. I never cared for the characters. The production values were horrible. I felt like I was watching one of those Saturday night network TV movies. Girls will like it because it's got a couple of good looking guys in it. Other than that, I'd stay far away from this one. There are so many other movies that deserve your time more than this one does.Craig T. Nelson ... seriously. "},{"Title":"are you KIDDING me?","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls stars three hot guys and a cute girl (Joshua Jackson, Caleb Walker, Hill Harper, and Leslie Bibb). Throughout the whole movie, I was practically drooling over the guys. And Joshua Jackson looked quite nice with Leslie Bibb.Other than that, The Skulls sucked. By which I mean, SUCKED. Seriously. The characters are all amazingly stupid, and therefore do stupid things, but since the movie is also unrealistic, they get away with these things. I mean come on... What kind of moron has sex in a room that he KNOWS is bugged? How the hell does a secret society that managed to survive for centuries, get brought to its knees by a few young hoodlums? How is a secret society supposed to remain a secret when the members have burned brand marks on their wrists? (Yes, they got watches to cover it up, but people don't wear watches 100% of the time.)The dialogue is impressive in its lack of originality. My roommate, who I watched it with, practically called it word-for-word-- it can't get much more predictable and boring. (We all lie to each other. He lied. I lied. Now you're lying. NOOOOOOO!!! I'm going to be stay your side.) Really, now. I hear people have better-worded conversations every day in the lunch line. Whoever wrote the dialogue should be kicked. The actors, beautiful as they are, did a horrible job. There was very little interesting emotion, and the friendships seemed forced. All they do is yell bad lines at each other. (Although I suppose I can't exactly expect them to create believable characters when the script is THAT BAD.)The really sad thing about this movie is how much potential it had. A secret society with shady dealings... an exciting setup, a movie just waiting to be made. A nice, cute, working-class boy... male leads don't get much more appealing than that. Joshua Jackson, Craig T. Nelson, Paul Walker... all crowd-pleasing actors. But thanks to the makers of the movie, we get1) a doubtful and predictable plot (Does Caleb Good Shot Mandrake get a chance to use his marksmanship skills? Ooh, let me guess!... Does Chloe fall in love with Luke? Gee, I wonder!... And who wins in the end? Wow, that's a tough one!).2) a clumsy and two-dimensional main character with clumsy and two-dimensional friends (Let's see. There's the hero, who wants to do right in the face of all that is wrong. There's the token black guy, the corrupt cop, the cute and supportive girlfriend, and there's the poor little rich boy.)3) and horrible acting with bad dialogue (I already talked about this).To the creators of this movie, I ask Were you TRYING to make a bad movie? And what was up with the annoying camera angles in the videotape scene? sigh At least the young stars are sexy. Their bodies are the only things worth watching. But if that's all you're after, use the $5 you would have spent on a Blockbuster movie rental and get yourself a Josh Jackson poster instead. "},{"Title":"a joke","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  While someone made the ludicrous posting that the skulls is an interesting, thought-provoking work of art, this is not true. In fact, the only thought this movie provokes is, Who green-lighted this garbage. The dialogue is absurdly unoriginal and cliched, not to mention flat-out dumb- if it's secret and elite it can't be good, the acting is horrible, especially by the girl, the directing treads absolutely no new ground- the 'brilliant blue filters' of which one responders speaks are not brilliant, they're unoriginal, and the disorientation/drugging effect is standard directorial technique. This film has no subtleties, it is a simple moralistic fable. Luke, while he initially is weakly sucked in by the money and power of the Skulls, soon realizes it's not for him, and risks his life to get out of the society and exonerate himself.  Luke is good, Judge Mandrake is evil, the senator is somewhere in between but more good, Caleb was confused but becomes good towards the end, his girlfriend is good, his friend will was good. This film is a total piece of fluff, and can not be taken seriously. I went to a screening and the entire audience was laughing. if you want to see this film to laugh at its complete and utter stupidity, then go ahead. But if you're looking for an intelligent pyschological thriller, certainly do not look here. "},{"Title":"A Poor Man's Eyes Wide Shut","Date":"7 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls strives to be a toned down version of Eyes Wide Shut. Unfortunately, Joshua Jackson and Leslie Bibb are not quite Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman, and Rob Cohen is certainly no Stanley Kubrick. So instead of anything remotely as stylish as the movie it pretends to be, The Skulls simply becomes just another teenagers taking on world movie. And of course, we all know who is going to win such a clash.Joshua Jackson plays a young, ambitious college student who is asked to join an ultra-secret fraternity The Skulls. This fraternity has produced senators, congressmen and even presidents. Obviously membership in this secret society is nothing to be taken lightly. Very soon Joshua is torn between both the power and the harm this society can bring.It is an interesting premise. Unfortunately, director Rob Cohen must have been shooting the film on a shoestring budget. The lack of any real known stars doesn't exactly doom the film, but Cohen's lackadaisical style does. Did he ever shoot a scene more than once or twice?When we are first introduced to The Skulls, Jackson and a few other potential candidates are brought to a secret location to be initiated. The hooded figures who speak to them should be ominous, but instead they sound like a bunch of teenagers playing Halloween pranks Ya instead of You. Try and steal instead of Try to steal. Where was Cohen when this scene was being filmed? Out having lunch?You may experience a few thrills during some of The Skulls actions scenes, but for a movie with several supposed twists and turns, you will probably never truly be surprised. And that's too bad.  "},{"Title":"Absurd","Date":"25 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was absolutely atrocious.*spoilers*The characters had no sense of purpose in what they were doing, the secret society the skulls is so secret that everyone knows it exists, and all you have to do to find out if someone is a member is look at his left forearm (very easy to do in the summer when they all wear T-Shirts)..... Also, what are Joshua's character motivations for leaving this society in the first place ? Why did he challenge the chairman's son at a duel ? Was was the point ? And do you really want us to believe that to get into this secret society all one has to do is win a rowing race ???? If not, then why is there absolutely no explanation as to why Joshua's character is chosen..??It was clear from about 15mins in the movie that the plot and character developpement were nonexistent, and it really showed all through this turkey. "},{"Title":"Alright","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The movie The Skulls Was an alright movie,if you have a good imagination that is. So if you like a movie where you would love to have what they have,this is the movie for you. To become a skull you have to be asked before midnight on this certain night then once asked and you make it to this place on time you have to yet complete another task. after you have passed the task you will be given 20000 dollars that will be transferred to your bank account, you will soon get an expensive car to go along with the other goodies and treats that you get for being a skull. When you are a skull pretty much the rest of your life is taken care of, you only have to worry about not knowing what is right and what is wrong. Because if you do the Skulls will hold it against you. There is a saying in the movie If it's secret, it can't be good  "},{"Title":"Odd...","Date":"24 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The thought of secret societies are true, that I know for a fact. Don't ask why. But to these extremes... Thoughts of Rising Sun are inevitable. Not a film I would recommend, but not to be shunned either. It will give some entertainment certainly. "},{"Title":"helpless dull!!!","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  helpless... bad acted... predictable... useless... boring... funny when it shouldn't be... DULL!!! I can't help myself from stopping it. It's rare case when I cannot see the film to the end. But this is the case. My wife is on my side. Don't waste your time. If you didn't like Final Destination you won't like this one. Why do not Death has no plans for such script writers?! Just kidding. "},{"Title":"A MUST MUST MUST See","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  The acting was great, it was scary, and Joshua Jackson and Paul Walker are MAJORLY cute!!! It had everything....suspense, romance, tradgedy, everything.  All I can say is I love it.  My new favorite.  Don't listen to everyone else, they must be stoned or something.  This movie was great.  Period. 10/10 ***** Wiley's sis "},{"Title":"Much better than IMDB rating suggests","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This appears to be one of those movies, where the IMDB rating (5.3 stars) does not seem to match what my wife and most of my friends thought about its quality.All of my friends and I found this to be a fairly entertaining movie.  It is not likely to win any major awards, but it provides a nice evening of entertainment.  I was put off from seeing this movie (as a tape rental) for several weeks by its 5.3 rating on IMDB.  Having now seen it, I do not understand why this movie deserves such a low rating.  If you read individual reviews that viewers have submitted for this movie, the primary complaint appears to be that the secret organization is not believable.  Give me a break!  This is a movie.  Going over the top a bit on believability is not really so horrible a thing. "}{"Title":"Skulls was not my favorite","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Secret societies have long been a longstanding tradition and source of mystery in history. The Skulls presents a unique and far-fetched glimpse at one man's induction into such a society, while attempting to utilize a terribly predictable and cliche script. The movie opens up well enough, and I must admit the first 45 minutes or so caught my attention. However, the movie drags on and on, leaving the viewer hoping for a quick, merciless, and graceful resolution to this waste of resources.It Skucked. "},{"Title":"It is an entertaining movie, period.","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I must admit that I am surprised at the amount of criticism the movie has gotten from the IMDB users. It is sad to see that moviegoers fail to differentiate between movies done for entertainment purposes and movies with more serious agendas. This is an entertainment movie, period. You do not look for every single scene, every single dialogue, and every single hand movement to make sense or be logical. It is NOT a documentary!Overall, the movie is extremely entertaining and fun. Overall, if you watch it with the goal of having fun, and not with the goal of understanding secret societies or trying to examine moral messages, than you will have a good 100 minutes of fun. And that's all this movie is trying to accomplish anyway... "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"27 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think that every suspense movie can be inconsistent and lack logic but there's a difference between good thrillers and bad ones. If a movie is you don't notice goofs. When you watch Skulls you don't really enjoy the 'suspense' - you just check one stupid goof after another. The movie is pathetic from the beginning till end. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies of the year","Date":"26 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was wrong when I said that Urban Legends The Final Cut was the worst movie of the year. Battlefield Earth was. But this movie took second place. The acting was terrible. Joshua Jackson (who usually isn't that bad an actor) completely sucked in the lead role. You didn't feel sorry at all for the reporter roommate who is killed. And the ending was hilarious(I challenge you to a duel!). Anyway, this movie had an interesting premise which was killed off by bad script, bad acting and pretty much bad everything. It's final grade is, of course, an F. This is just my opinion, but if you want to send me nasty e-mails, my address is dkuhar@elhauslero.org.  "},{"Title":"Secret Societies 101 Wasted Potential","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls (Rob Cohen, 2000)Cohen, the man behind Dragonheart, directs this tale of the evils of Ivy League secret societies, complete with slimy overlord (Craig T. Nelson) and angry young idealist (the underrated Hill Harper, who most recently showed up in the ill-fated TV series City of Angels) bent on exposing the inner workings of all things secret; if it's secret and elite, it can't be good. When you spell out your theme that plainly that early in the movie, what do you have left?Still, this flick had a whole lot of wasted potential. The main story focuses on the relationship between local-boy-made-good Luke MacNamara (teen heartthrob Joshua Jackson from Dawson's Creek) and the Evil Slimy Overlord's son, Caleb Mandrake (teen heartthrob Paul Walker, recently of Varsity Blues), with minor attention paid to how Luke's induction into the secret society affects his friendships with Harper's character and his the audience knows they're in love but he doesn't girlfriend Chloe (teen heartthrob Leslie Bibb, from the TV series Popular). There's enough suspense to kill an hour and a half without wanting to throw the VCR out the window, but one gets the feeling that with a slightly more capable director (I mean, come on, the guy put Sean Connery in a rubber dragon suit) and less of a focus on casting teen heartthrobs, this could have been a real killer. Wait for it to hit the specials bin, but don't go out of your way to avoid it just because the whole cast is on the WB. **  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as it is often made","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Plagued by lousy reviews in German movie magazines, I wasn't actually looking forward to this movie. Imagine my surprise when I found The Skulls to be a clever alternative to the rest of I-know-what-you-did last-summer-but-scream-for-the-faculty movies. The characters are believable and make this clever shot at secret societies stand out from the rest. I especially enjoyed Paul Walker's contribution to the movie. A boy who feels supressed by high expectations from his own father certainly isn't the stuff you only find in Hollywood - it's part of everyday life.  "},{"Title":"Hollow and brainless","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  WARNING MAJOR SPOILERSPlain as plain this film is awful. It's a failure all along the line.- Acting lousy. Jackson has the acting skills of a brick, and the others are not far above.- Camerawork sickening. Literally. All that shaking and tilting reminded me of the Blair Witch pukefest.- Thrill & suspence not a bit. You can see every single plot twist 30 minutes before it does. An insult to the viewers' intelligence.- Plausibility no way. McNamara not making copies of evidence and outrunning a car for minutes, secret societies branding members on their wrists...- Dialogue cheesy, cheesy, cheesy. I've read Mickey Mouse comics with better lines.- Soundtrack unconvincing.- The Moral Lesson Secret Societies are BAAAAAAAAAAD. WASP-male elitism is BAAAAAD. Fine. Good. Then explain me why the only two black (or african-american, or whatever) characters are the Token Black Victim and the Token Black Bad Guy's Lackey. Explain me why Hill Harper's character constantly jerks his hands around like a rap singer. Explain me why the main female character apparently has no last name and wears underwear that would make Madonna green with envy. Explain me why the only female characters are the Hero's Loved One, the Outcast Punk With An Attitude and a bunch of Well-Paid Prostitutes. Explain me why this oh so moral film oozes racism and sexism from every pore.As I said, this film is a failure. A two out of ten will suffice.  "},{"Title":"It's Not Rocket Science","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After just viewing 'The Skulls' and subsequently reading the comments here, I am disappointed by the number of unimaginative 'movie-going' public there are nowadays.  Granted, 'The Skulls' is nowhere in the league of such films as 'American Beauty' or 'Fight Club', but it is a fun little thriller that will pass an hour or so.  Many viewers found the inaccuracies overwhelmingly distracting, have they not utilized a little thing called 'suspension of disbelief'? Joshua Jackson is engaging as the lead character, Luke McNamara. This is easily his best role yet -- he is able to showcase some more of his range and ability -- not just the whole 'wry, sarcastic, lovable-rogue' act that those of us who have seen him as 'Pacey Witter' on the WB teen soap 'Dawson's Creek.'  Out of the entire 'Dawson's Creek' cast, it is Jackson who will be the one to watch, career-wise.I bought this DVD a few days ago and was not disappointed when I got around to viewing it.  True, there are definite inaccurate moments and absurd situations, that may on subsequent viewings, grate on one's sense of reality.  But overall, this is a enjoyable film that takes a new angle on the whole 'thriller' genre.7.5/10  "},{"Title":"Its only a film!","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Films dont have to be realistic. i mean, that isnt why you go to watch a film. You watch a film for entertainment or take your mind off other things and that is exactly what The Skulls does! The Skulls is there to take you away from your life because if you wanted to watch realism, dont watch a film! The plot is good and different and I do admit that the secret society not being so secret was a little hard to believe but that is not the end of the world! The acting from the main cast was very good and believable and i think that they couldn't have chosen a better one. I enjoyed it from the start right to the end and I definitely got my money's worth for it! I even went back for a second time! "},{"Title":"Good movie, 1 Problem","Date":"4 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought it was a good movie.  All movies are a little far fetched, but come on people, have an open mind.  Its entertainment.However, considering Luke was an IVY League student, about to attend Law School, one would think he would have been bright enough to make AT LEAST one copy of the tape that is about to save his life.  However, the producers would have had a little problem with the ending if he had made a copy! 7/10 "}{"Title":"Insulting.","Date":"19 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A secret society that permanently brands members on the wrist with its logo, gives them tens of thousands of dollars, 5 inch keys they can wear around their neck, and new $50,000 dollar cars. These and many, many others are not even unintentionally funny, and for the loss of any other word they are only stupid. I accept movies for entertainment and realize there are leaps of faith a viewer must take, but this entire movie is an insult to the viewers intelligence.  "},{"Title":"secret societies DO exist","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I would not recommen this movie, I feel someone should correct a few of the criticisms of this movie.  Yes, Secret Societies DO exist, despite what Qui-Gon and Joshua have posted.  And yes, people DO know about them and where the building are.  That is NOT part of the 'secret'.  While the film went WAY overboard, these comments are NOT part of the unbelieveable aspects of this movie. "},{"Title":"This society was supposed to be secret?","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"     A few spoilers possibly.  I don't know if these little facts will in any way ruin the movie for you!  But anyhow...this movie is just stupid.  It is lame in the way that all teen horror movies are and have been since Scream 1 in 1996. All of these movies are the same.  Put some horrible actor with a bad haircut (Joshua Jackson) in a position where he or she is in a great deal of danger, add some very phony scenes, and a stupid killer, and you have a horror movie.  No killer in this movie to speak of, but it still stays along the same lines in all other respects.  Jackson plays a college student, who wants to be a lawyer, he's in an ivy league school, but he's nowhere near rich, so he joins a not-so-secret society that EVERYONE knows about called the Skulls.  They meet in a big castle looking building that is adorned on the outside with huge skulls in various places...the most obvious one being the giant one placed in the highest spot on the building's roof.  The member's get branded with, none other than a big SKULL.  Wow...I join this secret society called the Skulls, we meet in the building that has skulls all over it, and for good measure, so NO ONE will ever know im in the society, I get branded on the wrist with a big skull.  All of this was just too lame.  Then we have the fact that the new members get watches that look as tho they cost as much as their own homes, they get rooms in the building they meet in, complete with thousands of dollars of furniture and decor, etc etc...then they get brand new sports cars, attend huge parties where they bring in what look like prostitutes. Who knows what the point of this movie is.  Are we really supposed to believe anything that's happening in this film?  It's like, horror movies now seem to have to be completely fake, or the filmmakers clearly think they won't make any cash off of them.  For once, can we see a believable film?  Please.      This movie is full of bad writing, totally implausible events, fake characters, and a plot that is just downright boring.  You will never get into this movie, mainly because it's so fake and corny.  If you just LOVE horror movies, and you can stand any of the other stupid teen horror movies like I Know What You Did Last Summer and the rest, then you MIGHT like it.  I personally thought it was boring. "},{"Title":"A must not see","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Painfully bad--cheesy dialogue, predictable storyline, mediocre acting...think Breaking Away meets the Hardy Boys, mimicking the Judd Nelson made for TV billionaire boys club. Of course we see in film the working class white boy and the token African-American buddy. Of course it wasn't LUKE convincing WILLIAM not to join the elite privileged self-congratulating homo erotic prep club. We see two seconds of Luke's supposed passion for law school, in his unconvincing working class persona.A truly awful film with hardly any redeemable qualities. "},{"Title":"Not too secret of a society.","Date":"9 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the Skulls a little while back, and I thought that since I'm doing nothing better with my time right now, I may as well say a thing or two about it. The movie is good...to an extent. I'm sure you're all familiar with the plot, so I won't post that. Mainly my one main complaint. (No spoilers...except for one about the opening rowing sequence) 1. For a Secret Society, a heck of allot of people know about them. 2. (So I lied...I have two complaints) The Rowing Scene....an ore does not break just by simply rowing...as a rower, I know...I've never once seen that happen...they should stay a little bit closer to reality there. And the whole idea of an ivy league school and college life, seems to be pretty far off. Sororities...yes. Secret societies like the Skulls, no. I know it's fiction but, perhaps the secret society could have been cloaked in say...more secrecy.The movie isn't a waste though.  If you like films that are just there to entertain then watch this one, it is pretty good for entertainment...it sure as hell is no Gladiator, or American Beauty...but it's worth the rental price.  "},{"Title":"This film is absolute claptrap.","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film stretches the bounds of credulity to the extreme.  I believe anyone with an IQ above that of a brick would be speechless at the holes and inconsistancies in this script.  Simply put this film is a mess.  However, it does have  a very good music soundtrack (very moody and menacing).  Take the money you would use to see the film and purchase the soundtrack instead. "},{"Title":"No Eye on Details","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" SPOILER ALERT How many improbable circumstances can occur in one movie.1) Winning the race with one man short.2) Being chosen as a skull to eventually get the guy from Coach kicked out.3) Not being killed from the fall of the tower.4) Not accepting the circumstances of his friends accidental death and going along with his dreams of becoming a Lawyer.5) Finally, what I hate the most is inaccuracies in a movie.  If you remember when Joshua Jackson got branded with the skull on his left arm to be hidden by the watch. YOU DID NOT SEE THE BRANDED SKULL ON HIS ARM IN THE HOTEL ROOM JUST AFTER HE LEFT THE MENTAL INSTITUTION AS HE LAY ON HIS GIRLFRIENDS LAP.I realize that movies are shot out of sequence, but why are producers and directors so DUMB not to think of obvious things like an un-removable branded skull on someone's arm.  This happens in a lot of movies, and just ruins it for me more than being just a mildly entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Just rented it cause nothing else was there.  Mistake.","Date":"21 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Just horrible.  Ridiculous from start to (wishing it were sooner) film end.Secret society?  In the middle of campus?  Where everyone sees them walking in?  Video taping the empty interior of the building 24 hrs a day and then storing the tape off of the 'secret society' locale?  I guess they tape the building's interior just in case....just in case the writer needs some way, any way, to continue this horrible storyline.  It doesn't mean to be funny, but it is.  When a movie is this bad, it is, somehow, enjoyable for me. Don't get me wrong, watching it is NOT the enjoyable part.  Commenting on it's 'badness' is what's fun.WARNING!  GIVING AWAY A SMALL CHUNK OF PLOT (can it be called a plot?)Ok, an example of it's ridiculousness.  There are so many, but this one tickled me.  The hero, having successfully stolen one of the video tapes of the secret society (tape is inexplicably NOT destroyed even though it contains proof of murder,) is chased around town, through alleys until he is cornered against a fence.  The university's provost (who somehow knew the tape was being stolen at that precise moment) is about to blast him when his friends drop down with halloween masks on (?) and pummel the provost. Apparently they were waiting in the fire escapes above and lowered themselves down on ropes.  I guess that was the agreed upon meeting place - half a mile away, in the dead end of an alley.  Get this...the hero and his friends hop in the getaway car and the friend says, Great plan!Hmmm....how about just picking him up in front of the building?I enjoy most movies.  Even ones considered bad by many.  But, come on? Who read the script?  Anyone?   "},{"Title":"The Skulls Starts Out Interestingly Enough, But Becomes A Mere Skeleton of a Thriller","Date":"16 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Well after a long sabbatical from writing movie reviews...and I am sure you all missed me, I have returned to my former glory by doing a write up on a movie that I am sure you are all eagerly anticipating my review on...The Skulls.But before I get too far into my review, I want to tell you watch out for some minor spoilers that I may include in this review...alright so here we go.  The film opens on the campus of what appears to be Yale University (it is actually an unnamed Ivy League college, but the giant Y's in various parts of the campus give me that idea) with star crew member Luke McNamara (Joshua Jackson) preparing for a regatta of some sort.  This whole introduction is meant to serve as an introduction to Luke's friends, which include Chloe (Leslie Bibb), Will Beckford (Hill Harper), and Caleb Mandrake (Paul Walker) and to show how amazing of a rower Luke is, therefore making him a major candidate for The Skulls.So, surprise, surprise, Luke gets into the secret society known as The Skulls after going through a cat and mouse game involving telephones and has to join another 10 candidates in a surprisingly stupid act of vandalism that is supposed to show how superior the candidates are.  Oh and I forgot to mention how unbelievably preposterous the sets are for the mansion in which the Skulls conviene...I won't spoil them, you need to see them for yourself.  So Luke pulls off this act of petty vandalism with the help of Caleb, comes back to the center and meets Coach, I'm sorry, Judge Litten Mandrake (Craig T. Nelson), gets a skull embossed on his flesh, and a top of the line watch...pretty cool eh?  Of course, Chloe and Will are p***ed at Luke's involvement in the Skulls, and tempers flare.  Not long after though, Luke finds the perks of being in The Skulls, which include cars, ladies, and parties (none of which I have...heh heh)...but this has to come at a price, right, or there would be no conflict and the movie would just end.Now here is the point of the film that I want to keep in the dark, because whatever intrigue this film might have happens in this part of the film on.  All I think I should tell you is that a little campus dischord erupts..and Will ends up in a noose in the school's newspaper office. This leads to a downfall including paranoia, confusion, and fear.  Oh yeah and the obligatory steamy shower sex scene (how about that for alliteration?)As a film, The Skulls fails on many levels.  Rob Cohen's direction is a mix of formulaic let's set the camera here and swivel it around shots and half-way through, during Luke's breakdown scene, tries to become stylish. Of course it doesn't matter that the script, by John Pogue, while based on something very interesting, is just one big generic thriller that could have been based anywhere.  I must commend Pogue on staying away from the easy cliches in the scipt, not that he stays away from cliches altogheter, not many films do that anymore.  The acting from everyone is supbar to say the most...there were points when I really like Joshua (he at times reminds me of a young Tom Hanks) and there were points when I just hated him.  Leslie and Hill are just blah in their roles.  Paul Walker just gives an overall vague performance...basically every performance he has given in his short (and hopefully shortened even more)career.  The elders in the cast, Craig T. Nelson, and a woefully underused Christopher McDonald, resort to overindulging their bizarre dialogue (the former) and barely talking and just getting the hell beaten out of him (the latter).  One thing good that comes from Nelson's performance is his wonderful moustache!  But with all these small gripes, I still got some moderate enjoyment out of this movie. It was just an unpretentious movie, that sure may have taken itself seriously, but it did keep me interested and did much more for me then I expected a movie with this esteemed crew involved.  So I would say this is a good rent if you have a girlfriend or wife to yourself for a night, or you are just in the mood for something you don't have to think too much about.My Rating 6 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Hypnotically Good","Date":"14 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an excellent film in every way.  It aims high and it hits its marks with great skill.  I can't say that about many movies I see these days. The creative lighting and exciting photography struck me first.  Hey, this is beautiful!  The script (by John Pogue) is so well written that the story simply unfolds interestingly and believably.  Later analysis may tell you it's not flawless.  But the real test of a good script is that during the movie the viewer stays attached to the story, and no single film-making aspect -- good or bad -- pulls you out of it for long.  Every surprise, every twist of the plot here, made sense because they had been neatly set up in advance.  No clumsy, distracting explanations were needed. The title may suggest gore or horror, but the movie doesn't fit either category.  The Skulls is a secret society at certain Ivy League colleges, with members (alumni) worldwide.  Their goal is political leadership, and they're clearly evil and pretty powerful. Where does the story take place?  The letter Y appears often.  Once it covers a whole wall.  Even Yale's Gothic architecture is suggested.  I was sure it wasn't shot at Yale; the story's concept is a bit too lurid and no college is ever named as the setting.  At one point I was lifted right out of my seat That's Dartmouth!  It's been a long time since I was a student there, but I knew that particular location.  In the Thanks credits at the end, the University of Toronto is near the top of the list.  Dartmouth College appears farther down.  The Ivy League participated after all. The climax, I have to admit, *almost* strains credulity.  A group of men in formal tails stages a duel -- with antique pistols, no less -- in broad daylight at a monument that must surely be a focal point of the campus. But it's unfair to describe this sequence so coldly, out of context.  By this time in the film, the suspense is so great and the overall excellence so high, that it works.  I believed it.  This was the only right way for the film-makers to do it. The Skulls should be a textbook movie for any writer who needs to learn how to deal with the incredible and make us believe it.  It follows two basic principles (1) It achieves high standards of quality in all fields; and (2) It knows precisely what a discerning audience will accept.  There isn't a single cheap shot in the story.  It treats viewers like intelligent people who want to be entertained.  And it entertains superbly from first frame to last.8/10 "}{"Title":"The Best!","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls was a great movie! Joshua Jackson was so good and very convincing! I like the music and all the stunts. While some say that the movie sucked, it didn't for me. There was tons of action, a good love scene which had a great song, Taste setting the mood, good fight scenes. This is one of Josh's greatest films. I like all the scenes especially the one where he is running away from the car and THAT music playing during it. Rob Cohen and the people who were responsible for the music did a great job. Leslie, Hill and Paul did excellent work. This is one of my favorite movies.  "},{"Title":"Not as Bad as I thought!","Date":"9 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I watched The Skulls and it was so Good! The movie was suspenseful, thrilling, the acting was excellent especially from Joshua Jackson ( a far cry from Pacey Witter). I loved all the scenes especially Josh and Leslie kicking Skull butt! The music was excellent and the song Taste during the love scene really set the mood. The instrumental music was good in the scene when Luke was running away from the car! I hate it when critics pan a movie that was not predictable, awful and boring. The Skulls was not boring and there was a lot of action. This movie is on my list of great movies!  "},{"Title":"what?!?","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Usually I'm pretty easy to please when it comes to films.  I heard that this was a bad movie, but I'll admit I basically went for the eye candy, yum.  Let's face it, like my sister said, They don't cast Joshua Jackson and Paul Walker in a movie if they expect you to pay any attention to the storyline.  Which is good, because the storyline was pretty bad.  The basic idea probably could have been much better and more believably developed.  But the acting was decent, especially considering what they were given to work with.  I think Joshua Jackson is quite a good actor, but there wasn't much in this movie that required serious acting.  Just running (so much running that I would have backed out of the film when I found out how much) ) $2.50/$8.00 "},{"Title":"Repent! Repent!","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry, I really am.  I like to think that cinema today is not doomed. In fact you may, at times, hear me defend films of today.  For this I am truly sorry.  I see now that I am very, very, wrong.In this bit of crap director Rob Cohen and friends (strait off the WB) join us as we enter college and the deep, dark world of secret societies.  Luke MacNamara, the typical outcast in a rich pretty boy school ends up joining a secret society. (Which three presidents were members of...  ohhh  spooky!!) Then, get this, he wants out, and, you'll never guess, but, they won't let him.  There's a girl involved (naturally) and a bunch of other meaningless tripe.The relationships were never developed in this film.  Literally twice the time was spent unraveling the friendships than establishing them.  The acting was pure lunacy.  Joshua Jackson was downright offensive, and Paul Wlaker was infinitely worse.  Not to even mention the washed up (or soon to be washed up) TV cast including Craig T. Nelson (see TV's Coach) as well as The Practice's Steve Harris.The film was poorly shot, the same uncreative camera movements were mirrored and reversed throught the film.  Long meaningless scenes drive you to near insanity. "},{"Title":"Very.....average","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay, this is not a bad film. But it's not a very good one either... I was amused for 2 hours, but to say I was sucked in by the story, or 'on the edge of my seat' so to speak...no. The story is decent, but has absolutely NO surprising twist and turns. You can predict anything that's gonna happen in the entire film, which can be quite fun in itself. A very average movie, a 5,5 out of 10 i would say. Nothing special, but worth a watch, probably on TV or video best...But can anybody tell me...What is the Skulls actually DO??? What purpose does the orginasation have?????? It's still a mystery to me...  "},{"Title":"Saturday Night Movie to watch on TV","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  good actors... good story... good intrigue and a surprising ending... you'd expect a lot if you read this but it really isn't. I mean it's ok and all, but not the type of movie you go see in theaters... its more something to watch on a lazy saturday night on TV, but not something you pay money for to see. But like i said... the story was good (5/10) "},{"Title":"It doesn't come much more unrealistic than this","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls is a perfect example of a movie wallowing in its own pretentiousness, without even trying to disguise that fact. It starts on a cliched yet entertaining note of student life at an American University. The main character is a cliche of a working class triumph against all odds case, and his best friend is black (possibly for political correctness reasons). When he becomes involved with the skulls, all his supposed morals vanish away in the blink of an eye. The film tries to sell an overblown image of secret societies which hopefully it doesn't succeed in. The actors are simply unconvincing in their roles as students cum elitist ivy league members. The film starts off in entertaining fashion, mainly due to its pace, but degenerates into a farce.  "},{"Title":"I dont know what your talking about Jared M. Silver","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went to see the Movie The Skulls with the lowest of expectations, I thought it would be bad really bad. But I was pleasantly surprised as to how good it was, a completely different ending as to what I thought would have happened, I quite enjoyed it.So all of you reading the comment by Jared just dismiss it and go and see a thoroughly entertaining movie.  "},{"Title":"Hold your breath!","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a very fast moving film, with plenty of action, plots and twists to hold your attention throughout the whole film. I found this movie very entertaining with not a dull moment. After you come out you think, wait a minute I've missed something but after thinking about it for a while you can fill in the gaps which you missed while you were trying not to miss the next piece of action in the film. It could have been done better by spreading the film over more time but the fast pace was part of the style of the film.  "},{"Title":"Not as bad as its made out to be","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't think the movie was all that bad. I'd heard all these horrible reviews about it, but seeming as the friends that i saw it with have a MAJOR crushes on Joshua Jackson, I was outnumbered, and dragged to see it. It wasn't as bad as i thought it would be! It was some light entertainment, and a good way to pass two hours! It wasn't the GREATEST movie I'd ever seen, but not all movies are made with the intention of taking home the best picture Oscar. Some are made solely to entertain! I thought Joshua Jackson actually did quite a good job with the acting! He is one very talented young man. Leslie Bibb was also fairly good. Paul walker occasionally had his moments, but overall i didn't think he was that great. Overall, the whole movie isn't as bad as its made up to be if you don't take everything so seriously "}{"Title":"Interesting and suspenseful","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is reminiscent of John Grisham's The Firm, in that its protagonist is an ordinary, if somewhat ambitious, student who thinks himself lucky to be accepted into a secret society, only to learn that it is not as benevolent as it first seems, and subsequently finds himself the target of its power.  Like Grisham's novel, part of its appeal is the peek into a mysterious world of vast power and influence, governed by its own rules and very selective of those who join it.The film is suspenseful, and the viewer is not always sure what will happen to the protagonist.  The acting is convincing and true.Bottom line if you like Grisham, you'll like this.  "},{"Title":"What a bad film","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I cannot believe how Hollywood consistently turns out high-budget movies that are really this bad.  This may be the worst movie of this young movie season.  This movie and Wing Commander may be the worst I've ever seen. Not only did I fall asleep, I considered leaving the theater.  "},{"Title":"Rubbish","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I'm not going to waste words on this film, only to say It's awful. The end of the film is the most improbable ending that I will ever see. So don't waste your money. "},{"Title":"Non-Stop Action Packed","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was a great action movie that is filled with drama and romance.  Leslie Bibb is at her peek in this movie and so is Joshua Jackson, the two were perfectly paired.  It is a story about an elite college society called The Skulls, at Yale University.  Jackson enters the society only to alienate a close friend who just happens to be a journalist.  In an effort to expose The Skulls Josh's friend gets killed and everything escalates from there.  It is sad to say but this club really does exist but has a different name.  This is a great drama that tells it like it is. "},{"Title":"Nothing like I was expecting, what a let down.","Date":"7 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this movie was going to go a little deeper into secret societies but just skimmed the surface with a one dimensional characters and a laughable plot.  Wait for it on video or at least a matinee.Why is it that movie prices are increasing at such a high rate while the movie quality is plummeting.  For every 10 movies released you might get one worth the price you paid to see it.  Sad.2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"i make 8.50 an hour...a movie costs 8 dollars...i hate life","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is quite possibly one of the most dull, uninteresting, pathetic attempts to catch our attention on a secret society so secret, that ii makes no sense. Heck, in the movie you though aliens would pop out and say, yea, were in this too, and like we get whatever we want on planet Mugadell. I mean the plot didn't exist,  the characters were fake and the club presented itself as so secret yet had nothing that made sense to want except have some 6th grade club name. The skulls. They could've done better right off the bat at the title. And by the way, Joshua Jackson is a nerd!!!! he is no hero at all. He has like chunky cheeks,and he's flabby. But wait he's from the streets, and used to be a criminal to do what he had to do to survive what a crock. I mean, cast DMX or something. Not a nerd. Being trendy as a teenager will get you far in Hollywood but you'll never peak and you'll die out soon. This movie was awful, made no sense, had no point to it, was so sadly set-up. One thought, what the hell is the point of this club. All the sudden these respectable men put a kid in a menatl hospital, because he didn'e live by the rules, die by the rules and Josh has a best friend who gets jealous of the skulls. What a dramatic twist! Uh, gimme a break. Hollywood you suck! "},{"Title":"Sloppy beginning and ending. Average Otherwise.","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls is a mostly average piece of suspense  fiction which mostly suffers from a rushed  beginning and a not fully logical conclusion.  In between, with a bit of indulgence you  might find yourself enjoying the plot if you  are a die hard conspiracy story fan.It's principal weakness lies in the unquestioned acceptance of the existence of conspiritorial secret societies and mostly skips over the  whole introduction and gradual seduction of the protagonist with a brief paragraph or two of text intro inserted before the opening scene  and jumps right into the rest of the story as if  a secret society were in fact nothing more  extraordinary or unexpected than just another  fraternity on campus in spite of the  protestations to the contrary in the dialog.  Perhaps its writers can be forgiven for this  in light of today's overabundance of such  fiction to the point that it's practically  a genre unto itself. Warning minor spoiler follows...The other problem I had was with the conclusion which, while it follows a suspenseful climax, ends illogically with the protagonist walking away minus the critical piece of evidence he had just a short time ago so desperately needed to find... with no apparent consequences. I suppose the suspenseful climax itself was supposed to resolve the matter but the fact that the protagonist is simply allowed to walk away while the society as a whole stands largely unaffected by  his actions makes them seem pretty  ineffectual at being sinister and dangerous afterall. A loose end, or are we supposed to expect a sequel? The suspense is killing me.  "},{"Title":"5 of us loved this flick","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Some folks take movies too seriously.  For entertainment value, this show was superb.  Jackson is underrated as an actor.  The entire film was excellently cast and each one of us enjoyed this show.  The main comment was that the moralistic view was important and thought provoking.  The intensity was perfect.  Very good, in our humble opinions. "},{"Title":"Waste of talent, money and time","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The previews were deceptive! They looked a lot cooler than the actual movie.Why were they trying to sell it as a fast-paced melodrama?It started out with great promise but it was a total disaster!  The lead character was so dumb makes u wonder how he could have been inducted in the society to start with.laughable Improbables 1) secret society with large conspicuous buildings 2)no copies of evidence tapes (hahaha) 3)unnecessary murder of a meddling college senior (why risk undue attention)? 4)stupid unnecessary duel scene (what if you got killed? idiot!) 5) what exactly is the continuing relevance of a stupid WASP-male secret society in an ever-global world anyways?Couple of hot chicks in the movie though  -) "},{"Title":"A Must See for Action/Twist Fans","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie. Not only am I a big fan of Joshua Jackson's now, but I really enjoyed his acting! The movie has very interesting twists, and it was really well done. It was fast passed so the 2 hours went by really fast. I gave it an excellent because there was barely any sex or bad words said. There was some violence, but it was approprite for the plot. Way To Go Holleywood! They can still make good movies! "}{"Title":"Boring","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was really boring. You have to force yourself to sit through the movie because you feel like getting up and leaving after the first 15 minutes ! Poor script, poor direction and poor acting. This was Joshua Jackson's (Dawsons Creek) first lead role and probably his last. His lack of acting skills were painfully obvious. Overall rating 1/10. "},{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  first of all,I would like to say that I saw this movie based on a suggestion of my best friend. This movie was categorized as a thriller,but I found it to be more of a comedy. I not only found The Skulls to be unreal, but filled with loopholes as well. I saw this movie with my best friend of which I had mentioned  earlier. I discovered that this is one of the MOST predictable movie ever made and also out of the many movies I have ever viewed before.If you can't uncover everyone's final fate or plot line after only the first couple of minutes of been introduced to them, then you really have problems!!My bottom line is, this is a movie you should see to just be able to say that you saw it.The best thing about this movie I would have to say is the fantastic camera work!!!!I GAVE THIS MOVIE A 6/10 "},{"Title":"The bad guy was made to look like the victim","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only thing that I didn't like about The Skulls was that it provided an illustration that the general public could use to once again stereotype secret societies as destructive organizations.  Secret societies are not typically evil from the inside out.  A more truthful and believeable account of The Skulls would have been much more striking.  The journalist in the movie should never have been trying to expose the secret society.  What were they really doing wrong?  The fact that they are secret makes everyone want to know what it is all about even though it is none of their business. That guy should never have intruded.  In my opinion, he was the bad guy in the movie and he was made to look like the victim!  That was wrong.Ignore that bother and this movie was brilliant.  I am in a fraternity and have been for 4 years.  To see something like this re-lit my passion for rituals and mystics and got me excited to be more active in my own fraternity.  If any of you are in societies that are actually like The Skulls you are lucky.   It looks awesome.  I thought that the movie would have been a lot cooler if the entire thing had been an initiation procedure (similar to The Game with Michael Douglas).  Unfortunately, they made it look like joining a secret society is a bad thing to do and the audience is relieved when the main character leaves it behind in the end.  I still give the movie a 10 for being the only movie of its kind out there.  I wish someone would produce a more accurate movie that shows secret societies in a more positive light. "},{"Title":"Far From the Creek","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went and saw this movie for the same reason that most of the people that i know went and saw it...Joshua Jackson.  I went in to this movie expecting to see Josh Jackson take a tangent from his Dawson's Creek character, and that I did get, but what I did not get was an exciting story.  Don't get me wrong it was intriguing for a few scenes, but after awhile I felt like I was watching The Firm all over again.The acting of Josh Jackson and Leslie Bibb were extremely entertaining and I was particularly impressed by Paul Walker's acting abilities.  The supporting cast was exceptional and by all standards this combination had the making of a witty, intriguing and gripping movie, but it does not come out that way.Josh Jackson plays Luke McNamara who is looking for a way to pay for his impending law school career, so against his better judgement and warning from his friends, he joins a highly secret society that has had some influential members in it ranks before.  During a hazing he befriends Caleb Mandrake (Paul Walker)who is trying to live up to his father's legacy in the Skulls.  What happens for the next 90 minutes is a plot that involves murder, cover-up and re-writing the rules.  A gripping tale for some people, but for other the only real attraction is Josh Jackson.My recommendation is that you wait and rent this one, not really a movie theater type flick.  For the first starring, Jackson has done well, he is definite eye candy, but i found his other minor roles far more entertaining.  I hope that in the future Josh can get to show his acting diversity.  I am highly anticipating the opening of Gossip, Jackson's newest flick.  So, again, The Skulls is definitely a renter.  DO NOT waste your money, wait and rent it.  All in all, not a bad flick, but not the best I give it a solid 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Good Entertainment!","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think everyone has been too hard on The Skulls. It isn't great but i do agree with some of the other comments saying it isn't unbearable. i for one enjoyed it for what it was. With this kind of film you have to ignore the plot holes, and inconsistency of the plot and enjoy it for what isgood fun.The Skulls is about a secret elite on a college campus that almost everyone wants to be apart of. Especially Luke(Joshua Jackson). he thinks if he joins the skulls it will be his ticket into law school. At first his venture into the skulls is a good one. they put huge amounts of money in his account, they invite him to lavish parties, and they get him everytihng his heart desires, but what he soon realizes is that all this is given to you at a price. when one of his friends Kills himself Luke soon realizes that all is not what it seems with the skulls. and he'll do anytihng to figure out the truth.the acting, to my great surprise, was pretty good. Joshua Jackson, who is a much better actor than James van der Beek in my opinion, was very good in this film. In fact if given sometihng better to work with he could be a really fine actor. Leslie Bibb turns in a surprisngly good performance as kuke's girlfriend. she was very good in the film and i hope to see her in more films. Paul Walker as the son of one of the members is not as great as his co-stars but he fairs well. see varsity blues for a better performance by himMy only huge problem with the film was the direction which was very bad. I haven't seen such bad camera movement since the blair witch Project.so guys we all know the skulls isn't an oscar winning film, but it is good fun entertainment at its finest. "},{"Title":"Wasn't Very Secret","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You can see everybody else's comments about how the movie was (I think it was OK and worth catching on cable), but I couldn't understand why they were saying the Skulls society is secret.  What kind of secret society has a building on campuss with a huge emblem on the top?  What kind of secret society is it if everyone knows about it and wants to get in?This movie had potential.  They just took the story in a wrong direction.  It's one of those everybody is trying to mess with everybody movies.  The best part, I believe, should go to Leslie Bibb (Chloe- the main charachter's girlfriend).  The writer actually gave her some intelligence.  And she did a good acting job (plus she's got a good look ;-).  I hope to see her in better future films.Taylor "},{"Title":"Not a must see, but a fair movie.","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why everyone dislikes this movie. I'll be the first to tell you that is wasn't great. It certainly wasn't unbearable though! The plot was iffy, but the acting wasn't that bad and there was several almost humorous situations. It isn't a gorry or dark movie,(I went with a girl that hid her face threw all of scream 3!, and she only disliked two parts of this movie) That wasn't good for me, I like it when women are scared at movies and like to hold your hand and stuff. Anyways!, it is an adaquate movie if you don't expect to see a masterpiece. I rate it a 7/10 "},{"Title":"Secret Society???????","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls is a silly film that must have been written by a teenager with no real world experience in college, fraternities, or secret societies. It is amazing that this society has been able to maintain the veil of secrecy for over one hundred years while conducting business in a building bearing a large skull above the entry, branding themselves on the wrist with a skull, and keeping the organization's  most secretive surveilance tapes in a public library. Every character was a sad cliche, drawing upon the extensive collection of film history that berates the wealthy and cannonizes the poor.  A class warfare film could be made to be much more entertaining than this. However, the plot is so incredulous that this film does have some potential as a comedy.     "},{"Title":"I've got to tell you....","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've got to say, this has got to be one of the least frightening yet entertaining thrillers I have ever seen. I actually went to the movie last night, with a guy on our first date. I walked into the theater thinking I was going to be scared out of my whits and end of thinking the movie was dumb and annoyingly fake. Boy, was I in for a surprise! Not only did the movie keep my interest throughout the entire production, it was one of the best performences by an entire cast that I think I have seen in a very long time. I would most definitely recommend this film, it has got to be on my list of the top 10!! "},{"Title":"Basic Cabal","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   When poor students and rich students cross paths in teen dramas, poverty traditionally implies integrity; wealth suggest spinelessness. A boy without money gets the girl because he's adorably down to earth. A trust fund son may be handsome but he's destined to persue his portfolio alone (unless he atones, as in Here on earth). So in The skulls - Luke (Joshua Jackson) the hardworking scholarship student and sculling champ at the Yale like university, is bound to teach his privileged classmates an important lesson in character strengthening.  Millions of Jackson fans and his personable Hanks-style charms may say this is as it should be. And giving fans what they want is what this disposable but diverting teen-scapade, is all about. The titular club, a secret society is modeled on Yale's real Skulls and Bones (Bushes - George and George W. are members. Of course, as a prole, Luke is skeptical, but he's banking on law school tuition generously paid by Skulls brethren so he goes through the mumbo jumbo initiation.  The good will prevail is obvious. Whether this film offers anthielitist, anti-hypocrisy, pro-feel-good entertainment remains a secret. "}{"Title":"If you see one movie this year I pray you don't see the skulls","Date":"7 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the preview for this movie i thought  Well this looks a pretty cool movie  boy was I wrong.  I sat down in the movies getting ready for some cool case scenes,  gun fights and all the other stuff you would expect from a movie about a secret society.  But I sat down and all I got was a two hour dawson's creek (I hate that show)  I came feeling that I should go to the director and demand $8.50 and two hours of my life back. This movie had a really good idea behind it but it just was really bad. So if you see only one movie this year I pray it is not The Skulls "},{"Title":"A story of an Ivy League School's most secret elite club and how they deal with a murder.","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If I could use one word to describe this movie, it would be predictable. True, it is dubbed, a thriller, but the only thing that thrills you is to see how these students live.  I mean, wow.  At the beginning, you are introduced to their own private dumbwaiter (little thing used in victorian homes to bring food up and down between floors.)...c'mon. When you get down to it, there is no purpose to the movie. The skulls really have no purpose in their organisation and never do they try to explain it.   All in all, I thought the movie was not very good. "},{"Title":"One word; BORING!","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Okay, i may be wrong on this one, but i found the movie a complete waste of time. Personally, i really thought this movie would be another one of a kind thriller that would drive you to the edge of your seat, boy was i wrong. Everything was poorly done. Poor acting, terrible script, and a really bad ending.. to sum it all, the movie sucks.. big time!The film started fine, i must admit. It created the right opening for the climax and future conflicts of the film. As the movie goes on, it began to missed out on some of the important points of the story and wasted most of its time, leaving no space for the conclusion. I mean, what's up with that? Anybody could come up with a better ending. Overall, i wouldn't recommend this film to those who really care for their money's worth..  "},{"Title":"'The Skulls' sucked a big one...","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Alright, any movie who has the guy from Coach as the main enemy has got to suck. Plus, he doesn't even die in the end! Only one freakin' person dies in the entire movie! Booooring... The acting sucked. They tried to make it seem like such a deep, meaningful movie or something, but it just boils down to another cheesy teeny-boppers movie with a cast from the stars of the obnoxiously bad WB TV shows. Luckily, I didn't have to pay to see it since I work at a movie theater, however, I did waste two hours of my life. DON'T go see this movie. The only redeeming quality is that the girl (Leslie Bibb) is pretty cute. And that's about it... "},{"Title":"Its fun, but a little foolish. Way to go UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO.","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I the watched the movie just 200 meters from where it was shot, at my university, the university of TORONTO, CANADA. the whole movie was shot here. and may be thats why i liked it. the movie was a little foolish but i recommend it because it was fun, and alumni of the university of TORONTO should definetly watch it. i liked the acting of Joshua jackson, Paul walker and the girl (the heroin) she was by far the best of all. "},{"Title":"Mediocre","Date":"4 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In reference to other comments then I guess I have some problems.  Although some outcomes were predictable other parts had amusing twists.  Paul Wlaker did a fine portrayal of his character but I found Leslie Bibb's lacking.  Although I walked into the theater not wanting to see the film, I was oddly surprised.  The movie was mediocre, it was ok but I wouldnt pay to see it again in theaters.  "},{"Title":"Hysterical!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  All this movie needs is the shadows of the heads of one human and two robots.  It is prime MST 3K material.  Too bad the Sci-Fi channel seems to want to concentrate on Sliders. Anyway, I recommend seeing this movie with the alcoholic beverage of your choice and several rowdy friends.  To test your suitability to viewing this movie as a comedy, try on the following lines for size.  If they make you gag, it's a match.  (If they make you coo in delight, I guess it's also a match, but watch out for my buddies and me on the front row.  We'll probably disturb you.)  Here goes Well, done, son.  Well done.  (Deliver in unforgivable Virginia accent.) This is an acceptance letter to the law school of your choice.  But I haven't even applied to law school yet.  Imagine that.  (Deliver as you imagine Hayden Fox of TV's Coach might.  'Cause that's who does it.) Her family has a private jet, and I've never even been in a jet. He's a Skull!  He's a Skull!  He's a Skull!  (Deliver as the stage - whispered comments of multiple newly initiated Skulls.) This movie has as many plot twists as a Nebraska highway, and you can see just as far into it.  A few other things you'll get really, really tired of  Pubescent girls oohing over Joshua Jackson.  (I'm not saying he had a lot to work with here, but he's not that great.  And his appearance can only be described as doughy.)  The incessant allusions to the fact that Our Hero is poor and His Love is rich.  The really over-the-top exposition. (i.e.  They say the Skulls... etc.)  The glaring plot defects (what kind of secret society involves branding?).  And of course, the inevitable presence of people who might actually take this movie seriously. "},{"Title":"Plan 9 from Dawson's Creek","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is about a secret society that's about as secret as McDonald's! There is literally NOBODY in the film who isn't in the know.  OK, it does have that Jude & Matt Mr. Ripley thing going on with Paul Walker as the golden preppie here and Joshua Jackson as the eager prole.  But it doesn't have anything else logic, conviction, continuity, dialogue.  I was prepared for a hoot but the filmmaking was so slovenly that it was hard to pay attention.  Joshua, Road Trip had better be damn good! "},{"Title":"It was good, but the ending...","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was better than I had anticipated.  I liked all the action scenes in the movie, and the whole cover-up thing.  I really liked the twists and turns too.  The audience was able to relate to Luke.  Also, newcomer Leslie Bibb was great for her first real air time.  I liked the movie, but the ending could have used some retooling.  I mean, it was a little too shabby for me.  However, I would enjoy watching it again when out on video.  I believe the majority of the people would enjoy this original action ride.  Good movie, most of the time! "},{"Title":"If it's secret and elite, it can't be good.","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Early on in the film, one of the characters states (about the CIA and the Skulls), All I know is if it's secret and elite, it can't be good. Well, by the end of the two hours I spent in that theater, I had determined that the movie The Skulls must be secret and elite, because it definitely wasn't good.To sum it up, this was a poorly written version of The Firm that takes place on a college campus. Apparently the film's screenwriter had neither an original bone in his body nor a sense of how real people talk and behave. At one point, one character got mad at another character for no real reason except to move the plot forward. The screenwriter must've been thinking, Hmmmm, I need this guy to get mad at the other guy...and I don't really know how that should happen...I know! He'll start yelling at him! Joshua Jackson's character went from being at one point a drugged-up vegetable to being fully aware a few seconds later. And the I love you seen was disgustingly cheesy, illogical, and inappropriate.In short, this movie had about as much flavor as used chewing gum. If you really want to see that guy from Dawson's Creek act, rent the Mighty Ducks movies. Those weren't nearly as bad as this. The Skulls is not worth your time, let alone the price of admission. "}{"Title":"who let josh jackson out of dawson's creek?","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  formulaic and schmaltzy, this movie brings on the napping nods in a hurry. you don't even have to be tired. when you find your face in your popcorn, try and keep watching for a bit, because there's some nice shots of paul walker without his shirt on. one crack-up is when the directors try to make the film look stylish and avant-garde by using a shaky cam during one scene. don't even rent it, wait for it on tv.  "},{"Title":"Good, but could have been a lot better.","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ok, The Skulls wasn't the best movie in the world, but, I gotta give it this...it was a good murder mystery. Then again, it really wasn't a mystery, to the audience because we knew what was going on. Let me put it this way For the charactors in the movie it was a murder mystery. For us, it was one of those, Oh, You knew that was gonna happen movies.The strong points to this movie was, a well selected cast, and a few clever suspence scenes,The main weak points (which really hurt the movie) had to have been the fact that it was very predictable, and the cinemetography wasn't the best in the world. I'm not sure if it was just me, but I thought the cinemetography could have been a whole lot better.Either way, I would reccomend it,but you have to have a reletively opened-mind to buy into it. "},{"Title":"Great eye candy...","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls is full of great eye candy of course there's the delectable Joshua Jackson and the decent-looking Paul Walker, but this movie is also full of great scenes. Rob Cohen, the director, really put together some incredible shots. I would go see the movie for the direction alone;however, the direction is not the only appeal. Great acting by Jackson, Leslie Bibb and Walker. The plot might be considered predictable, but if you are one of those people who sits in the theatre like a pompous windbag just tooting your own horn because you can predict the ending than you should, well you should just let yourself relax and open up to the movie going experience. The Skulls is fantastic ride, just run (don't walk) to your theatre and hop on for a great time! "},{"Title":"pretty good flick","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although I also agree that they tried to stick teenybopper actors into this movie, it still turned out pretty good. Yea, there are many cliches, but overall it was entertaining. If there weren't little kids in the theatre clapping at all the good scenes, then I would have enjoyed it much more.  "},{"Title":"Absurdity at its Richest","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  With only three months in to the year 2000, we can all collectively exhale - we have already found the winner in the worst movie of the year run-off. The plot, centered around the exploits of a newly made Skull - a secret organization on an Ivy League Campus - has more holes than a five year-old pair of Jockey underwear.  The premise of the movie is so absurd, and its execution so profoundly inept, that we wondered at the conclusion whether the filmmakers were trying to make a black comedy.  If that was the case, no one was laughing. "},{"Title":"A sloppy piece of hilarious garbage","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rarely is there a movie so awful and horrendous that you find yourself laughing.  Usually you find yourself asking why you paid the eight bucks, but this was not the case.  I had a great time at The Skulls, no thanks to the movie.  I had to actually WORK in order to make it fun by commenting on how bad the acting, dialogue, and direction was.  I have never seen a drama where when a character is crying or gets incredibly emotional over something the whole audience burst out laughing.  I can't remember a movie in the last year that has made me laugh as hard as this one.  Move over There's Something About Mary, there's a new comedy in town. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A hoot and a half sounds like all the other news paper critics I've read.  Who,thankyouverymuch, would want to watch a movie about a secret society that sits around sipping Starbucks and talking stocks? The Skulls was a very good movie.  It was a thriller that kept me constantly on the edge of my seat.  I guess (contrary to my grades) that I must be stupid than for not guessing what would happen at the beggining, hoot and a half. Go for the sheer enjoyment of it.  Though in real life something like the Skulls would be highly unbelievable, it makes a great movie.  Very enjoyable.  I thought, actually, that it was filmed very well.  (The sculling scene, for instance) Whether or not the Skulls is ends up on your top five movie list, it's worth a trip to the theater. "},{"Title":"Not awful, not great","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought the plot line did have a lot of holes.  I thought the shots seemed out of focus with no reason for it.  I mainly wanted to see if Joshua Jackson has the potential I thought he had.  I am not a pre-pubescent girl, but think he's potentially one of the best young actors working today.  I'm seldom wrong about these calls.  One day, when he's at the top of his craft, you'll remember this prophecy.   "},{"Title":"Initiation Blues","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I went into this film with very low expectations, due to critics tearing it apart. Yes it's disjointed, yes it's corny, yes it's implausible, and most importantly yes this movie is fun! You won't come out a changed person by any means, but it is a great B-movie thriller! If you don't go into the theatre with a critical mind looking for faults and weaknesses, you'll probably enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"does what it sets out to do","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although the set up of The Skulls is relatively formulated, the movie takes some pretty good departures from the norm of thriller movies.That's not to say the movie is completely unpredictable. On the contrary, there are a lot of punches (both literally and figuratively) the viewer sees coming. However, The Skulls follows a different method than most thrillers of building and easing tension &#151; relying less on cloak-and-dagger scenes and more on situational problems that characters have to solve.Joshua Jackson plays an ivy league college student who gains entry to a secret society that includes senators and judges. Although thrust into a world of wealth and power, he begins to question his loyalty to the Skulls following the mysterious death of his friend who was investigating the secret society.Although the premise has been used before (The Firm), this movie has plenty of original content. In fact, this movie's best quality is that it doesn't have a lot of the plot twists that are standard in thriller movies. For example, the viewer truly does not know who to trust throughout the movie (although some of the untrustworthy characters are pretty apparent).The most unfortunate aspect of the movie is the climax. Instead of being unpredictable, the ending is just ridiculous. Although it resolves the conflicts in the movie, it strongly tests the viewer's ability to put up with the believability of the secret society.From an acting standpoint, The Skulls delivers neither remarkable nor damaging performances. Everyone plays their part well, but no one really stands out.What does stand out, although many viewers will not notice it, is a unique camera use throughout the film. This movie is beautifully lit, with soft glows gracing the set and characters. However, in a thriller like this, such lighting effects might be out of place.The Skulls is not a tremendous movie, but does what it sets out to do &#151; make the viewer tense and eager to see what happens to the movie's characters. "}{"Title":"My Boos could be heard","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is a plethora of problems with this movie, but the main one is that it was just too long. The movie stretched at least a half-hour past good taste. And the last half-hour was the most ridiculous part of the movie. There were other parts of the movie that weren't even pertinent to the plot. The movie meandered all over the place, sometimes being a love movie, sometimes being an action movie. It couldn't decide. Another problem was the one liners. I'm not even going to go into that, but even the commercial gives proof. The bright side to this movie was the actual secret society part, which, at times, was enjoyable. I thought the first half of the movie was decent, but it started to plummet, when ,for me, the crowd was laughing at the dramatic part. Final thought - Come back to D4 Jackson! "},{"Title":"Shallow and superficial","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Could have been a much better movie. Saw this plot in an older movie, but can't recall name. This movie tries to show that secret organizations are bad, but does a bad job about it. Characters are not well developed and suspense is shoddy. Recommend it only if nothing on tv. "},{"Title":"An interesting and thought provoking film","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I found this to be a very interesting and fun movie to watch-- despite what all the critics are saying. It is thought provoking from the beginning, constantly making you think and re think what exactly is going to happen next. The cast is well chosen, with each of the members fitting their part well. I would recommend this to anyone to see whenever they got the chance. "},{"Title":"Skulls makes you dumber","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Skulls is worse than you can imagine  it's only divergence from hackneyed cliche is its portrayal of Yale's provost as a clumsy triggerman.  And it should go without saying that Craig T. Nelson is laughable as a super-villain; Christopher Walken on Coach would be more plausible. Unfortunately, Skulls ultimately takes itself too seriously to be amusing; its only effect on the thinking viewer is thus a dull headache and a profound sense of lethargy.  "},{"Title":"Rent this dubious proposition if you must.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A shallow examination of one of the cornerstone myths of conspiracy theory, The Skulls doesn't really probe very deeply into what a secret society might actually do.  Some of the actions the society does for its initiates would seem to immediately compromise the society's new members.  The stock plot and characters are jumbled together, and cause the film to contort rapidly from set piece to set piece in some wild  grasp for coherency.  Trivia  I don't believe the name of the purported home institution to the Skulls is ever mentioned or visible in full during the film.  "},{"Title":"A nice, mindless, entertaining quasi-thriller movie. Notice I","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  call it a movie and not a film - yes there is a difference. Characters are pretty one-dimensional,the cliches and dialogue are straight out of something on the WB. It reminded me of the teenybopper version of a mix between The Game and a bad afterschool special about fraternities. Go figure. If you're dying to see Josh Jackson and Paul Walker looking adorable than by all means RUSH to the theatres. However...most you can probably wait till it pops up on rental!!!  "},{"Title":"Overall poor movie","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The main draw to this movie, at least for me, was Joshua Jackson.  The characters were not well developed which left most of the weight lying on the actors and actresses.  Unfortunately, Jackson's portrayal was ok at best.  My advice, wait for the video.  Not to say that the movie was all bad, but, unless you are extremely intrigued by secret societies or Joshua Jackson, you'll walk out of the theatre asking yourself why you just spent money on the film. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was afraid going in it was going to be a slasher type flick. Turned out to be an alright movie. Loosely based on the true secret societies at Yale(Skull&Bones) & Harvard(Scroll&Key). If your really interested in learning more about Skull& Bones,I recommend reading America's Secret Establishment by Anthony C. Sutton. "},{"Title":"Overrated","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was dying to see this movie as soon as I saw the preview trailer in the theaters several months ago.  The movie started out suspenseful enough, all about the society, then it got boring, and as somebody else said, full of cliches.  The commercials gave the viewers the wrong impression of the movie and made it out to be a bigger deal than it was.  My recommendation  Wait for video. "},{"Title":"Joshie Jackson does it right!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I LIKED this movie, I didn't LOVE it, but I liked it. I give it a 10! Josh Jackson played Luke very well in this movie! I think that Josh is a highly under-rated actor, much like Edward Norton was before American History X, and also like actor Adrien Brody, and actor Ben Foster. I hope that this movie will help people to see that Josh is a very good actor! If you watch Dawson's creek, you will see that Josh's role as Pacey Witter has become less of Dawson's sidekick this season, and that Josh is finally able to come through on the show. THE SKULLS is a great thriller! I think that for the most part the actors and actresses did a good job. Paul Walker was great! The skulls wasn't boring at all. The movie had some funny scenes, Luke's (The guy that Josh played) old friends were sour, though, I think that they should have been left out of the movie! I did have a problem with once scene in the movie, the scene where Luke is running and he ends up in an alley, and these bad guys in a costly car are following him, how did Luke's friends know that he was going to be chased? How did they know he was going to end up in an alley? They jumped down on the bad guys like they KNEW Luke was going to run through that particular alley!  "}{"Title":"Better off as a Secret?","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not a horrible film by any means, The Skulls has funny moments but is not quite a comedy, has tense moments but doesn't quite make it as a thriller, and has some car chases but doesn't quite garner the action label.  In short, it tries to touch all the bases but in the process more or less strikes out on all counts.  But it starts promisingly enough.  Yes, the title refers to a secret elitist society, and before we know anything about it, that seems pretty cool.  It's once the secrets come to light that the coolness wears off, the film falls into cliches and the society's secrets end up being, well, more interesting when they were still secret.  Like the society portrayed in the movie, this film is more interesting if left unseen. "},{"Title":"Fluff","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is just an excuse to get attractive young people on the movie screen and push people's moral buttons so they cheer the extremely good folks and boo the extremely bad folks. As such, it succeeds admirably. As a film, it's completely beholden to the cliches that form its creative compass, it has absolutely nothing original to offer to the viewing public, and its plot seems carefully designed to get the most gratuitous scenes in as possible (including the early death of the black character).But, hey, Leslie Bibb is really cool. "},{"Title":"This movie sucks you into the mind-set of east coast elite.","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is no better film out there.  In fact, there is no other film out there like this.  It is quite unique, almost starting its own genre.  The protagonist gets tricked into thinking he is a God on earth, but then the first moment he bruises his knee he realizes that he still bleeds.  The situation is only made worse when his best friend commits suicide.  Or does he?  Find out in this rampaging thriller directed by the famous Rob Cohen. The women also break stereotypes, playing strong sex-craved, power and money dependent feminists. "},{"Title":"A hoot and a half.","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rarely have I laughed so hard at a film, even if it's not intentionally funny. The Skulls is a badly shot, badly dialogued, and badly plotted film, and it still tries to portray itself as being deep and probing. It seems likely that the film was written while shooting, which might as least begin to explain the endless cliches and plot loopholes. The characters are mostly motiveless, moving about to the tune of tired old characterizations, which aren't even carried out particularly well. If you can't call the final fate of at least half of the characters within five minutes of their introduction, you've got problems. Still, worth watching just to see it try to take itself seriously. "},{"Title":"Painful, Pathetic, and Preposterous","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Badly acted bad movie about a Secret Society that is hardly as secret as they think it is. Or maybe not. After all they brand the logo on the members wrist, but wait a minute, this is only one of the many numb-skull things that happen in this terrible try at whatever it is.Whatever it is, it ain't. The only thing worse than the acting is everything else. It is a ridiculous rant about class WAR and pseudo-friendships. A useless, unrelentingly, awful exercise in stupidity and silliness that culminates in one of the worst endings in screen history.This could very well be listed as one of the 100 Worst Films of All Time. It is painful to watch and one wonders how such a clunker ever got made and released and accessing the memory banks to comment on this abomination actually hurts as much as watching it. Ouch!!! "},{"Title":"Good theme but the muddled script does enormous harm to this film.","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are no so many films made about secret societies.So from that yardstick the filming of The Skulls could have been hailed as a watershed event.However this was not to be as this film suffers from too many narrative inaccuracies.It appears that this film's team has not done its homework properly.The director and screen writer did not bother to concentrate on the single most important theme of the film  Secret Socities.No one can doubt that ample academic research was done before even the commencement of the actual filming.Instead of an overall development of this theme unsuspecting viewers were bombarded with an erratic array of out of topic themes like murder,blossoming of love,realization of personal guilt etc.The film appears as a distressed soul due to poor acting.Should any one wants to know what led a young boy to join a secret society ? Find out by watching The Skulls-a film that will not please you. In any case, I am sure that it did not please me even for its first thirty minutes. "},{"Title":"one of the best movies EVER","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Omg this was one of the best movies of all time!!! i love the mystique of it all, besides the two main guys are totally hot!!! if you've ever wondered about the whole 'secret societies' thing, this is totally for you. i mean i only knew about them from Gilmore Girls because the extremely hot Logan was in one, i was like , oh cool, maybe in college i'll join one but then i saw this and i was like Heck no! i guess it's sort of dark but that just adds to the suspense and mystique thing. oh, and sorry i'm babbling on and on it's just the comment thing said that it had to have a minimum of ten lines, which kinda stinks... oh well! anyways, if you've already seen it and didn't really like it, watch the second one and you'll appreciate this one SO much more. i loved it!! i would totally recommend it to anyone who asks. "},{"Title":"well..","Date":"21 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" i thought this movie was a very good interpretation of the secret societies at colleges, or well as good as i can imagine. i thought joshua jackson did an incredible job as Luke. he is a great actor. I'm upset that the movie didn't get as much publicity. i loved this movie and it makes me mad that no ones heard much of it, the guy at blockbuster didn't even know it existed. but i think that the movie was great and if you disagree it is your own opinion but i would recommend it. the ending was a little ify just because, it is so unrealistic. the shootout and everything, and the murdering of that kids father was a little over the top. but all in all the first 3/4 of the movie was great. but i could be saying this because i love joshua jackson... <3 "},{"Title":"Can you say rip-off?","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE SKULLS was not that bad really, but I must say that the reason I bought it was because there was nothing better out at the video store. Joshua Jackson, Paul Walker, Leslie Bibb, Craig T. Nelson and Christopher McDonald star in this film that is supposed to be the hottest suspense thriller ticket in town. But, no I didn't think it was that suspenseful. Exciting, yeah, sometimes. I have seen worse movies, and THE SKULLS is a masterpiece compared to some of the crap I have seen. The film is slightly cliched, but that's okay, nobody minds a few little cliches every now and then.The music is regular prep music, which tells you this film was written by someone who didn't want to write a violence fetish movie. The PG-13 rating tells us that much. If you are just going to waste two hours of your life doing nothing, get THE SKULLS and waste your time doing that instead. THE SKULLS gets 4/5. "},{"Title":"* out of 4.","Date":"28 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A poor working class kid (Joshua Jackson) is invited to join a secret society at college called the Skulls. At first he is seduced by the promise of wealth beyond his dreams, the women of his dreams, fancy sports cars, and acceptance at any law school he chooses. However, when a friend turns up dead and they try to stage it as a suicide he knows some funny business is going on. So he risks his life in order to bring the Skulls to justice with the help of his beautiful girlfriend (Leslie Bibb) and a senator (William Petersen).A better title would have been THE NUMBSKULLS. With terrible dialogue, half hearted direction, over the top acting, and a script filled with more holes then I could count this could possibly be a canidate for worst film of the 1990's. Rated PG-13; Violence, Profanity, and Sexual Situations. "}{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was warned.  Critics and my film making buddies told me this was bad, but I listened to some less demanding voices and thought I'd give it a shot.  Boy was that a mistake!  This film is a mess.  The script is terrible, the plot absurd, and the entire situation is simply beyond credibility.  The concept of secret societies may be good for this kind of thriller, but the way they are presented here is so outside the realm of what any average person can relate, that it appears as parody until you realize they are being serious, then it just becomes laughable.The acting and directing are adequate but it's in the service of such garbage that you don't really care.  As always, the best technical skills, effects and stunts will never cover up a bad story.  The middle of the movie always improves enough to make you forget the silly opening , but the return to the overblown & silly secret society ending completely derails any tension the film may have been building.  Save your money & the 2 hours of your life.  "},{"Title":"Please Make It Go Away","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have just seen this movie. The quality of the movie was brilliant. Similiar to Crual Intentions. This movie well it was awful. The first 40 minutes was so slow I wanted to turn it off. The cast and I do include Joshua Jackson (from Dawson's Creek) is absolutely wasted in this pile of doo doo. I cant belive that they are making a squeal to this, I do see that none of the original cast has returned. "},{"Title":"dull, uninteresting tale","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sort of an evil-twin, anti-intellectual version of `Dead Poet's Society,' `The Skulls' serves up the thoroughly bland and uninteresting tale of a young college law student's experiences with a malevolent secret society that helps promising students pay their exorbitant tuitions and achieve their career and materialistic goals &#150; all for a very onerous price.Actually, there is a certain amount of dramatic potential lurking at the core of this film, for it is built on a dilemma faced by thousands of eager young students as they head off to college each year.  With the cost of higher education spiraling off into the ever-more unreachable financial stratosphere, how does a gifted but fiscally ill-equipped student find the means to attend the institution of his choice without saddling himself with a lifetime of seemingly insurmountable debt?  This could certainly be a valid and potentially fascinating and relevant theme if given the right treatment and approach.  Unfortunately, `The Skulls' settles for being nothing better than a third-rate thriller that defies credibility, that boasts not a single memorable character, line or situation, and that fails to generate even a modicum of suspense as the story plays itself out in a totally conventional and predictable fashion.When young Luke McNamara allows himself to be inducted into this well known but mysterious secret society, he and his fellow initiates begin to reap some amazing benefits in the form of magically inflated bank accounts, shiny new sports cars and bevies of beautiful young women suddenly available at their beck and call.  For most of us, such a windfall would begin to arouse our suspicions.   Why then are these boys the only ones surprised when they suddenly realize that there is no free lunch in this life and that the time will eventually come for each of them to pay the piper &#150; with the forfeiture of his personal autonomy, his previous friends and associations and even, perhaps, his life?  It's really no fun when the audience is THIS much more clued in than the people on screen &#150; particularly when the characters are supposed to be such bright, promising intellectual types heading off into careers as prestigious as criminal law.  In addition to the naïve McNamara, we have an assortment of other hoary stereotypes  the spoiled rich preppy hunk whose father &#150; a highly respected judge and longtime Skull member himself &#150; has to keep bailing him out of his various scrapes and brushes with the law; the oily, unctuous senator and powerful Skull member who finds himself knee deep in cover-up and scandal; and the unflaggingly supportive girlfriend whose job it is &#150; as it routinely is for women in films of this type - to keep the young man grounded in some kind of moral reality.`The Skulls' is clearly not interested in exploring the milieu of its Ivy League setting, since, as in most `youth appeal' films set in institutions of higher learning, we rarely see any of the students attending class, studying for exams or writing term papers.  No, such mundane concerns of academia must take a back seat to all the foolish antics and cheap skullduggery that attach themselves to a scenario of this sort.  When oh when is some serious, intelligent filmmaker going to settle down to addressing the REAL drama to be found in the university setting?  Maybe a remake of `The Paper Chase' would be in order.  Until that time, avoid `The Skulls' at any and all costs.  "},{"Title":"And The Oscar For Most Paranoid Goes To The Skulls!","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If there were an Academy Award presented for Most Paranoid, this would be the hands-down winner.Here's a simple bit of history. By the end of 1999, it was clear that George W. Bush would quite possibly be elected President, and it became common knowledge that he had belonged to a secret society while in University. John Pogue obviously saw this as something that could be exploited, and so he penned this dreadful screenplay about a secret society known as The Skulls who engage in murder and intimidation and - oh yes - let's not forget the odd duel, complete with what looked like 18th century pistols. Then the thing gets very obviously rushed into production to capitalize on the sudden interest in secret societies. (I mean, if by chance Bush had lost, the opportunity would have been lost with him.)Question how did Luke (played by Joshua Jackson) even manage to get considered for this society? He doesn't appear to have been particularly well-off financially to have run in the right circles. I mean, the guy rode a bike to school not unlike the one I used in Grade 6. I find it impossible to believe that he would have had the connections to even get invited. And how is it that Luke's friend, Will Beckford (Hill Harper), is suddenly so convinced that belonging to this group is such a terrible thing? I had the distinct impression that they both hoped to be invited. I could go on and on with the inane plot inconsistencies, but I won't.The paranoia in this movie is absurd. Everyone is bugged. Everything is on tape (another question how is it that among the seemingly thousands of tapes The Skulls kept of what went on in their building, Luke was able to pick out the exact one he wanted in about 15 seconds?) The government is involved. The police are involved. The University hierarchy is involved. Everyone's involved except for me! This is ridiculous paranoia at its worst. Since there are a couple of scenes that held my interest, I'll give this turkey a 2/10, but just barely.  "},{"Title":"Great, trashy fun","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is great, trashy fun. Of course, it's impossible to take it seriously. It has such incredible, unbelievable situations than to enjoy it one has to see it as an unintentional comedy. My best scene in that sense would be when Joshua Jackson is interned by the baddies in a madhouse. It's such a ridiculous scene that you can't help laughing at it. The second-best situation would be the duel, and the father, telling his son after being shot the immortal line You're not worth the trouble. Take it easy and laugh out loud. "},{"Title":"Some how I don&#146;t think this film will be above any other at the box office.","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls By Dean KishA Secret Society dwells among the hallowed halls of the college Ivy Leagues. But when one rebellious member decides that it isn&#146;t for him. Can he escape? This is the loose story of Universal Pictures &#147;The Skulls&#148;. Joshua Jackson (Pacey on Dawson&#146;s Creek) stars as Lucas McNamara. Lucas fears that he can&#146; t finish law school and his only alternative seems to be that he joins an underground society more corrupt than college fraternities. But when his roommate is killed for trying to infiltrate the society Lucas has had enough. I have to give Jackson and the likeable cast credit they actually made me believe that they were taking this plot seriously. What I mean is that the Skulls is one of those thrillers that has a great setup and likeable cast but no third act to clinch the story. Instead as Jackson gets in deeper the plot becomes more predictable. In a thriller, aren&#146;t we supposed to be shocked and dismayed by the hidden key elements as they unravel? From the time that Jackson and his onscreen love interest Chloe (Leslie Bibb) have that steamy shower scene I knew where the plot was going. The only thing that shocked me is how predictable each step to the finale was.&#147;Live by the rules, die by the rules,&#148; barks William Peterson to Jackson as he makes his break. Wasn&#146;t he supposed to be there to break the rules? &#147;A skull above no other!&#148; is another goofy line delivered as members salute their inauguration. Some how I don&#146;t think this film will be above any other at the box office. (2.5 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.  "},{"Title":"I wish secret societies were like that!","Date":"3 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Thank God, only a small fraction of all the secret societies have any real power, since most of them are Toby's clubs, filled by people who like to feel important by inventing and practicing stupid rituals, wearing Halloween costumes and play with themselves or each other (like in Eyes Wide Shut, only those dummies were wealthy enough to afford prostitutes).Here in Mexico, some universities have secret societies, one in particular (called los Tecos) in integrated by nothing more than thugs, gangsters and crack heads. They wish they were anything like the Skulls (or the Skull & Bones, if you wish). "},{"Title":"skull and bones,,,, yes it's real,,, bush couple of other presidents","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie really has it all,, action, violence, pretty girls,, intrigue , mystery, real life aspects,, stars Paul Walker, and a great cast of others too many to mention here,, paul plays caleb a son to Craig T. Nelson who plays one of the leaders of the Skulls, apparently there are roughly 322 members worldwide, give or take.. so our hero Joshua Jackson gets accepted into the Skulls where he had to pass a number of tests before he could get accepted, once inside the Secret Society that's where the real fun starts. a reporter friend of his is killed and Joshua starts to wonder if Caleb had something to do with his death,, well without giving away any endings or anything like that the intrigue does build as people within the skulls start to take sides against one another , pitting good against evil, this is a great moviein my opinion that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"A Secret Society Should Remain a Secret","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The thing we do for friends. Back in college, it would be fun to go out and see a movie with friends, even if I had no interest in it. The Skulls would fit in that category. I had no reason to go see this movie, I had never once seen an episode of Dawson's Creek, where star of The Skulls, Joshua Jackson, became a star, so my interest was not peaked by him being in it. I liked the show Coach, but I had no yearning to see Craig T. Nelson in a movie. So there I am, in a movie theater hoping that my night could have been salvaged. It wasn't. This movie stunk from first frame to last frame. The plot? Some college guy wants to become a member of a secret society on it's Connecticut campus (but it's NOT Yale, repeat NOT Yale, Yale must had seen an advance on this movie and wisely stayed away), then after joining the boy's club, want's out for reasons that would give away what little interesting plot points there are. The idea of secret societies should have made a good movie, but it didn't. Cliché plot devices, plot twists for the sole purpose of having a plot twist, uninspired acting, and a lot of other pointlessness that prevented me from having an otherwise fantastic evening. If you are looking for entertainment, stay away. But if you want to have one more night with Pacey or Coach, by all means, still stay away from this movie. Their shows should be on DVD now. "},{"Title":"A great movie!","Date":"3 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   I just saw The Skulls and I loved it!  The characters were very believable in my opinion. After reading most of these reviews, I think a lot of people are overanalyzing so they never really got to sit back and enjoy the movie for what it was.Joshua Jackson did a good job as Luke McNamara.  He could have done it a little better, but all in all, his acting was very well done.Leslie Bibb did a neat job as well. She was an awesome female character and looked nice on screen with Joshua. Paul Walker did an amazing job of adding that complex aura to Caleb Mandrake.  I think he was the best part of this movie. He has always done a really wonderful job of expressing emotions through those beautiful eyes and he did it again in The Skulls. I'd give it a 9/10  "}{"Title":"Joe College joins The Firm","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a lousy movie!  I mean that in a good way, though, cause this is a definite entry into the so-bad-its-good category.   There is one unbelievable scene and situation after another. All the actors try hard but cannot overcome some of the stupidest dialogue recently heard onscreen.What I REALLY want to know is who designed the Skull Headquarters, Lex Luthor?  The lighting, by torch, candle and otherwise, is extremely dramatic.  There are cages, secret passageways, coffins and a mote! The sets are cold marble, to reflect the soul of a Skull, and they even have Skull props - books, keys, watches and, of course, guns.  The guys get branded as Skulls but the pain is soon soothed by size two girls who appear on cue, classic cars and large and mysterious bank deposits. From the start, you are asked to leave your brain at the door, so do that and count the silly scenes, the bad acting (Paul Walker has taken over the preppy/jerk parts from Hart Bochner; Joshua Jackson has no ability as a leading man) and the entire overblown production.   "},{"Title":"Inane, ghastly, wretched ...","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie should be included as a required course in film schools as how not to make movies -- in a year full of really bad movies, this one is skull and shoulders above everything else in bad acting, directing, and above all--laughably poor writing.  Put this on a double bill Showgirls and watch the suicide rates soar.  Joshua Jackson evidently needed a vehicle since he's a teen heart throb (which is mystifying in and of itself) and settled on this loser--he should get better management or resign himself to playing WB teen angst series well into his thirties. Poor William Peterson and Craig Nelson looked alternately amused and embarrassed at their association with this turkey--maybe they needed a few bucks quick and figured this wasn't terribly hard work; Nelson's Coach character was a paragon of depth and emotion compared with the hilariously one dimensional evil guy. This one deserves a good thesaurus to come up with enough synonyms for dreadful, awful, horrible, wretched, ....   "},{"Title":"Give me a break...","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw The Skulls.  Wow.  It's bad.If I might, I'd like to share with you a comparison that eluminates some of the more glarring problems I had with Rob Cohen's latest thriller.  I am currently an undergraduate student at a fairly exclusive university; much like Luke McNamara.  He is alledgedly a poor college student who came from a rough background, and has to pinch every penny to afford his higher education.  I make no such claims, but I live in a cramped dorm room that is still one of the bigger ones on campus.  Luke lives in a gigantic dorm room filled with ample furniture, and several rooms, all with hardwood floors.  For a poor guy, he's pretty well off.Enough of that; what you want to hear about are the titular Skulls, a Secret Society on campus that gives its members everything they ever wanted... (insert dramatic music) ...but at a terrible price.I put secret in quotes up there, because much is made of the idea of Secret Societies on college campuses and how well-guarded their secrets are, and how everyone wants to know all about them.  Here are my tips to people looking to start their own societies, taking what I learned from watching The Skulls-Branding your members makes them pretty easy to identify.-Mood lighting, and well-timed light cues really adds drama to those initiation ceremonies.-If you don't want people to know where you live, don't put a gigantic Skull on top of your mansion.-Before you drug people, let them know that they are going to wake up inside a sealed coffin, so they immediately know where they are when they wake up, and how to get out (Given the relative ease with which the Skull recruits jump out of SEALED coffins I can only assume they were warned in advance).Not very secretive.  I'm surprised they don't advertise in the college newspaper.  The movie defies logic and general interest at every term.  Drama and tension are manufactured out of forced moments, incredible cheesy music, ridiculous lighting (Every single scene in The Skulls seems to take place in late afternoon), and often thin air.  I laughed at the opening title card, the bizarre love scene, the lengthy metaphors, the terrible dialogue, and general insanity that goes around in the Skulls.Additional highlights include gas torches flicked on with a switch, Craig T. (Coach) Nelson as a villain who's about as intimidating as Dick Dastardly from Wacky Races, a very poorly edited chase scene, and two times in which the director really wants you to think the characters are going to get shot...and boy does he sure pull the wool over your eyes!  Tragic really.The Skulls is a manufactured movie.  Everything is artificial and fake, and I loved laughing at every minute of it. "},{"Title":"Secret society","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not having seen this film when it first was released, we took a chance when it showed on cable recently. Despite the general bad comments from all contributors of this film in IMDb, Rob Cohen's The Skulls, shows some interesting aspects about a secret society in one Ivy League university.First of all, it's almost inconceivably how a townie like Lucas McNamara, can enter this society, which is clearly intended for the rich boys that attend the university. If ever there was someone who had no chance in being a candidate, it was Luke McNamara. But then, Lucas' character is thrown in to show a contrast in the proceedings, otherwise the film would have been unwatchable if it only concentrated in these boring rich boys.Films like The Skulls, and other thrillers, thrive in the paranoia factor that is created around the situation. In this case, it shows how a few misguided individuals want to control everything where their members are influential figures. In this case it is the judge that aspires to be the next supreme court nominee, something that has some actual interest, since the president of the United States, a secret society member himself, has had to choose people to fill key vacancies in the government.The best assets of the film lie in the crisp cinematography by Shane Hurlbut, who does wonder with his camera. The fine editing of the film by Peter Amundson shows outstanding quality that makes The Skulls a film that is easy to watch. Mr. Cohen has an eye for camera placement that shows in the different settings in the film.One wishes Rob Cohen luck with his next undertaking because she demonstrates he knows his craft well. "},{"Title":"Drama, Suspense, Excitement And Paul Walker!","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls is brilliant suspense thriller with loads of excitement and twists all the way through. The movie also stars the absolutely brilliant Paul Walker. What more could you want? When I first saw this movie at the cinema, I knew this was one to own. (On DVD.) (-Includes, 'The Making Of The Skulls', Directors Commentary, Deleted  Scenes, DVD-ROM features, etc.) It's really THAT great.The Skulls is about a college fraternity, of course called, The Skulls. Anyone who's anyone wants to join and when Luke McNamara, (Joshua Jackson.) a working class senior is accepted, he is of course very excited. Once he joins he gets money, power and he even gets told that The Skulls can help him attend any Law School he wants to go to. (He wants to attend Harvard.) Everyone who joins The Skulls gets a 'friend for life' and Luke gets paired up with Caleb Mandrake. (The brilliant Paul Walker.) Calebs father is one of the high chairmen of The Skulls. For while things are going great for Luke, but when finds his best friend Will, (Hill Harper.) (Who wasn't happy about Luke joining The Skulls in the first place.) hanged from his room and has allegedly committed suicide, Luke realises that The Skulls is not all he thought it would be. So Luke, with a little help from his friend Chloe (Leslie Bibb.) try to find out what really happened to Will and along the way they find out some other disturbing things about The Skulls.  The cast in the movie are all quite good. First you have, Paul Walker he's brilliant in anything he does. (You also get to see his gorgeous body here.) Then you have, Joshua Jackson, he's quite good and then there's Leslie Bibb. Who on earth cast her? She's such an awful actress. She has that 'girl next door' thing going here but she really can't act. I can *just* about stand her in the TV show Popular, but really. Oh well, you just have to grin and bare it. Rob Cohen directs The Skulls and he does a GREAT job directing as usual.I would recommend The Skulls to anyone. If you like, drama, suspense, thrillers, etc. or if you're just a fan of Paul Walker than The Skulls is for you. I give it a 10/10.  "},{"Title":"Good potential smothered in bad script...","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE SKULLS deals with an interesting subject but never overcomes a murky script that seems to go nowhere until the final sequences.Two young freshmen are at the centerpiece of the story about a mysterious organization called The Skulls that seems to offer rich rewards for joining a secret society. JOSHUA JACKSON and PAUL WALKER are the two young men and CRAIG T. NELSON is Walker's father who wants his wealthy son to make it into the society.The acting is decent enough, especially by Jackson, and Craig T. Nelson is earnest as the overbearing father but the murky plot is a stumbling block all the way through. The sets are handsomely designed and the technical credits are fine but none of the characters are particularly interesting and the viewer becomes uninvolved in a story that lacks sufficient tension to pull the whole thing together.Good try, but having a relatively unknown cast filling all of the roles doesn't help much. As a suspense thriller, could have been so much tighter, so much better. "},{"Title":"My take the on the movie","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Are there things wrong with this movie? Yes. Are they are bad as some of the reviewers I've read? Asbolutely not.The first problem with the movie is it assumes it's audience is too intelligent. Most movies these days leave NOTHING to the imagination or the interpretation. They spell it out perfectly for you so no part of you goes first he was sitting, then the camera panned to the main character, and when it goes back he was STANDING! And a scene like makes it's way into web pages as errors. Because there's *no way* that someone can stand up while they're off screen and the camera is on someone else.That's what The Skulls does to you. It makes you think of what's happening off screen. At least 50% of the movie isn't occurring on screen, and that's quite honestly, way too much for the average viewer to comprehend.Things like pre-acceptance into the law school of your choice. I've seen that problem pointed out in many reviewers. What they fail to grasp is idiot skulls trying to rule the world doesn't help the cause. While sure, they could likely produce false papers for a law degree, the point is to ACTUALLY make the men go through school, ACTUALLY become smart. So they can ACTUALLY lead in the future. The point of the movie was this secret society opens doors. It doesn't spoon feed the men.I've heard comments about the duel being out in the open. It was, on a private island. I've read complaints about how it's a known secret society. And that's apparently too complex a concept to grasp for some. There's A LOT of known secrets. Area 51 for instance in Nevada. It's widely known, yet no one can tell you what ACTUALLY happens there. Sure, 1000 theories... but no truly KNOWN truths. The secret societies in this college are the same. They listed 3 of them. The Snake and Key was one I think, the Wolf and Scroll was another I believe, and yes, The Skulls.I personally liked the movie. It was at least suspenseful. Did it have it's odd plot hole? Sure. But as long as you're brain's fast enough to fill in the blanks that are happening off screen, then it's much more in-depth then a lot of the reviewers I've read give it credit for. "},{"Title":"Skulls without brain","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Who has never dreamed of being part of a secret society ,particularly when you were a child?An adolescent too needs to have a hidden life ,a place where he can do what he wants,where he can behave outside the laws of the society (or school?)When you grow up,you've got to become an adult ,to manage by yourself,to be loyalthat's the price to pay if you want to experiment true love ,true friendshipMcNamara's pal ,the only worthy character in the whole movie -the girlfriend 's part is less convincing,since she's got nothing to lose,coming from a wealthy family- does know that ,as soon as you have secrets from your best friend,he ceases to be your best friendhe just happened to be a black student.He epitomizes loyalty,honesty,maturity ,all that the others cruelly lack.What is childish for a boy nearing twenty becomes monstrous for men like William Petersen's character.No matter if he redeems himself,no matter if he approves of McNamarra's final decision,he is still part of the game.A game for big babies who have never grown up and never will even if they become president of the US. "},{"Title":"Could have been good, but it got ruined","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie could have been pretty good, but I assumed it got sped up either in the script writing or the production. The first problem was that the skulls were mentioned and the members were brought out far too early into the film. The fact that Luke and his friends were even talking about the skulls so early in the film makes it not even a secret society. The two skull members who were sitting on the bleachers looking at Luke and talking about his potential should not have been there or they should have been in there a little later. If anything the skulls should have been sort of a stalking presence kind of like Jasons mother in the beginning of Friday the 13th where you see from her point of view but you don't find out who it is or there purpose for a little time. The second problem is that they decided to add a second secret society who also advertises itself with snakes all over there buildings. The idea of secret societies is that no one really knows they exist, they only are known through hear-say; therefore lines like I hope I get into the skulls, before the skulls are introduced for sure makes them not secret. Next I found that the constant double crossing and the omnipresence of the skulls was a bit much. I understand that the members are very powerful people, but they could have toned that down a bit. My last lil' problem was that when Luke took the girl out for dinner and decided he needed to goto the atm, he said let me check my balance and out of nowhere he discovered he had $20,000 in the bank, that should have been done a little less obviously where he took out the money and saw on the receipt the $20,000. It just seemed a bit forced and was easy to see coming. "},{"Title":"A Wonderful and Thrilling Movie!","Date":"9 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I just saw this movie today and it is absolutely a fantastic picture. You can tell that it was meant to be a mystery movie and a thriller because of the wonderful scenes, the irony, the twists, and the music in the background. Joshua Jackson plays a college freshman who joins this secret society called The Skulls but comes to realize that this organization may have a few skeletons in its high-class closet. They did a great job on the music for the scenes because all the songs fit perfectly with what was going on in the scene. I also enjoyed the actors' performances. Joshua Jackson is a very good actor and shows through this movie that he can play just about any role he wants. Paul Walker also did a brilliant job at being both good and bad. The plot was one of the best ever written for this movie and it keeps you guessing even when you think you have figured it all out! A very wonderful movie for those who like to be kept on the edge of their seats and I strongly recommend this movie to anyone! "}{"Title":"OK yarn will please target audience","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" THE SKULLS Aspect ratio 1.851Sound formats Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDSAfter being recruited to a secret society operating behind closed doors at his Ivy League university, a young student (Joshua Jackson) becomes suspicious of the organization's ringleaders following the unexpected 'suicide' of a close friend (Hill Harper) who had set out to expose the society's criminal methods.The cross-pollination of film and television continues apace with this entertaining yarn, featuring a number of well-known TV faces, including Craig T. Nelson (The District), William L. Petersen (CSI Crime Scene Investigation) and Steve Harris (The Practice) as the token grown-ups, and Leslie Bibb (Popular) as Jackson's love interest. Paul Walker (THE FAST AND THE FURIOUS) is the golden-haired jock who seems to know more about Harper's tragic death than he's prepared to admit. On hiatus from Dawson's Creek, Jackson coasts through proceedings on the strength of his TV persona (smart, plucky and wise beyond his years), battling the age-old rituals of an ancient cabal which moulds a selection of today's student body into tomorrow's politicians and business leaders, and will stop at nothing to conceal its activities from the outside world. Murder and mayhem are the order of the day, though the movie is flawed by a couple of implausible plot twists and a rather tepid climax. Beautifully photographed by Shane Hurlbut; directed by Rob Cohen (DRAGON THE BRUCE LEE STORY). Followed by THE SKULLS II (2002). "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Entertainment, but...","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" OK as one-night entertainment, when there is nothing at all good running on the TV, but the sad fact is that the story, and the plot is but an over-romanticized and stupefying mixture of partial truth and blatant lies.After watching The Skulls, I came to the conclusion that this movie purely is made up to desensitize spectators of the realities that lies behind certain secret societies and the genuine conspiracies.But hey? What other means do the conspirators have, when people starts to think? Bread and Circus goes only so far, divide and conquer is a well-proved method since the times of Caesars of Rome. "},{"Title":"I expected worse, but it was okay!","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gotta say, Rob Cohen hasn't directed anything brilliant yet, and 'The Skulls' doesn't change that. However, the film is significantly better than his future outings in 'The Fast and the Furious' and 'xXx', and I guess we can be thankful that Vin Diesel is not in this movie! The cinematography in Cohen films are always above par, and this little thriller based on secret societies works as chewing-gum film, but never really feels scary or tense. The characters are decent enough, and the action sequences are pretty good because they are grounded in a more realistic manner than Cohen's future works. Joshua Jackson is a likable hero, and Craig T. Nelson does well as the villain of the film. Paul Walker plays a decent conflicted character, and there is support from Christopher McDonald and William L. Petersen! Definitely not a must-see, but you could do a lot worse than 'The Skulls'. An above average thriller, that isn't edge of your seat, but decent enough to watch!*** out of *****! "},{"Title":"Whas up wit dis?...It sucks....","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A laughable plot, laughable script and laughable acting... The most unsecret society ive ever seen..... you might as well open up a branch of Macdonalds in their 'secret' house, it would be less obvious than in the film.Oh and kids, climbing up a roof to steal a weather vane and falling 30 feet into a moat is not funny or cool....But Joshua Jackson should definitely try and fall back into Dawsons Creek.... That show looks like Shakespeare compared to this. "},{"Title":"Decent little teen thriller","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I dunno why so many people hate on this movie. To me The Skulls is what intends a teen thriller with some smarts. Yeah the plot is predictabale and the acting is medicore but it's still a fun film. Director Rob Cohen has made a stylish film for teens , my only compliant is that Leslile Bibb didn't get naked. "},{"Title":"The Skulls my review","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A mediocre look at a secret society, known as 'The Skulls'. While the luxuries are great, one student, Luke (Joshua Jackson) finds that secret societys should be just that secret.His best friend dies, and he must uncover the truth before it's too late. Thrilling at times, though the plot and dialogue run weak. Teenage girls will love it for the fact that both Joshua Jackson and Paul Walker star in it. "},{"Title":"major disappointment","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was all excited to see this movie, it seemed from the previews to have a great plot.  I see where they were trying to go with the movie, but it just wasn't effective.  Some of the acting was soooo terrible.  I'm sorry, Leslie Bibb seems like she's a nice and bright girl, but she can't act.  She was terrible in this movie.  Paul Walker was the best thing about this movie. Some of the dialogue was incredible cheesy and there was nothing 'thrilling' about this wannabe thriller.   "},{"Title":"What a ripoff! (and I saw it for free!)","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only thing enjoyable about watching terrible movies like The Skulls is coming to IMDb and reading all the hilarious ways like-minded people rip them to shreds. I wonder if director Rob Cohen and screenwriter John Pogue have ever cried themselves to sleep from reading this stuff.Anyway, a friend of mine borrowed this DVD from the library and let me see it before he returned it, which was cool since I had figured it would make a nice addition to my little Labor Day Weekend movie-watching marathon. Well, as much as I appreciate the gesture, he shouldn't have bothered, because this is easily the worst movie I've seen in quite a while (and I did watch it with extremely low expectations, and it was worse than I expected).The acting sucked...Joshua Jackson's entire range seems to consist of a) looking glum (most of the movie) and b) looking really happy in a dorky way(when he's dancing with the woman at the reception). The writing was equally bad with lots of cliched dialogue that we've heard lots of times. I wish I could remember some of the lines so I can provide examples, but I guess the less I remember of this film, the better. Cohen even gives us two (2) instances of that clever trick where our hero is about to get blown away, then the camera cuts to a close-up of the gun firing...but it turns out that the shots came from behind the bad guy, killing (or disabling) him!Both the car chase and I love you scenes seem like they were shoehorned in, no matter how illogical or inappropriate they are. I guess all thrillers must have a silly car chase scene, and what would a teenage heartthrob flick be without a (lame) makeout scene in a shower? Speaking of heartthrobs, why is tubby Joshua Jackson considered one? Maybe I should have gone into acting instead of computer science.We're never given any definitive reason as to why the Skulls are interested in Luke in the first place. His only skill seems to be a proficiency at rowing. He certainly doesn't have a lot of brains (maybe you should make a copy of the only hard evidence of your friend's murder). Hill Harper's character was unbelievably annoying (he's supposedly a bright young reporter who's being courted by major newspapers, and he throws an I'm jealous of your new friends! tantrum?!?) , and I was pretty happy to see him get killed off.I gave this movie a 3 out of 10, and I'm starting to think that was a bit high. Does it really deserve two whole spots above Batman & Robin?? Well, I suppose it was fun to see Christopher McDonald (the mean husband from Thelma & Louise) as the Evil University Provost. Plus, the movie actually contains a scene where someone screams Noooooooooooooo!, which is always good for a laugh.I think I'm going to watch Sixteen Candles again. Now, back in the 80s, *our* teenage heartthrobs knew how to act (Wow, I sound like an old man). "},{"Title":"AWSOME!","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I Think this movie was great!!!! I know alot of people are complaining that this movie was inacurate! one word for you, fiction! It wasnt sappose to be a docementary of any thing. The movie provided a good amount of sappense and action. I think if people are looking for a really good movie and not a history lesson you will enjoy it.  "},{"Title":"NO.","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  So let me get this straight. . . a couple low-life, late teen and early 20s thug friends get together and sneak into the Skulls' headquarters, (where the CIA has hidden cameras, etc) gather any info they want, and basically have the opportunity to bring the Skulls down (in trade for an early 60s convertible Thunderbird).  That's just one of the hilarious (sad?) things in this movie that takes itself seriously.The target audience for the Skulls is responsible for a large number of crap movies in the past 5 years.. . the makers shoot for college/highschool kids who will believe anything you tell them about a conspiracy theory.  Oh, and throw in people from Dawsons Creek, etc, that always helps.  The Skulls belongs in the same group of movies that Urban Legends, Scream 1-2-3, Varsity Blues, I Know What You Did Last Summer, etc all belong in.. CRAP.The story had potential. . and I stress POTENTIAL b/c it became ludicrous. I was curious to see a movie loosely based on the /are in.  I should have known just how cheesy this movie would have been after the first boat racing scene.A much, MUCH better movie along these lines to watch instead would be the Lords of Discipline.  It's not an award winner, but it's Oscar material compared to the Skulls.Just to be clear about this. .  This movie is NOT so bad that it's funny. This movie is just plain BAD.5/10 (and that's being kind) "}{"Title":"Why?","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I would never go out and rent a movie like this. Why? Well, to me, most of these are all the same. Maybe that is the point, I do not know.So, I saw it at a friend's place, and I wasn't surprised. Acting even more terrible than I had expected. A goofy story about a bloke named Lucas who joins some sort of secret society who operates from high school or college (I never found out what it was, but Joshua Jackson had some sort of BMX-a-like...) where money is flowing and life seems to be a huge bloody ice-cream, but... it's not (blimey!). Bla bla bla.Stupid, dull, lame and incredibly daft. My rating? Go figure. "},{"Title":"The Skulls explores the corruptive powers of an elitist, secret society.","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls sets its story in a prestigious university campus, where the somewhat secret organization is at least known for recruiting fresh, worthy candidates and transforming them into powerful and wealthy men.The Skull's main character is Luke McNamara (Joshua Jackson), a struggling college student whose humble background distinguishes him from the rest of the Ivy League crowd. Dependent on part-time work and student loans, the outstanding student seems a most likely candidate, and is soon summoned to try out for The Skulls. In spite of angry cautioning from his closest friends Will (Hill Harper) and Chloe (Leslie Bibb), who oppose the clandestine nature of The Skulls, Luke is seduced. Taking the viewer inside The Skulls' walls, the plot reveals a family of successful men, headed by Litten Mandrake (Craig T. Nelson), who welcomes Luke and other new members with generous gifts. However, Luke doesn't lose his objectivity and remains watchful of his assigned soul mate and Litten's puppet son, Caleb Mandrake (Paul Walker). Conflicts arise when Will becomes the first known victim of The Skulls' rigid politics and Luke's integrity is consequently tested. By creating a character that the viewer may easily identify with, and by tempting him with recognizable luxuries, The Skulls initially seems to offer an intriguing story. However, the film fails as it never fully immerses its main character in the depths of the conflicts associated with the untouchable Skulls. With the exception of the pivotal death scene of the film's most passionate character, and of the final scenes where Caleb considers rebelling against his father, conflicts seldom reach a fully dramatic stage and are rather depicted as dangers that can be mostly avoided with luck and self-confidence. The Skulls tries to portray an underground world that rises above the average person's fantasies. However, the film does not successfully integrate its props and its images of skull paraphernalia, expensive cars, fine clothes and hard cash into a narrative level. The Skulls tries to incorporate too many elements such as sex, a car chase, a suicide attempt, a mental institution, a corrupt cop, a duel, sports and college life, without developing any one on a meaningful, narrative level. All in all, The Skulls is a film that stems from an interesting premise, which quickly branches off into many nonessential directions.  "},{"Title":"The skulls","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The skulls is the best film i have ever seen and Joshua Jackson is the best actor even he is only 23 years old. I hope skulls 2 will be better than skulls and i want Joshua Jackson and Leslie Bib be again the stars of the film  "},{"Title":"Missed Opportunity","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Considering our current president and his father are alleged to be members of a secret society similar to one in the film, there was a real opportunity to make an insightful movie about the operation and influence of these shadowy organizations. Instead, director Rob Cohen and the screenwriter have fashioned an illogical, poorly acted, substandard genre flick, designed to appeal to an adolescent audience with no political sophistication. The characters are all cardboard cutouts, and I felt embarrassed for the professional actors here, like Craig T. Nelson and William Petersen. Petersen's Virginia accent is howlingly unconvincing. Plot elements don't add up, there's no real payoff, and the action sequences are woeful and ineptly filmed. The film looks like it was edited with a meat cleaver. This is really an awful movie. "},{"Title":"Not so secret.","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"       For what was suppose to be a REALLY REALLY secret society, there sure were a hell of a lot of people who knew about it. The story line to this movie was pretty good, but the acting and direction sucked. There was no character development that would allow the story line to take a twist or turn. Am I suppose to believe that these kids when they found out the apartment was being bugged, that they decided to have sex right there in the bathroom.           I am glad that I waited for this film to go to video cassette first.      "},{"Title":"Promising thriller becomes rather bone-headed.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"       THE SKULLS (2000) has promise to it.  It's villians are the elite of the elite, flawless, wealthy, arrogant men of power and college students of tremendous promise- otherwise people we'd love to hate!  That makes the perfect villians!   Sadly, this film is an exercise for sloppness, and careless film-making.      The Skulls is a secret society of the ultra powerful based on a preppy college campus that starts with a Y (take a guess!!).   A black college student wanders into theri secret meeting place, snapping pictures and is violently killed by one of the skull members.  They make the murder look like suicide by hanging.  Okay, this is a secret society of the best of the best.  None of them figured out that the snooping victim's demise would be easily detected in an autopsy?  One of the Skull members is a powerful senator.  He tells a new member call me, even if you want to shoot the breeze...  Hi, Senators don't have time for Rap sessions with Joe College Student, or have the time to attend all the secret meetings of The Skulls.  The Skulls meeting in an underground stone fortress remind me of the telepathic bomb worshippers from BENEATH THE PLANET OF THE APES.  Unintentional laffs here.   "},{"Title":"Dumb and bring.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A college student struggling with his finances joins a secret society called The Skulls, but he doesn't like what he see's and makes every possible attempt to get out, but finds escape impossible.Poorly executed teen thriller features awful direction, appealng actors doing their best with an awful script, but still fallng short of the mark and just about every cliche in the book. It does score points for some of the smart jabs at Yale though.My Rating 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Take The Firm and shoot it full of holes. And you've got The Skulls.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What exactly is the preacceptance to the law school of your choice? In The Skulls, Craig T. Nelson hands Joshua Jackson's character, a townie just initiated into an Ivy League secret society an envelope with just this appelation. What on Earth does that mean? Does Jackson need to bother to apply anymore? Can he just write in the name of the school and his name, affix a club seal and head off the next fall? Why, then, can't the Skulls just get him the law diploma of his choice? Surely, two years down the road they'd be prepared to fix the bar exam for him as well.This is the basic problem (well, 1 basic problem) with The Skulls, a 2000 release directed by Rob Cohen (on his best days described as a quality TV director, on his worse days described as the director of Sly Stallone's dullest if not worse film Daylight). Too often things in The Skulls that should remain mysterious made literal and almost immediately become ridiculous. And once enough things are literallized everything begins to seem goofy by extension. For example, we're working with the most secretive society in the world. Members aren't allowed to tell people that they're members. However, when they have their initiation, everybody walks into ornate secret clubhouse, in single-file in the middle of the evening. Not much secretive about that. Similarly, with enough pull to control the Supreme Court and Senate, why couldn't the Skulls do anything to control a simple smalltown suicide investigation? Or at least avoid botching a simulated suicide in the first place?And why would Jackson's character basically bank his college career on ultimately being invited to a secret society that admits 8 people (or so) a year? On the basis of rowing for the crew team? Or because he overcame being a petty thief and his mother's death? These things *do* look fine on the law school application of your choice, but will they get you into the most powerful whatever in the whatever? Give me a break. Also, the notion that there was only one legacy among the entering Skulls' class? Well, anybody who's ever spent any time at an Ivy League school can tell you how likely that would be. And how did Jackson's character know the deadline for Skulls notification anyway? That's also not very mysterious. And the fact that *another* secret society has a nifty on-campus clubhouse with a moat that nobody ever watches... Grumble. It just goes on.These are only silly things that pop up in the first 45 minutes of The Skulls. No point in spoiling any genuine surprises why asking why they weren't really surprising. The script by Eric Pogue seems to make up its own rules and not entirely successfully. Beyond the problem with over-explaining, the script is constantly over-expositional. Once again, with every secret that's told, things become less interesting, rather than moreso.An interesting choice is that only two of the younger generation of Skulls, the new inductees played by Jackson and Paul Walker, have any dialogue. We have no idea what anybody else did to get where they are. Instead, there are a host of older Skulls. You'd say that these roles were a waste of good actors, but it's been a long time since anybody called Craig T. Nelson, Christopher McDonald, or William Petersen good actors. You know Nelson is acting because he has a moustache. Petersen (as perhaps the only interesting character in the film) does a flimsy Bill Clinton impression. And McDonald does absolutely nothing, but I guess he has to work.Jackson and Walker don't have much by way of whatever. Because Jackson's character is so unimaginably morally righteous, the film lacks any conflict at its center. Everything is absolutely black and white. And uninteresting. Walker has a moment or two of conflict, but his character, a spoiled heir to the Skulls empire,   is so minor that despite his screentime, he probably won't make much of an impact on anybody who isn't a teenage girl.Everything in the film is overdone. Rob Cohen's camera sweeps and tracks and nothing works entirely. Occasionally moments of paranoia set in, but they're always undermined by weak writing, or horrible cinematography. If the first rule of being a director of photography is that the way that the film is shot should never distract the viewer, than Shane Hurlbut fails dismally. Every single shot seems to be showing off towards no narrative purpose. Everything is filtered, the lighting is always flooding in in some mysterious way. And it takes your attention away from the film.The Skulls builds to a climax as unsatisfying as it is ludicrous. The problem as I see it is that every film simply must have logic. Logic, however, is not absolute. A film can either have logic that corresponds to the world, or logic that at least corresponds within the world of the film. The Skulls is so full of holes that nothing holds together.Out of generosity, I give it a 3. "},{"Title":"A Roller Coaster Ride","Date":"17 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a good movie.  It had a good plot and good acting.  Some well known actors are in this movie like Joshua Jackson(Dawson's Creek) and Craig T. Nelson(TV's Coach).  We all know Craig for his role on the tv show Coach but in this movie we see the darker side of him.  It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time.  A roller coaster of a ride. "},{"Title":"If I told you, Id have to ....","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If I told you about the secret society of movie goers whom watched this movie,  I'd have to, um.. you know.  Of course that is just an act, but the real question is, can anybody in this movie act?The Skulls is like stale candy.  It is well packaged, it looks great, the trailer and advertisements make you want to see it, but when you finally sneak the candy, you realize that it is of bad quality.The Skulls is low quality at its best.  The acting is poor, the writing is worse, the cliches are high, the goofiness is there.  However, none of this is supposed to be present.What was an interesting idea is given run-of-the mill treatment is writing and thus leading to dead-pan style acting.  I guess a teen audience will love it, as The Skulls did make money.In all though, it is in the bottom half of early 2000 movies and will remain a secret to most people in the years to come (except of course to the select and elete few whom saw the movie.Rating 4 (1.5 stars)Viewed 35mm (scope) "}{"Title":"Its like Dawson's Creek meets The Stone Cutters of the Simpsons","Date":"4 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I didn't mind the film when I watched it, of course I wasn't really paying too much attention to the details but later as I thought a little bit about it, the movie was kinda bad. The kinda just focus in on the main character and tune everything else out. The relationship with the male lead and the his love interest was very weak, its kinda like they just got to know each other's astrological signs and now they're ready to get married. The whole exclusive underground beatnick club is a little too much to swallow. It gets to a point where its extremely hard to believe. One particular scene that I thought was kinda weird was when Pacey(what kinda name is that for a guy anyways?) gets kinda lobodomized and then gets rescued and suddenly he's back to normal. I'm not brain surgeon and i think I( and most audience members) need some of that medical stuff cleared up for us.  Bad movie, good try though. "},{"Title":"Confusing . . . boring.","Date":"6 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Joshua Jackson wants to join a secret society that has a strange bunch of rituals. The movie is confusing, boring and a bunch of eye candy for girls who like really healthy looking actors. From the prologue you already have to learn more about the the Skulls than your attention span can take. When a murder is revealed on video tape, could anybody see what really happened? Overall, the acting is not too bad and the screenplay is average. However, did they have to constantly emphasise the secret of the Skulls? You can get some good laughs out of the flick. "},{"Title":"2000's most idiotic movie.","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  * out of ****The Skulls is astonishingly bad.  Featuring a cast of hot and hip young stars, this is a movie that manages the task of actually getting progressively worse as each minute passes by.  All this leads to a finale which is a paragon of complete idiocy.Luke Mcnamara (Joshua Jackson) is an all-around good student in Yale University.  He's also become a new member of a secret society called The Skulls.  At first, he thinks he's living the good life.  All of a sudden, he's got a new car and $20000 in his bank account.  However, not everything is all bright and happy.  Luke finds his best friend dead, apparently from a suicide, after he was doing a story on The Skulls.  He begins to suspect another member and friend of his, Caleb Mandrake (Paul Walker), had something to with friend's death.  With the help of Chloe (Leslie Bibb) and one of the mysterious leaders of The Skulls (William Petersen), Luke tries to uncover the mystery to his friend's death, which could very well put his life in jeopardy.The worst aspect (which, believe me, was quite hard to choose from) of this thriller must be the script from John Pogue, which is blatant in its complete idiocy.  The film contains so many obvious plot holes and logic leapholes it's almost hilarious.  The dialogue is as equally atrocious, and you have to wonder if this isn't meant to be a partial comedy.There are a lot of things in the movie that don't make sense.  For one, why would The Skulls, a society so powerful, actually rely on the leaders to the dirty work and coverups instead of a crony or smaller member.  You also have to wonder why during a certain scene a few of the characters decide not to make a copy to crucial tape, especially when they had plenty of time to do so.  There's also a scene involving Jackson acting like a vegetable during a car chase, then all of a sudden acting like a lucid gentleman as soon as the chase is over.The acting is also terrible.  Joshua Jackson shows no charisma and the fact that the script gives him absolutely nothing to do doesn't help, either.  Paul Walker is just as bad, trying to play a person who's conflicted by his conscience, but he just comes off laughable.  Leslie Bibb has nothing much to do other than pout and try not to muss up her makeup.  The grown-up performers are slightly better, if only because the embarrassed look on their faces show they should have had better sense than to sign on to this film.Director Rob Cohen seems to believe that cheap thrills is a good form of suspense, so he infuses an abundance of unexciting foot and car chases that generate little to no tension.  Of course, he saves the worst for last.  Had the movie gone somewhere, I might have been willing to give it an extra 1/2 *, but no.  Instead, what we have is one of the worst endings I've seen in a long while.  It involves a duel, and a character who does could be the most stupid thing that can be done in such a situation, and that is actually to throw his gun down.  This is the kind of intelligence the film portrays, and if you don't think scenes like this seriously underestimate your intelligence, then this could be the film for you.  Otherwise, this is a film better used as a doorstop. "},{"Title":"All sizzle, no steak.","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Skulls has all the spit and polish of a good film. However, it's story is about as full of holes as...well, a skull. This implausible drama gives us no reason to care if the hero lives or dies as he wends his way through a very implausible plot which is a flimsy as a house of cards. Watchable but lacking in substance. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in a long time...","Date":"27 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't know why this movie gets such a bad rap, it is a great story that has surprise turning points at every corner. Luke's struggle shows the duality of man, as well as the constant struggle between material wealth and moral goodness. In addition the movie provides an allegory for any life struggle. Sex Scene There is a very good and sensual scene between Luke and Chloe, including a song Taste which I am having trouble downloading. More Character Development Luke chickens out when the going gets rough. Chloe turns to her passionate side, Caleb sees the light. Go Skulls. Anyone who can see (i.e. is not blind) should go out and rent this movie. "},{"Title":"Caleb Mandrake?","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rob Cohen is perhaps the most reprehensible man in America today. His hatred, foulness and general contempt for his fellow human being is painfully apparent in his direction of The Skulls. I live in Arizona, at the base of a small mountain, where I took an after dinner walk one fine evening in a futile attempt to thwart the large meal I had just eaten. While walking on the desert path up the glorified hill, I came upon a man being torn limb from limb by a pack of bloodthirsty coyotes. The man was helpless as the beasts gnawed his bones. My first instinct was to run over and help, but then logic came over me, thinking that the animals didn't quite look full, I decided to simply offer assistance from a comfortable proximity. I tried to reassure the man, I told him I'd run and call for help. Just as I began my frantic sprint for the nearest phone I heard the man's faint and withered voice call to me. No he said. I ignored, thinking he must be delirious with blood loss or possibly some tragic new form of instantaneous rabies, when I heard it again, No. Being a person that does not usually disregard the dying wishes of another, I inquired further. You don't want me to get help? I asked him. No he responded I've just seen The Skulls in its entirety and this is the only solution. For a moment I thought the man to be insane and continued my jaunt for help. Somewhere between the man's whimpers of pain and the video store I must have changed my mind, and decided to rent The Skulls, instead.It was all too curious. After all, what form of cinematic bungle could make a person wish for such a cruel personal demise? What tragedy of celluloid might cause a man to invite that degree of brutality upon himself? I had to know&#133; and about three minutes into this miserable opus I completely understood. By the time act two was about wrapping up, after being pummeled with bad lighting, blatantly flagrant exposition and characters with names like Caleb Mandrake, I too, was ready and willing to become nothing more than coyote fodder, if that's what it took to wipe clean the disgraceful memory of this film from my mental hard drive. Unfortunately for me, these particular desert stalkers had moved on and therefore would not be having dessert. Me, on the other hand, I did have dessert. In the form of an encore Skulls viewing. Maybe I'll try throwing myself over the railing of the lion display at the local zoo instead.This film is rotten to the core and I firmly believe in my heart of hearts that this would be the only way to cleanse myself of its stink. Beware, this could happen to you. That is, unless you've been LOOKING for a Starship Troopers type expose, this time on the rigors of the secret society scene, complete with robotic acting, wretched plot/dialogue and a disturbingly odd Craig T. Nelson moustache. If that is what you're in the market for, seek immediate help, then rent- no, BUY The Skulls. You will be thoroughly rewarded. By the way&#133; zoo hours are 9-6. "},{"Title":"I Socket","Date":"1 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Spoilers herein.Story number 6 Small guy, big guy. Small guy is compromised but prevails through his purity.Variation 3 Shuffle a story about friends who is your friend, who not? Works best for kids.Twist B at the end a bad guy turns sorta good and a bad guy sorta kinda good.The only mildly interesting thing here is the video within the movie.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Why am I always the one to buck the trend.","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was not a bad movie. It was entertaining, and it had a lot of interesting moments. And the fact is that there are such societies that exist. Both President's Bush belonged to one such, and it is not surprising that the basic premise should hold. The concept of brotherhoods of elite individuals who support one another for gain and power has existed for hundreds of years. The major failing with this film is the overtly large number of relative unknowns in the cast. I am sure this was done to keep the cost down. The sets were great and the atmosphere of the film was just right. And it must have done fairly well with audiences, since it spawned two popular sequels. "},{"Title":"I liked it, if you can like movies about evil creeps","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" And it is not far fetched, we have a prez and his buddy Kerry who are both members of Skull and Bones. The Prez was selected with the help of supreme court justice scalia, a S&B member. W's father is S&B, as was HIS father, and HIS father. GHWB's father, Prescott aided the Nazis DURING WW2. Look it up. Google 'Bush Family Fortunes.' Google skull and bones 'evil' REad a while. You will be shocked. If you are not a 'conspiracy theorist' you soon will be, if you are honestly looking - all a conspiracy takes is for two to conspire to commit crimes...and you are also, if you refuse to revise your world view (also see cognitive dissonance), in the minority of 16 % who believe the lies this admin has told us re 9/11/01. That's from a Major scientific poll recently...With the MSM NOT covering the real issues of the day, like Depleted Uranium spreading planet wide, the pure evil we are perpetrating on innocent people who are only trying to repel invaders who want to ethnically cleanse them. who rip to shreds the bill of rights with the Military Commissions act of 2006, who poison us through our food and through our water and with chemicals from the sky...the conspiracies that are before us - IN PLAIN VIEW IF YOU LOOK- are truly astonishing, frightening and so, so sad. What a wonderful world the people like you see in the Skulls have done behind the scenes to this magnificent creation our creator gave us. They consort with demonic forces. Skull and Bones members take an oath to Satan and GW did. Born again yes, but he doesn't say 'In Christ' does he? He has never renounced his pledge to Lucifer. "},{"Title":"A good, well directed movie","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really liked the movie the skulls. i started to watch it in my English class and i got really interested in it. We have now studied every little detail and it still isn't boring. If anyone is thinking of getting this movie out i would recommend it, especially for people who are between 10 and 30. It is avery good movie which will keep you interested for its full length. The Skulls, By some cool director, is on my must see list !!! I really liked the movie the skulls. i started to watch it in my English class and i got really interested in it. We have now studied every little detail and it still isn't boring. If anyone is thinking of getting this movie out i would recommend it, especially for people who are between 10 and 30. It is avery good movie which will keep you interested for its full length. The Skulls, By some cool director, is on my must see list !!! "}{"Title":"Skullmania","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Far out and unbelievable plot that has as many plot holes as mines planted on the Libyan/Egyptian border in 1942 makes The Skulls more of an unintentional comedy then anything else. Looking for new members the high echelon body of The Skulls pick a number of new recruits from an eastern Ivy League collage one of whom is Luke McNamera, Jashau Jackson,who proved to have high leadership qualities in his ability of rowing his team to the championship for the last three years. Getting that midnight phone call from The Skulls Luke runs all over campus until he reaches this secluded place and drinks a cocktail, prepared for him by The Skulls, that knocks him out. Waking up in a coffin at The Skulls clubhouse he and his fellow Skulls are told to steal a a rivals collage club snake weather-vein to prove their worthiness as Skulls. Luke now what sees to be on top of the world as a member of The Skulls has his friends who aren't Skulls desert him not wanting to have anything to do with him or his secret organization which Luke is sworn to secretly not to talk about; even though every one who know him seems to know he's a Skull. Lukes best friend and roommate Will, Hill Harper, is secrecy doing an expose of The Skulls and breaks into Luke's Skull Soul, or Skull, mate Caleb Mandrake's, Paul Walker,car. It's there that Will steals Caleb's Skulls book of Rules and key to the Kingdome of the Skulls secret organization which costs Will his life. All this is video taped by the Skulls hidden camera at The Skulls secret headquarters that Will broke into.Making it look like Will committed suicide, by hanging himself, everything about Will's break-in and the truth behind The Skulls hidden secrets which Will photographed was swept under the rug or was it? not as long as Luke had anything to do with it. For a supposedly smart guy and Skull member Luke was anything but by shooting his big mouth off to the local police about Wills death. Even handing them the video tape of Will's death at the Skull Ritual Room, without even bothering to make a copy for safe-keeping. The police in fact were in league with The Skulls like everyone else in the movie which seemed to be showed that Luke's, who should have know all this, brain was anywhere but in his skull. Getting his girlfriend Chole, Leslie Bibb, involved in finding the truth about Will's death was also not that bright of an idea by Luke who almost gets her killed by The Skulls and their hired goons. Luke himself is kidnapped by The Skulls and shot up with drugs that puts him into a comatose state. It's then that he's put away in a private sanitarium run by The Skulls. Chole with the help of a top man in The Skulls organization Senator Ames Levritt, William L. Petersen, smuggled Luke out. Later Luke almost gets killed by a Skull hit-man in a wild car chase only to be rescued by Det. Sparrow, Steve Harris, who's also working, but not a member of, The Skulls and under the control of Sen. Levritt. We find out that Sen. Levritt himself is being blackmailed by Skull honcho and father of Luke's Skull-mate Caleb Litter Mandrake, Craig T. Nelson, who's bucking for a Surpreme Court Judgeship and who's behind the cover up of Will Harper's death. Doing his best to uncover his friend Wills death Luke goes as far as crashing The Skulls big get-together on their private island, Luke just rows right in like The Skulls security men were out on a break, and challenges, according to The Skulls secret rule #119b, Caleb to a duel to the death.Caleb who's been under the thumb of his dominating father The Skulls top man Litten Mandrake now sees his chance to get out of this insane and half-baked organization but will he have the guts to do it! Even more will he also have the guts to show his power-crazed dad that he's a man of his own. Not just a pawn in this weird and obsessive chess game that he's, Litten Mandrak, has been playing with the equally crazy Sen. Levritt. The biggest mistake that the movie The Skulls made was that the person who really murdered Will Harper was never brought to justice. We see him on the tape snapping the wounded Will's neck and killing him but it's both Caleb and his father Litten Mandrake who are somehow made to be the bad guys and murderers in the movie! The Skulls showed, if nothing else, that their nothing but a bunch of political opportunists who couldn't care less abut each other and only did if it helped them in their careers in the political business and judicial world. There was nothing in The Skulls makeup that was good or noble in helping their fellow man or Skull. It was all greed and power, not comradely or eternal friendship, in wanting to be a member of The Skulls. Luke and Caleb did wind up to be true and faithful friends but it was only after they left The Skulls and came back to the real world. Not the madhouse that they, The Skulls, were not only running but inmates of. "},{"Title":"A powerful secret society.","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very interesting thriller about an underprivileged undergrad (Joshua Jackson) at a posh university being accepted into an exclusive organization. One for all and all for one proves not to be the best policy. Most of the action is a cat and mouse chase to obtain proof of an accidental death being covered up. Very strong acting from Jackson and Paul Walker, Leslie Bibb, William L. Peterson and Craig T. Nelson. This is more of a mind game than eye candy. Recommended with no regret. "},{"Title":"One of the year's worst films, with a ridiculous story and defective characters. * out of ****.","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  THE SKULLS / (2000) *Starring Paul Walker, Joshua Jackson, Craig T. Nelson, William L. Peterson, Christopher McDonald, Hill Harper, and Leslie Bibb. Directed by Rob Cohen. Written by John Pogue. Running time 107 minutes. Rated PG-13 (for violence, some language, and brief sexuality).By Blake French	A secret society so powerful, it can give you anything&#133;at a price. That is the subtitle to The Skulls, a new thriller by Rob Cohen. The film is entirely fictional, although it claims to use concepts behind a real secret campus society called Skull and Bones. This film rips off the outline of the society's reputation and controversy, but the filmmakers should have ripped off even more-as much as they could have. At first glance this movie, with its ironic principles and mysterious overtones, sounds as if it may be something of interest, and extremely externally it is. However, if you are a filmgoer who likes films with the slightest hint of intelligence or consistence, you will discover The Skulls is a horrendous production.	Joshua Jackson, (also starring in the upcoming Gossip) is cast as a college student named Luke McNamara. His roommates are the rich and beautiful Chloe (Leslie Bibb), whom Luke has a forbidden crush on, and an African American student journalist named Will Beckford (Hill Harper). Luke is a very busy young man. He is a varsity rower, works in a fast food restaurant, is a full time student, and rides his bicycle everywhere. Luke also has an unsettling history his father passed away when he was a baby and has no mother. Even so, due to his strong will, an elite force chooses him as a candidate for membership to the top-secret society The Skulls.	Another key character in this film is Luke's other friend, Caleb Mandrake (Paul Walker), who is popular among young girls and is muscularly attractive in appearance. His father, Litten (ex-Coach star Craig T. Nelson) is running for Supreme Court. Litten is also a judge for the Skulls, heads the society along with Sen. Ames Levitt (William Petersen). Caleb is under high amounts of pressure by his demanding father who expects his son to live up to the family name. This is one cliché I have had enough of lately.	Inside the Skull's headquarters, there are surreal and enticingly designed sets. They include a pool filled with black coffins, many dark hallways, private trap doors, concealed dungeons, several cement arches, and a creepy collage of ornamentation. During a business introduction, the society provides prostitutes for the members. Other benefits include money being casually added into bank accounts, free sexy sports cars, college acceptance, and protection against outsiders. All of this heavenly treatment soon becomes distant and inferior to Luke after Will dies mysteriously.	The Society is first developed through casual conversations. Entrance is like playing a giant video game. The characters are forced to undergo tests to prove their strength? Their bravery? Their endurance? Their strategy? We never learn about the Skulls enough to understand what happens.To make things worse for The Skulls, its stakes are simply not high enough-or perhaps there is too little conflict. What little tension present is not introduced until the story is well on its way into the second half. The movie is not challenging, involving, or thought provoking. Partially to blame is the lack of empathy for the main character. There is no narrative connection between Luke and the audience. Half way through the story he becomes absolute, then miraculously back in action. The rest of the characters are mechanical, one-dimensional plot puppets. No one has a mind of their own. All actions, or should I say reactions, are cause and effect notions, developing little tension or depth. As if the father-son strives were not enough, the movie also features a romantic cliché between Chloe and Luke. The audience never cares about this romantic subplot because it is never developed or examined. Leslie Bibb and Joshua Jackson do not create passionate character chemistry. Paul Walker, whose horrible Meet The Deedles still wreaks in the back of my mind, once again struts his flaunting character around like an arrogant robot. He recites his aimless dialogue as if mechanically programmed.	As bad as The Skulls is, I still would have never reasoned a conclusion like this. I have no idea what the filmmakers were thinking when they decided to portray an ending consisting of a duel between Caleb and Luke to withdrawal truth behind a death. What does a dead student, a secret society, a beautiful girl, and an old fashion sharp shooting challenge have in common? In one scene, a chairman of the Skulls asks Luke if he has any questions. Millions, he responds inquisitively. After watching The Skulls, we know exactly how Luke feels. The Skulls is brought to you by Universal Pictures.   "}]