[{"Title":"Yes, it is a teen flick.","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"29 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Out of the many, many teen flicks out there today, I find this one my favorite of them all. It stands above the rest mainly because it does not take itself seriously. In the first, oh, five minutes of the film you have 1) A guy being sucked into a vortex when his girlfriend breaks up with him and 2) A full-on song and dance number. Yes, this movie is stupid, and it knows it.I find the first, oh two-thirds of the movie to be amusing, but nothing really special. The last third of the movie is where the film really picks up pace and made me fall in love with it. The school play is surprisingly true to real life (at least how theatre was at my school) and the song/dance numbers are priceless. I often find myself fast-forwarding to these scenes when I don't have the time to watch the whole thing.Good movie for when you want to shut off your brain and just enjoy mindless entertainment.  "},{"Title":"It's fun to be a fairy!","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" OK, i picked this film to watch on a night in with the girls because it looked funny and it had Kirsten Dunst in it, and lets face it everyone loves her! But I have to say it has now become one of my favourite movies, its filled with funny dialogue, funky songs and jam packed with cool stars. I love Martin Short as the over dramatic Play director (being a drama student i have had directors very similar to him!) The movie does constantly slip in and out of reality but the amazingly funny songs do hold it together and leave the the audience with the tunes stuck in there heads for days! With Vitamin C appearing in the opening sequence and the finale alongside Sisqo, it is hard not to fall in love with the music! I think it is clever that the movies narrative is based on Shakespeares A midsummer nights dream which is also the play that is performed in the finale of the movie. And Get over it could be used in schools to help desperate teenagers to understand the sometimes complex story lines of Shakespeares plays. Overall the movie fits the typical teen movie criteria, but at the same time it has some quirky gimmicks that are really funny. Its a perfect film to regain that feel good feeling after a rubbish day! "},{"Title":"Sorry, I'm a nut, and I love this movie","Date":"10 June 2005","Score":"24 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie falls short in a lot of things but I have to admit...I love it. I KNOW it's just another teen romance movie, but for me the acting of the two main characters, Ben Foster and Kirsten Dunst, as well as the singing that they actually did themselves, combined with the fact that parts of the movie are just plain weird, somehow captivates me into watching it...oh...maybe 25 times now. I think I am a sick freak that needs counseling but I love this movie. I don't really like Martin Short, but I thought he was excellent in this movie. I honestly thought the romance between Kelly and Burke was very believable and sweet in its way. I also am about to join a group about weird obsessive people who like movies that are not that great. Just kidding. Love this movie. "},{"Title":"Funny and refreshing","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies. Many characters are outlandish and ridiculous, but that just adds to the fun. The direction is creative and original, and the plot is both hilarious and believable. This movie is great for anyone who likes teen comedy or likes to laugh. Just don't set your expectations too high -- this is plain fun, not high art.Dunst is in top form, and the other actors are simply a joy to watch. Shane West's unbelievable accent will keep you rolling. Short is excellent. Foster is fabulous. Hanks is great.The music is another excellent reason to watch this movie in itself. If you hate it, you probably don't have a soul. (I kid.) Seriously, this movie deserves to be watched at least once. "},{"Title":"Oh-No another US Teen movie.. hang on it's GREAT!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was bored, Its Sunday, and there is nothing on a out local Cinema (a rather run down dump).. oh hang on.. 'GET OVER IT'.. didn't I see that advertised on the side of a bus shelter? Another teen flick, slumber parties, perfect women, smart ass teenage lads.. Well at least its warm.. lets go and pass an hour or so.. So in I went...I damned near laughed myself SICK!Join Berke in his attempts to regain the love of his Childhood Girlfriend (Alison - played by Melissa Sagemeier) by joining the school drama production.. however he is thwarted by the Super Smooth Straker.. but its not easy as Straker can sing, dance, play the piano, and was a member of a boy band.. Berke is Helped and Hindered by his friends along the way leading to some hilarious scenes.However, Berke is so blinded by his love of Alison, he completely misses Kelly's (Kirsten Dunst) attempts to gain his affections.However Best-over-acting-and-getting-away-with-it award goes to Martyn Short, who steals the show as the manic producer of the school Drama based on Midsummer Night's Dream.As the film progresses, so does the humour.. cumulating in a production-within-a-film of the Schools play. Brilliant songs and musical score, however I challenge anyone not to be enraptured by Kirsten Dunst when she sings 'Dream of You' SIGHHHHH!!Give this film a try, it does not use Semi-Nude girls to sell the film (there is one short swimming pool scene which is Most Pleasant (DROOL), but thats about it.8/10.. Funniest film I have seen this year "},{"Title":"pleasant comedy, some laugh-out-loud moments","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In the new tradition of taking a classic work and casting it as a high school romance (I guess this tradition began with Clueless, which is still the best of the bunch), A Midsummer Night's Dream gets turned into Get Over It, but as a nice (if occasionally heavy-handed) twist, the movie revolves around a high school production of that play. The really funny moments are provided by Martin Short as the nut-case head of the theatre department, and Ed Begley, Jr. and Swoosie Kurtz as the nut-case sex-therapist parents of the male lead. (There is also some nice slapstick involving a hapless exchange student and some unusually humiliating accidents involving the male lead.)The leads, Dunst and Foster, are solid. I've always liked Foster, and he is quite good here, and Dunst has a surprisingly nice voice (unless she was dubbed, but I think that it was her voice). Anyway, it's pleasant, occasionally inventive within the rigid confines of the genre, and has a few big laughs in it.  "},{"Title":"A Very Satisfying Teen Musical Comedy","Date":"8 July 2005","Score":"19 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This might not be the familiar name to the people but after watching it I got to say &#150; it is one of the very few really good teen movies existed. No matter how many times I watch it is still very lively and watch able.Story A boy was crush when the loves of his life dump him. Desperate, he tried every trick to get her back, that also include joining the school theatre for A Midsummer Night Dream when everything when out of plan.The casting is awesome, though the acting is no award material. The songs are also good, the story is alright &#150; a new version of A Midsummer &#133; though some of the stuff are pure nonsense and senseless.Overall, the movie is very enjoyable musical movie, and there is no another teen musical movie so make this one of a kind. It is also very lively, kind of pervert, and some of the stuff could actually make you laugh.Recommendation Yes, Check It Out.Rating 7/10 (Grade C+) Please Rate My Review (Yes or No) After Reading It - Thanks "},{"Title":"Should have been better","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It tells the heartbreaking story of a young man, dumped by his one true love. Ben Foster is said young man, and man; is he put through it. The poor lad first has to go through the horrors of being dumped, and not just by anyone; but by his high school sweetheart, and his pain doesn't stop there; salt is added to the wound when his ex-girlfriend gets a new boyfriend. Fair enough, you may think; until you realize he's a petty, leather pants wearing nancy boy, who's in a boyband no less! Things aren't looking up for our hero. In a final, desperate attempt to win back the girl of his dreams, Foster joins with the theatre school, who happen to be putting on a musical performance of A midsummer night's dream, and to help become a better actor, he enlists the help of his friend's sister, Kirsten Dunst. Yes, I don't blame him either. Naturally, romance ensues where 'you least expect' (or not), and that is the major plot point of the film.I didn't have particularly high expectations going into this movie, but Get Over It managed to fall short of them anyway. You cant go into a teen comedy expecting great things, but this movie has so many things going for it that it really should have been towards the top of the genre. First of all, it has a great cast. Kirsten Dunst headlines it, and rightly so. Her performance in this movie isn't one of her best, but she is sweetness personified; and that's all she needs to be. Ben Foster is the backbone of the movie, and his performance is great. Not great in the Robert DeNiro sense of the word, but for what it is; his performance is good. Excellent support is given to the two leads by Melissa Sagemiller (whom you might remember as the true star of Soul Survivors, although hopefully not), Shane West, who is campy but fun and also Martin Short, who is hilarious as the director of the play. Get Over It also has a decent enough script, but it suffers due to the high concentration of teen comedy clichés. We've got an overly hormonal dog, various people being hurled around in the air, overly silly characters etc; and it devalues the film. Had it have pulled away from the pitfalls of teen comedy, and more into a teen drama such as Kirsten's other 2001 film; Crazy/Beautiful, it would have been a far better movie. That being said; Get Over It is worth watching if you're after 90 minutes of entertainment. It has more than enough funny moments, and there's a good sense of fun overall. It's just a shame that it wasn't better.  "},{"Title":"Like it or not the opening sequence will suck you in!!!","Date":"2 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I avoided this movie like an STD when it hit the theatres. I mean Sisco? NO thanks. So I was suprised when I watched it on dvd to find out how sparkling, cute ,and enjoyable this teen flick actually is. The opening of this film is one of the funniest and most creative openings I've seen in a while. Martin Short, Swoosie Kurtz, and Ed Begley Jr. (whom I usually detest) all give hilarious performances. Kirsten Dunst as always manages to once again charm the hell out of you and the rest of the young cast fairs well. As for Sisco, well the Y2K version of little Richard cannot act his way out of a paper bag but mercifully her highness is only in a few scenes and has few lines. Get over it is a cute no brainer that has some good one liners, funny musical numbers, and clever direction. Rent it the next time it rains and you miss the teen movies of the eighties. "},{"Title":"A pleasing, entertaining musical teen comedy.","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  GET OVER IT (2001) Rating 8/10I'll start this review by saying making a musical comedy for teens is a very hard thing to do. Not only to teens in general dislike musicals, but teen comedies with the Shakespeare theme are really growing old and it would be a hard job to come up with something that is fresh and new. Get Over It, a zany and fresh film, does not disappoint. This is a likeable musical that not only teens will enjoy. I'm sure all audiences will find a few qualities and maybe some will love the movie. I found it to be a cutesy, extremely fast (sometimes too fast) and well-built flick. The chemistry between the two leads &#150; Kirsten Dunst and Ben Foster &#150; is very believable and although predictable, the love story is well put-together and generally likeable. The acting is even better. Ben Foster is a strong newcomer and Kirsten Dunst once again proves she is the queen of teen movies, although she better lose that angle soon or she'll be up for Prom Queen once more! However, Martin Short steals the show. Almost every word that came out of his mouth was hilarious to me. I was in a fit laughing. Great characterisation there Martin. Does he realise though that is the second film that he has been in that involves fairies? Maybe he likes the fluttering phonies. The movie does use recycled jokes in places, which disappointed me. However, most of the humour is solid, strong and fresh, so don't worry, even if we have seen a girl fly over a car before while she's running, you'll still laugh. This movie has a great soundtrack, some very cool ideas, great sets, is very funny, romantic and highly enjoyable with some excellent acting and accents. Get Over It is well worth your time; it's not a hard movie to enjoy.  "}{"Title":"Adolescent Abstractions","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Art determines culture rather than merely reporting on it. The influential arts were at one time novels, then painting, then briefly popular music. That role is now held by popular film. And no popular art is more influential than that which is embraced by the youth -- they have more advanced minds in terms of form and they will be the 'great static middle' in only few years. All this is to say, that if you want to look for the most influential abstractions in society, leading society, the place to look is in teen movies.No foolin. And the farther from 'real' art, the better.This is a prime example, in part because it is not a sex or grossout movie, and actually has a narrative. It has benefited from some real attention it has Dunst, the very very top actress in the teen genre; it has a few recognizable music personalities and their songs; it has Hanks' kid; it has some pretty top production professionals.But it also is in part a musical, which is an odd relationship of abstractions. The story in musicals exists in a real world of sorts that sometimes touches but often separates from our world. How that separation occurs is a matter of what types of abstractions the audience can readily understand. For instance the very first scene here has our guy in the real world. As he leaves the dumping room, he is followed by a growing production number. Now in a normal musical, the world would change into some performance world for our benefit. But look what happens here he stays in the real world, and the abstract world follows behind him, pulling more and more people from the real world into the fairyland. But not him -- instead we have two parallel worlds in pretty complex relationshipAnd this film also has Shakespeare, the master of narrative abstraction, and one play that goofs around with some rather ordinary notions of those worlds regular people and magical gods with their spirits.But look what we have here and be pretty encouraged at the ability of the young mind to subliminally understand, even enjoy the mix of such complex abstractions-- That musical opening scene where the musical characters are invisible harpies later to be related to the play's fairies.-- The good old, ordinary basis of some people putting on a play and the matter of the play reflects the dynamics of 'real' life. (and the also much-used notion that the one 'creates' the other).-- Several sequences that are first imagined, then dreamed which 'project' real life into not the play, but a magically idealized magical vision of the play.-- A whole lot of extra stuff concerning creatorship that would be impossible for Shakespeare's audience the English performer, Dunst's songwriting, Short's authoring, and the inclusion of 'real' songwriters in our world as ordinary characters in the 'real world' of the movie.-- Three notable cases where the comic elements that would be in the play (Bottom, etc) are transported to the movie Short's character, Dora Lynn's physical humor, and the two stagehands. This latter one is a particularly weird bending, where they become the fairies. In fact, those two plus Peter Wong (who actually flies in an omitted scene) are the real fairies who at the critical moment change the reality of the play.-- And we have the show at the sex club, which involves putting Berke in a harness (just like the play's fairies), but here the roles are somewhat reversed the sex controllers are the ones not flying.Pretty sophisticated worldshifting I say. Much snappier consciousness-bending than the relatively humbug Matrix. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Burke (Ben Foster) is dumped by Allison (Melissa Sagemiller).  She then starts dating obnoxious English boy Striker (Shane West).  Burke tries out for a school play--a rock version of A Midsummer Night's Dream--just to be near Allison.  He's totally unaware that his best friend's little sister (Kirsten Dunst) is attracted to him.  Guess how it turns out?Aside from two flashes of nudity and an astounding amount of swearing for a PG-13 movie, this is a cute and harmless teen movie.  It's definetely better than writer/director Tommy O'Haver's last film (Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss).I'll list the bad and good things about this movie The bad Foster is way too nerdy to be likable; West's imitation of an English accent is hysterically bad; Martin Short is really REALLY irritating as the school drama coach and some jokes are real groaners.The good Dunst is very good and stops the show when she sings Dream of Me; the songs and dances aren't half bad and full of color and energy; Sagemiller is beautiful and very appealing; West (accent aside) is really handsome and hunky and dir. O'Haver has a real flair for directing dance & music numbers--he should really do a musical next.So--an OK teen film. "},{"Title":"i liked the first half","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" it thought the first half of this film was pretty good.instead of being your standard teen romantic comedy,it actually had some slapstick thrown in,some of which was quite amusing.to me,that was kinda different for this genre.at least it was something i hadn't seen before.not that that means anything.and the movie also had a bit of a musical bent to it,which i liked.sure,most of the movie is fairly predictable.but then most movies are,at least to a point.anyway,the movie moves along fairly well for the first 45 minutes or so.but then it gets really bogged down.you kinda know how things are gonna end up,but it seemed to take forever to get there.as a result,i just wanted it to finally end.for me,because of the slow(and to me,boring)second half, i can only give Get Over It a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Amiable rom-com in which even the dog finds love","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When high school student Berke Landers is dumped by his girlfriend Allison, in a desperate attempt to win her back he auditions for the school drama production, a musical version of Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, even though he has no experience of either singing or acting. Fortunately, his best friend Felix has a musically gifted sister, Kelly, and Berke enlists her help to get himself through the audition. Initially, he only succeeds in winning the part of Third Attendant, but after an accident puts out of action the student initially cast in the role, he finds himself promoted to the leading part of Lysander, playing opposite Allison's Hermia. The other two leading roles of Helena and Demetrius are played, predictably enough, by Kelly and Allison's new boyfriend, Striker. In an equally predictable plot twist, Kelly finds herself falling for Berke. The result is a love-triangle which loosely parallels the one in Shakespeare's play.This film is sometimes referred to as a teen comedy, but it is rather more innocent than some other recent films in that genre. Apart from a running joke about an over-sexed dog, there is little of the grossness that characterised films like American Pie or The Sweetest Thing. If those are typical teen comedies, Get Over It is perhaps best categorised as a romantic comedy whose leading characters just happen to be teenagers. There is, however, plenty of humour, much of it directed a the film's adult characters, such as Berke's embarrassingly liberal parents, the sort of middle-aged swingers who still think they are teenagers themselves, or Desmond Forrest Oates, the hilariously camp and manic theatrical director, or the glamorous but terminally accident-prone Dora-Lynn (played by real-life supermodel Kylie Bax), still at school in her twenties because she spent six years in a coma.If there is a moral to this story, it is that a good heart is more important than good looks. Kirsten Dunst's Kelly, although she has plenty of girl-next-door charm, is not a classical beauty like Melissa Sagemiller's Allison and Berke is rather nerdish compared to Striker. (In British slang the term berk means a fool; I wonder if the scriptwriters were aware of this when they chose the name). The unsympathetic characters tend to use loser! as a term of abuse for anyone they hold in contempt, but at the end of the day it is the handsome but arrogant Striker and the beautiful but self-centred Allison who end up the losers in love. Allison ditches Striker when she discovers that he is no more capable of being faithful to her than she was capable of being faithful to Berke. She hopes that she can resume her relationship with Berke, but it is clear that he will choose Kelly, who loves him for himself, over Allison who merely regards him as a consolation prize because she cannot get the boy she really wants.Shakespeare's comedies frequently end with several weddings, and this structure is parallelled in Get Over It. Berke ends up with Kelly, Felix and Dora-Lynn fall for one another and a third romance develops between two other students. Even the dog finds a lady friend. One might think that a musical aimed at teenagers would be dominated by loud rock music, but the music is often surprisingly lyrical, especially the main song Dream of Me, supposedly written by Kelly herself. (Although it did perhaps need a rather stronger voice than Kirsten Dunst's to put it over). Get Over It may not be Shakespeare, but it is an amiable, good-hearted and often amusing teenage rom-com. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Actually a rather cute teen Comedy, as I quite enjoyed it, with an entertaining story, and solid performances from all!","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is actually a rather cute teen Comedy, as I quite enjoyed it, with an entertaining story, and solid performances from all!. All the characters are good, and while it basically is just another teen comedy, it's nevertheless quite enjoyable, plus Kirsten Dunst is fantastic in her role, as she was extremely cute and sexy!. Ben Foster is great as the main lead, and I must say I'm glad I rented it because it was a very good watch, plus it's pretty well made and written as well. All the characters are extremely likable(barring a couple), and it has some genuinely sweet&romantic moments as well, plus Ben Foster and Dunst had very good chemistry together. Dunst also surprised me with her excellent singing, and Martin Short is hilarious as a high school drama coach,plus while the ending is corny, it still brought a smile to my face, as it was really cute. One of the funniest scenes in the movie for me is when Dunst shoots Foster with that arrow gun thing right in the arm! and Colin Hanks and Sisq are funny as Foster's best friends, plus it's also a cool teen variation of a Mid Summer's Night Dream. This is actually a rather cute Teen Comedy, as I quite enjoyed it, with an entertaining story, and solid performances from all, I highly recommend it for a watch. The Direction is very good!. Tommy O'Haver does a very good! Job here with solid camera work, good angles and keeping the film funny and at a fast pace. The Acting is solid!. Kirsten Dunst is wonderful as always, she is incredibly gorgeous,very cute, extremely likable, wonderfully perky, had pretty good chemistry with Ben Foster, and had a great character, one that you can fall for easy, as it's easy to see why she's rising up so fast now. Ben Foster is great as the lead, he is extremely likable, had a cool character, and one that I could relate too, as I recognized him from Hostage, as he was great there too, he is also quite funny!. Melissa Sagemiller is pretty good looking and does her job very well as Allison, at times I thought her character was a bit selfish, but overall I really dug her. Sisqó and Colin Hanks are awesome as Foster's buddies and brought lots of laughs to the film. Shane West is excellent as the Dick, he annoyed the crap out of me, as he did a great job of doing that, he was extremely convincing. Mila Kunis is hot and did what she had to do well as the best friend of Dunst's. Martin Short is hilarious as the high school drama coach, and went totally OTT I loved it!. Carmen Electra is really hot and does OK in her cameo, not a great one though. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall I highly recommend it for a watch. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"This movie sucked big time!","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Come on people, get a grip on yourselves. I just saw this abomination and I can't believe that so many people have posted good comments. I think I could imagine the original purpose of the film, making a teen movie adaptation of a well-known Shakespearian play, but I'm amazed by what a misfire it turned out to be. I think Kirsten Dunst must be a little ashamed of herself for taking this poorly casted role on this poorly written flop. She doesn't belong in her character shoes (She's too beautiful too play the underdog). When the script tries to be funny, it tries to hard, without even attempting to avoid the typical teen movie clichés. So people don't even try to give it a shot.  "},{"Title":"Watch it and feel your IQ diminish","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  'Get over it' is yet another flick from the remade-Shakespeare sub-genre of teen movies.  I have never seen a good movie of this kind, and this is no exception.  But I think I am justified in saying that this is the absolute nadir of the teen movie genre.  This movie was never going to be Oscar material, but even taking that into account, it is just plain AWFUL.'Get Over it' is one of the most clichéd, predictable, un-engaging movies I have ever read.  Teen movies may not be known for their originality, but this reaches a whole new low in filmmaking.  It's obviously geared towards a 13-16 year old audience, and absolutely no one out of this age group would fail to recognize it as what it is - absolutely mediocre, or worse, in every way.The plot is the usual lame affair a guy called Berke gets dumped by his longtime girlfriend Alison and joins his schools production of a Shakespeare play in order to impress her and get her back.  He enlists the help of his friend's pretty younger sister (Kirsten Dunst) to help him learn his lines. Gee, you don't think they fall for each other, do you?  No way, that couldn't possibly happen.The acting didn't particularly impress me either, with a few expressions. I don't understand why a talented actress like Kirsten Dunst would attach herself to a film like this.  The male lead, the guy that played Berke, was about as emotional as cold rice (he seemed stuck on one facial expression for much of the movie) and none of the other characters were memorable, though also not blatantly bad acted.  The crazy drama teacher was probably the one interesting and funny character.I should also mention that some scenes in this film were terrible.  The scene where Berke sings the Big Red song (product placement, anyone?) was excruciating, in more than the way that was intended.  And the climactic scene of the performance of 'A Midsummer Night's Dream' was a low point of... the HISTORY of CINEMA.  (When I start using capitalization like that, you know things are getting bad).  Will Shakespeare would have turned over in his grave it's like they took his play, ran over it with a steamroller and then hacked it to bits with a chainsaw for good measure.Comparing 'Get Over it' to another Shakespeare-teen-comedy like 'Ten Things I hate about you' easily highlights just how bad GoI is.  Both movies are rather cliché and predictable, not going to win any awards,  but TTiHAY was at least enjoyable, and watchable.  While not particularly high-quality, at least it didn't make me feel LESS smart for having watched it.  I couldn't sit through all of GoI (although I saw about 85-90% of the film), that's how completely and utterly BAD it was.I would give this movie 3/10.  These are for Kirsten Dunst's acting (despite being trapped in a substandard role), the fact that GoI is NOT a teen comedy about sex (which I really did appreciate), and that the movie did have 3 or 4 mildly enjoyable scenes.But really - don't waste your time watching this. IT'S 87 MINUTES OF YOUR LIFE YOU WILL NEVER HAVE BACK. "},{"Title":"Get Over It","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It is the worst movie that I've seen in years, and everyone involved with the movie should be ashamed of themselves. I watched it a few months ago when my friend came over with her copy of the DVD. Thank goodness that I'd seen this movie for free, because I'd want my money back, even if I couldn't get back the 86 minutes that I spent watching this piece of garbage. When the best part of a movie is a dog that humps people's legs, then you know it's really bad. "},{"Title":"WASTE OF TIME","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can barely believe the positive reviews on this stinkfest.  I watched this courtesy of my paid dish, so I didn't pay anything extra to see it, yet I still felt robbed.  Of precious time I could've spent watching paint dry.  Anything but watching this movie.  Hated it.  Details?  Here goes, this one stars Kirsten Dunst as someone interested in her brother's(played by spawn of Tom Hanks, Colin) friend. It also features Martin Short and Shane West. Both of these guys KILL this movie. Short is a hideously annoying high school drama teacher that has delusions of grandeur and runs a play with 12 original and stinky tunes for, brace yourselves, HAMLET. So messed up. Shane West is a cute kid that has been in a few movies that were WAY better than this one. They give him this really awful fake English accent. I cringe just thinking about it. It's too bad because, if not for the play turned musical concept, West and Short, this movie could've been good. As it stands, it made me violent it was so bad. I was hostile. Don't waste your time on this one. If I could give negative points, it would get a negative 3. Seriously a negative 3. If you can watch any of it for free, watch the opening dance to Love Will Keep Us Together, lip synched by singer Vitamin C. That bit is funny in a non painful way. "},{"Title":"Nearly impossible to sit through...","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Wow.  This movie was awful.I've found that teen flicks tend to be underrated by most critics.  While it is true that most such movies follow formulaic and predictable storylines, the genre usually provides harmless fun and often showcases innovative direction and talented young actors.  Get Over It, however, is an unmitigated disaster.  Trying to cash in on the recent spate of teen Shakespeare updates such as the enjoyable Ten Things I Hate About You, the filmmakers serve up a lame teen break-up movie centered around a painfully unfunny parody of a high school musical production of A Midsummer's Night's Dream.  The musical numbers were so long and dull that my fingers inevitably found my way to the fast-forward button.  With the sole exception of Kirsten Dunst, the actors seem too visibly embarrassed by the lousy script to put any effort into their work.  Martin Short's egomaniacal producer shtick is woefully old and tired, and should be buried at sea, ASAP.  I laughed exactly once, at the culmination of a running gag involving the main character's oversexed dog.  Mostly I just cringed.  Only the cuteness power of Kirsten Dunst saves this turkey from being completely unwatchable.  I charitably give it 2 out of 10.  I advise you to stay far, far away from it.       "}{"Title":"Mediocre teen fare","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Typical teen movie, nothing original whatsoever.  Not even appearances by Martin Short, Carmen Electra or Sisqo could save this flick.  And what's with the cheesy musical beginning and ending?  Avoid this movie if you can. "},{"Title":"WARNING CONTAINS SPOILERS","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, if anybody has seen the trailer and any other teen movie, they will know exactly how this movie goes. Berke Landers (Ben Foster) is dumped by his girlfriend Allison (Mellisa Sagemiller), who soon starts dating a new guy called Stryker (Shane West). Berke acts in the school play to win back but falls for Kelly (Kirsten Dunst), the little sister of his best friend Felix (Colin Hanks). The plot is boring and the writing apalling for the most part, but there are a few good jokes (the accident prone Dora-Lynn, Felix and Kelly's hormonally imbalanced dog, some great visual humour and Martin Short as the over the top high school drama teacher) and the acting is decent in some parts (Colin Hanks, Kirsten Dunst & Martin Short), but bad in others (Shane West in particular, his accent was appalling). Finally, one thing that makes the movie passable, Berke's parents, who applaud his curiosity when he is arrested in a strip joint and get annoyed when he throws a party when they're out of town, but only because they think he should have told them & let them paid for a DJ. I would give it 4/10 as a film in general, but worth watching if you have nothing else to do.  "},{"Title":"Not a fun experience","Date":"27 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was a big time disappointment. I read all these reviews about how Get Over It was not your typical teen-flick.  It sure wasn't. OK so there were some weird dream sequences and musical numbers (most of which were annoying anyway).  The worst part of the movie was how rushed it felt. It was like the plot was on speed or something. Seriously the movie moves from scene to scene so fast you don't have time to care about what is happening to the characters. All of the sudden the movie is over and you're like what just happened?Foul Number 2 - Dunst's character is so lame. Why does she take these horrible roles?Which reminds me of the ONLY redeeming quality of this flick - Dunst. If you're a guy I think you can appreciate what I'm talking about.  "},{"Title":"Just a fun feel-good movie","Date":"3 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I caught this on TV again last night and I was reminded of just how much fun it was to watch this movie. In the age where teen slapstick comedies are a pound for a dozen, Hollywood occasionally manages to get it just right and produce something with heart, like this one. The story is loosely based around The Bard's perhaps most popular comedy in that it also utilises a love square.Sure, the film is never going to win an Academy Award any time soon, but really, that's not what you're watching this film for, is it? It's light and fluffy, perfect for a night in with some friends and you can all get some laughs out of it. The casting was perfect; right down to Shane West's laughably abysmal accent. Ben Foster is definitely nerdy enough to play the hapless loser or so Berke calls himself, and you can't help but feel sorry for him as he tries so hard at every turn to win back his ex-girlfriend in vain. But sometimes you just want to scream at him for not seeing what's right in front of him Kelly, played by the gorgeous Kirsten Dunst, the quintessential girl next door. However, the star of the show here is actually Martin Short, who manages to steal every scene he's in as a maniacal, completely OTT drama director. His lines are pure gold and he manages to accompany that with a crazed performance &#150; Pluck! You've got to PLUCK it! What sets this film apart from all the rest is that it's a musical that works. The actual production at the end was fantastic, had some great energetic, toe-tapping numbers and O'Haver did a marvellous job directing it. This is exactly what High School Musical tried to be and failed. It's a shame that some of the production songs aren't on the OST because if carried out in full, I think they're good enough to fit onto an album in their own right. I know I would love to watch the final production in its entirety. Kirsten Dunst really surprised me with how good of a singer she is.So watch it, laugh out loud, and don't take it too seriously. It sure didn't. "},{"Title":"Unusually clever teen flick","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" True, there are downsides to this movie - the basic plot line is pretty obvious, there are no romantic surprises here, and some of the gross-out humor fell pretty flat. It is, after all, a formula teen movie.However, from the very original opening credits sequence (for which I will not provide any spoiler - but you've gotta see these credits!), the movie surprises by handling overdone material in a very individual way. Martin Short is perfect as the loathsome drama director, the protective big brother is not over- or under-played, and there are enough quirks to delight the jaded moviegoer.The sections of the movie showing the production of the school play (a musical version of 'Midsummer Night's Dream') were obviously written by someone who spent time behind the scenes in a high school production - yet remembered the most outrageous parts.The annoyingly open, understanding, hip parents were a tad overdone - but just a tad.All in all, a pretty good flick - familiar material handled in an uncommon fashion. "},{"Title":"Loved it, Kirsten is amazing","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What can I say about this film, aside from the fact I loved it? It's about a boy who gets dumped by his childhood sweetheart, and falls for his best friend's girlfriend. It may sound like a soppy romance, but it's far from that!! A hilarious comedy is to follow.The soundtrack complimented the film really well, and I am so glad we have finally heard Kirsten Dunst sing - her voice is absoloutely brilliant.The acting in it was brilliant as well. Kirsten is a great actress in all styles, not just comedy, but drama too, but this was one of her outstanding performances. This is the first time I had seen Ben Foster act, and he is really good. Shane West was cool, but his character's arrogance annoyed me a little.Despite all this, I think it was a really good film, and I'd love to see it again! "},{"Title":"A good fun-flick for the 13-16 female crowd.","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It is a silly little teen romantic comedy with a little bit of everything for the pubescent female. The flick includes some slapstick, situational humor, funny characters, and, of course, the requisite puppy love affair. At issue is not will Dunst hook up with the newly estranged and reluctantly footloose Foster, but rather when. Combine some funny shtick by the hilarious Martin Short and some really ultra-hip permissive parents played by Kurtz and Begley with a spritz of musical theater and I all spells fun for teens. Get Over It doesn't take itself too seriously and is what it is...a no brainer for bops. "},{"Title":"If you're under the age of 12  Warning!  May cause extreme nausea and terminal boredom!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Oh, gosh!  Another lame teen comedy.  I didn't see that coming!  This movie wallows in predictability, never once deviating from the extremely tired formula of the thousands of other teeny-bopper flicks.  You can (literally!) figure out the whole plot structure simply by reading the synopsis.The film starts out as a slapstick comedy.  The silly, cartoonish, far-fetched slapstick fails over and over again, and fails miserably in one overlong sequence in which Burke (Ben Foster) takes a hot date from New Zealand out to a restaurant.  She happens to be clumsy, and all hell breaks loose.  Think the disastrous restaurant sequence from Woo and multiply the running time by 3 and you have one stupid, overlong gag with a piece of (computer-animated--yes that's right) beef flying around.  Come on, even farce needs a touch of reality.  And we have an embarrassingly recurring gag involving a dog humping everything in sight.  How original!Speaking of an absence of originality, we have Swoozie Kurtz and Ed Begley, Jr. (two prestigious actors--one of those instances where you can't help but ponder WHAT THE HELL ARE THEY DOING IN THIS PIECE OF CRAP?!!!!) as--guess what?--the stupid, gullible parents.  The same gullible Mom and Dad team we've seen in the past teen flick and the one before that and the one before that.  Except their gimmick is they actually condone their son's (Foster) decadent behavior, even when he gets stripped and hung on a series of leather straps at a nudie bar.  I'm surprised Tom Hanks doesn't disown his son.  While he's doing such great films like Forrest Gump and Cast Away his son is doing lame teen flicks like this and Whatever It Takes.  What happened to the tradition of actors like Kirk Douglas and Lloyd Bridges, whose sons take after their fathers' success and become great actors themselves?  Tom, teach your son Colin right.  You're not doing your job. Of course, to spice things up a little they decided to add Martin Short to the cast.  Unfortunately, even he can't save the day.  He's handed an unfunny role and only musters a few laughs out of his desperate ranting and raving as a flambouyant theater director.  This measures up to his throwaway role in the other disastrous comedy Jungle 2 Jungle.  I guess after his talk show got cancelled he figures, I'll take whatever role is thrown at me.  As for Sisqo--love the Thong Song.  You're a great musician, but stay away from celluloid!  You deliver your lines like a malfunctioning robot.  Not to mention he's playing a TEENAGER in this film.  Yeah right! Ben Foster was terrific in Barry Levinson's underrated coming-of-age drama Liberty Heights.  Here, he seems as bored with the film as we do.  And as for the presences of Kirsten Dunst and Carmen Electra (who graces the screen for about three minutes), they didn't help out much in the acting department but served as great eye candy.The second half of the film is a boring compilation of the SAME EXACT CRAP WE'VE SEEN DONE OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN IN THESE STUPID TEEN ROMANCES!  Burke, whose initial plan was to get Allison (Melissa Sagemiller) back spends a lot of time with his friend's (Hanks) sister (Dunst).  The romance blooms.  And we're forced to sit through the same tired scenes that help the film reach the end of its ultimately predictable arc.  The only reason why I'm not going into any details is because that would (for some crazy reason, technically) be considered a spoiler and I want people who haven't seen this piece of garbage to read my comments, so they won't be subjected to the same torcher as me.The only reason why I'm giving this movie a rating of 3 is the spectacular opening.  Why is it that so many movies start with great openings, then let us down completely?  We start with Burke getting his things out of Allison's house after breaking up with her, and we have a big musical number where he walks down the street carrying his box of stuff while all the townies are behind him, dancing and singing along to the Captain and Tenille's Love Will Keep Us Together.  We also have a brief appearance by pop superstar Vitamin C.  It's a great scene that really gets your energy going. Unfortunately, it's all downhill from there and the upbeat rhythm comes to a screeching halt.  The film has a sense of style to it, but it's the same style used in all the previous teen flicks.  The camera movements, the music cues, everything.  I'm not impressed.Roger Ebert said it himself  A good movie is never too long and a bad movie is never too short.  This is raw proof.  Get Over It runs at a total of 86 minutes, yet I'd rather watch Braveheart for a whole three hours than sit through five minutes of GOI.My score  3 (out of 10)       "},{"Title":"New meaning to the word horrible","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There is absolutely no reason why any human being on this planet should see this film.As a comedy, it's horrible.  Martin Short is the ONLY thing in the film that even approaches being funny and it's due entirely to his own personal comedic abilities not because of the script which has fewer funny lines than Ghost Dad.  This film is simply NOT FUNNY - no one in the theatre was laughing when I saw this film.  Not one person.As a romance, it's horrible.  The plot is SOOOOO tired and cliche I can't even bring myself to describe it (you know you're in trouble when a film has the same basic story line as Snow Day).  The lead actor, whose name I refuse to waste brain cells trying to remember is SO BLAND that it would be impossible for any real female to have any interest in him at all, let alone have two women fight over him.  After the first five minutes I wanted him to die.  And he's one of the better actors in the film.As a Teen Movie, it's horrible.  I got the feeling that after watching an early cut of this movie the filmmakers decided to spice it up a bit and shoot some extra American Pie-esque footage (wild parties, topless women, crude jokes, etc.) but then for some unknown reason cut almost all of that footage out to get a PG-13 rating.  So what you're left with is a big tease with no pay off.  A prime example of this is that Carmen Electra is third billed on this film yet I swear to God she is only in the movie for four seconds - if that! (This doesn't include the Austin Power's rip-off ending where everyone dances infront of some weird back drop, where she has more equal screen time to the rest of the cast.)  So, for those of you who like a bit of T&A in their movie going experience, wait until this movie comes out on video as an Unrated Version then rent something completely different! - you'll thank me. "},{"Title":"Get Over It, You Love It!","Date":"4 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie gets lost in the mix of good teen comedies made around the time because it didn't have a huge popularity and there's a total disconnect from attempting to appease the audience with a clear, presentable story or setting up the story with story points and story lines and whatnot and it's somewhat boring, BUUUUUUTTTTT the good thing is because of that previous sentence, Get Over It is a really nice flick to get lost in for some time with funny and absorbing characters without your standard introductions. The introduction scene of 'Love Will Keep Us Together' done by Vitamin C and some cool extras is classy. Ben Foster is really talented and acts easier then most, and he turns up the intensity so naturally better than most, BUUUUUTTTTTTTT, the shame is he takes it too far often and he acts strangely like he's on permanent intense mode like he's a super actor or something but he needs to tone down the nerves a little bit. I would not mention this sexy little bikini scene in Get Over It if not for the fact that Kirsten Dunst and Mila Kunis are incredibly hot together. I love Kirsten. Mila too. Sisqo too. Martin Short is funny. I'm sure he knows that. I love Martin Short. Colin Hanks is good. Swoosie Kurtz and Ed Begley Jr. are both nice to see. Get Over It has a nice easy vibe with good writing that makes it a favorite of many. "}{"Title":"Can't Get Over Kirsten.","Date":"21 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Get Over It (2001) Dir Tommy O'Haver / Cast Ben Foster, Kirsten Dunst, Melissa Sagemiller, Shane West, Martin Short Opens with Ben Foster dumped by his girlfriend and the hilarity that follows as the song and dance that emerges behind him with dancer popping into frame. Title suggests carrying on with life after a crisis. Ben Foster tries to win back his girlfriend from a sleazy hunk so he joins the Shakespearian play of A Midsummer Night's Dream and Kirsten Dunst assists him. Director Tommy O'Haver does a fine job at combining reality with Shakespearian dream sequences. Despite its formula structure its climax is quite funny. Foster is hilarious as the love lost teenager bent on venturing into the realms of Shakespeare to prove himself but we know how this concludes. Fetching Dunst is well cast as his eventual love. She is his best friend's sister and she agrees to assist him with the play. Melissa Sagemiller plays Foster's ex-girlfriend who embarks upon the play but will see the error of her ways. Shane West steals scenes as the new boyfriend who will obviously cause division between Foster and Sagemiller but his climatic scene during the play is most amusing. Martin Short brings another level of hilarity as a drama teacher who struggles to pull this all together. Relating Shakespeare and modern romance allow for an intriguing comedy. Score 8 / 10 "},{"Title":"I didn't like it so get over it, This is bad comedy","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Yes I know some enjoy this movie but me no no no way would I ever torment myself into watching this movie.I enjoy Kirsten Dunst as a actress but this clearly wasn't one of the finest movies in her career nor Zoe Saldana, Mila Kunis.Now I do enjoy teen movies like American Pie and films like that but this one clearly is one apple that fell way off the tree and hit every branch on the way down.Story wise is pretty much what you would expect in a Teen movie and what makes it sad is that the plot is not even worth paying attention What ruin the film is pretty much the characters are more or less complete idiots and I can't see how this film was even consider being made because clearly it was made to make a buck or two so.The comedy in the film is simply bad it try to be funny but clearly the film comedy is just rude, gross, and in the words of a famous character This is bad comedy. The film does feature original songs which are not bad pretty much the only thing I can say that I like about this film but other than that Get Over It is just bad comedy.The film just falls right on it face and it wasn't even funny they try to use rude comedy and gross comedy but it pretty much ruin the film for me.I give Get Over It an 3 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Is Ben Foster a Robot?","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I don't think I've ever seen such a bad acting performance as that exhibited by Ben Foster in this movie. Is he catatonic? Mentally ill? Victimized by some type of hypnotic programming? Under the influence of heavy anti-anxiety meds?Who, in their right mind, cast him alongside individuals who can actually act? Martin Short's character summarized Foster's entire acting job in this movie when he approached him during one of Foster's daydreams during class and asked Are we having a little R.E.M? Why does no one in this film see that Ben Foster's character is mentally ill and in need of treatment? (He is barely able to respond to questions or develop ideas). This film should have run like this Ben Foster's character dies when he falls off the roof while singing Allison (sic) to Allison. There-after, the movie centers on the dynamic, wonderful character performed by Martin Short. The audience would have thanked the screenwriter and producer for eliminating Ben Foster's character early-on.Then, minus the banal, childish sight gags, the movie would have had a chance at credibility.Again, I have seen some bad actors in my time; Tim Allen, David Schwimmer, Harrison Ford, but I had never seen a leading man sleep-walk through a movie before. In Get Over It, Kirsten Dunst is good, and Martin Short, as always, is excellent. Because of Martin Short's performance, I will give this movie 4 stars. Otherwise, I would have given it 2 or 3. I feel blessed that I have not seen any other movies with Ben Foster in them. "},{"Title":"Not funny teen film","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Berke Landers (Ben Foster) reunites with his long lost childhood friend Allison McAllister (Melissa Sagemiller) and quickly becomes fast first loves. But after 16 months, she decides to dump Berke and quickly falls for new hot guy Bentley Scrumfeld (Shane West). Berke is utterly devastated. With his best friend Felix (Colin Hanks)'s sister Kelly (Kirsten Dunst), they follow Allison into the school's musical A Midsummer Night's Dream.Martin Short is absolutely annoying as the drama teacher. They keep trying to inject wacky fun into this movie, but none of it made me laugh. They needed one of 'kids' to do comic relief. They should drop Sisqó and get someone good for that role.I don't know where this school is, but why is Kirsten Dunst and Mila Kunis the lesser girls? Really? They're strutting around in their bikinis and I wonder where all the boys are. Kirsten Dunst would make a better Allison, and that would allow Mila Kunis to be Kelly. "},{"Title":"After She's All That, Get Over It Is Just A Bag of Chips","Date":"24 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" There is not much that makes Get Over It stand out amongst other teen movies released around the same time period. The main plot point, about a boy being dumped by his girlfriend, who then begins dating a minor celebrity who happens to be a douche bag, had interestingly enough been a subplot in another high school comedy released two years earlier She's All That (1999).Even more interestingly, this movie's screenwriter, R. Lee Fleming, Jr., actually wrote the screenplay to She's All That. Although he doesn't have to worry about being sued for copyright infringement, it really shows laziness on his part that Get Over It doesn't do more to add originality to a hackneyed story involving young, unrequited love.In all fairness, though, Fleming actually wrote the screenplay to Get Over It before She's All That according to interviews. Still, there are other elements of this movie that feel mercilessly ripped from other teen comedies.Most notably, the love story within this movie loosely follows the non-supernatural plot line to William Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, which, not coincidentally, happens to be the play in which the movie's characters participate. A little too reminiscent of 10 Things I Hate About You (1999), wouldn't you say? Recycled teen movie trends aside, a movie called Get Over It should effectively make the audience feel for the protagonist who has just been dumped. The said protagonist is Berke Landers (Ben Foster), whose longtime girlfriend Alison (Melissa Sagemiller) breaks off their 16 month relationship.It's not because she's a bad person, or because she's fallen for someone else. She clearly explains that she just doesn't feel the same way about Berke anymore.Of course, breaking up is hard to do, and it hurts no matter what age you are. However, it's difficult to feel bad for Berke for these reasons.First, all you see of Berke and Alison's previous relationship is a montage of them making out. Sure, Melissa Sagemiller is pretty, but the film needed more vivid scenes reflecting the anecdotal happiness of their relationship.Second, other than Ben Foster's sulking expression, you get no indication from his acting how much this breakup really hurts him, or why and how he misses Alison. As good an actor as Foster is in movies like Liberty Heights (1999) and 310 To Yuma (2007), he's not convincing enough here to play heartbroken. His expression is morose, but that's about it.Third, while Sagemiller seems to be (and play) a nice person, you don't get what it is about her that sets her apart from other girls, especially the many hot ones that exist in this movie (including then-unknown Zoe Saldana and Mila Kunis, who have supporting roles). Berke doesn't seem to explain that fact at any point in the movie, either, and it hurts his case.Finally, in the film's opening credits, you see Berke, departing Alison's house after she lay down the bad news, being followed by Vitamin C and an accompanying band as they lip synch Captain & Tennille's classic Love Will Keep Us Together. Vitamin C mouths the song very well, but would feel less out-of-place in that scene if she were actually mocking Berke on his walk of shame.So Berke tries out for the spring play, a musical version of A Midsummer Night's Dream, specifically to spite Alison and Bentley (Shane West). Bentley is her jerk of a rebound boyfriend who is a former boy band member with a very phony British accent. When Kelly Woods (Kirsten Dunst), a cheerful, magnetic girl who happens to be the sister of Berke's best friend Felix (Colin Hanks), offers to help Berke with his lines, you pretty much know how the story is going to go.Kirsten Dunst gets top billing in this movie despite having fewer lines and scenes than Ben Foster, but she totally deserves it. She's a welcome presence on screen, and the only downside to her character is that you fall in love with her instantly, thereby making you wonder why Berke doesn't do the same sooner.Interestingly enough, Sisqo gets third billing after Dunst and Foster. Despite an energetic ending sequence where he and Vitamin C sing a rendition of Earth, Wind, & Fire's September, Sisqo has a thankless role as the Token Black Guy. On the other hand, it's better to remember Sisqo from this movie than for his only hit, the atrocious The Thong Song.While Foster is on emotional autopilot along with the love story, Dunst actively makes the best of her role. One of her best scenes is when she sings Dream Of Me, a touching song her character wrote and included in the play against the wishes of Dr. Desmond Forrest Oates (Martin Short), the production's narcissistic director. Dunst is one of the few actresses and singers to make that song more heartbreaking and less cheesy, and she sells it.Get Over It has its good moments, and the climactic final showing of A Midsummer Night's Dream lives up to more than the entire film ultimately does. It just could have been so much more if it had tried to differentiate itself plot-wise with She's All That and other teen films. As it is, it's worth at least bag of chips, but not much more that that. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly entertaining. Kirsten Dunst shines as always.","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Gee, I watched this movie after 7 years of it's release. I remember wanting to watch it when I had my huge crush on Kirsten Dunst but for whatever reasons I couldn't just rent it.The situations are funny and somehow entertaining with some bright editing and musical numbers. Kirsten Dunst demonstrates she's a really good actress and singer.The plot is the typical from any teenager film but it somewhat takes the direction to a comedy oriented for a younger audience. The comedy inserted in the movie is not scatological or sexual, so that makes it different from the movies of it's time.I would recommend it for those who enjoy teenager movies or for those like me who just wanted some cheap entertainment. "},{"Title":"What a little gem","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is one of those highly overlooked gems. I'd read some negative comments about Martin Short's performance, but found his contribution to be outstanding. His comic genius was on show repeatedly. As with most Hollywood movies, they never get it quite right, and there are always lines or gestures that should have been left out, especially as they only bring the film down. That said, there is more than enough in this movie to bring me back for another viewing. It may be perceived as a teen flick, but it has far more to offer than that title suggests. There are many outstanding performances, and the opening song and dance is creativity at it's most entertaining level. The song list for this film is also incredibly interesting. It's a great score, and Dunst performs a show stopper. I just wish that we'd heard more of her earlier song. If you like seeing Martin Short in an over the top and very funny role, accompanied by some great musical numbers then this is a must see. The Peter Wong role and performance really tickled me. Great fun! "},{"Title":"Against Type Casting At Its Best","Date":"4 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" And yet we have another movie where a boy loves girl, girl loves boy back, girl gets bored with boy, boy gets dumped, girl finds another guy, and boy tries to win back the heart of girl until boy later falls for another girl in the process. This formula in teen movies has been played over and over again, so why waste your time watching another one? What makes this movie different from others of this genre are the actors and seeing them perform roles that they have never done before and somehow pulling it off. First, we have Ben Foster, a name that immediately makes you think of all the socially awkward rejects and enraged psychos that he has played during his short career. Here, he gets to play a different role as the clueless basketball jock Berke Landers, who is desperately trying to win back his sexy ex-girlfriend Allison McAllister by entering into the school theatre production that she has chosen to take part in. Although a skeptical casting choice, Foster pulls off the role with the right amount of finesse, making Berke cool enough to see why a stunning beauty like Allison would fall for him while at the same time making him not so cool so we understand why Allison might have gotten bored with him (something teen idol Freddie Prinze, Jr. would have a hard time doing). With his right combination of average good looks, low-key charisma, and competitive attitude, Foster ultimately convinced me as the lovestruck teen protagonist.Another against type performance is given by Kirsten Dunst. She plays Kelly Woods, the younger sister of Berke's best friend Felix, who is desperately trying to get the attention of Berke, who is too busy trying to woo his ex. Usually playing the sought-after, popular teen queen, Kirsten Dunst is now the under-appreciated, unnoticed girl, despite her everpresent attractiveness both on the outside and inside. Dunst gets to downplay her engaging screen presence in order to allow love object Foster to be the focus of the film and does so successfully.In addition to the two leads, we have Colin Hanks, whose nerdy and studious characters in Roswell and Orange County are forgotten by his performance here as party animal and fellow jock Felix Woods, who is both helping Berke forget about Allison and keeping other guys from hitting on his kid sister. Hanks provides a lot of the comedy, channeling some of his father's zany comedic appeal from the early part of his career in the 1980s.Meanwhile, we have Shane West and Sisqo playing away from their usual entertainment personas. Niceguy Shane West of Once and Again and Whatever It Takes plays the teen villain as Bentley Striker Scrumfeld, the British heartthrob and school's new theatre buff who dazzles his way into Allison's fancies. Singer Sisqo, who is known for his sexually-charged dance performances and seductive R&B lyrical vocals, plays the timid Dennis Wallace, another friend of Berke and basketball star trying to muster up the courage to ask out Kelly's friend Basin, played surprisingly sweet by Mila Kunis, an actress known for playing less friendly characters on screen. Added to the mix are Berke's hilariously liberal parents, played with comic delight by serious, dramatic actors Ed Begley, Jr. and Swoosie Kurtz.The only other main character not cast against type is Dr. Desmond Forrest Oates, the egocentric drama coach trying to keep the play from being a total disaster. Dr. Oates is played unsurprisingly over-the-top by Martin Short, but unlike in most of his comedies, I found Short to be quite funny here.Don't expect anything new or surprising in the storyline and don't expect the jokes to be too original, but do expect to be surprised by the actors playing the roles and enjoy their performances. If you follow this formula, you are in for a quite a treat. "},{"Title":"Low level genius","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have rated this film high considering it is a run of the mill teenage flick. But I have reasons.The plot is fairly predictable and the characters two dimensional and there are no special effects or nudity or violence or anything truly note worthy at all. This is one of the two reasons I love this film. It doesn't try too hard to connect with some bizarre demographic of American youth or try to be overly funny or pound you relentlessly with some obscure social issue for you to add to the list of things you should feel guilty about. It is what Hollywood does best, a good old fashioned shallow love story where rich middle class teenagers follow their hearts in a squeaky clean high school that only exist in the movies. As an English horror/sc-fi/war movie fan it is great to switch off now and then to visit a place where jocks learn to respect nerds, extra curriculum activities are viewed as cool, and everyone has such wonderful teeth. A place where the biggest danger to your life is not being asked to the prom. I wish could have gone there. Also the opening sequence is one of the best crafted pieces of film that exist. Yes it is right up their with Apocalypse Now and the Cross of Iron! Not as dramatic but perfect, from the look on the boys face to the deliciously ironic sound track to the plethora of insanely happy-in-love people filling the back ground.Performances are what you would expect from this cast of seasoned pro's. Sound track is great (look out for love-scud)and the film has that lovely Hollywood glossy production to it.For a great little, bloodshed free, feel-good, keep-the-misus-happy film you cannot go far wrong from spending a fiver on this. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable No Brainer","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is not a bad movie and is far better than the 5.5 stars it has been given. So why did I like 'Get Over It'? This is an easy film to like, but also easy to criticise. Yes, it is not the most original movie ever made, and predictable, but does that make it an unenjoyable movie?I was originally attracted to this movie because Kirsten Dunst is one of my favourite actresses. She has an air, a presence on screen. She has a quirky sense, and unique looks that are hard to find in recent Hollywood actresses, the closest I could think of is Julia Roberts.This movie tells the story of Berke, a normal kid at high school. He brakes up from his long term child hood sweetheart Alison, and decides that joining the school's production of a modern take of 'Midsummer Night's Dream' to win her back from the new boy at the school, boy band member (Bentley 'Striker' Scrumfeld). In the process he meets his best friend's little sister, Kelly (Dunst).This movie shows how teens go about looking for love, but ultimately miss it when it is right in front of them. It is honest, easy to watch fun. And it also bears strong similarities with Disney's recent smash hit High School Musical. I am sure someone watched this and thought, man that's a great story and so took it to Disney. It is unbelievable how similar they are. And chances are, if you liked High School Musical, your gonna love this. So this is a movie for Friday nights, days off work or school, or just a pick me up movie. I loved this movie, and hope you do too! "}{"Title":"Added a 'T'","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Kirsten's mother did an incredibly brave thing for her. More on that later.This movie is hard to review because it's both so stupid and so smart all at once. One's first impression is that the producers have surrounded Ms Dunst with a bevy of beauties who in addition have a modicum of personality, desperately hoping that somehow it washes off on their star, making her both more attractive to look at and making her personality more appealing. Whether this is a sound technique is not known - the desired effects occur sporadically at best.And Sagemiller is quite a dish to look at - and she should have been given the lead role. And is it true Ms Dunst did her own singing for this movie? This is hard to believe. The voice responsible for those short vocals is highly trained, its owner someone who knows artistic discipline. That someone cannot possibly be Ms Dunst.And Martin Short is excellent, and Carmen Elektra an unnecessary appendix here as everywhere (please Hollywood let that woman be gone - please shun her categorically). Cameos by Ed Begley Jr and Swoosie Kurtz. This all good.And the film is fairly enjoyable and the tone is optimistic and you'll leave a viewing with a smile on your face.But Ms Dunst in the leading role? At least her mother did her a favour - in fact an incredibly brave thing. After all the chaperoning of film sets to make sure her daughter doesn't show too much boobs and to make sure that all final kisses are sufficiently modest and closed mouthed, Ms Dunst's mother made one small modification to the family name.She added a 't'. "},{"Title":"Very cute. )","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is nothing amazing, but is definitely a good teen movie. It is very funny and I enjoyed watching it. The acting is good, especially Martin Short. The story is based off of Shakespeare's play, A Midsummer's Night Dream. They do a good job in relating back to this. Bottom line, this movie is fun to watch. You can tell that the actors enjoyed making the film. Every actor performed very well. Kirsten Dunst, Martin Short, Ben foster, etc were all perfect. I didn't think this movie would be anything special, but if you enjoy a good teen flick this is definitely one of the best I have ever seen. "},{"Title":"A Happy, Fun Pill.","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Many regard American Pie and Porky's for the 90's (I considered it Porky's Lite) then Get Over It would have to be the Better Off Dead for the 90's or BOD Lite. On the other hand you could also compare it to She's Having My Baby. I like light hearted movies and this one may have come at a low point in my life, but I delighted in almost everything about this movie. I think when you have a standard plot, you have to develop more than just the main characters to make it worthwhile. Besides Ben Foster, Kirsten Dunst, Melissa Sagemiller, they have Colin Hanks, Marton Short, (many quotables, like I need you...not really or ahh, those were the salad days...but these are nice.), Shane West, Mila Kunis and of course Sisqo (love the ending song/video September Love.)Like I said the plot is simple, but it is filled with quirky scenes designed to have you feel the emotion or the Main Guy Ben Foster day dreaming about one thing or another. The acting works out OK, not just because it is a basic teen movie and you may expect less, but because of the script and tempo of the movie and probably great directing/editing, it all works very well, together. Colin is already showing his dad's ability to come across as a likable good guy, even when he isn't. Martin Short is off in his own world here and the comic internal tension coming from the well documented fact that his character's directing career is dead, while, he is also in denial. It is these 2 that added the most buoyancy to keep the film a float, besides the flat out quirkiness. Love the last half of the opening credits, where he is walking down the road after being dump, with Vitamin C and band trailing him lip sinking the original version of Love will Keep Us Together by Captain and Tennile. Yeah, I must have been at a low point.Kirsten is herself in this movie. Not even a stretch like the Cat's Meow or Deeply. The thing about her movies that I have noticed is that even though it is clearly a vehicle for her and she is the main attraction, she is smart enough to know that to have a good movie, her character should not control the movie. Of course, it is doubly smart, because if it is horrible, she wouldn't take full blame, either.I would not recommend Get Over It to everyone, just the ones that like a light hearted quirky teen romantic comedy.  "},{"Title":"a fairly good movie","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i enjoyed this movie, it was good fun to watch. of course, the best part about it was that Shane West was in it, he was gorgeous as Striker, although the 'british accent' left a lot to be desired. The pop video was also quite cheesy, but i dont blame Shane West for any of this, as he still kept me occupied cause i couldn't keep m eyes off him! he was the reason i bought the dvd. SHANE WEST FEST! "},{"Title":"Great teen movie","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Sure, this kinda movie comes from the Hollywood conveyor belt every hour. But this is a good example, it's funny, it has a pretty predictable plot but who cares? Nice analogs between Shakespeare's a midsummernights dream and the story itself, in which the characters act in a musical version of the play.Try it on, you'll wear it easy "},{"Title":"GREAT for high school theatre students","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My friends and I are all active in our school's theatre program, and we have to admit, we love this film. It's one of the most realistic high school drama films. Martin Short's character is absolutely hilarious with his blunt insults - I would tell you it was good, but that would be a lie. To his overbearing actions of taking the play WAY too seriously, he reminds us all of our high school theatre teachers. Shane West is great as the role-stealer director's darling, and the character of Jessica as Mr. Short's lapdog is completely true to that one teacher's pet we all love to hate. "},{"Title":"Get On Me....","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ....That's the message sexy Kirsten Dunst is saying to co-star Ben Foster. Only to have his character be blinded by his ex-love Allison.Dunst's previous film Bring it On had that right level of silliness that made it enjoyable. However, that formula doesn't work here. Especially since the film is way too silly.****Excellent***Good**Fair*PoorThe film has it's moments. Like Kirsten Dunst in a bikini and the school play they perform. Shane West and Martin Short portray some enjoyable characters but the film itself suffers from too much bad silliness. Like the opening credit featuring Ben Foster's character leaving his house with Vitamin C and a group of dancers singing and dancing behind him.RATING 2 STARS "},{"Title":"I'd give it a strong B","Date":"17 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I liked it.  Teen movies now a days are all about sex, which is all well and good considering how much sex is a part of the teenager's life, but the issue of sex always seems to dominate the plot and negates a lot of the romance.  This was a refreshing teen romantic comedy and they make few like it anymore.  Boy and Girl break up, Boy wants girl back but falls for another girl in the meanwhile--it's an old cliche--but it works well for Get Over It. It's corny and again, some parts terribly cliched like an almost first kiss interupted, but quite refreshing and in the end leaves you with a really good feeling. The cast is pretty good with the exception of Shane West who's fake English accent is all too annoying.  Ben Foster is great as the troubled brokenhearted teen hero figure whose friends include Sisqo. The beautiful and radiant Kirsten Dunst stars as a possible love interest and really shines in her acting in certain parts, and her singing with Dream of Me sung extremly well.  However, the true center of this movie is none other then Martin Short whose character acting has never been more hilarious.  I would recommend it as its the last of a dying breed of teenage movies and while redundant in some places, fun and rewarding.  Also, very clever parallels and cinemotography for this kind of movie.  For the whole ensemble and after effect I'd give it a strong B. "},{"Title":"Good musical like teen comedy","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is some silly teen comedy but I like this movie, especially first scene and end credit. These are so cute musical numbers. Director Tommy O'Haver has great musical talent. (Also his former film 'Billy's hollywood screen kiss' has some great musical numbers.) I really want see his more musical like movie. Anyhow this film is very entertaining and funny. "},{"Title":"Fizzy pop confection","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If director Tommy O'Haver's second feature (after the charming Billy's Hollywood Screen Kiss) is mostly predictable at least he doesn't waste any time getting to the good parts.  O'Haver is actually up to something quite clever here--having made a teen flick for his own generation--and therein lies some of the problems.  You have to really be in your thirties (or so) to fully appreciate a long-awaited homage to the Captain and Tennille; ditto the songwriting female lead who is more of an aspirant Laura Nyro than Debbie Gibson or--heaven forbid--Britney Spears.While market forces obviously dictate targeting a teen audience, O'Haver tips his hand a bit more toward an adult humour; this unreconcilable mix leaves the film feeling at times restrained and reigned in when it should be soaring.  O'Haver has made a nostalgic teen film for adults with his tongue firmly in his cheek--one wonders what contemporary teens would make of this. Though stylish, it doesn't really speak to their zeitgeist.Still there's plenty to enjoy not the least of which is Kirsten Dunst, not only the most luscious ingenue going but also a talented actress with genuine warmth and a generous spirit.  Dunst takes a bit of a backseat here but when her moment arrives it's a heartstopper.  If her presence, sophistication and all around loveliness tends to unhinge and unbalance the plot (she could easily make ANYONE forget their girlfriend), her performance does offer an interesting contrast with Lux in The Virgin Suicides (a film where she is just achingly beautiful and sensual).  What little she has to do here she does with aplomb and doesn't seem at all concerned about sharing the screen with others--it's a lovely, relaxed and gentle performance.Ben Foster is a likeable lead, completely cast against type in the role of a high school jock dumped by his A-list girlfriend--a subtle revisionism on the high school hero.  Another director might have cast Heath Ledger in this role (or someone similar); Foster isn't even Jesse Bradford.  But he's convincing and plays out the fantasy that we all have about what high school would've been like if only we'd asserted ourselves and didn't let anyone push us around.  His deadpan, tough guy expressions are the type that one spends the whole of their twenties perfecting in front of a mirror. Martin Short only makes one long for the star that O'Haver made in Screen Kiss--it's not difficult to imagine the difference Sean Hayes (Jack from Will & Grace) would've made in the role of the deeply misguided drama teacher.  It's a lightness this film could've used instead of Short's unfunny, forced dry husk of a performance.  Sisquo gives a nice understated performance with a surprisingly long fuse while we wait for him to do his full-on James Brown mini-me acrobatics--what else would you expect of this firecracker in a supporting role?  It's a nice, vibrant touch and if O'Haver and his legion of producers don't exactly see eye to eye, there's always the fabulous hands in the air, hip-swivelling closer of Earth, Wind and Fire's September covered by Sisquo and Vitamin C with the full cast decked out, glammed up and ready for Saturday night.  It's a song full of nostalgia for another time that is probably wasted on teenagers of the day but still remains well within reach of this 36 y.o.'s walkman.  Worthy. "}{"Title":"Cliché of Clichés","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Lets be honest this wasn't the most original movie around, still I wouldn't care if it was funny.  Unfortunately it was only mildly funny.The problem with this movie is that it is just a pure cliché of every other teen movie every made.Lets get a bunch of 20-somethings and play them as 16/17 year olds.  Guy loses girl, another girl likes him, he doesn't realise until the end after some soul searching.Reality check here, if a girl as a attractive as Kirstn Dunst was interested in me I would care if I had a girlfriend or not I would be thinking with my pants.  Lets be honest so would 99% of male teenagers, so this stupid dumb act of I didn't realise she liked me.To make the story slightly credible, make the Kirsten Dunst character ugly, then it would be more realistic.In every movie do we have to have this close-up of the 'penny dropping'.  The classic 'now I realise' expression as if everything in life is just a couple of meaningful stares into space.Anyway the film was fairly light hearted and mildly amusing, so not a complete loss, I would have liked some more humour though.  All rather pointless.  "},{"Title":"A better version than Better of dead","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you have seen Better of Dead, it's very similar.  Guy gets dumb by girlfriend for a cooler guy.  He has to get her back and another girl helps him. Through all this, this crazy stuff happens to him.  The only difference is that Get Over It has better jokes.I love this movie. It follows the same plot and a usual teen movie, but the jokes in this movie actually work.  Most teenie boppers are flat and boring. Martin Short and Shane West's horrible British accent steal the movie. This best a teen movie and I have no complaints.  I first saw it two years ago and I still quote it. "},{"Title":"I love this fun, cute movie!","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie when it came on tv one night. It definitely caught my attention and I had to watch it every time it came on since then! Even though it has a usual teen-romance plot to it, Get Over It does it in a totally fresh way. Ben Foster is such a cutie in this movie and goes along perfectly with Kirsten Dunst. The whole musical at the end is hilariously funny! I recently bought this movie because I can't imagine not getting to watch it anytime I was feeling low-because it definitely is a funny, pick-me-up-kind of movie!  "},{"Title":"A disco-fied remake of Fame(!!) for the New Millenium.  7/10. Spoilers.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It(2000) is a spoof of Fame(1980) with a Brady Bunch Movie(1994) feel, using the common nostalgia of generations of students who survived their high school theatre productions to carry it.It's the fifth classic/Shakespearian-adaptation teen movie in recent memory (Clueless(1992) =Jane Austen's Emma, Romeo & Juliet(1996) =Baz Luhrman's Shakespeare, 10 Things I Hate About You(1999) =Taming of the Shrew, Get Over It(2001) =A Midsummer Night's Dream, and O(2002) =Othello). They've all been pretty good, but this one may be the most impish, thanks largely to its soundtrack.Marc Shaiman is otherwise known as `Mr Fixit'. His work on Sister Act2(1993) saved that flick from total disaster; and he's been deployed on greenlighted features needing rescue-with-an-infectious-soundtrack ever since. He's responsible for the opening- and closing video-clips of this movie, Love Will Keep Us Together (brand new recording of the Captain&Tenille hit by Vitamin-C), and September (the Earth, Wind&Fire disco anthem, re-recorded by both Vitamin-C & Sisqo).These two fully incorporated video clips come very close to stealing the show, although there are problems with that as well.Vitamin-C's procession out of Allison MacAllister's garage is a left-field inspiration, but she's never given anything else to do in the movie, so the inspiration is left hanging. As for Sisqo's big movie debut, his character (Dennis) is a mere token, and his lines irritatingly lightweight.The big closing number, September, although terrific as a standalone, is totally WRENCHING FROM the movie.At a length of 116mins without the end-clip, Get Over It is....too short. The third act, during which we're supposed to see the actual stage play, is thin on Shakespeare. Only the barest skeleton of a plot is revealed  a betrothed Athenian maiden, Hermia, has two lovers who are enchanted by fairies to act unpredictably.Hermia/Allison McAllister's (Melissa Sagemiller)  rivals are Demetrius/Bentley Scrumfeld (Shane West) and Lysander/Berke Landers (Ben Foster).Bentley Scrumfeld aka `Striker' has been superbly cast-Shane West is now stuck forever as the `candy-assed' `Bentley Scrumfeld' even in totally serious roles eg A Walk to Remember(2002). Ben Foster, on the other hand, seems an overly-studied sad sack who turns into a suprisingly offputting competitive guy.The rivals notwithstanding, we really needed another 15-20mins of theatrics, Shakespearian or otherwise, with a better-developed reason for the improv ending. The deep structural problems implied by no less than 8 producers on this teen flick couldn't be just `fixed in post' (editing).This is an unfinished film, prematurely released.Even the opening montage of the young lovers is dispatched in a mere 20secs! Why such haste? The movie is obviously rushed, accounting for the split reviews it's received.There is much to like about it, however, such as Berke (Ben Foster)'s understated, quirky character design. He's so relaxed and clear about his task at the beginning that he effortlessly kisses Kelly (Kirsten Dunst), his best friend's younger sister. Unselfconscious warmth like that is rare in teen films; but this one really tries to evoke an innocent yet canny Brady Bunch feel (note the Sherwood Schwartz-like family home of the McAllisters', whose garage spews forth Vitamin-C with her band).Another great touch was the CGI-transformation of 3 real actors into fairies `with fairydust coming out of their a**es'. Their helium-ed voices are fun, and `Little Steve' (Dov Tiefenbach) is a perfect hoot. We should've gotten his backstory, eg why he was called `Little Steve'! More backstories would've added depth to a movie that sorely needed it.Most of the `Fine Arts Dept', including the `Chair', Desmond Forrest-Oats (Martin Short), the Production Assistant, Jessica (Jeanie Calleja), and the two stage crew/stoner guys, Chook (Park Bench) and Grendan (Daniel Enright), are hammy spoofs.Martin Short is, of course, the master ham-his fantasy bubbles are hilarious, as are most of his deprecating lines spat out through his (fake) gums. His only really bad misfire is his BIZARRE hand gesture across his face in lieu of resting chin-on-palm. It's so awkward that it just doesn't look human.Young Mila Kunis as `Basin' (is that a name?) plays like a chirpy, young Laura San Giacomo to Kelly (Kirsten Dunst)'s proverbial Pretty teen-Woman. Kunis is a giggling delight, and for me the more impressive of the two. It's a shame that she can't kick-start any chemistry with Dennis (Sisqo), her supposed admirer-in my opinion because Sisqo's  character is tarred as gay Dennis is really way overenthusiastic about Madonna!The film's true standout scene finally occurs as the two rivals for Allison/Hermia's affection continue their altercation ON STAGE `Do you marry HIM (Hermia's father)....Berke slyly looks away from 'Striker'?' `Sh!tbox.' `-W**ker.' `D!ckweed'; and again as the two rivals step through choreography to their song `Hermia-Please Love Meee' `B!tch.' `-Pansy.' `A**hole.'   `-Grrrr.'Berke's mother (the always reliable Swoozie Kurtz) even whispers in the audience to her husband (Ed Begley Jr, an old comic hand since his Spinal Tap(1984) days) that `It's so real, you can almost feel the tension'! This is, of course, the hoary old chestnut about EVERYTHING onstage being interpreted by audiences as `part of the show'.The movie registers a minus over Berke's parents being kept around basically to deliver the `so real' line; and to give director Tommy O'Haver a cameo (as their TV show director).In the end, it's Colin Hanks (not Sisqo) who walks away with the picture. He 'owns' Felix, Berke's best friend and `Leisure-suit Larry' teen Felix is an irresponsible partyhound great at causing chaos. He's so peer-cool that his funniest scene is his `manly encouragement' reaction shot in the play's audience, as Dennis, the 11th-hr play replacement, awkwardly delivers the Shakespearean line `Go bid the huntsmen; wake them with their horns'.As noted, this promising Shakespeare update remains unfinished. I only wish the filmmakers (R Lee Fleming Jr-Writer, O'Haver-Director, Jeff Betancourt-Editor, +6 Producers +2 Exec Producers!!) were given the opportunity to release the movie all over again. I'd definitely pay to see their end product, based on this early attempt.(7/10)  "},{"Title":"Not Bad....watchable","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay i'll admite it not as good as i thought it would be but still good for a girls night in! Shane West comes up trumps again! Fab acting from the wonder boy and still lookin good even with the burns! Worth a look, if you've seen everything else.  "},{"Title":"Potential within the cast, not realised in the film.","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have to wonder what Kirsten Dunst was thinking when she took on this role. Of all her movies to date, this has to be the worst.Having said that, Dunst is still the highlight of this film. Ben Foster is well cast and likeable enough. Thats about as much as can be said. I'm not usually a fan of Shane West and this movie highlights why. My understanding was his character is a spoof, of boy bands and those with looks but no brains. The problem lies in the fact that West doesn't appear to be acting.This movie is enjoyable, if you're looking for a flick which requires little thinking on the behalf of the audience. Its a teen flick without the gross out humour commonly seen in this genre (with one notable exception). One can only hope that Dunst, Foster and Hanks chose vehicles which allow them to display their talent in the future.  "},{"Title":"So stupid, that its funny","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  There are some retarded parts but, overall it is very funny. The beginning song(Love will keep us together) and the ending song (sung by Sisqo) have their own charm to it. Although I know that there are some dumb parts to it like the Accident Prone girl who's been in a coma because she was trying to catch a frisbee, they are rather odd I do admit. Just like Not Another Teen Movie, stupid but funny.Even though) I would recommend this movie to the teens out there who like this sort of thing. B+  "},{"Title":"Utterly Charming","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a film about a bunch of high school kids who put on a dreadful musical version of Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, which of course was a play about a group of players putting on a play. And this film more or less follows the Shakespeare plot.This amusingly ironic premise underpins a rather corny love story about a boy (Ben Foster) getting dumped by one girl (Melissa Sagemiller) and accidentally finding another one (Kirsten Dunst).Dunst (still a Virgin but no longer a Suicide) lights up the screen as usual and Foster gives a deadpan portrayal of the aptly named Berke. My favourite scene is the one where Kirsten accidentally shoots her would-be admirer with a crossbow!In my opinion this shockingly under-rated film is both genuinely funny and utterly charming. "},{"Title":"Midsummer Night's Dream? Really? (baby spoilers)","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  To be short - I am exactly the audience that this film is aimed at (daft teenaged girl) and I found it pretty pitiful. One of the things that really annoyed me though is that I love A Midsummer Night's Dream, and I HATED that they tried to ignore huge parts of that story to fit in with their own parody of it. Kelly fancies Berke, who's in love with his ex Allison still, and she's now going out with Striker. They all get cast in AMND, and for some insane reason they cast Striker as Demetrius and Berke as Lysander. Lysander and Demetrius are both in love with Hermia (Allison) while Helena loves Demetrius from afar, and Hermia only loves Lysander. So why the hell did they make Berke Lysander when they'd set up the whole story for him to end up with Kelly?! Surely starting out with both Striker and Berke in love with Allison, but Allison running off with Striker is a PERFECT set up for both Lysander and Demetrius being in love with Hermia, but Hermia being forced to marry Demetrius by her father?!?!?! In the end, Berke ends up with Kelly just as Demetrius ends up with Helena. So why the hell was Berke playing Lysander?!?!? (and don't even get me started on ignoring the other plots - Oberon and Titania, and the play of Bottom and his friends)It just makes no sense. The actual story is okay, but there's so little point to the shakespeare sub plot. "},{"Title":"Makes me smile","Date":"8 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think I would like it at first glance. But I was wrong I think it is a great teen movie. It's got humor that teenagers and young adults would be able to get and yet it can entertain those adults with a youthful spirit. I love it so much that I bought a copy and when I want to smile or laugh out loud I just pop it in. )  "}{"Title":"oh come on, this is a fun movie","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So this movie is extraordinarily trite and silly, and Kirsten Dunst's dialogue is horrible.  But I still love to watch it again and again.  Something about it (perhaps all the bright colors) keeps me enchanted every time.  Not to mention the presence of much badly drawn boy on the soundtrack.  martin short is brilliantly funny, and the movie does take the time to kind of make fun of itself for being so dumb.  7/10. "},{"Title":"My healing movie","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After a break up with a serious girlfriend my first year out of high school my boys dragged me to this movie. Get Over It is a pretty decent film.I saw a lot of myself in the lead Ben Foster and his best friend played by Colin Hanks reminded me of all my best friends rolled into one. All the girls in the very are sexy but Kirsten Dunst, Carmen Electra and Milla Kunis take the cake. While the film won't win any awards it's a fun film. The only bad point of the film is Sisqo who makes a horrible acting debut. "},{"Title":"utter crap","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i saw this film recently, well i bought it and i kinda wish i hadnt. it is probably the worst film ive ever watched. tacky isnt the word. i dont recommend this to anyone, unless you want an item for a bonfire. i thought £5 was a bargain, now I know why they are practically given the film away. DONT BOTHER WATCHIN IT!! "},{"Title":"utter crap","Date":"14 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  i saw this film recently, well i bought it and i kinda wish i hadnt. it is probably the worst film ive ever watched. tacky isnt the word. i dont recommend this to anyone, unless you want an item for a bonfire. i thought £5 was a bargain, now I know why they are practically given the film away. DONT BOTHER WATCHIN IT!! "},{"Title":"Classic Feel-Good Teen Comedy","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Jesus... you guys are hard to please. Having just read a load of comments from you budding film critics I couldn't find ONE sensible review!Relax, just 'cos it's an american teen comedy it doesn't mean you have to find something bad about it.Why on earth were you watching it if you hate this kind of film?Why rip into peoples singing or accents when it's just not necessary. If you want to criticise films, go off and write about proper stuff about lawrence of arabia or casablanca! This film is for fun and I can't see how anyone would not find it fun if they just sat down and watched it for what it is.This film is really funny in parts with a nice story, simple characters, some great music, and some sweet eye candy! You can't fault it for a night in!9/10Would have been 10 if something big fell on the bloke with the crap accent. "},{"Title":"Finally, a teen-flick I enjoyed","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I rent these teen-flicks even though I know most of the time I will be greatly disappointed with feeling of having wasted 90min.  But once in a while (which is most likely the reason why I keep renting them), I come upon one that I enjoy.  `Get over it' surprised me; by being on several occasions funny, by having couple of good music numbers, and for the appearance of Martin Short. The film flows smoothly (when compared to other teen-flicks), and the actors are at ease.  There is a nice realistic touch to the characters, except for Martin Short which as usual was a bit overboard.  Enjoyable little film.  6/10 "},{"Title":"I don't know about this one ...","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I didn't really like this movie but I didn't hate it either. I sat through it thinking so what's the point of this movie?. It's got some great actors but it's really not that good. Sure, it's based on Shakespeare and you can argue that almost anything to do with him has gotta be good, but not in this case. (I didn't really think so in any other case, too.) See the movie if you're bored, otherwise don't bother. "},{"Title":"It took me about a year to take a chance on this movie...","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Warning, possible spoilers...First off, I only rented this movie because Ben Foster is in it.  He was way, way, way better in Liberty Heights... Get Over It's script in no way gave Foster a chance to show his incredible talent.I enjoyed Get Over It, but only because it was so silly and strange and lighthearted.  There were too many unneeded characters, like Maggie and whoever Sisqo's character was.  However, there were many interesting characters, like Berke's extremely liberal parents, the theatre director, and Steven (more on Steven to come).  There has been some harsh criticism aimed at Shane West, but I thought he was pretty good.  The phony accent (yes, it was supposed to be that way... didn't anyone catch the blurb about Madonna?) was hilarious, and his acting has improved since Liberty Heights. However, A Walk to Remember is a better showcase for West's ability.Get Over It's script pretty much sucked, but the musical numbers were quite enjoyable.  Especially the opening sequence, where everyone dances down the street.  I've always wanted to see a goofy teen movie where outlandish musical numbers are thrown in.Finally, I would like to comment on Steven, or Little Steve.  It's the Boy with the Purple Socks from Harriet the Spy!  Dov Tiefenbach is an excellent actor who definitely needs to be placed in larger roles.  If only one reason is needed to see this movie, it's Tiefenbach's hilarious, if small, performance. "},{"Title":"A decent fare...6.5/10","Date":"21 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I admit that teen movies are ridiculous and for the most part, predicatble and corny, but if you sit down to watch a movie for teens, with teens playing teens in it, do you really expect something Oscar-worthy?  Get Over It is fun and cute and pretty much exactly what I'd expect from a teen movie.  It's not the best thing I've ever seen, but there have been many, many worse movies, in particular ones geared towards teens, churned out by Hollywood lately.  I enjoyed it because it was light-hearted, and not something you have to think about and analyze to understand. I really loved, in particular, Martin Short's portrayal of a somewhat insane theater teacher, if only because he reminds me of my own high school director.  Most people have called his performance over the top, which it certainly was, but don't kid yourself into thinking there aren't really theater people like that!  I also enjoyed basically all the scenes involving the high school theater kids...they were very true to life, everything from crazy pre-opening night mishaps to the off-beat stage crew members.My main complaint lies in the way in which the plot of the movie was likened to A Midsummer Night's Dream.  This allusion was a little bit shaky, if only because they had Berke (Ben Foster) and Stryker (Shane West) in the wrong Shakesperian roles.  I'm a huge fan of the play A Midsummer Night's Dream, and so this may seem like nitpicking, but the two boys should have flipped roles, with Berke playing the shunned lover Demetrius and Stryker playing Alison's (Hermia's) love interest Lysander.  In the play, like in the movie, Helena (played wonderfully by Kirsten Dunst) is in love with Demetrius who is in love with Hermia.  So it would have made much more sense to have portrayed the characters in this way instead.  Also, it would have saved all of us the utter despair of watching the horrifying ending to the school play.  That would be my other complaint...I know it's a teen movie and therefore it must end that way, but the director and writer could have saved us some grief by NOT having Berke change around the plot.Overall though, I thoroughly enjoyed watching this movie if only because it was fun and made me laugh at the insane silliness of it.  If you've got a few bucks to spend on a renter, pick up Get Over It. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Titled Wake Up!","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It! operates on the loose premise that a high-school nebbish, played by Ben Foster, would waste his time pining for his childhood sweetheart (Melissa Sagemiller) when his best friend's drop-dead gorgeous younger sister (Kirsten Dunst) is staring him in the face the whole time.  "}{"Title":"Its not Bad Its not good either","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The Reason why I say this because I found the storyline in this movie very good.And I like the chemistry going on with Berke who is played by Ben Foster and Kelly who is played by the sweet and beautiful Kirsten Dunst.The movie was really good and I really enjoyed how it ended up in the end.There were some flaws A lot of flaws.First off they said this was a comedy movie hmmm nothing in this movie was funny to me.The only person who I thought was Martin Short he was the only hilarious person throughout the movie everyone else tried and yet they have failed.Another problem with this movie is the singing oh how man I do not know why they had to sing in this friggin movie it was really crappy.Kirsten Dunst however had a beautiful singing voice she probably was the only person in this movie who sanged really good.Well that's it for my review In conclusion I give the movie 5 out of 10 stars "},{"Title":"Predictable but sweet, I loved it!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Obviously I saw this mainly because Kirsten Dunst was in it. But that wasn't the reason I liked it. This is a nice romantic comedy about a teenage boy who is dumped by his long-time girlfriend and ends up falling for his best friends sister. Kirsten displays all her talents in this film and a high light is when she makes her singing debut with Dream of Me. Although sweet this film is definitely not sappy Take it from the most cynical person on earth-if I accept it it's gotta be good!;) But seriously, this is a nice, clean love story both well written and performed. "},{"Title":"Really wanted to like it, but just couldnt","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Okay the first time I saw this movie was in the movie theaters.  After I saw it I was like Eh, it was okay.  It wasn't anything great or anything.  But seeing it again like 2 more times made me want to throw up.  It was such a bad movie in my opinion.  I don't even know why so many talented actors and actresses agreed to do this movie.  Kirsten Dunst, Ben Foster, Sisqo, Colin Hanks, Mila Kunis, and Shane West are all better actors than this.  Okay, maybe not Sisqo.  But it was just so saddening to see.  And Shane's accent made me cringe.  It just didn't suit him at all.  I wish I would never have seen that movie.  And Martin Short made it even worse.  His acting made me cry.  But I did like Kirsten Dunst's singing voice.  Yes, that was really her singing. "},{"Title":"fun stuff","Date":"12 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I agree with those that summarize this movie as silly fun.  I was out of town on business and watched it from the hotel room.  I laughed my a$$ off.  It's got a quirky sense of humor, and did leave me in a good mood upon it's conclusion.  The lead actor was a trip, and Kirsten Dunst is just plain cute.  You know what your getting into when you watch a movie like this, so ignore the nay-sayers. "},{"Title":"Good, but unfulfilling teen comedy....","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is ok for a rental, but it is too uneven to be anything but. It starts off as a typical teen comedy, with the boy being dumped by his steady, and doing anything to get her back. She is appearing in the school play, so he enlists the help of his friends little sister, who has knowledge of the play.After that happens, the film takes a turn around, and goes from comedy to drama. It has the most predictable ending in the genre, and you are left feeling unfulfiled. The second half of the film is what spoils this film, and makes it not the great film it could have been. The second half is too rushed, and too much emphasis on the play, rather than the kids.This film is not a bad film, but only rent on a night with your girlfriend, but never think of buying it! "},{"Title":"Brilliant subversion of teen-comedy genre","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Although admittedly only watching Get Over It for Kirsten Dunst, I was pleasantly surprised to find it so unlike any other teen-comedy I had ever come across. Anything with Kirsten Dunst in it will have at least that going for it, but the creative direction and bizarre sense of humour behind this film turned it into a brilliantly funny and original subversion of the generally cliched teen-comedy genre. Martin Short's performance was certainly a highlight, but what made Get Over It such an enjoyable movie was its refusal to be derivative. Anything that takes an over-used movie genre and turns it into something fresh and clever wins my approval. Get Over It has done that with complete ease. "},{"Title":"One of the Best High School Movies Ever Made","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It was written and put together very well.  One good laugh every 10 seconds through out the entire movie, from multi- cast members not just one. This movie is up there with Ferris Bueller and Three O'clock high as One the the best high school movies ever made.  "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It is the best movie I've ever seen, I watch it as much as I possibly can, Ben Foster (Burke Landers) was the best actor for this part and Kirsten Dunst (Kelly Woods) has been one of my favorite actresses for a long time and she and Ben made a great couple in the movie. Shane West (striker) was a great pick for this movie I loved him in Whatever It Takes. Martin Short was very funny. i dont like that people have cut down this movie because i find this movie is about what a lot of teenagers go through having there first love break up with them and trying to get them back but end up falling for someone else its a movie that everyone can relate to my mother even likes the movie. This movie deserves a lot more credit then it is getting the actors and actresses had to do a lot for the movie and i thank the writer for writing such a great movie, and the director for giving this movie a chance i think the movie was great and its my Favorite Movie. "},{"Title":"4 out of 5 stars","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Finally, a teen comedy that works.  Against the backdrop of preparing for the school play (`A Midsummer Nights Dream'), this play within a play about a play hits the right tone at nearly every turn.  A young man (Foster) loses his girlfriend (Sagemiller) and spends the rest of the film yearning for love and falling into love at the same time.  The cast brings energy and excitement, and director O'Haver refuses to take himself too seriously, allowing for some delightful dream sequences and over-the-top funny moments.  When he's on screen, Martin Short steals the show as the high-strung play director, and Foster emerges as a solid, young comic actor.  Sisqo shows up in the last fifteen minutes, and Tom Hank's son (Colin Hanks) is not bad at all.  The film hits some rough spots when it tries to be gloomy, but it soon picks up the pace once again.  Book ended by two wonderfully funny and carefree musical sequences to open and close the action.  This one will leave a smile on your face. "},{"Title":"not awful","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like many other video patrons, I picked this up because it had the magnificent Kirsten Dunst in a starring role. And like many other viewers, I wasn't sure I'd be able to sit through the whole thing, but it was a decent way to spend 86 minutes of my time. The Shakespeare angle reminded me somewhat of 10 Things I Hate About You. And if the only good thing that recent teen movies do is turn a TRL devotee into someone interested in The Bard, how can they be all bad? Martin Short is the comedy standout, which is no surprise, and Kirsten is a screen-brightener, as always. I agree with other comments that question the male lead's desirability, but it's not an insurmountable obstacle. Sisqo surprised me by fitting very well into his role. Ultimately, while it would be nice to say that this is Not Another Teen Movie, it basically is, but at least it tries a little harder.  "}{"Title":"Better but not best","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It is forgettable and at times lifeless...at the same time, it's so far above She's All That and all the Freddie Prinze crud, that the movie's redeemable simply because it's a decent Teen Movie. It's pretty surprising that the lead actors aren't more interesting; Dunst was awesome in Bring It On and Foster was even better in Liberty Heights. Maybe if they had played their characters from those films their impending couple-dom would have been more entertaining. As it is, you never really get a feeling for why Kelly likes Berke, especially because he's constantly making a fool of himself.Three of the better Teen Movies--American Pie, Can't Hardly Wait and Ten Things I Hate About You--take pains to develop their characters and let the audience in on what makes them tick. Had Get Over It traded a few of its shock scenes for personal revelation, had Dunst or Foster been a little more alive in their roles; this would have been a pretty funny movie, the material was there. That said, it's a good rental for fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"CU Film Critic takes on Get Over It.","Date":"17 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Never again will I write a review of a Kirsten Dunst movie. She truly compromises my journalistic integrity by making me feel guilty for giving truly bad movies the reviews they deserve.This week's movie fare is `Get Over It,' yet another Shakespeare masterpiece bastardized in the name of teen comedy.  For a while, it appeared that this form of pseudo-art was being phased out of Hollywood, but apparently some stragglers remain.  Director Tommy O'Haver's classic of choice was `A Midsummer Night's Dream.'  He actually managed to hold things together relatively well, though the film was by no means a great one. `Get Over It' stars Ben Foster (of TV's `Freaks and Geeks') as Berke Lawrence, your average high school guy, who's been recently jilted by his longtime girlfriend Allison(Melissa Sagemiller).  As a testament to the evil inherent in the mind of the ex-girlfriend, Allison wastes no time in finding companionship with new student `Striker' Scrumfeld (Shane West), the former lead singer of a one-hit-wonder boy band.  In the spirit of Shakespeare, Berke's determination to win Allison back renders him impervious to the advances of his best friend's younger sister Kelly (Dunst).  In order to prove his devotion to Allison, Berke auditions for the school play, `A Midsummer Night's Rockin Eve,' and, I suppose, hilarity ensues. Keeping in mind that a creative teen comedy is about as easy to come by as a CU football victory, director O'Haver was at least able to keep me awake. Halfway original sight gags and surprisingly decent acting from Foster and Colin Hanks (son of Academy-Award nominee Tom), who plays Kelly's older brother, keep the movie from going the way of `10 Things I Hate About Julia Stiles.' Surprisingly, Martin Short delivers one of his most hilarious performances, with a disturbingly accurate portrayal of a high school theatre director. His on-screen exchanges with `Little Steve' make it worth sitting through what is probably the most obnoxious title sequence in film history.  R&B `artist' Sisqo, for some reason, found his way into the film, and were it not for his song-and-dance number over the ending credits, I wouldn't have minded him, oddly enough. Kirsten Dunst, of course, is reason to pay for any film.  In `Get Over It,' not only does she make all kinds of cute little faces, but she sings!  At first I wasn't sure that the vocals were actually hers, but with some research, I'm pleased to say that I still have nothing negative to say about her.  Well, almost nothing. It's about time Kirsten Dunst moves on.  She started out respectably with `Interview With the Vampire,' and she's proven her talent in legitimately artistic film with roles in `The Virgin Suicides,' `Wag the Dog,' and `Drop Dead Gorgeous.'  She's actually got some talent, and starring in high school comedies with a guy whose claim to fame is a disturbingly passionate R&B ode to an undergarment.   Her upcoming Charlie Chaplin project `The Cat's Meow' should get her back on track.  It's gonna be a good'un.Now, the counterpoints. I don't know where they found Shane West, but I think we should do all in our power to ensure that he is never cast in another film.  Ever.  In most cases, I think actors should get a second chance; of course, there must be exceptions to every rule.  Write to Hollywood, contact your congressman, do whatever it takes.  I refuse to watch this boy act again. Also, is there some sort of shortage of teen actors?  I'm tired of seeing thirty year-olds playing high school students.  Please, for the sweet love of all that is good and decent, if you're going to cast someone in a teen film, make sure they were born sometime after the Beatles' appearance on Ed Sullivan. Aspects of the film were good, and aspects of the film were bad.  Overall, the film gets a middle-of-the-road `C.'  Martin Short and Litte Steve both get an `A.'  The beagle with the hormonal disorder gets a `B.'  The script gets a `D.'  Kirsten Dunst gets an `B' and her singing gets an `A.' "},{"Title":"I was pleasantly surprised!","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I haven't heard anything really positive about this film, so I went into it with low expectations.  Maybe that's what made me enjoy it as much as I did, because it could only get better than what I thought already. Nevertheless, I chuckled a lot, especially at Martin Short, and I think overall this film has more merit than a lot of others in the same teen-romantic-comedy genre. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly funny.","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Nothing too profound, but still really funny, and a definate change of pace from usual teen flick.Heck, any movie that opens with a dance number to Captain & Tenille deserves at least a bit of credit!I want Berke's parents! An parent that doesn't get mad when you are arrested in a sex club raid or when your friends throw a party at your house is okay by me!!! "},{"Title":"A nice film","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This isn't the sort of film I usually go for at all, but I surprised myself my enjoying it. It has some amusing moments, some touching moments and is sympathetically played by an attractive cast. The ending is too easy though, and what on Earth did Shane West think he was doing with that accent?? "},{"Title":"Empty and predictable...","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  High School student Kelly Woods (Dunst) helps Berke (Foster) win back his girlfriend Allison (Sagemiller). Having no acting or singing talent at all, Berke auditions for a school musical, which Allison will star in. Kelly plays one of the leads of the musical and helps Berke, but also falls in love with him.The story is empty and predictable. You can pretty much tell what will happen after 15 minutes or so. Highlights are Kirsten Dunst and a few great musical acts. What a waste to have this, obviously talented girl, appear in movies like Bring It On and this one. She does however save the movie from a total disaster.If you don't have anything else to do, I could recommend that you take a look at this one. After all it's not very long (87 min) and it does have some nice musical acts.(3/10) "},{"Title":"A sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh and cry","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  GET OVER IT, in my opinion, is a sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh and cry. I thought that what Allison (Melissa Sagemiller) did to Berke (Ben Foster) was absolutely cold. When this happened, I thought, How dare you! But when he fell for Kelly (Kirsten Dunst), I felt happy for him. I've been in a similar situation before, and it hurt like h***, but, after a while, I got over it, and now, I'm seeing someone new. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did a terrific job. Now, in conclusion, to all you Kirsten Dunst fans who haven't seen this sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh and cry, I recommend it.  "},{"Title":"Isn't Kirsten Dunst lovely? (And she can act, too!)","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first saw 'Get Over It' in Bath, I secretly rated it 5 out of 10. After my fourth visit to the cinema, this had become an 8. The reason I was so stingy with my first appraisal was that I felt I would exaggerate the movie's quality falsely due to the presence of Kirsten Dunst, whom can do no wrong, as far as I'm concerned. Then I realised that it was a very enjoyable outing, albeit lightweight, which I am now determined to acquire on DVD. The music, script and humour are of a high quality, and it's just the feel-good buzz you get, right from the word go. I realised, on the second viewing, that it wasn't just KD that attracted me to this movie, as she doesn't appear in the first seven or eight minutes (don't quote me on that). Mind you, when she is in it.... "},{"Title":"Don't forget your sunglasses !","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Kirsten Dunst radiates that much Intelligence and Charisma in this movie, that one feels like staring at the sun. But for this movie, and this main actor, its such a waste.Its an 'American Pie'-like movie, including the understanding parents and the tasteless jokes. But the jokes are also pretty lame, the story is completely foreseeable, and the main actor is a sleeping pill on legs, only the rest of the cast gave the movie a little life.The boring main actor wouldn't be a too big problem, for it fits to many scenes, but who can explain why damned why any of the two girls - one his last, the other his next girlfriend - would ever fall in love to him ?!? The reason why Kelly (Kirsten Dunst) shows any interest in Berke (Ben Foster) remained completely mysterious to me, as well as the reason why Allison (Melissa Sagemiller) has shown any interest in him for more than 5 minutes before.Dunst or not Dunst, this movie doesn't work. "},{"Title":"Spectacular performance by Kirsten Dunst and Martin Short","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Berke Landers (Ben Foster) gets dumped by his love of his life, Allison (Melissa Sagemiller). He tries to win her back by participating in the school play, directed by Forrest Oates(Martin Short). At the same time Kelly (Kirsten Dunst) is trying to get Berke to open his eyes, and fall in love with her. This is a movie with lot's of small stories in it, and is very funny, but at the same time very romantic. Kirsten Dunst and Martin Short are spectacular, and all in all, a very nice mood throughout the movie.  "}{"Title":"Know what you are getting into","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Look, for the people who have seen this movie and complained about it being another lame teen flick, what did you expect when you saw the trailer.  I thought this movie was really cute and I think all its young stars shined. This movie took a story from the ages and put it into the context of today's youth (I can say that because I am pretty much one of today's youth).  Just to say it again, if you don't like the teen movie genre, then don't watch this movie....otherwise, enjoy because I feel this is one of the better, more upbeat ones.ps.  even cisqo wasn't too bad "},{"Title":"So cute!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was adorable! The movie is about a guy trying to get back his first love. He even joins the school play to try and win her back from a former boy band member. While trying to remember his lines, he suddenly finds himself having feelings for his friend's sister. Sisqo is great and all the characters are magic! You'll really enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"A good comedy","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Normally i am not such a fan of comedy's but this is one exceptions. However the end was very predictable it was after all a movie worth seeing. The story line was pretty good. The acting part was done very well. Even on the animals side there was good acting.In short...A good comedy for the whole family )GreetsRoeland "},{"Title":"A Great Romantic Teen Comedy!!!","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"                             ***(May Contain Spoilers)***    Get Over It is a great romantic comedy packed with laughs. Ben Foster plays Berke Landers who is dumped by his girlfriend Allison (Melissa Sagemiller). So, Berke has trouble getting over Allison. His friends Felix (Colin Hanks) and Dennis (Sisqo) try to help, but do no good. So Berke is determined to do anything to get her back. Even if it means auditioning in the Shakespeare play A Midsummer Night's Dream to impress her. Then, Berke is drawn to Felix's little sister Kelly (Kirsten Dunst). So, Berke and Kelly work together on the play, and Berke begins to fall in love with Kelly. All in all, Get Over It is a warmhearted and fun teen romance that is a must-see. I give this film a 10 out of 10!!!  ) "},{"Title":"A Rare Work of Genius","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Every so often a film with a typical outline and formula excells beyond any possible expectation.  From it's clever opening credits to it's surprisingly sincere ending Get Over It is one cinematic treat after another.  Ben Foster is the perfect high school male floating through the drama that surrounds him like a pro at his best.  Kirsten Dunst reminds us as she has time and time again that she is a star who is here to stay and has made the ever so difficult transition from child star to bonafide actress, she is the best of her generation, and she proves it with range and consistancy.The film draws the audience in with laughs and amusing directional gimics and then at it's centre gives us a romance that, though predictable, is one we care about due it's feel provided by the talented cast.  This is easily the underrated film of the year and with a little luck and the contiuned ascent to stardome of it's cast maybe a few more people will get to enjoy this jewel of a film. "},{"Title":"A sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  GET OVER IT, in my opinion, is a sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh. I thought that what Allison (Melissa Sagemiller) did to Berke (Ben Foster) was VERY cold. But when he fell for Kelly (Kirsten Dunst), I felt happy for him. I've been in a similar situation before, and it hurt like h***, but, after a while, I got over it, and now, I'm seeing someone new. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did a terrific job. Now, in conclusion, to all you Kirsten Dunst fans who haven't seen this sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh, I HIGHLY recommend it. "},{"Title":"Mediocre film lifted to the stars by Kirsten Dunst.","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A film like any of the kind High School unlucky love yada yada yaaa... Fortunately for the producer, director, actors/actresses and other crew for this film 19 year old prodigy Kirsten Dunst makes this movie a step more touching and intriguing than usual. Playing a pretty innocent, 'can-do-about-anything' girl she traps the broken heart of a young man (probably not the only one either, I know for sure...) recently left by his lifelong girlfriend. She is supposed to help him get her back but after a while it leans more to 'Get Over It'.. when she founds her self in love with her project. The film itself could be better, Martin Short makes a funny routine as a hysterical musical director, involving a lot of Shakespear and music.As I said, mediocre film lifted up by supperior acting and beauty signed Kirsten Dunst. See it, it's actually really good. "},{"Title":"Funny, very funny.","Date":"31 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get over it is simply a fun movie, it is your usual teen film but it works very well. There are some hilarious gags in it and Kirsten Dunst somehow manages to improve the film just by appearing in it. The only joke that didn't work for me was the dog joke but you can't have it all. Loved the ending credits song 'cos Kirsten looked so sexy! Go see it film fans. "},{"Title":"A bit cheesy, but funny!","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok, I know this film wasn't exactly The Godfather or Shawshank Redemption, and it seemed a bit low budget but hey, it was a laugh! Infact the cheesyness of it made it funny, and Sisqo was in it so it can't be bad, I wish he was the main part though, but nevermind, not much else to say other than its funny but once is definitely enough. "},{"Title":"It Rocks!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When you hear that Tom Hanks's son is starring in a movie, curiosity is aroused. Just imagine how silly you feel when you spend the entire film commenting on how much he resembles his dad, only to find that you were looking at the wrong guy. Believe me, unless you're a Roswell fan (those in-the-know will understand), it's an easy mistake to make.Get Over It, is penned by the same guy who gave us She's All That and echoes the likes of American Pie, Road Trip, Ten Things I Hate about you et al. Ladies and Gentlemen, Get Over It, is yet another American-teen-high-school-flick, complete with toilet humour and an all-singing, all-dancing ending.And it goes a little something like this; boy meets girl, boy looses girl, boy finds girl, girl dumps boy, boy gutted. Boy goes out of way to get girl back, boy inadvertently falls for another girl and ends up very very confused.. And on it goes, who knows what may happen? Well, any one with an ounce of intelligence and an understanding of genre conventions actually.Although predictable, Get Over It, brings together a real mix of actors, icluding funny-man Martin Short, not seen since Father Of The Bride or heard since The Prince of Eygpt fame; the multi-talented Kirsten 'crops up in everything' Dunst; and Sisqo. Er, never seen in a movie but much loved for his 'Thong Song'. And as for Colin Hanks, he doesn't have much of a role but is reasonably endearing as the main guy's bezzy mate.However, I urge you to take note of main guy, Berk (Ben Foster); the guy who I thought was Tom Hank's son (whoops). This guy sounds like Tom Hanks, acts likes Tom Hanks and even looks like the mighty Hankster, so how come he is of no relation then, eh? Just you wait, you'll see exactly what I mean.Overall, Get Over It, is very funny, despite being a bit lame in the story department (Oh look, another film which borrows from a Shakespeare play and jigs around with it!) but I'm sure you'll get something from it. Even if it is a fit of the giggles when subjected to a randy Jack Russell humping everything in sight, or even bums in jockstraps - oops, have I said too much?Great if you like this genre, not so good if you don't, but I'm convinced something will grab you. maybe Kirsten Dunst in a Bikini, or Sisqo in errrrr. shorts?!Harmless fun.8/10 "}{"Title":"Moderate to lame teen comedy","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Look out - SPOILERS, second paragraph.There's a benchmark for teen romantic comedy and it is 10 Things I Hate About You. That film is clever, witty and well-directed with excellent performances. This isn't any of those things, rarely rising above the level of sweet and inoffensive.The director, Tommy O'Haver, must take much of the blame his choice of shot is sometimes baffling and the lighting is just awful. With this type of film, if you don't make your teenage cast look attractive, you're on a loser from the start. And he doesn't. The whole thing is badly paced not enough time and energy is invested in Burke (Paul Walker) and Alison's (Melissa Sagemiller) relationship; you never understand why he wants her back, especially as she quickly replaces him with the repulsive Striker (Shane West - I hope that English accent was *supposed* to be ridiculous). We realise far too soon that Burke and Kelly (Kirsten Dunst) are supposed to be together, and yet they still kiss too early - there isn't enough tension towards the end.Walker lacks charisma, although he was fairly sweet. Sagemiller looks too old and isn't much more than a cipher. Dunst is good, as ever - rising above the lame material to deliver a mature and affecting performance. Colin Hanks - a perennial sidekick, unlike his old man - is pretty good and Sisqo camps it up a treat. Martin Short is there as the comic relief, but is over the top and not nearly as funny as he should be. This was true of the whole film - there were a couple of decent sequences and the finale was good, but overall the script was lacking in wit. It could have done with jettisoning the pointless fantasy sequences, too, and tightening up the plot, which threatened to fall apart more than once.It was left to two old-timers, Swoosie Kurtz and Ed Begley Jr as Burke's embarrassingly liberal parents, to show the youngsters how it's done with a few scenes of effortless comic skill. A shame they weren't given more screen time than the irritating Short. Must try harder. "},{"Title":"great movie... if you look at the message instead of the minor details...","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It was a great movie. If you put aside the fact that you already know what will happen in the end then it is indeed a good movie. A teen romantic comedy, Get Over It has a good message - If you stop trying to get what you think you want, then you might realize that what you really want is sitting right in front of you.I reccomend this movie "},{"Title":"get into it","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It like all teen comedies has it's predictable and easy to follow plot, Guy gets dumped by Girl tries to win girl back comedy ensues. But I found it surprisingly funny especially the end when the play is finally performed.All the main actors are very good in particular Martin Short as the failed actor turned Drama teacher and  Kirsten Dunst as the aspiring musician.Overall this film is well worth watching and a very enjoyable 90 minutes, and unlike recent teen comedies it uses more mature humour rather than gross out humour which is a refreshing change. "},{"Title":"Great opening scene","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I took my kids to see this movie, so I didn't have high expectations of a great evening.  But I loved it.  OK, the storyline was predictable, but wasn't Shakespeare always that way?  No one seems to have mentioned the fact that the opening scene, shot to the tune of Love Will Keep Us Together, was one long, unedited take, lasting all of three minutes and including a cast of thousands (OK, dozens).  It makes me wonder how many times they shot it before it was what they wanted.  Not since the opening scene in The Player has there been such an involved and unedited take.  Worth it just for that scene, but there is much more on offer. "},{"Title":"A cool teen comedy/musical!","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"                ******SPOILERS******Get over it is a great film which is a little different from you usual teen comedy. There are some funny moments in the film and some BRILLIANT music.The film focuses on Burke Landers (Ben Foster.) who has just been dumped by his long-time girlfriend Allison. (Melissa Sagemiller.) In an attempt to try and get Allison back, Burke does everything he can to do just do that with a little help from his friends, Felix (Colin Hanks.) and Dennis. (Sisqo.) He even joins the spring musical which Allison is in with her new boyfriend Foreign exchange student Striker. (Shane West.) Whilst in the musical Burke gets quite friendly with Kelly (Kirsten Dunst.) who is Felix' sister. Kelly falls for Burke but Burke doesn't really see it at first as he's still trying to get back with Allison. At the end of the film Burke and Kelly do get together and everything's ends well.Some of my favourite parts of the film are one being at the beginning when Burke has been just dumped by Allison and she gives him back some of the stuff she's kept of his since they've been going out.  Burke leaves Allison's and is walking down in the street all depressed and Colleen Fitzpatrick (a.k.a. The brilliant singer, Vitamin C.) is singing down the street with all these people following her. It's a really cool part and the song is GREAT. I also liked the end when Vitamin C and Sisqo (Who did great acting.) are singing together and loads of the cast are surrounded  by them singing and dancing too. Vitamin C and Sisqo are both GREAT singers and the song once again is great. Any part with Colin Hanks was great too. He is really sweet and really funny.    The cast in the film is great, especially Ben Foster, Shane West, Kirsten Dunst, Colin Hanks, Sisqo, Martin Short and Vitamin C and much more all being their brilliant selves. Get over it is a brilliant movie and I give it a 9/10. "},{"Title":"Uneven film is ultimately ruined.","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Uneven film boasts a great star (Kirsten Dunst) and an okay supporting cast, the basis of a good script (including some nice dialogue) and terribly inappropriate crude scenes to capture the American Pie audience.  Regarding the later aspect, if you aim low and can't hit your target, maybe you need to aim a little higher...just a suggestion.  If you are a fan of Kirsten Dunst, in this film she has matured from a cute appealing teenager into a beautiful woman and seems to be a little out of place amongst the low-brow humor.  If you are into that type of thing watch American Pie, Scary Movie, or Tom Greene, this film won't reach your expectations either.  If her agents don't guide her into better films she might miss the boat to adult stardom.  My suggestion, rent Bring It On (similar title, completely different type of film) and wait for her a better Dunst film.     "},{"Title":"Surprisingly enjoyable movie","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A much more charming and likable movie than I was expecting. Yes, there is some low-brow teen-humor along the lines of such classics as American Pie or Porky's, but even that humor is handled well, and the movie, most importantly, is funny. There are no truly outstandingly funny scenes like in the aforementioned films, but Get Over It manages its humor well and evenly without the outlandishness of similar films.At its heart the movie is both about a school production of A Midsummer Night's Dream and a retelling of the same. The twists on the original are enough to keep you interested, and the portrayal of a young High School girl by Kirsten Dunst is simply spot on. Ben Foster plays against her very well, and Melissa Sagemiller is also quite good.Sisqo and Colin Hanks (Tom's son) are all the support the movie needs. If there is a weakness in the film it is in the character of Striker (Shane West) who seems like the writer wasn't sure what to do with. He is at once the rival, the bad guy, and a bit of a blunderer. One or two of those qualities would have sufficed. With all three we are left feeling rather flat about the rivalry aspect of the plot.If you only know Colin hanks from Roswell this role is a nice change and shows him as an actor with some range.Martin Short is a little overblown, and Swoozie Kurtz and Ed Begley Jr as the too understanding parents are on screen for far too short a time. Carmen Electra, in a very short cameo, seems wasted.In the end, the movie is funny, Kirsten Dunst is, as always, wonderful every second she's on screen, and the rest of the cast gives her adequate, or more than adequate, support. "},{"Title":"Teen Movies Making a comeback.","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just got home from seeing Get Over It, and I have to say that it was a very entertaining movie.  One of the better teen films in a long time. Kirsten Dunst is becoming one of the best young actresses in Hollywood, and growing into a beautiful woman.  This movie has a very good spirit and is genuinly a feel good movie.  The humor of the movie is all around funny for everyone, and the characters are all very likable.  I would definitely suggest that you see this movie. "},{"Title":"Gee, can I write a screenplay too?","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  At least Martin Short was funny.Oh yea, and the parents of the main teenage kid. They were funny.But is the screenwriter just completely out of touch with teenagers today or what? If I was a teenager, I would have been insulted. I don't remember my 80's teen movies sucking this bad.  Not everyone was beautiful.  Different kinds of teens were represented.The script was predictable in every way. EVERY WAY. At EVERY TURN. The most UNORIGINAL, UNISPIRED, Un-EVERYTHING.Depressing. Lack of talent is so depressing. Quit feeding us this shlock, I tell ya!!I know, I know...what was I doing watching a movie where the target audience is at least ten years younger than me?  Don't know what I was thinking except that I can offer you thisTHAT OPENING CREDIT SONG IS FROM 1979! IS NOTHING ORIGINAL ANYMORE?  I MEAN...THAT CHICK WHATEVER HER NAME IS...VITAMIN C....LIP SINCING CAPTAIN AND TENILLE?   GEEZ LOUISE. And generation Y is supposed to appreciate that joke?  And I like Elvis Costello's music, but how many teens knew (with the exception of those who saw Austin Powers and paid attention to detail)  that those songs were from the early 80's?I am guessing that someone wanted teens to be exposed to other music besides Britney Spears. Fine, but what's up with Vitamin C? Doesn't that sort of defeat the purpose?T "},{"Title":"Get Over It... Deal With It","Date":"19 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Get Over It is a crisp teen romantic comedy. An accomplishment in this day. The story is predictable, though Director Tommy O'Haver mixes in smart dialog, musical numbers, and Bill Shakespeare which makes the movie thoroughly enjoyable. The movie had me from its opening rendition of Love Will Keep Us Together. Ben Foster (who I have not seen before) is great as Berke, the guy who can't Get Over It. He gets it right for the combination of teenage bravado and insecurity. Kirsten Dundst as Kelly (the girl Berke can't see as the One, because she is right in front of him... Duh) is charming and smart. Dundst and Foster have a genuine chemistry. The Midsummer's Night Dream musical, and the Boy Band and Puff Daddy jokes, make for entertaining viewing while Foster's Berke finally gets What were you thinking?... Get on with it... "}{"Title":"Cute, Funny and Talented","Date":"17 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ben Foster is a loser guy trying to get over his ex-girlfriend Allison. But soon he falls for Kelly (Kirsten Dunst) while working with her on a school play. Some parts were funny, but there wasn't enough romance. However, Kirsten Dunst has a great singing voice and the fairies in Ben's fantasies are cute. "},{"Title":"Funny Teen Movie","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I had one BIG problem with this movie. Carmen Electra was only in it for a few seconds. Thats the only reason I went to see this movie. But to my surprise it was very funny. Better than most other teen movies. I recommend that you go see this movie if your looking for a few laughs. Its funnier than most PG-13 movies.  "},{"Title":"Fun For The Easily Amused","Date":"15 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely adored this movie--notice I use the word movie and not film because that's the point. Take this seriously and you will so not enjoy it. It's simple fare meant to entertain and not prove a point or global cause etc.  Kirsten Dunst is great as always.  Ben Foster is still charming. Sisqo proves surprising, and Colin Hanks looks just like his ma.  Martin Short is over the top and funny as ever.  Go to enjoy the crazy music and the short sweet song sang by Kirsten herself.  Great fun for the light hearted. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The film isn't High art and has some 2nd grade humor, but it's got a lot of humor and not a bad love story.  The end of the story is predictable from the start but thats not all bad.  If you expect a teen movie to be bubble gum for the brain, this movie was a nice surprise.  It was bubble gum for the brain but some of the best.  I laughed out loud at the opening and really enjoyed the music that ran from the seventies to yesterday.  A pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"Give Miramax a generic catchphrase and they'll manage to turn it into a movie.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Usually, I don't mind these types of comedies. I liked Bring It On, She's All That, etc. I went to see Get Over It with extremely low expectations. Unfortunately, I was still shocked at how incredibly bland and irritating this flick was.Here's an example of humor from this movie a guy in a wheelchair turns to somebody and says, Break a leg. I wish I was kidding. The main character (I don't know the actor's name, nor do I care in the least) gets dumped by his girlfriend, makes plans to get her back, then stares at his Cheerios for like half an hour. They should have been original and inserted a CGI rabbit or something in his place.I could go on about the awful performances, particularly by the annoying Martin Short, or about the play at the end that drags on FOREVER AND EVER, but I won't, because this piece of crap makes me feel reassured. I could make a better movie by putting a camera in a toilet at the local Taco Bell. Based on some of the other reviewers' comments here, it would be a big success. "},{"Title":"Great Teen Flick!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great movie for teens! Kirsten Dunst and Ben Foster really have chemistry together. There are a lot of funny parts for anyone who is into comedy and there is romance for those hopeless romantics. It's a great cast and even Vitamin C is in the beginning and end of the movie. Sisqo is great in it too. It's a must see!  "},{"Title":"Funniest PG-13 movie I've seen in a while.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I haven't laughed this much at a PG-13 movie since Austin Powers 2. There were some pretty funny gags in this movie.  This movie was kind of a cleaner version of American Pie.  There's the typical point A connects to point B plot, where nothing surprising happens.  However, the ride between the two points is pretty enjoyable.  None of the jokes are over-used, and it's kind of nice to see Ed Begly and Martin Short again.  Kirsten Dunst, as usual, was a doll.  There's also a lot of 70's covers (music remakes) in this movie, if you're into that kind of thing.    "},{"Title":"good teen flick","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I went to see the movie to get my fill of teeniebopper stuff for the week but was presently surprised that it wasn't as bad as many of the teen movies out there and is certainly funny.  Martin Short is great as the musical director.  Ben Foster is a fresh funny face in the genre where almost all actors and actresses are the same.  Kirsten Dunst does a great job and her beautiful singing voice was a pleasant surprise.  One of the things that I did not expect was the hilarity of Swoosie Kurtz as Ben Foster's mother. Overall if you are looking for a good teen flick Get Over it is a great choice. "},{"Title":"Silly, but fun","Date":"10 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're in the mood for a movie where all of the actors are beautiful, the comedy is just plain silly, and Martin Short creates another one of his classic characters, then this would be a great choice.  The main character, Berke (played by Ben Foster, who I could have sworn was the red-haired kid from Big) gets dumped by his girlfriend, and then tries to impress her the rest of the movie by joining the school play, which is directed by Martin Short, playing a wannabe actor/songwriter.  True belly-laughs by Short.Along the way, Berke gets help from his best friend's sister, played by Kirsten Dunst, and the plot is predictable from there.  But the movie was fun, had some great music, as well as the acting debut of Sisqo, who does a good job of the bumbling sidekick with a hidden talent.Not an intellectual film by any stretch of the imagination, but a good time nonetheless. "},{"Title":"If you don't like teen flicks, Get Over It!!!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  OK, yes it's your basic teen comedy, but it's got its finer points.  For starters, an excellent cast!  You've got Kirsten Dunst (2001's Teen Queen), Shane West (Once and Again and Whatever it Takes), Colin Hanks (son of the ever wonderful Tom Hanks and Roswell resident), Sisqo, and the return of a loveable actor Ben Foster (popular on Disney's Flash Forward!).  Not to mention a hilarious Martin Short as the youthful theater director and Swoosie Kurtz as a very open minded mother.  Add in some great one-liners, an adorable romance, Shakespeare and some musical numbers, as well as a few dance sequences, and you've got yourself one of the most original teen comedies to hit theaters since the 80s. "}{"Title":"good babe action","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Its a boy meets girl, boy loses girl scenario. His buds try to help him get over it and one of their sisters has a crush on him but he doesn't see it. Cisco's in it, good song, seems like I heard it somewhere before though. Babe action may be best part of movie, Kirsten Dunst, Melissa Sagemiller, and Carmen Electra all in bikinis, worth the price of admission. Dog's got a sex problem, good for laughs, good entertainment overall. "},{"Title":"sweet, enjoy.","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get over it is quiet hilarious movie. Also especially worth watching if you like Kirsten Dunst. Just sit, relax, eat pop corn, and laugh. That's all. Get over it doesn't try reach to masterpiece. But That is not shame at all. And this movie is fairly honest movie too. In addition, if you have not read Shakespeare's midsummer night's dream yet, after seeing this one, you might want to read it. ) "},{"Title":"hysterical and fun","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought the movie had extremely funny moments. And the scenes from A Midsummers Night Dream or classic. Especially with Berke in tights trying to sing.The dog is even funnier than in Something About Mary.  Why do horny dogs humping something always break me up.The ending is perfect and you go away feeling great.  Sitting through the credits is a breeze 'cause you get to see the new Sisqo video, of the song September.Must see!!! "},{"Title":"Just saw the film, made me think twice...","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I just saw the film on TV, it made me think twice about theater, as it made theater production look like an emotional mine feild, much to my delight. Being 17, i haven't decided who yet i will marry (Angelina Jolie probably), what career i will pursue, or what I'm having for lunch, but i can safely say, i really liked the film. The characters where believable, the plot was interesting and stimulating, with out being too taxing on the mind, and the musical score was very well versed by the actors (kirsten Dunst is amazing during her little solo, completely blew me away, i hope i can return the favor some time....) and the comedy is light, but plentiful, a great film to go to bed with.As much as i admire the film for its story and consistency thru-out, i have to say that without these obviously talented actors, of which kirsten dunst gives the most outstanding performance, the film would have been yet another unfortunate let down, as my generation has seen so many of thru the years. I cannot stress enough though, how i enjoyed this film and how it has left, a hopefully lasting, impression on my mind.I like to think from every story we learn something, perhaps realizing the mistakes of others, before we make them ourselves, or how sometimes, we all ready know enough, or too much, for which we should be grateful we have the minds to realize we know nothing at all (if that makes sense). At the very least, now i can appreciate the works of mr burt bacherack, and mr elvis costelo, my eyes are open now, thank you very much. I believe soon though, that this will become a forgotten film (un-duely, of course), and those of its genre will be classified as a phase which cinema saw a rise of stars, and these mearly the tools to aid their ascent, but a good film, non the less, and i strongly recommend it to everyone.P.S The credits reminded me of That 70's show, which i haven't seen in along time, so thank you for a great film, and some happy memories.  "},{"Title":"Fun to watch","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This lighthearted little movie has its moments. It's highly predictable(which teen movie isn't) but the humor is right up my alley. The actors really deserve a mentioning since they are the ones that made this movie. The great Martin Short, Ben Foster and Colin Hanks(who's gonna go far in the movie business, believe you me) plus a load of hot chicks(although I still don't think Kirsten Dunst is very cute) and parents that every kid would have. Had some great laughs and couldn't keep my eyes off Melissa Sagemiller. 6/10 "},{"Title":" My healing movie","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  After a break up with a serious girlfriend my first year out of high school my boys dragged me to this movie. Get Over It is a pretty decent film.I saw a lot of myself in the lead Ben Foster and his best friend played by Colin Hanks reminded me of all my best friends rolled into one. All the girls in the very are sexy but Kirsten Dunst, Carmen Electra and Milla Kunis take the cake. While the film won't win any awards it's a fun film. The only bad point of the film is Sisqo who makes a horrible acting debut.  "},{"Title":"Horrible except for Carmen Electra","Date":"8 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This as to be the most horrible I have seen for a long time. Kirsten Dunst is not very good in acting, how can you be good in acting when you're ugly and have no breast. The direction is very poor and the acting is not very good, except of course for Carmen Electra who is awesome. Here is the story thanks to Mr.Anonymous.Get Over It tells the tale of a high school boy who is down on his luck. He loses his girlfriend and will do anything to get her back - including quitting the basketball team and trying out for an acting role in a Shakespeare play. But as soon as he stops moping over his break up, he begins to take interest in his best friend's little sister (Kirsten Dunst), and finds that romance is everywhere. Carmen Electra is the only reason to watch this horrible film, rent it and just watch her scenes. "},{"Title":"Jeez, paint by numbers teen flick or what!","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This really was one of the poorest films I've ever seen at the cinema. I've seen quite a few worst ones on telly and video, but cinema?  yep this was the one. America pours these films out every year.  But this truely was poor.  If you don't predict whats gonna happen after 10minutes then you'd probably enjoy it. So, to summerise.....poor poor poor poor poor. "},{"Title":"Above-average intelligence in this 'dumb teen flick' offering","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you don't have a problem with the teen-flick comedy as a genre then this offering is just about above average. Ben Foster plays teenage high-schooler who has been dumped and turns to his best friend's sister for help. The film's big advantage is that not only does it never take itself very seriously but some of the humour is far more intelligent than the surface gags. It pokes good-natured fun at boy-bands and a Midsummer Night's Dream alike and there is excellent chemistry between Ben Foster and Kirsten Dunst. Throw in a few fantasy sequences, some good song and dance and some subtle references for those who listen beyond the in-your-face-stuff and you have a movie that has had more effort put into it than is generally expected. If this is the sort of movie you find entertaining anyway, even though it's been done to death, then you will probably find Get Over It reasonably good value for money. "},{"Title":"Impossible to GET OVER IT","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  GET OVER IT stars Ben Foster a Berke, a high school student who has just been dumped by his girlfriend,Allison Melissa Sagemiller. In order to win her back he joins the cast of the school presentation of A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. He's no actor so he gets some help from his best friend's little sister, Kelly Kirsten Dunst who does not seems so little to Berke. Just like the characters you'll fall in love with this movie. It's impossible to GET OVER IT!!!       "}{"Title":"A sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" GET OVER IT, in my opinion, is a sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh. I thought that what Allison (Melissa Sagemiller) did to Berke (Ben Foster) was very cold. But when he fell for Kelly (Kirsten Dunst), I felt happy for him. I've been in a similar situation before, and it hurt like h***, but after a while, I got over it, and now I'm seeing someone new. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did a terrific job. Now, in conclusion, to all you Kirsten Dunst fans who haven't seen this sweet movie that's sure to touch you, make you feel warm inside, and make you laugh, I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":" You saw Oates. He hated my song","Date":"4 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ben Foster is cool as Berke in this comical teen angst flick. The supporting cast is magnificent. The costumes are preppy. One of the good farces in the genre, Get Over It will teach the viewer true love can be found in the oddest places. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Some good chords","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Struck some good chords aesthetics wise with the use of 1970s fashion and musical vibes which proved telling for the next few years of trends from 2001. Starred quite a number of soon to be famous stars like Shane West, Kirsten Dunst and Melissa Sagemiller too, not bad considering they did the Earth Wind and Fire number on 'September'. In fact the soundtrack was another good chord struck. The teenage feel of this one had no unique touch in terms of predictability and structure. In fact, it played all the typical lines that are and were lame, and touted all the same popularity issues. I liked that Kirsten Dunst was not playing the role of the most beautiful girl in town, being slightly unfavoured and that was nice because she really is NOT A-List material looks wise or whatever. Now Sagemiller is really a class above, but to be honest, other than the literature bits (ruined by pretentiously lame dialogue in between again) and the great soundtrack, this one is only good for the 70s touch for the decade ahead. "},{"Title":"Outrageously funny to watch","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Get Over It is a 2001 movie starring Ben Foster,Spiderman's Kristen Dunst,A Walk To Remember's Shane West and Avatar star Zoe Saldana and tells the tale of a young man named Berke(Foster)who's childhood sweetheart wants to call it quits. He of course is heartbroken over it and like what the title says he just has to get over it. But when he finds out that there is a school play going on he decides to audition for it as he found out that his former flame is now going out with a Backstreet Boy clone singer called Skitter(played by Shane West sporting a rather unusual British accent that sometimes sounds like an Aussie accent from time to time)whom Berke met earlier on in the film. But things get even more complicated for Berke when we asks his Best Friend's(Colin Hanks the son of Tom Hanks)sister Kelly(played by Kristen Dunst) and later sorta falls for her as she is helping Berke with his lines. But when his former flame later wants to get back together with him,who must he choose?Bottom line this movie is no masterpiece or the best film ever made,but there are some scenes that will have you laughing so hard like Kelly's dog humping a ball,or an accident prone who ruins a dinner date that she was in with Berke. Check it out and see what you can make out of it.Also keep an eye out for Sisqo(a former singer from the early 00s) as Ben Foster's other friend. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Love Tears Us Apart","Date":"7 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It is an all around solidly entertaining movie. I do like the clever intertwining of the play plot,A Midsummer Night's Dream with the movie about high school students doing the play. The songs in the movie really help to set up scenes through out the movie. The opening song really gets one into the mood of the entire movie. The climatic play towards the end of the movie is worth the wait. Kristin Dunst does a great job singing her love song in the play. Ben Foster is a gem in the movie and I will be looking for him in any future roles. I really liked how the love triangle played itself out during the play. I believe this movie was quite cleverly done and would whole heartily recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"8 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Hilarious movie and I laugh Every time I see it. It just never gets boring. Alright so it hasn't got the greatest dialogue and is a bit thin in places but you cant beat it for fun laughs and making you feel good! the whole premise is the old story of losing the love of your life and trying anything to win her back but in doing this our hapless youth falls for his best mates sister without even knowing it and what ensues is a mix of laughs, tears and a dog humping anything that moves.....or doesn't! Really didn't think i was going to enjoy this film but i was pleasantly surprised by it. Top drawer movie and a must see, if only for Martin short's portrayal of a slightly unhinged stage director! Thought I would hate it but loved it, give it a go! "},{"Title":"Silly, funny and brilliant!","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is a typical teenagers movie, it may not be well known but it has some good stars, KIrsten Dunst and Ben Foster. It is witty, cute, modern and historical, what with featuring a midsummer's night dream. The plot is straight forward and simple but it is well acted out. The beginning sequence where Ben Foster is walking down the street to upbeat music as other people join him and tell him to Get Over It! is hilarious. You end up really rooting for his character and all in all it makes a very enjoyable film where you don't need to think about what you are watching. It certainly made me laugh out loud. It's just adorable. Watch it! "},{"Title":"views on get over it","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" get over it is one of the best films i have watched, especially thanks to Kirsten Dunst and Ben Foster. the chemistry between the pair, thanks to there personal relationship, makes the film very interesting and believable. Colin hanks and the other members of cast are also brilliant along with the music which allows the film to flow very well. The entwining of the play is also very effective, including Ben's and Shane's competition through out it. However, i must admit the errors in this film makes it 9 and not 10 out of 10. especially the clear error during the play where Helena(dunst) declares her love for lysander(foster) when she supposedly loves Demetrius. This is a very good teen film however, and i for one do not understand why it was not a success in the cinema. A very good watch. "},{"Title":"Teens Will Enjoy It","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" GET OVER IT (2001) ***1/2 A high school senior (played by Ben Foster) is dumped by his girlfriend and finds himself relating to the circumstances in Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, modernly adapted into a school play in which he scores a role. All he wants is to get his girl friend back, which is why he enrolls in the play, but he eventually comes to terms with the reality when he meets and falls for the much nicer Kirsten Dunst (who makes her singing debut here). Martin Short is the eccentric, out-of-touch drama teacher who enlivens the play rehearsal scenes, and the genuinely human Dunst is who saves the movie from being entirely superficial. "},{"Title":"an error  made by IMDb","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In the section for technical goofs under the heading continuity. the say that when Berke, Felix and Dennis are walking down the street before going into the music store that they walk by the same law office twice. this is not true actually they just walk by the second set of windows. you can tell because when they walk by the first time the doors are on the right side of the window and the second time the doors is on the left. in fact you can ever the part of the first window in the scene. i know IMDb is pretty good with getting accurate information so i figured this was worth a mention.as for the movie it's self i agree with the review. it really is just a fun and very entertaining movie to watch "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. It is excellent. I'm going to buy my own copy of it. Everything about it was great, acting, production, costumes, script, directing, photography, plot and lessons. Kudos to the cast, crew and filmmakers. Two Thumbs Way Up!The best thing about this film was seeing Ben Foster and Kirten Dunst act phenomenal. Burke, (Ben Foster) is dumped by his longtime girlfriend Allison and cannot get over it. But then a more beautiful and cool girl comes along and they fall in love and he gets over Allison and cannot believe he ever wanted her back. Allison is a bitch who just uses guys and then dumps them for someone else. Kim, (Kirsten Dunst) is a lot nicer.This movie teaches many important lessons, such as you don't need to have a lover to be happy, being loving and loyal and being respectful. I give it 10 out of 10 stars! "},{"Title":"Romantic movie w/ Kirsten Dunst!","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Seen this one on the video store shelf the other day. Saw that it had one of my favorite actresses, Kirsten Dunst, in it so it had to be somewhat decent. So I picked it up and watched it. It starts off talking about a guy who loses his girlfriend. The girl is in a play with another guy that the first guy hates. Anyways, Dunst plays an actress, there's a stretch, in the play that has feelings for the available guy. So they kind of hit it off when the two work on parts of the play together. I like Martin Short's character of the theater teacher. He's hilarious! Good one to not pass up! Definitely would recommend this to anyone looking for a good romantic comedy. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's seriously not that bad! Yes, Get over it is a very typical teen movie, but I found the musical really good. Kirsten Dunst is a very good singer. However, I think Allison isn't that worth it. Also, Striker is SO annoying. He just makes me so annoyed. The parents are so weird. Young people shouldn't watch it, but I guess older ones should be okay with it. There are seriously too many movies with humping dogs. I just saw Meet the Fockers yesterday too. You can't believe how many things the chihuahua humps. Anyway, Get Over It isn't totally worth it but it's not too bad either. You should try it. I think ages 15 and above should be old enough to watch it. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films ever!","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  When I first watched Get Over It, I absolutely loved it and I still do. No matter how many times I watch I never get bored because it's such a fantastic plot and the action is brilliant. I think it's different to other teen comedies because the film involves 'A Midsummer Night's Dream' a fantastic play by Shakespeare, and it becomes incorporated into the storyline in the film. It's also has songs too which you hardly ever find in teen comedies and I love the beginning where Burke is walking down the street whilst people are singing and dancing behind him, as its something to entertain you as most introductions are usually really boring. So if you haven't watched the film yet, you're missing out because it is hilarious throughout and will always remain one of my all time favourite films.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good!","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It is surprisingly good film, and thoroughly entertaining from start to finish. I had expected yet another immature, self-indulgent Generation X flick filled with gratuitous sex, drugs, rapping, cursing, and tattoos. What I got was a genuinely funny film featuring realistic characters we can care about, and a story with a lot of heart. The cast is perfect, the screenplay tight, the soundtrack appropriate (some of the songs are simply wonderful), and there are a plenty of clever surprises to remind you that you're watching this to have FUN. Even the subplots are subdued and well-balanced so they do not detract from the main story of a dejected young man coming to terms with being dumped by the girl of his dreams.The young leads are all excellent, but special mention has to go to old timers Martin Short, Ed Begley, Jr., and Swoosie Kurtz, who prove beyond any doubt that they can still do it after all these years.Best of all, it's refreshing to see a film with a mostly young cast that does not try to be a showcase for the popular culture of the day. For this reason, I expect Get Over It to remain entertaining for decades without suffering from the outdated cliches of the times that leave me embarrassed to watch even the greatest teen flicks of the 80's. This is a truly FUN movie if you just go with it--and not only for teenage girls. Highly recommended!  "},{"Title":"Watch This Film!!!","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  One of the greatest teenage films I've ever seen!It's so funny and the songs are so sweet!I don't know who composed them but they're so cool.I just want to recommend GET OVER IT to everyone who hasn't seen it yet! "},{"Title":"Don't be over-analytical...you may miss out...","Date":"4 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I think it is important, before judging the film, to see what purpose it had when i was made.  Get Over it was never made to win an oscar, and so it should therefore not be judged accordingly.  We are getting too caught up in the analytical side of assessing a movie, which makes it hard for us to distinguish it's real charm.While, like every movie, it has its faults, i think its positives out way its negatives.  Throughout the film, there is a continual 'feel-good' atmosphere, which makes it impossible to resist.  It also has some lively and popular actors which help it through. One of the things I like about this movie, is its sincere realism and the dealing of issues in a positive way.  It is a very optimistic film, and while predictable, has an extremely likeable characteristic.So now it is up to you, you may look at every miniscule detail and try find a flaw, and compare it to academy-award winning classics...or realise that Get Over It, despite its tendencey to stray from the true characteristics of an acclaimed movie, is really a classic in itself. "},{"Title":"Your usual teen romance story with a couple of nice additions.","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I got the DVD of GET OVER IT from my local library as a free loan, so all I wasted was my two hours watching it. While it is a re-telling of the age-old story of a boy getting dumped by his girlfriend, he has to get over it, and he finds love right under his nose, it is done in a different style that makes it more enjoyable than many. The critic Berardinelli has a complete review.some SPOILERS follow, consider carefully whether you should read any further, OK?The film starts almost directly with the break-up, and what follows immediately was the hook for me. As he walks home, carrying his things in a box, he is joined in order by -- a musical group singing Love Will Keep Us Together, then a newlywed couple, then some kids, then the female UPS driver and the male USPS driver dancing together, then two men garbage truck workers dancing together, then a marching band with a twirler -- in essence a parade following him while he sulks. This film is almost a musical.As the boy tries to get his pretty girl back, including trying out for the school musical, he is helped along by his best friend's little sister (Kirsten Dunst) who secretly hopes she can become his girlfriend.  In the end he realizes this, they kiss, all is well in the world again. The film has lots of slapstick humor, some funny, some not. However the main characters are endearing and while this is not a really GOOD movie, it's also not a bad one.  Its rating is about right. "},{"Title":"Martin Short is Brilliant!","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This was a pretty fresh and entertaining film. I have to admit that I did not know what to expect when sitting down to watch this film. It had just another sappy Teen film written all over it. However, I sensed something was different about this film as the very creative opening scene is played out. As I continued to watch, I found myself laughing out loud several times. Of course, casting the brilliant Martin Short helps. Short is at his very best, in a rather unheralded role as the self absorbed drama coach. Give it a look and you will be entertained, guaranteed. "},{"Title":"Hip&funny","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  What can I say? The first time I read the preview I knew that it was going to be fun.And I was right! The action is simple and it does not have anything memorable,except for a joke or two.I liked the scene when Allison dumps Berke,the music starts playing and all those people are dancing around him. There are a lot of joke, some are really good and some are kind rude. In conclusion I liked the movie.It`s better than an ordinary teenager movie and I think that`s what matters!-A "}{"Title":"I saw this movie...","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  It's very excellent movie... I saw it more than 20 times of late, and should like to see it more and more, but was the end of rent the film... I'm so much be interested this movie and performance, I try search full scenario of Get Over It in internet, but I can't. Thank You...  "},{"Title":"Martin Short is the only good thing about this movie!","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie and was eating at the same time.  Yes, I was distracted because I was more interested in what was on my PLATE than what was on the screen.  This was a so so movie about some teenagers who get jealous of eachother and like the same girl.  It's American Pie without all the clever humor and dirty talk.  Sure, Dunst is great eye candy but even SHE couldn't save this movie.  Martin Short was terrific as the drama teacher who had a PhD in DRAMA!!  Kirsten Dunst does a great job singing.  Like I said, if you're a die hard DUNST FAN, this movie is worth a viewing.  I didn't say it's worth PAYING the money for viewing it, but if your friends happen to have it and you just happen to be at their place and they pop it into the DVD player, go ahead and check it out.  Dunst and Short deliver a few goods in this mediocre TEEN movie. "},{"Title":"Best Shakespeare adaptation ever","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Personally, I hate musicals. But `Get Over It' delivers songs which actually fit in with the plot and even help it. The characters range in talent, however. From Berke Landers (played by Ben Foster) who just cannot sing, to Kelly (played by Kirsten Dunst) who just couldn't sing that beautifully without her voice being digitally altered.`Get Over It' is one of a recent string of films based on Shakespeare plays, including `10 Things I Hate About You', in an effort to see if Shakespeare can still make money. `Get Over It' is based on the weird comedy `A Mid Summer Nights Dream'. Unlike `10 Things', this film doesn't hide the fact that it's based on a play. In fact, the characters play the characters they are based on in a high school performance of the play. This actually helps the story develop and is a great help to the comedy of the film.How does the music fit into all this? The director of the play is completely unstable, and has added a `contemporary musical twist' to the play. His insanity is quite entertaining, including his many comments at the poor play cast, like you'd tell me if you'd had a stroke? And his thought bubbles make you wonder if they are memories or fantasies.Like 10 Things, most of the humour comes from exaggerated situations and characters, which you just have to smile at. All the cast fit in brilliantly with the their characters brilliantly, and you just can't help fancying Dunst, can you? But, you do have to scream at the TV to tell Berke that they like each other!Over all, it's the best Shakespeare adaptation I've ever seen, and actually looks original, not a cloned teen comedy, spawned from American Pie. I'd tell anyone to get it, if they haven't already.  "},{"Title":"You have to be in the right mood","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I nearly walked out in the first 10 minutes. The first scene set the tone for the movie, you have to have the right sense of humour. Well, since I didn't want to waste my money, I stayed and I actually found it quite enjoyable. The acting was not great by any means and the musicans turned actors  is never a great idea, but the movie is by no ways horrible. It provides a comic showing of a Shakespearian play. And Kristen Dunst gives a cute (i hate that word, but it works in this instance)singing debut proving she is not without musical or acting talent. OVerall the film is like many other comedies, you have to have the right sense of humor. I like the weird movies so this one fits me fine. Try it out, you may find you love, or hate it. "},{"Title":"Somewhat typical, but it has some great moments!","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I was very skeptical that I would ever have the desire to watch this film after I saw the previews.  These made it look like, yes, just another stereotypical teen film.  But as it turns out, I was wrong about this one. A friend of mine who had seen it dragged me kicking and screaming to Family Video to rent it, and I was pleasantly surprised to find out that it was not only ok, but it was one of the funniest movies I had seen in awhile.  Even though it does have a lot of stereotypical characters in likely situations (ex Berke's ex-girlfriend Alison does a perfectly in-sync dance w/ Striker, whom she had met just minutes ago at a club), it is well worth the predictability for the laughs that ensue!  The opening scenes post-breakup got me laughing right away, it was just so funny!  Martin Short performs at his peak in this movie, as this is the very funniest I have ever seen him. He plays an overly enthusiastic and sarcastic play director, and adds hilarious humor to every scene he is in.  He really makes the movie, as I really doubt the movie without him would be anything more than a 'teen movie'.  This movie is well worth the watching for anyone who is looking for a good laugh, as it is a very light-hearted movie.  Added Bonus  You get to hear Kirsten Dunst sing!  (It's amazing!  An actor singing her own song in a movie!  And it sounds good!)   "},{"Title":"Enjoy it!","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I loved it. This movie truly is a feast. To every Shakespeare fan this is one of the enjoyable updates and it's still (well almost) completely loyal to Shakespeare's play. The best part in the movie? The play which the persons in the movie are performing at school. All the actors are very good. Shane West does do a good villain - I think he had fun doing that part and Ben Foster - well they couldn't have casted anyone else. And Kirsten Dunst is so good. They make this movie special. It's definitely one of the really good teen movies. It stands out on it's own. See it! You might fall in love with it the way I did. "},{"Title":"A top film.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Don't listen to the critics.  This is one great film.It's funny, sad and a great uplifting ending.  Martin Short is fantastic.  Kirsten Dunst is stunning.  See it!!! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Vitamin C, Sisqo, Ben Foster, Kirsten Dunst, Shane West, Martin Short... what a great cast. One of the few movies that is really funny and also heart warming. If you've ever had to get over a relationship and found it difficult, you will find meaning in this moving.Kirsten sings a magical song, great opening and closing musical numbers, great dancing.If you liked 'Bring it On', you will probably like this movie.I'm over 50 but a teen a heart! "},{"Title":"Pleasant trifle. Kirsten Dunst, Martin Short are GREAT! But did DVD unwittingly reveal weird director's vibe?","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is pleasant enough; overall, it's an adequate teen movie. It's a bit cliched. Much of the characters' behavior seems contrived. The plot, and the characters' reactions and choices often seem shallow and stamped out by a cookie-cutter. It's almost as if the writer, perhaps someone now middle-aged, is reaching back in time to his or her own painful teenage years, and scripting out on the screen a rewrite to express their fantasies of how they now wish their lives would have gone back then. Whatever....having said that, some of the actors are brilliant. Kirsten Dunst once again proves that she is a gifted artist and actor-- she brings a tone and depth to her performance as the semi-outcast little sister. We sense her yearning, her frustration with her older brother and his mature friends, as well as her potential as a hottie and good friend. That takes some subtlety and a deft touch. Dunst consistently displays all that and more (albeit in other, better movies than this one. As a sample, check out the wonderful yet under-appreciated mini-masterpieces she's been in recently, for example crazy/beautiful, Dick, and Drop Dead Gorgeous for a full range of her talent.Mila Kunis, from That 70s Show displays the makings of talent as well. Give her a chance, a few more years and a few more roles, and she'll become a respected actor as well. Martin Short, sometimes a bit overdone (see the precious TV skit he does, Primetime Glick), amazing and wonderful here.The odd thing about Get Over IT, in my view, were the remarks and demeanor exhibited by the movie's director, Whathisname. Without focusing specifically on items, I must say that watching him command and criticize the actors, and hearing some of the remarks he made, it appeared to me that he had some sort of attitude. It could merely be that I was in a strange mood when I saw the DVD. Or perhaps, he is just one of those guys that don't look very friendly or very good when making comments. Perhaps what he is recorded as saying was taken so far out of context that it sounded off. Or, maybe he was being funny via sarcasm? Maybe I just missed a very clever joke. But for all of that, the impression I got, and the impression that I would guess is now going out to the DVD watching public in general, is that this director doesn't seem to have much rapport with his actors, or the material. I am contrasting this, of course, with the many DVD director/actor/crew commentaries wherein a friendly, creative bond is evident. Maybe there was rapport and such here, but the DVD special features give the impression that all of those qualities were missing. Oh well... I could be wrong. But still, this is an example where more care might have been given to the special features on the disk. "},{"Title":"So silly that its good!","Date":"29 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Ok... I will be the first to admit that it is a little (or a lot) corny and sappy. But then why did I buy it and why do I watch it at least once a week? Not because it is a masterpiece of cinematography, acting or directing, but because it is funny!  Its silly and crazy and its one of those movies that you watch and it just puts you in a good mood.  No matter how bad your life is, when they break out into the opening song, you can't help but feel better!  its not oscar worthy, but it is definitely one of my favorites cause it just makes you smile...... and also wonder if he is dreaming of you... "}{"Title":"Got it for Kirsten Dunst and a surprisingly entertaining movie as well.","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I originally bought the Get Over It DVD simply because it featured Kirsten Dunst.  From the trailers I had seen I wasn't even sure if I'd be able to sit through the movie.  Thankfully I did sit through it and all the bonus material as well.  Then I watched the movie again but this time with the commentary by Director Tommy O'Haver and Screenwriter R. Lee Fleming which was both interesting and absolutely hysterical.   So funny that I not only Got Over myself and put the DVD on the rack I recommended it to a number of my post-teen friends and so far they've been pleasantly surprised to find a cleverly funny movie.  If you're looking for Academy Award winners, look somewhere else but if you want something on the lighter side grab Get Over It.  Especially if you can see it on DVD because the commentary alone is worth the rental.  "},{"Title":"Over It!","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Critically-slammed and publicly-snubbed, 'Get Over It' seemed like just another teen movie. Sure, there's been heaps lately, but I went to this one because my friend was paying.Surprisingly though, although some of the stars themselves have said that they hated the film, I thought it was pretty good. Yes - it was corny, predictable and pathetic - all of the teen movies are, but at least this one was a bit different.The movie starts off with a funny musical number featuring Vitamin C, and the film stars Kirsten Dunst, Ben Foster, Sisqo, Mila Kunis, Shane West and Martin Short as the hilarious panicky teacher in charge of the drama production. There's also guest performances by Carmen Electra, Coolio and Swoosie Kurtz.The Good Points The opening number, Martin Short when picking a replacement for the male lead, Kirsten Dunst and Colin Hanks' dog.The Bad Points Colin Hanks, half of the un-funny dialogue, the fact that you knew what was gonna happen before stepping foot into the cinema. 6/10  "},{"Title":"Good Stuff","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I totally liked this movie a lot. Even though the story was somewhat predictable I still liked it. The sound track was one of the best points of the movie its a mix of very upbeat songs with a few slow songs as well. Overall a good mix of teenie bopper romance/comedy. I happened to like this mix a lot.  "},{"Title":"very entertaining","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was very entertaining and had some very funny moments in it. Martin Short was perfect for the role of the drama teacher and its' so funny watching him try to make his plaay the best. The guy who played the British guy dind't seem believable cause he isn't British and his accent looked so fake. Kirsten Dunst and the guy who she helps with the play are pretty good in it too and have some funny scenes together. This movie should have had more sex and more disgusting humour cause that's what made it funny.  "},{"Title":"Put your hand down Little Steve!!","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Yes, this movie is nothing we haven't seen before, yes the plot is not deep. However, I loved the movie for some reason.  I liked the singing, Little Steve, Kirsten Dunst, etc.  BUT Ben Foster(BURKE) and Colin Hanks(FELIX) did nothing for the movie.  They were drab and boring and definitely NOT heartthrobs.  Surely, better actors could have been found but all in all it was cute and something you can watch for fun, without thinking too deep. "},{"Title":"Actually quite cute","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie follows a lot of the same rules that most teenager movies follow... boy falls really hard for girl (sometimes vice versa), girl breaks boy's heart, another girl helps mend boy's broken heart and amazing love insues. This isn't unfamiliar territory, however I absolutely adored how it was done in this movie. It was hillariously funny though had it's slow moments. I enjoyed it very much because it was along the lines of 10 Things I Hate About You, another movie that I actually enjoyed.If you don't like somewhat cheesy teenage love stories, then I don't recommend this movie, however if you like entertainment and can let some of the Oscar winning type performances aside, then you'll enjoy this. It's not Cast Away, and in my opinion, it's far more entertaining. (No Offense Tom!) "},{"Title":"Light - hearted and funny","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'd heard that this film was pretty good so I was looking forward to it. There were two things I noticed - one, that Sisqo, who had been listed as a main character, had been put there purely for box office numbers. Sure, he has one of the main, oh, 10 parts, but its not a huge one. Also, this film was a lot cheesier than I'd expected. And I don't mean the musical part - that, I could understand - I mean the all-star performance headed by Sisqo as the credits rolled, I mean the stereotype gay drama teacher etc. But thats pretty much my only dislikes about the film, which had some unique features - the way its star character Berke kept slipping into Midsummers Night Dream Land, with the mischevious fairies, and some interesting characters like Berke's parents, the accident prone gorgeous blonde student and the original Lysander in the musical. In all, Get Over It was an amusing, entertaining, light-hearted piece of song and dance, and I'm glad I saw it. Just one thing - please, next time a film features an English guy, get rid of the sleazy posh accent! "},{"Title":"Great movie! Excellent chemistry!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The movie is so awesome! It's an amazing mix of humor, romance, and drama. The music is totally great, too and I especially loved Kirsten Dunst singing! The cast definitely delivered a fascinating performance, especially Ben Foster and Kirsten Dunst. The two really have excellent chemistry! And if I haven't said it enough already, the movie is really very amazing... "},{"Title":"What a shock!","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie took me completely by surprise, I was expecting mediocrity but instead discovered a gem of a film. This well-paced little movie has more going for it than any ten film in recent memory, I dare say it's even better than last year's Bring it On. Martin Short delivers one of the most hilarious performances of the year, and the very attractive Melissa Sage Miller makes a very likeable ex-girlfriend. Shane West as the baddie is ok, if you can get over how annoying the accent gets. Kisrten and Ben are fairly likebale leads. All in all, a great little film that should've gotten more advertisement. "},{"Title":"Do you like dancing?","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Some movies has dancing.  Some don't.  This one does... with a capital D.Whoever wrote this one deserves a Dance Train award.Two stars upWAY up!!! "}{"Title":"This movie is the funniest of the year!","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was a laugh riot. Seriously. It didn't seem like it would be more than just a teen flick, and my friends wanted to see it, so I wasn't expecting much. But I loved it! Lots of skin, lots of jokes, and the dog...well what can I say. It's so funny. Go see it! "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"27 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is infectiously brilliant. I saw it at a camp one summer, and then showed it to a friend when I got home. She immediately went out and bought it. It's a bucketful of laughs. The acting is incredible, the soundtrack catchy, and the script is a riot.Ben Foster just oozes adorable vulnerability, and, though he's not the most attractive guy, it's easy to see why first Allison and then Kelly fall for him. The story relies heavily on his emotions and the humor, and, in my opinion, that's really the way a story should be told.This movie keeps me in stitches and even though it's slightly predictable- hey, teen movie here, guys- it more than makes up for it.I love this movie so much that I've watched it more times than I've seen The Lion King. If you enjoyed 10 Things I Hate About You, Drive Me Crazy, or Clueless, you'll love this movie. "},{"Title":"Comedy that should have been a tragedy","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is not a very good film. There has clearly been an intention to create a comedy, but you don't really often get to see a comedy where jokes ruin the whole pleasure. If those poor ones had been left straight out, the viewers had been released from many miseries. Does it belong to the plot to make spectators really feel like the poor guy who loses his life-time girlfriend? If that was intended, why jokes? If this had been tragedy, a much better item it had been! Beautiful Kirsten Dunst does it at least worth something for she does not disappoint in acting part either. With this flower your can forgive much unpleasant moments and maybe even accustomize into the situation to enjoy the shallow Shakespeare element that however does not save from the complete disaster either. "},{"Title":"90 minutes of pain (Why did Kirsten Dunst agree to do this?)","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I like teen movies. Even the ones that are a little dumb. Why? Because they are fun to watch.Get Over It is not fun to watch. It's painful. It's incredibly unfunny. It's like anti-funny. It actually sucks the humour out of your body. I am personally planning on tracking down the director and the writer of Get Over It and taking whatever measures necessary to ensure that they never make another film.Wish me luck. "},{"Title":"GET OVER IT KIRSTEN! AND GET ON ME)","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Like Kirsten Dunst's Bring it On, this is a film so stupid it's actually good. The performances are quite charming and Shane West does an hilarious performances. Spoofing those *Nstink and Backstreet Girls. Also Miss Dunst looks mighty hott in this movie. And she appears in a bikini too! )3(***)out of 4(****)stars "},{"Title":"Not awful but nothing special and the humour is not very imaginative with more misses than hits","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Berke Landers had a childhood friend who he hoped he would always be with and, even when she moved away, he knew fate would bring them back together. Years later, he ends up in the same school as Allison and knows it will last forever. Just over 16 months later, Berke finds out that he was wrong when Allison dumps him. Hurt enough as it is, Berke is even worse when he sees Allison picking up with ex-boyband hunk Striker. He sets out to win back his girlfriend by joining the drama group but nothing goes anywhere near as well as he hoped it would.In a cluttered time of teen comedies Get Over It was one of those ones that seemed to just be lost in the crowd. Certainly for myself, I was not going to venture into a genre that holds little appeal normally to see a film that had been mostly ignored by even its target audience; but years later on television and for free I was happy to give it a try. The plot is pretty obvious and anyone who is surprised by the ending has clearly not seen anywhere near enough films &#150; or is just blessed with a happy naivety that I envy! Anyway, needless to say it all goes pretty much where you expect it to, which means it needs something else to really act as a hook and, in this case, the hope is that the script will hit the mark. In some ways you can see what the writer was aiming for (the manic Scrubs-style fantasy sequences, the larger than life characters) but it has more misses than hits &#150; and even the hits aren't that funny.The humour just about works well enough to keep my interest and just about keep this watchable but really it isn't as sharp or as funny as it clearly thinks it is. A big problem with this is that a lot of the humour tries to either come from the fantasy scenes or from the off-the-wall characters. The fantasy sequences aren't as inventive as they could have been &#150; fans of Scrubs will know how funny and out-of-the-blue they can be, here they are quite ordinary. Likewise the characters' quirks don't provide many laughs; Berke's parents were meant to be funny simply because they were modern &#150; they weren't funny. Desmond Oates was meant to be funny and, for the most part he was &#150; but he was a rare character that was well done and even he was pretty hit & miss between being funny or being annoying.The cast looked better on paper than they were on the film &#150; although there are few real stars here. As a fan of Six Feet Under I have great respect for Ben Foster but here he is given a teen cliché with nothing to really work with; he makes a likable lead, clowning his way through but he was only a few years from a teen character that was infinitely better written than this one. Dunst made this film just before Spiderman made her go big (in fact you can see her MJ hair colour in some of the reshot scenes) and she is good here. She may be pretty clichéd as a character but she gives a warm little performance and she also marks herself as a rather sweet singer too. West may look good for the teenage girls but I just found him annoying. Sisqo makes a brief appearance as his career disappears; Hanks is average and totally unmemorable; Saldana (as in The Terminal) is gorgeous but barely used; Sagemiller is fairly bland, all of which just leaves the adult cameos to add to the humour. Short is OK but Begley Jr and Kurtz are just a gimmick; meanwhile cameos from Coolio, Fitzpatrick and Electra are all pretty pointless and only serve to highlight the bits that don't work.Overall this is a fairly run of the mill teen comedy and I'm not surprised in the slightest that it got lost in the crowd. The plot is obvious and runs to the rules of the genre but the script is not there to help it much as too many of the jokes fall flat and are not as imaginative as they clearly thought they were. Watchable if you happen to be a fan of the teen genre but really this is just yet another in an already too crowded market place with nothing in particular going for it. If you asked me for a reason to watch it I'd be hard pressed to give you one but it's not awful.  "},{"Title":"Not another one...","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It *Get Over It is another stupid teen romance comedy thing. It's like a horrible creation. It's Bring it On and She's All That gone horribly wrong. The humour is really bad, too. As the movie progressed I counted 3 hits in the crotch, 3 scenes involving a humping dog, 2 flatulation jokes, a dominatrix scene, a scene where the parents incourage their son to masturbate and not to mention numerous drinking scenes. This is what is presented to teens these days. That is just wrong.Get Over is the same formula for all these movies. A guy loses girlfriend. Girlfriend finds new jerk boyfriend. Guy gets jealous and get a girl to help him get girlfriend back. Guy and girl fall for each other. End of movie. Oh, plus there's Sisqo! I don't know which character I hated more The jerky boyfriend or the innocent guy who got dumped. I know I'm not suppose to hate the guy. But he is so pathetic and annoying. All he does is walk around through the whole movie and complain about his girlfriend.The movie stars Kirsten Dunst, who I really like. And she is good in this movie, but c'mon! She really picked a bad one this time. And practically everyone else in the movie is stupid and I hate them. That sounds mean, but OH WELL! The only characters I like are played by Martin Short, Swosie Kurtz and Ed Beagly, Jr. And look, they're all adults. I took more pleasure watching the adults more than the teens in a TEEN MOVIE!There is one scene that I actually liked. It was in the beginning where the dump-ee is walking down the street after being dumped and this girl is singing about love and a bunch of couples are dancing around her. It was fun. I have just wasted an hour and a half of my life that I will never get back. Oh, how I pity myself. "},{"Title":"Does not distinguish itself..","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" ..from a trillion other teen movies, but this one has some slapstick that you might think is funny, or out of place, or distracting..depends on you.He loves her.  She loves him.  She gets tired and wants to move on.  He is devastated.  She begins to date a student who has a best-selling CD, a phoney British accent, and a lousy attitude.  He mopes around his friends and discovers the sister of one of these friends is pretty cute.  Then they all sign up to do a musical version of 'A Midsummer Night's Dream' directed by nightmare Martin Short.  There's a laugh or two.  But nothing memorable.  It was nice to hear Elvis Costello's 'Allison', nice to see sons of Oscar winners Colin Hanks and Ed Begley Jr., and Kirsten Dunst makes drek like this look pretty good, almost.  "},{"Title":"Producers Should Show Teenagers More Respect","Date":"19 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The problem I had with GET OVER IT was that it's marketed for a teenage audience . There's nothing wrong with this in principle ( Though I have to confess with some bitterness that it's been nearly twenty years since I last qualified as a teenager ) it's just that the marketing seems to have taken up more of the studio's time than the movie itself For a comedy GET OVER IT fails simply because the jokes fall flat . We're treated to a sequence involving an audition which was probably unamusing at the time and after seeing the early editions of American IDOL , POP IDOL and THE X FACTOR comes across even less amusing in late 2004 . The direction of this movie is uninspired , the jokes lame and the acting very poor and all throughout GET OVER IT I got the instinctive impression that because it's a teenage comedy the producers thought that any crap would be enough to carry the movie . You make a teenage comedy devoid of any angst ? Where's the logic in that ? After seeing this turkey this former teenager wished he'd rather have watched Ray Winstone in SHE'S GONE which was being shown on the other side  "},{"Title":"Not great, but it isn't horrible","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Get Over It has it's moments even if it's another typical teen flick.  And at least it's something to look to besides the suck-fest known as Bring it On.  The story here follows a kid who has been going out with a girl for as long as he can remember, until the girlfriend end the relationship.  Then the comedy ensues as he tries to get over it, and a sister of his best friend (Kirsten Dunst isn't actually misused here) starts to be interested in him.  Overall, a teen fare that will come as surprising as the shower scene in Psycho for the 40th time, but luckily the film does have some moments to wait for, especially Martin Short's performance as a theatre director.  B "}]