[{"Title":"A work of real filmic art","Date":"20 November 2001","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Harmony Korine's Julien Donkey-Boy, is nothing less than real filmic art. It chronicles a day or so in the life of Julien, a teenage schizophrenic, and the other family members he lives with  his sister, his frustrated and abusive father, played nicely by Werner Herzog, (of all people), his younger brother, and his grandmother. The effect is like watching Leave it to Beaver on acid--a haunting picture of a family paralyzed by their own dysfunctionality, so pervasive it is that it virtually crushes any hope of what most of us would call a normal life. The real tragedy is knowing that we are merely glimpsing a fictional account of what many real families with similar situations have to endure.   The film isn't a success solely due to its effectively disturbing chronicle of a mentally ill teen, but rather, HOW it chronicles the life of this character. Korine is a master of using film to communicate story and messages, specifically through the use of editing, cinematography and visual effects.  This is amazing, since at only 27, Korine has more visual ownership of the medium than do most directors with twice his experience.Yet, Korine's movies are not popular.  Most people wouldn't have a clue as to what's going on in them. This is because Korine uses visual symbols and other filmic elements to reveal the plot and character development.  And he does this masterfully.  For example, in one scene, we see the images as if on a videophone, frame-by-frame, with erratic cuts in the action.  Yet, the sound flows as normal. Korine uses this technique to symbolize the main character's fragmented view of the world -- a view that is dramatically distorted from our own. This is brilliant filmmaking -- an example of show, don't tell yet through use of film form rather than character action.Indelibly, it is Korine's unconventional film style, of which a good deal looks experimental, yet all of which is handled expertly, that will also keep him at the fringes of the film world, barring him the popularity he deserves.  This is too bad since he brings as much to the art of independent film as Scorcese does to the Hollywood film. Yet Korine will never have the accessibility of the other.In this film, Korine reveals the character of Julien not only through his actions, but via his reactions to those around him and to his environment.  This is a hard task for a filmmaker to achieve since those who don't know the particular reason for a scene or for its purpose, will be lost. The film demands an aggressive viewer, one who wants to share the boldness of the director's vision, while deciphering it through his or her own knowledge of film conventions and prior knowledge.Julien Donkey-Boy is not as emotionally powerful as Korine's previous film, Gummo, yet it is just as important in what it has to say about film as a medium of communication, and, about the people who are living at the margins of society. "},{"Title":"Very affective art.","Date":"3 January 2001","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I will say that this film is Art at the risk of having raw vegetables thrown at me. It is not a movie, as in Hey, Mary, let's go down to the multiplex and catch Julien Donkey-Boy. No. I have the mixed pleasure of understanding this film's subject matter as a clinician. The film conveyed, in my educated opinion, a sensual experience of being very close to the dysfunction it displays. What may seem like unsophisticated art school techniques with sound and image to the casual viewer rang absolutely affectively true to me, as a person who has worked in locked units of state mental hospitals with these families. As entertainment, the film is terrible, as it should be. I would not advise buying an extra large popcorn. It is disturbing and enlightening. Whether or not it belongs in a theater, museum or a classroom is probably debatable. Werner Herzog was brilliant. Ewen Bremner blew me away. Bremner's acting range is amazing. I look forward to seeing him some day in a regular guy role.  "},{"Title":"Twisted","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" As people see things, things see us. This extremely disturbing film about a man/boy with schizophrenia struggling through life with his twisted and mentally abusive dad, his sister who is pregnant with his baby, and his abused brother, is terrifyingly weird. With a film in which a boy is brutally smashed in the head with a stone and choked to death, a nun masturbates on the floor, and a armless man plays the drums, it is completely obvious that this film will only appeal to certain people. This film is freakish, but not in as good a way as GUMMO was. With all this being said, while the film was a hellish and emotional picture that is not for the mainstream(to say the least), I would never ever want to really see it again. This was just too much. It made me feel unclean in a way much deeper tan GUMMO. I felt my mind was permanently warped. I never want to even think about this film ever again. Thinking about it makes me feel nauseous. The images and the characters and the actions of them have gotten to me and Of course, this was probably Harmony Korine's intention. Many viewers won't feel the images they are seeing are necessary to for the to see. It is kind of a freak show in a way. It isn't so much the content that is bad. There are many events in the film that just feel wrong. Take for instance the scene where Julien attempts to sell skating shoes he made. He attempts to sell them to a boy who does not listen to what he has to say about his purportedly useless invention and instead swears and yells at him, telling him in exaggerated form that the shoes will kill people and that he wouldn't pay any money for them. The scene has no purpose other than to seemingly be insulting and depressing to the viewer who has already had their fair share of depressing events throughout the film. And yet it is done in such a way that is very lifelike and very realistic in terms of how the scene is constructed, but it seems so weird to want to film this sort of behavior. It has also been well known that for this film project, Harmony recorded real people's reactions of some of the strange behavior with hidden cameras. This adds genuine realism to the film along with the nasty stuff, as if it didn't have enough. It's a tough film to sit through. I think it's a good film, but I don't recommend it for fear that people will think I'm a sicko for thinking they will like it. "},{"Title":"Harmony Korine is one of Americas' bravest and best directors","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"15 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much like European directors Thomas Vinterberg, Lars Von Trier, Jean Luc Goddard, and Werner Herzog (who plays the father!), young American director Harmony Korine is not content to just produce a product.  This is film as art.  This is film as statement.  This is film as reality.  It is not escapism-quite the contrary; Julien offers nothing in the way of fantasy (other than it's a 'film' and therefore not 'real').  Rather, it injects the viewer into the nervous system of an American most would pretend doesn't exist.  It follows a moment in time for Julien, a mentally deranged young man, and his family as they trudge through their mundane, yet disturbed lives.  Opening with Julien apparently murdering a young boy in the woods, the viewer is immediately tuned in to just how disturbed he is.  From here, the film gives a 'fly on the wall' view of his family; an exasperated father (Herzog), abusive out of his own failures-both personal and familial.  A classically driven brother who, through amatuer wrestling, tries to impress daddy-to no avail. Rounding the unit out is his sister (Chloe Sevigny), a ray of light (albeit tainted) within the molassas thick dispair.  As the film progresses, we get bits and pieces of a family in sharp decline; the madness isn't all Juliens' that's for sure.  Information is given in fits and starts, like bad dreams in still shots.  Being a so called 'Dogme' film, Julien Donkey Boy has a voyueristic bent, akin to watching a home movie you found on the street.  This feeling is only heightened by the seemingly improvised acting (I say 'seemingly' because it can't be ALL impov; forget what you've heard Julien DOES have a plot, just not a conventional one). Obviously, Julien Donkey Boy is not for everybody, just as Fitzcarraldo is not for everyone.  I personally found this film compelling.  This is the way some people actually live- someone you know, maybe even yourself, and that's why this film works.  If I have any criticism, it's not of Julien per se, but the fact that all of Korine's films have dealt with teenagers, therefore probably making it easier for some to dismiss his work as merely 'fringe'.   "},{"Title":"Somewhat reflexive presentation about schizophrenia","Date":"15 May 2011","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Do not expect to be entertained, and do not expect to be overwhelmed by the aesthetic of this film. Julien Donkey Boy is no more beautiful than its subject. Harmony Korine, in directing and writing this film, has done exactly what he set out to do - he has created a concentrated dose of family life with schizophrenia. In saying that the experience is concentrated, what I mean is that the film uses exaggeration rather liberally in order to condense its somewhat impossibly defined subject matter. Although there are certainly interwoven story arcs for the main characters, there is no central plot, no linearity, no unfragmented reality. The film itself, therefore, is just a little unhinged.One of my older sisters was schizophrenic. You would have to condense a couple decades worth of her psychotic episodes into a couple of hours to get anywhere near the level of constant distress that is depicted in this film. I most closely related to the character of Pearl, Julien's pregnant sister, but recognized aspects of my own family in all of the characters. What I am trying to say is that there is certainly some truth to what this movie says and the archetypal characters portrayed, its truth may be hard to recognize if you haven't lived through it. Living with a schizophrenic will bring out and amplify your own nature - and if you are open to it, you will be a better person. It is also, however, fairly easy to allow the experience to overwhelm you. People who have never been exposed to schizophrenia in any but a superficial way will find most of the film's characters and vignettes very difficult to believe. I am pretty sure Korine knew this going in. Korine has portrayed schizophrenia in a sensitive and truthful, but nevertheless utterly disturbing and somewhat unrealistically condensed way. Every directorial decision is meant to create a sense of realism. The method is very effective, and the film is essentially successful. Julien intentionally and clearly positions its audience as voyeurs, using hand-held photography almost exclusively and allowing character- development (the bulk of the film) to dictate the pace and rhythm of every scene. All of the acting is superb, and although there are very few feel-good moments in this film, it may be somewhat cathartic for folks like me, and somewhat (painfully) enlightening for those who grew up in less dysfunctional, or more-traditionally dysfunctional, families. "},{"Title":"NOT a mainstream film, but Very Interesting","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I wasn't sure how this film was going to appear when I finally saw it.  I felt gummo was a great film, and didn't see exactly how this was going to compare.  Julien  actually seemed to surpass in reality.  It was in no way a mainstream film, but on the other hand, it was not too artsy to be understandable.  It kept my attention the entire time.  I was intrigued not only by the film techniques but by the story it told.  The characters were outstanding considering nothing was scripted.  I thought the end of the film was very offensive when watching it, but thinking back on it now, it was handled very well and the movie was telling a story.  All actors were very believable, and Svengy did a magnificent job.  I think my favorite part in the film was the scene in the thrift store.  I was also very happy to notice Will Oldham in the party scene and then see a thank you to him in the credits.  If gummo intrigued you, this film will also.  "},{"Title":"Amazing film.","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To represent the life of a schizophrenic through the medium of film, would be quite challenging, really. How could you possibly relate the total random madness and desperate attempts at self-control of a madman onto film? One would be wise to choose Dogme 95, as the life of these unfortunate people seems to be affected by and largely governed by, a series of rigid and obtuse beliefs, regimens or rituals put in place to form some sort of foundation in an otherwise random, crazy existence. They then hold fast to this foundation for dear life - white knuckles. Since these rules they live by come from insanity in the first place, and are not typically adaptable, or flexible, as life would require them to be, everything they attempt becomes convoluted and lost in madness and confusion. And so everything is completely unsettled, because they can't adapt. Dogme 95, with its odd, rigid requirements, vis-a-vis the Vow of Chastity (www.dogme95.dk) goes a long way toward capturing that dynamic. This film comes pretty close to nailing the day-in, day-out obstacles that mentally ill people must encounter, making something as simple as a bus ride to work a harrowing adventure fraught with slopes. The whole thing reminds me of the LSD scene in Easy Rider with the call girls in the grave yard. That was as close as I have ever seen to a realistic depiction of an acid trip in a film (you'll have to trust me on this one folks...), and this film has the same feel of reality to it. Almost as if it were a film about a schizophrenic, directed by and acted by schizophrenics. It's amazing.Bremner is brilliant. I didn't even recognize him until I read the credits, and afterward I believed that he should have been awarded for this outing - just completely convincing. Almost as if this were a documentary. He just acts so completely mentally ill, it's amazing. He even somehow affects not only the dress, but the postures, facial expressions and characteristics that make him appear to be genuinely mentally ill. Wow.Herzog's character is just so completely weird and obtuse and out of place in our culture that he is perfect here. Makes you wonder about other people you see walking around. Not hugely entertaining in terms of plot, but a real treat for someone who wants to be compelled by the film maker's art. Harmony Korine is way smarter than me and you, folks. And I think it's way cool he can get his hands on film equipment. He is pushing the envelope, which is a lot more than I can say for most directors. Safe is boring. Regard this film in the context of the first scene when Julien has his encounter with the Pond Boy and a plot emerges. What we see within the first two or three minutes is just astoundingly disturbing, and will clearly have consequences on the rest of Julien's life - all of their lives. Relate the rest of the film back to the first scene, and it's really rather sad. Everything that ensues has that hanging over it. You know that no matter what those people do, some day there will be a knock on the door and everything will unravel. Or will it? How could they be any more odd and troubled than they already are? "},{"Title":"My take, spoilers included, in contrast with most others","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"10 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I find this film beautiful and transcendent.First, I'd like to say that those of you who watch Korine's films because you liked Kids will be very disappointed. To me, Kids is like all of Larry Clark's films, the indulgent fantasies of a pederast passed off as art. Korine has stated he is completely indifferent about both him as a person and his films, including the ones he wrote. When someone offers you a screen writing job at 18, you take it. It enabled him to create Gummo and JDB, so there's little room for complaint.Superficially, I'll say (as a person who has spent time in mental hospitals as both patient and staff), this is the most honest portrayal of both schizophrenia and mental illness in general that I've ever seen. Nearly every other film dealing with this subject matter is simply an established actor's cowardly attempt to dazzle critics. I think Ewan Bremner captures the cadences and spontaneity without flaw.The grainy quality was intentional, achieved by transferring to Super8 before 35mm. The effect may be difficult for some to stomach, but there are moments where it seems to perfect the already beautiful images. In particular, I'm in love with these Pearl (Sevigny)walking through the field (of the same color as her hair) singing a contemporary hymn, the sequences of Chrissy (blind girl) ice-skating, grandymama trying to coax the dog back in the house as it prances through snow (again, of the same color), Pearl cutting father(Herzog)'s hair as 'grandymama' watches intently from the window, Julien in the confession booth; I could go on and on.Regarding the oedipal complex/surrogate mother theme, my take is that Pearl never quite fills the shoes of their mother. Another poster mentioned that the professional ice-skater is his image of his mother, and I agree. He loves his sister very much, but it seems only Chrissy approaches the idealized grace of his mother, indicated by the parallel ice-skating sequences mentioned above. Again, this is my perception and it could be flawed.I can't say much about Herzog's performance that hasn't already been said, it's simply stunning. And those who hated this movie and were 'surprised' by his appearance seem to be missing the point.I find the religious themes very interesting, in the contrast between Julien's confusion and the blind men's unwavering inspiration and faith. There's no clear 'message', as there are very few in real life.I could go on for hours.9.5/10 "},{"Title":"i enjoyed this movie much more than i expected...","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  having read all of the reviews of this new experiment from Harmony Korine, i was prepared for a rough, baffling, and possibly somewhat painful movie-going experience.  the truth is, though, that i not only found this movie completely watchable, but i found it to have a STRONG emotional core and a cohesive thematic tract (and very funny, in parts...though i can never tell with Korine what is supposed to be funny and what is not).  don't get me wrong this is by no stretch conventional drama.  in fact, there's hardly any drama here at all (the closest thing to real drama comes in the scenes with Werner Herzog's unbelievably abusive character).  the emotion here comes from something that i can only call purely cinematic.  the downright abstract editing juxtaposed with the hyperrealism of the Dogma 95 camerawork really makes for an intense visual experience.  and the individual scenes tend to make more sense than in Korine's previous work (particularly Gummo). certainly, some of the scenes seem a bit excessive.  i suppose if you tried to view this (or any of Korine's work) as some kind of social commentary, then you would inevitably be offended at some of the things here.  but this isn't social commentary; this world on the screen is by no means a convincing depiction of the real world.  every person on the screen is somehow sick or outcast, and i guess the major theme of the film is simply how we deal with our individual sicknesses.  i guess this is a film that if you have a strong interest in seeing it in the first place, then you will really get something out of it.  if you have no interest in seeing it, then chances are you'll never even hear about this movie (and you'll never read this commentary).  for my money, Harmony Korine is no dilettante (and no slut!); he is one of the few true individuals making movies today. "},{"Title":"Jeez","Date":"19 March 2007","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There is a line that separates two types of independent art-house films often misconstrued as one. One side of the line is populated by films that are inventive and disturbingly stimulating of emotions, usually a completely nude display of unpleasant things and people. The other side is comprised of films that are shocking, repulsive, and generally don't move forward with their stories, instead shuffling sustained sequences where virtually nothing changes, shapelessly finding its way to the end of the movie. julien donkey-boy could either be lying perfectly upon this line between both types of films, or it could be the latter type. Usually, the latter type can be very basically and degradingly entertaining, voyeuristically tempting you to continue watching its stylistic repugnance.A bigger part of me likes julien donkey-boy. A smaller part of me doesn't. The part of me that likes it is fond of the gritty, demented use of the camera. The film's setting, a trashy, lower middle class environment full of generally unhealthy and unattractive people, is appropriate for Anthony Dod Mantle's bleak, very very grainy and unglamorous lens. Upon reflection, I realize that the film was really trying to say something, but the part of me that doesn't like it tells me that it's too immediately unclear and abstract to be fully understood.The film's unabashed, possibly record-setting weirdness could be neither a plus or minus, and rather something meant to challenge the viewer, to make us reflect on the judgmental perspective that keeps many from understanding films like these and characters like those that are in it. So I suppose the verdict is that it's a good movie, but for a rare and acquired taste. "}{"Title":"A force of nature directing a troubled one","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Let's be brutally honest here for a second; if you choose to check out Julien Donkey-Boy after reading this review, I will consider you a brave and ambitious soul. If you like the film after watching it, I will consider you an admirable one. Harmony Korine's Julien Donkey-Boy is a difficult film to endure for ninety-nine minutes; a complex and crippling one. It twists your emotions, saddens the soul, and repulses every preconceived notion, or lack thereof, you had entering the film in the first place.Korine's first picture in 1997 was called Gummo, and it stands as one of the most lurid, controversial pictures of the nineties decade. The film utilized a non-linear narrative, stringing scenes together with little continuity and providing an unblinking look at a scummy town in Ohio that was ravaged by a tornado and never fully recovered. It was a true cinematic wonder, and still remains that way in 2013. Korine followed Gummo up with Julien Donkey-Boy, a film done in the style of Dogme 95, a filmmaking movement that focused on the naturalism of dialog, story, and plot-progression by using hand-held cameras, source sound, lighting, and props. It also prohibited that directors be credited from their work, so Harmony Korine isn't even known as the official director of this film.The plot Julien (Ewen Bremner) is a young, schizophrenic man who lives in his home with his extremely dysfunctional family, consisting of his instigating father (the great German director Werner Herzog), his passive brother Chris (Evan Neumann), and his sister Pearl (Chloë Sevigny), who is carrying Julien's child. We see the world through Julien's eyes, as he rarely leaves the screen for more than a minute. We see the unrelenting madness that unfolds in his home, and sometimes, we become submerged so deeply into Julien's baffling, schizophrenic mind that the film begins to become incoherent and blurry. When I say blurry, I mean that quite literally, as the film was shot on a DV tape, converted to 16mm (already a sketchy transfer), and finally blown up to 35mm, giving the film an extremely grainy and visually washed-out look.There's something to be said about Ewen Bremner, who is completely terrific here in a beyond difficult role. Bremner was made famous by his role in Trainspotting, and here, he embodies a character unlike anything else currently present in his filmography. This is the kind of role veteran actors fear taking on, and this is the kind of the story veteran directors neuter or make easier to digest for the public. Not Korine; every project he has done thus far has been exercised to almost complete full-force. He's an uncompromising auteur, putting character before plot and impact before publicity to ensure long-term memorability. He's a requirement for cinema.When I say uncompromising, take for example the scene where Pearl falls on the ice-rink, with lethal consequences to someone close to her. This scene is polarizing and frightening all the more. It left me with a boiling feeling of sadness, and had such an impact on me that it never left my thoughts for the remainder of the day. Take another scene, for example, when we see how Julien's father shamelessly bullies him by soaking him with the hose and demanding that he don't shiver. Or even the scene where Julien pretends he's God and Adolf Hitler simultaneously.I can compare this to Gummo in the regard of shock, but Julien Donkey-Boy is showing something a tiny bit more distant from reality. To elaborate, Gummo is showing a culture and a town that very well could be real, but it isn't directly based off of any specific part of the world. Yet the problems dealt with in that film since as loss of innocence, vandalism, animal abuse, rape, etc are apparent in our society. Schizophrenia is a mental-disease with effects like those portrayed in the film, and therefore, the reality is more distorted as we are seeing it from the title character's perspective. Both pictures are viscerally gripping for the opposite reason; one shows a toxic reality, while the one merges toxic reality with an even more hypnotic and smothering one.Julien Donkey-Boy is a hard film to get through, and at one-hundred minutes, can be occasionally maddening. We're being bombarded with so much repulsion and depravity that it becomes a bit of an overload. With that said, the overall disjointedness and the grainy aesthetic can be a bit much, too. But all those reasons are the same reason that I liked the film so much. Korine is a force of nature, one who seems to often rebel, test, and manipulate the rules of cinema to fit his own tendencies, regardless of how explicit or inane they may be. I wouldn't have him, or this film, any other way the more I think about it.Starring Ewen Bremner, Chloë Sevigny, Werner Herzog, and Evan Neumann. Directed by Harmony Korine. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst film I've ever seen.","Date":"24 April 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" When I think of the world of cinema, I understand that while most films are designed to entertainment or inform, others focus more on the artistic side. However, when watching Julien Donkey-Boy, all I see is an extremely dull mess, which is far from entertaining and something I'd rather label pointless than artistic. While some of what we see may be to show the world through Julien's eyes, there's so much that really doesn't seem to make any kind of statement or prove any sort of point. One of the best examples has to be a few shots of a masturbating nun.. why? It just seems like Korine is trying to add controversy for the sake of it.And while I don't mind films that don't have a steadily progressing narrative, seeing scene after scene of awful artistic cinematic techniques, such as using jump-cuts and slashed up sound (thus making scenes impossible to understand..), isn't something I enjoy.It was extremely difficult to come up with any positives.. but I have to admit that the acting is superb. Werner Herzog in particular can be very funny at times. However these are the only redeeming features in an otherwise shockingly poor film.While I don't regret watching Julien Donkey-Boy, as I'm open to all kinds of cinema (even after watching this..), it's certainly something I will never watch again, nor recommend to a friend, and I hope I never have to endure another film that's even nearly as bad. If you want a good Dogme film, go see Festen. "},{"Title":"Good intentions, poor delivery.","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Julian Donkey Boy, created under the Dogma 95 &#x96; Vow of Chastity, is in my opinion, one of the worst films I have ever had the displeasure of sitting through. The Vow of Chastity states that the director must refrain from personal taste, and not create a work of art. All shooting must be done on location, with hand held cameras, and no sound can be used unless it is found where the scene is being shot. It also prohibits the use of superficial actions such as murder. All of this is meant to lead to a film which forces the truth out of its characters and settings, even at the expense of aesthetic considerations and good taste.Harmony Korine has certainly managed to create a film with no apparent taste, and even less aesthetic consideration. All this could be acceptable if the end product gave its audience something to take away, other than feelings of disgust. In a film about a dysfunctional family, where Julian is either mentally ill, or mentally deficient, his sister is pregnant with his child, his mother is dead, and his father is abusive, you would expect to be both shocked and moved. The final scene where Julian's sister slips on the ice and miscarries their child should be incredibly emotional, but I found myself completely unmoved as after nearly 90 minutes, I had formed no emotional attachment to any of the characters. For this reason, I didn't find the story disturbing, it failed to have any effect on me at all.Some people have said that this is a tough film to sit through, and on that I would agree. But not because of the subject matter, rather that after sitting through an hour and a half of nauseating film making, we have been given nothing.Personally, I like to watch a film every now and again that is made unconventionally, as I think they are interesting and make great works of art. But this film isn't trying to be a work of art, rather the opposite, so you have to ask what is it really doing? In the end, the only reason so many films are made in such similar ways, is just like why stories are told with such similar devices, because that is what works, and that's what audiences want. This film is trying to drive a car with square wheels, just because everyone else has round ones. It may have had good intentions to begin with, but they have become lost somewhere amongst the flurry of vertiginous shots, and incoherent story line. Whilst a valuable educational resource for film students I wouldn't recommend this film for anyone else "},{"Title":"Korine derives beauty from the ugliness of life","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much like Harmony Korines directional debut, Gummo; Julien Donkey-Boy is told in fragments rather than following a linear plot. He plunges deep into the life and mind of an adolescent schizophrenic with  a dramatic series of events. One could pick at the details of this film forever, but thats not really necessary. Julien Donkey-Boy is a work of beauty a masterpiece in every way. It isn't for closed minded people, for takes a harsh look at human reality, yet something about it seems appealing and nonetheless attractive. Korine's technique is unlike any other, it tackles subjects that are meant to be left alone, and displays them in a twisted sense. This film should not only be looked at as a compelling outlaw amongst films, but a magnificent work of art.  "},{"Title":"Mule","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is neither pony nor donkey, but something in between, sterile.Let me qualify my comments with the observation that I thought `Gummo' was brilliant. It took an immature world, introduced a studied dementia, and mapped that in visual narrative. It worked, I presume, because Korine personally understands that specific twisting of sight. It's more than drugs, more than inbred neglect. It is something mythical, something on the edge of our lives threatening overt haunting. The creation of the world, the presence of the eye in that world and the transformation to presented image were absolutely one.Having done that, Korine tries the same twist of sight to describe a world he does not intimately know. He adds the complication of `dogma.' This confuses the harshness of reality with that of unreality. The double dissonance becomes one of incompetence - outside the art - rather than what was attempted.There are some standout performances here, but films like this need to avoid discrete standouts at any cost. Nevertheless, Werner Herzog - both in person and as a character - is much weirder than this project; that knowledge alone is frightening. Young Chrissy is enchanting as the girl who goes on the become the champion skater. But, I can recommend this film for the amazing skill in editing. Some of it just left me breathless.I am fond of double features. I saw `Donkey-Boy' with `Begotten.' Similar values and risks. No comparison in the results.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Bile Inducing","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I must not be smart enough to appreciate this movie. I loved Gummo, however, (the director's previous attempt) but this one slipt past me somehow. It's supposed to be one of those artsy-fartsy movies from the Dogme '95 schools, which I only just now learned about. That means something like you can only use the props you find at the site of filming, use only available light, and the director cannot be credited, among other things. After seeing Julien Donkey Boy I can understand why the director isn't credited. The movie's a mess. Don't know what the plot is, or if there's supposed to be one. Sitting through this movie was very difficult. A waste of time. But then, I guess those who loved it will just say I didn't get the point. Amen to that. "},{"Title":"Messy unwatchable film","Date":"1 October 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Much is made of the fact that this is the first American film to be certified by the strictly realist Danish Dogma group. But unlike Celebration or Breaking the Waves, this film is a mess. It centers on a schizophrenic young man in Queens. The movie consists of disjointed scenes. Eventually, a plot develops when Julien's pregnant sister played by Chloe Sevigny has a miscarriage, and Julien steals the dead baby from the hospital, takes it home, and loves it. Until those scenes, the movie just goes from one place to another, occasionally engendering giggles, but not providing anything to grab hold of. Ewen Bremner, memorable in Mojo, gets totally under the skin of Julien, but total immersion by an actor in the role of a disconnected person does not make for a watchable movie. "},{"Title":"Even worse than Gummo","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  WARNING THIS CRITICAL REVIEW GIVES AWAY ONE (1) RATHER INSIGNIFICANT STORY EVENT.Although Harmony Korine's latest film proudly flaunts its Dogma 95 minimalist seal of approval, Korine has little else to be proud of with julien donkey-boy, save for the fact that unsuspecting people are actually paying money to see it  > Featuring the shakiest camera work since The Blair Witch Project, the experimental, mostly improvised julien has even less of a coherent storyline and structure than Korine's last stink bomb, Gummo.  Yet the young writer/director is ever-insistent on grabbing the audience's attention with concepts that the general public finds vile (incest, transvestitism, etc.) and capitalizing on the insensitivity with which he gawks at the differently-abled individuals in his films (the often mentally-impaired and impoverished human oddities that pepper both films).My personal pick for the film's funniest moment is the scene in which Julien asks to recite a poem at the dinner table.  His father interrupts, declaring, I don't like that artsy-fartsy stuff.  This is possibly the film's only moment of self-awareness and self-mockery.  julien is, indeed, a prime example of that artsy-fartsy stuff, and it should serve as a reminder to us all the words original, innovative, and independent do not always imply good.It's unlikely that Harmony Korine will stop employing shock for shock's sake anytime soon, which is unfortunate, because that thrill leaves most art-house audience members during their teen years.  However, I have faith that he is still capable of delivering another script on par with Kids. If we get another Gummo or julien, though, I'm giving up on him.  "},{"Title":"Ugliness is not the same as brilliance","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have to give Korine credit for convincing people that he is some sort of genius with his ridiculous movies. I hold nothing against him--by all indications, he is a smart and creative person, as he has consistently dreamed up (or simply assembled) some of the strangest characters and situations you are likely to ever see. Regardless, this movie is unwatchable because looks awful fuzzy, gray and horribly framed. In many scenes it looks like the camcorder was strapped to the back of a dog that was allowed to run randomly around the room. The explanation is that we're seeing the world through the eyes of a schizophrenic what kind of an excuse is that? Is the schizophrenic partially blind? The thing is, every effect Korine is going for--trying to visually capture anxiety and confusion--could be done on regular film or higher-quality digital, but BETTER. It is hilarious to hear him talk in the DVD commentary about how his dirt-cheap digital video recorder is a great new artistic medium that needs to be explored (rather than a lower-quality version of a certain technology). I do think Korine's movies are interesting and could even become respectable if he cooled down on the shock for the sake of shock and hired a cinematographer. But this is just bad film-making.High point Werner Herzog is too funny to believe in this movie, the best part by far. "},{"Title":"Proof that rubbish gets made and praised","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's true that DV filmmaking has allowed bad directors to make films. This is the real proof of that.  Harmony Korine may have a (slight) gift for writing considering he penned films like Kids and Ken Park, but his prowess as a director and visual storyteller is zero.  This is rubbish. Pretentious, boring, redundant rubbish.  For every Von Trier who takes DV and makes it shine there are a thousand Korine's who flood an already tired market with even more pap.  And Korine is the king of pap.  Someone take the camera off him! "}{"Title":"A piece of garbage","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dogma 95? More like Crap 99. Plot? Find it elsewhere. Message? That a dope with a camera can film like he has a seizure and hire anybody from the street to mutter inane unscripted dialogue, and be considered a genius by the uninformed art house insects of today. Oh, but wait! This film has one thing other dogma 95 films doesn't have Werner Herzog. Herzog gives this film more credibility than it deserves and I was shocked to see him in this. Herzog is pretty entertaining (I enjoyed a couple of his films with Klaus Kinski) and pretty funny, but of course that has nothing to do with one of the worst and most overrated directors in the history of celluloid Harmony korine. His films are utter trash, an excuse to film whatever, and hides behind the it's art tag to gain a fanbase of sheep. If I seem harsh, it's because there are worthwhile filmmakers who are struggling to even get their films made to entertain people without the confusion or pretentiosness Korine induces, while Korine's films get high praise for all the wrong reasons. Korine will be a trend, meaning here today, forgotten tomorrow. But many more worthwhile directors will be here to stay, long after there deaths. "},{"Title":"Stunning cinematography,","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After viewing this film, I had my mind made up that I hated it.  The dialogue failed miserably.  I know that the idea of improv is supposed to be more real, but in this case it was simply disastrous.  Weeks later, though, I can't stop thinking about this movie.  The camera work was visually stunning.  Even at its most overindulgent, the film's cinematagrophy was breathtaking.  The ending of this movie is absolutely revolting, but I guess if it has the power to make such a bold impression on the viewer, it is successful in its attempt to display the strange effects of schizophrenia on Julien's deranged family.  You may hate it or love it, but its definitely worth checking out regardless. "},{"Title":"Too strange for my blood.","Date":"15 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Harmonie Korine joins the Dogma 95 brothers for his latest flick that's just too strange to describe.  A hilarious scene where Bremner's on screen father describes the end of 'Dirty Harry.'Only one scene was scripted.  Sevigny is great as always (I met her twice this week. She smiled at me last time.).  Harmonie is a funny guy in person but this film isn't good at all I'm sorry to say.  Yay for the Toronto Int'l Film Fest! "},{"Title":"Art or complete crap?","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have read a lot of comments calling this film Art, actually recommending it. There is no Art to be found in Julien, just a dizzying waste of my time. The camera work and sound make it pretty much unwatchable, I felt sick at times watching it on a big screen. I get that Harmony Korine did this on purpose to have us feel disorientated, like Julien feels all the time, but he takes it way to far and created a horrible looking mess.I liked Gummo, it was one of the most disturbing films I have ever seen, so I was very much looking forward to Julien Donkey-Boy, I was very disappointed.If Julien Donkey-Boy is what is passing for Art these days, I am out of touch with society. Everyone who thought this film was actually good, try watching it sober and without the drugs. Hopefully Harmony will get off the smack too when and if he makes another film.Art or complete crap? If it smells and looks like crap, it probably is crap. At the very best it is extremely crappy art. "},{"Title":"It inspires more discord than harmony (sorry about that)","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those divisive films.  I don't consider myself an expert on the Dogma school of film-making, or avant garde technique in general, but I must say I found this more watchable, cohesive and engaging that Korine's `Gummo.'  Some people will invariably find a film `pretentious' if it challenges their expectations in any way, and I'm surprised that the P-word hasn't occurred more in the comments on this page.Regarding the look of this film, I think an earlier commentator's analogy to Van Gogh is interesting.  Unconventional techniques and points-of-view in art always inspire animosity, and the work of the Dutch painter Van Gogh was severely criticized in his time (incompetent, grotesque, vulgar, etc.). How many people find his work inscrutable today?When German director Werner Herzog, in the role of Julien's father, contemptuously disparages an `artsy-fartsy' poem, and goes on to describe a scene from a `Dirty Harry' film in glowing terms, you've got to wonder what is being said.  The apparent reaction of some commentators here seems to be that they, the viewers suckered into watching this film, are the butt of some joke, but I'm not so sure.  The line may well have been unscripted improv, and Herzog makes the `artsy-fartsy' remark in the character of a particularly abusive, overbearing, and aggressively unsympathetic person. It is a bit reminiscent of a remark he makes in the commentary to his own film `Heart of Glass,' but in that case he is disparaging `new age crap.' I can't help wondering -- does he consider himself an artsy-fartsy director? Would he consider that an insult?  I can't be sure if he actually identified with the character he portrayed.  So is this remark a joke on the nature of `Julien Donkey Boy,' or just meant to be typical of the abusive ass portrayed by Herzog?  My first impression was the latter, and I still favor it.  In any event, I enjoyed hearing the voice so familiar to me from those commentary tracks delivering the same sort of strange anecdotes and strong opinions in this film, even in the guise of this repulsive character. Inspired casting, but then, Korine seems to admire Herzog as much as I do.Even amongst art-house goons, this film is divisive.  What can I say?  I liked it, found the look and technique visually stimulating and sometimes quite beautiful, the characterizations interesting, and the whole thing cohesive.  For me it has a `stick to the ribs' quality that keeps me thinking about it long after having seen it.  I'll gladly watch another Harmony Korine film, when it appears.  "},{"Title":"Ugh...","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie because it was affiliated with Dogma 95 and I had really enjoyed other Dogma films.  But ugh... what a disappointment.  This was, without question, the most abominable piece of cinema I have ever seen.  I can't even bring myself to discuss it in depth because then I would have to think about it in depth, and frankly, I'd rather not relive it.  "},{"Title":"an endlessly boring 'student movie'","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I had heard about donkey-boy as some kind of landmark of blurring the lines between film and documentary. the same people that think 'gummo' was worth watching could probaly get through this. to me this is another new york attempt to foist limited talent on the rest of the world. "},{"Title":"Last word on Harmony Korine.","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have read everything and seen everything and I will tell you exactly what Harmony Korine is thinking and who his influences are.  He has many spiritual forebears; the oldest and deepest roots go back to the Parnassian poets, Stephane Mallarme and Arthur Rimbaud, who, of course, sprayed pesticide all over the floweriness of the Romantics, developing their own style of quick, fleeting sense IMPRESSIONS.  Another influence is Herzog and the GRITTY ethos of the New German Cinema ( Korine likes to talk about Fassbinder but Fassbinder was more classical in temperament, wrote social-realist dramas with character arcs, etc. )  The last influences, and most discussed, are the FREAK SHOW photographs of Diane Arbus and movies of Andy Warhol.Basically, then, what Korine is after is gritty, freak show impressionism.  A stream of images that somehow hint at a revelation, without necessarily providing one, to quote Borges.  All this is well and good, but in the 1990's, do you know what disjointed, meaningless, pretty images are called?  MUSIC F**KING VIDEOS.  Never mind the fact that Korine wouldn't know impressionism if a flotilla of blurry-ass water lilies shimmered down the Seine right in front of his beady little eyes.  Go away, Harmony.  Go smash playback monitors, affect your chic-nerd costume and field phone calls from Helena Christensen.  You're the kind of genius models can best appreciate.  Just stop ripping off Godard quotes on Letterman or you'll lose the patronage of the one idiot who still sees your movies in the theaters because he thought the script for Kids was actually kind of poetic -- moi.   "},{"Title":"the strictures of dogma are noose around this movies neck","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  geez what was the point, a boring (to use warner-herzog's words in the film) artsy-fartsy, scriptless, barely storied stab a movie. maybe THAT was the point, to insult us film fest audiences to show our standards are infused w/ artifice or whatever. But, I have had my nobs twisted by so many better films and filmmakers. poor Chloe and and ewan and the cast. save them from this unitelligible dreck.. "},{"Title":"Blatant example of style over content with a grossly inaccurate portrayal of schizophrenia","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Every so often a new style of cinema comes along that is totally original and innovative and which can influence a horde of followers and imitators. Julien Donkey-Boy is Harmony Korine's attempt to follow in the footsteps of filmmakers Vinterburg and Von Triers and make a film according to the guidelines they set in their Dogme '95. However, while this approach served a film like Vinterburg's Festen incredibly well by giving a sense of reality to the narrative through improvisation and the use of hand-held camera, in this film the Dogme guidelines are used for very self-indulgent purposes (e.g. the over-use of Herzog's improvisational turns and the dead fetus theft incident at the end of the film, which has no moral purpose or message but is used, IMO, as a means of mimicking the bad taste elements of the previous Dogme films The Idiots and Festen). The narrative is also not very coherent, with many inconsequential and unnecessary scenes (e.g. the therapy-session and the Foot drummer scenes). As a result, this film comes off as a cheap imitation of the previous Dogme films; more obsessed with style than the accompanying narrative.To add insult to injury, Julien Donkey-Boy is also one in a long line of films that gives a completely inaccurate portrayal of a person suffering from the psychological disorder schizophrenia (other examples Me, Myself and Irene, The Cell......). Although this may sound like a nitpicking point for film buffs (since accurate portrayal does not necessarily equate to a great film), the problem with the inaccurate portrayal in this case is that the central character (Julien Donkey-Boy) is reduced to a series of mannerisms performed by Ewen Bremner. The result of this reductionist approach to the central character means that the audience never really gets to grips with the character and can never truly understand what is going on inside his mind; instead we get an actorly mimic of a genuinely schizophrenic person (apparently, this character was modeled on Korine's uncle).To conclude, this film is, IMO, a gross example of style over content with many examples of bad taste and self-indulgence. "}{"Title":"Wow....this was a mess.","Date":"12 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was like watching a train wreck. Pure and simple. It was as pretentious and tedious as any student film I have ever seen in my life, and without any of the ambition. I only watched this to see Chloe Sevigny, who I find fascinating, but who often gets stuck in such dreary and/or boring material. Well, she looked as if she was held hostage in this one. I saw Gummo, which was almost as bad, but this takes the cake. Believe me, I laughed in irony when the artsy-fartsy line was spoken, and couldn't help but think we had all been sucked into this cinematic practical joke. I was also stunned at how I was still awake. Don't waste your time, unless you really NEED to know how bad movies are made.  "},{"Title":"Pure film diarrhea.","Date":"24 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think there might be spoilers in here, if you want to call them that.I could somewhat comprehend KIDS. I cringed with disgust at Gummo but could kind of understand the appeal. Julien Donkey-boy is ugly looking sleazy gibberish. Ewen Bremner, who I believe is a great actor, plays an adolescent schizophrenic according to the synopsis. I've never seen an adolescent with crow's feet, a 5 o'clock shadow and a bald spot. As usual in Korine's films, there are a couple of actual actors, mixed with a bunch of handicapped people and plenty of weirdos. It appears that Harmony filmed it with good equipment, then gathered all the film, swallowed it, digested it and then pooped it out and started the editing process. I don't care how artsy or brave it was to film it with a handheld video camera, it looks and sounds like crap. Period. If his goal is to make people feel disgusted and uncomfortable, I guess he's accomplished that. If that baby was going to be anything like any of the characters in the film, Chloe did the world a favor by falling on the ice rink. If you're a fan, there's plenty of incest, word-slurring and scummy people just for you. Even a guy with no arms who plays drums. What Harmony Korine film would be complete without someone missing lims. The only thing this terrible film taught me is that black albinos exist.  "},{"Title":"Effective and artistic, its very much a Harmony Korine film.","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Harmony Korine is no ordinary filmmaker. If you've seen any of his films, you would know that. This is his second feature following Gummo (1997) and Harmony continues to bring a group of underprivileged and disturbed characters to the screen. He has an apparent fascination with the part of society that we tend to not think about or simply forget. In Julien Donkey-Boy, the film follows a schizophrenic teenager and his family, and it all takes place within a day or two. Those of you who are familiar with Korine's work know that its not about the plot, so don't worry about where the story goes or how it ends. Worry only about what you're viewing, scene by scene, and how it makes you feel.The film is impressively shot and edited. Korine had a specific vision with his film and utilized his technique in creating a distorted and fragmented feature, which we can't help but wonder must resemble the thought process of its main character, Julien (Ewen Bremner). Bremner has transformed himself and creates a fully fleshed out character, even in quiet moments when he's bonding with friends or in the disturbing confines of his household when he succumbs to the voices in his head. He's sensitive but quite damaged and Bremner does not hold back in being honest and completely dedicated to the character.Julien lives at home with his pregnant sister (Chloe Sevigny), his tough father (Werner Herzog) and his little brother (Evan Neumann). The sister is perhaps the purest character in the film, and certain shots linger on her which makes us speculate that Julien holds her in high regard. She may or may not also be pregnant with his child. She shows nothing but compassion towards everyone she interacts with and even pretends to be her dead mother on the phone with Julien. In a scene where the two are talking on the house phone together, the inner child in Julien is brought out like no other moment we witness and he acknowledges that she's dead, but he talks to her any way. Remember when Chris was just a little baby and he killed you in the hospital? Remember, Ma? Its quite effective.Herzog is entertaining as the father of the household (as he usually is, both on and off the screen). His favorite film is Dirty Harry. He loathes how his daughter plays the harp because he hates that artsy crap. He wants Julien to be normal and he always pushes Chris to be better. Chris hates the pressure he's under and though its hardly touched upon, we know that Chris is at the very least depressed and quite frustrated, and he takes it out on Julian after the two try to wrestle. And when Julien can't take it seriously enough, Chris gets angry. I'm sorry Chris, I didn't wanna hurt you! Julien shouts as he follows him outside, once again the innocence of a child being brought of him. And Chris yells at him to act normal for just once.There are a handful of powerful scenes and shots that make this film stand out. Korine not only provides us with fascinating and insightful dialog which the actors breath such life and depth into, he also utilizes a brilliant visual technique to both represent the viewpoint of the main character and as a means to tell the story. Julien Donkey-Boy is another masterful outing from Harmony Korine, its filled with enough visuals and scenes to to make it unforgettable. Its honest and unsettling in the best way. Its not here to entertain you or to allow you to 'escape' in the traditional sense. Its raw and disturbing and if you view it as art, it can make you feel something. And that's really what filmmakers like Harmony Korine go for. "},{"Title":"I've only seen clips on youtube...","Date":"4 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" ...but I honestly think that is exactly what Harmony Korine makes his films to be. With his newest film, Trash Humpers, being filmed as part improv/part 'what would happen if a buncha old people seriously filmed their own J@ckA$$ and then left it at Goodwill for someone to find', it really brings even more light to why Korine has his style. I'd explain his style any day as Home Funniest (And Most Autistic) Videos. His films are random clips throw together for the most part, and he wrote a book like that too. It's just a style you have to accept and get over it.But the magic is really in those clips. Sometimes Korine misses, sometimes he creates a scene that reaches out to you in a special way that is unique to every person watching. I personally love Korine's work because I was born with a mild mental/physical syndrome, I have a billion weird fetishes, I had a very strange mind as I child, I had extremely domineering parents, etc etc. Since Korine grew up an hour from me, he knows the culture in the South very well, and this reflects in all his films. In all, I think I actually connect with his films out of experience, not because I'm looking for something artistic. Korine is just a factor in my life who happened to pop up because of a bunch of extremely strange coincidences, and it's also in that coincidence that I like his work. If someone told me about him before I discovered the magic myself, I'd have been like 'Wtfcat'.And that's how I'd describe Julien, as well as Gummo and Trash Humpers. Either Korine has, out of fate, woven himself into your life, or he hasn't. He's created films that are supposed to be thrown into 50 cent sale bins so that people can pick up his mess for cheap, watch it, and laugh at it, make fun of it, destroy it afterward, set it on fire, love it, or just whatever they want. He's never made a film to make money, he makes films that are made to look like trash, and then he thinks people actually want to watch it. And well, he happens to be right, no matter what he does, he happens to make clips that make me smile.So at the end of the day, his Youtube previews are the best (someone else usually edits the Official Previews, as Korine usually does not pick great editors for the final film, and so the previews always cheer me up better). But besides them, it's also fun just to scour around Youtube and see what secret scene I can find from Donkey-boy. My favorite so far is the scene where he's washing the girl's feet, and Herzog pwns (did you know he just directed Bad Cop Port Call? weird P).Idk, I like HK's films, I think anyone who gets complex about him either; a. is fooling themselves, or b. hasn't been through the things he portrays in his films. I do think HK makes these films for autistic people to relate to, rather than giving a normal person a view of their world. At least thats what I think. "},{"Title":"Black albino","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie really doesn't go anywhere until the end and even that doesn't make any sense. It's from the perspective of an adolescent with schizophrenia so I don't think it really should make any sense or go anywhere. It's a grainy, messy film of random things that go on that only the most appreciative film goer would enjoy. I really enjoyed the randomness of that happened but the grainy film and the film shaking were not my thing. That are some really strange parts in it that make no sense what so ever. Then the ending was really sad and touching even though it was somewhat disturbing. I could have cried but I was still baffled at what I just watched. "},{"Title":"Some films make money at the box office, Harmony films will be remembered.","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Harmony Korine is not in it for the money, he likes what he does and it's better to have an audience who will follow your craft, rather than the big box office buck. Julian Donkey boy is about moments, film is about moments, and if there is to much structure it wont be original. Julian Donkey Boy moves like an arthouse coffee book. I'd say Harmony is a modern day Worhal but he's not Andy Worhal, he is Harmony Korine, keep up the good work.  "},{"Title":"i'm sorry you guys love narrative so much","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" it's sad you guys are so stuck in the dream that all movies must be told in strict refined narratives. the same way films have been told since damn D.W. Griffith. now yes, there are still great films that are told in regular Hollywood fashion, but julien-donkey boy doesn't do that. and in showing just snippets of the life of this messed up family, you get the idea, of how bad things are, and start to partially get inside their heads. the films itself when werner herzog is getting his haircut. the jump cuts the blurring colored walking scenesthey reflect juliens alternate view on the world. and how messed up his mind actually is.i'm sorry you people can't deal with the fact that juliens mind isn't as normal as yours. but in film terms, i think harmonys take on schizophrenia was much better than oh, Hollywood's of a beautiful mind!!! because good god, if you thought that portrayed it better, then apparently you just have no love for creativity. "},{"Title":"Hilarious,Harrowing and heartbreaking!!","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Harmony Korine has really made a masterpiece this time.The film is funny sad and very beautiful. There is alot of weirdness, and the performances are great. Chloe Sevigny is absolutely beautiful, she really steals the movie. Ewen Bremner is incredible in the lead role, he is so convincing as  the schizophrenic  hero who is on the edge at all times.The movie is also a dark parable about contemporary life. It's difficult because of the themes it deals with, but it is a very deep and rewarding movie that will really affect you. "},{"Title":"Cool Harmony's getting pretty overrated","Date":"15 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well Harmony, you said you'd make a better Dogma-film than Idioterne - that was pretty arrogantly said and you haven't managed to live up to it. Julien has its moments, some beautiful, some extremely funny, but all in all it's just one big pretty empty freak show. Watch out Harmony, a cool reputation doesn't automatically make a good film. "},{"Title":"An interesting exercise in Dogmatics.","Date":"31 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In short, julien donkey-boy is a quite interesting film.  Apparently, this is what we're supposed to expect from Mssr. Korine, so there's nothing tremendously shocking in the piece (and, when a director oops, naughty word! makes a career out of shocking, this is what we expect.)  It is, at times, a beautiful film, using many creative techniques to establish scenes (a very prominent scene is an event between Julien and Chris in the kitchen involving bacon that is nothing more than a lightning-fast montage of quick cuts, very deftly exploring the mental ability to assemble pieces of information into a cohesive whole) and surprisingly glowing camera work. However, one is constantly reminded that the film is a Dogma 95-certified work, a product of a rather horrible artistic regime.  Dogma reminds me of the Cultural Revolution it basks in its ability to show the truth, but it also wrecks and ridicules traditions that, while being far from necessary, never impair the true artist (why should the elimination of tripods get us anywhere closer to the truth?)   But Korine is able to transcend many of those hinderances, if sometimes only barely, and even cheats his way out of some of them Dogma outlaws recognition of the director, but the first credit says simply harmony korine and shows a picture of the man himself (not to mention the trailer, which touts Korine as a genius alongside Fellini, and quotes Bertolucci's statement that Korine has changed the language of film.) All in all, though, julien is a treat to watch.  Ewen Bremner creates the part with such natural ability that it's nearly frightening to realise that it's all an act, and Werner Herzog pulls off the despicable role of the father with an almost endearing stylism and stoicism.  Sevigny is adequate, though she somehow seems much too grandiose and beautiful for her part.  She was much more suited to play Jenny in KIDS, and here she simply fits the bill as opposed to Bremner and Herzog, who blow it to smithereens. Oh yeah, what it's about surrogate mothers, Oedipal complexes, death, insanity, loss, and the repetition of history. So anyway, go see it.  Or don't.  Either way, you'll be hungry later.  So get a sandwich.   "}{"Title":"Give me a break","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Harmony Korine is about the biggest joke to be played on hipsters in years. Less a director than a catch phrase for those in the know, his movies are exercises in practising the worst tendencies of the cinematic fringe.  His movies thrive on bad taste and the underbelly of society, but do so without the benefit of John Waters' sense of humor.  They are paced so sluggishly as to be completely lacking in narrative movement, yet they are without the mesmerizing subtext and hypnotic feel of Werner Herzog (why Herzog agreed to play a part in this film I will never understand).  They revel in unusual looks, from odd lighting to alternate film stocks and even video, yet he lacks the painterly framing ability of a Kubrick, Gilliam or Kurasawa that might actually make his experiments in texture actually INTERESTING and not just an exercise.  In the DVD version of Julien, Korine praises the aesthetic of video, as if the cold, flat, lifeless picture was something to strive for.  It's a cop-out, and the easy, cheap cop-out at that.  One can make film cold and dank without making it boring and lifeless, which is the essense of video and low-end DV.  Julien Donkey-boy brings to us the worst of all these attributes.  The icing on the cake is the much publicized fight of Korine to gain Dogme certification, which is laughable, since from the first scene he flagrantly flaunts the rules of the system.  I have mixed personal feelings about Dogme in general, but if you're going to try to get the certification, play by the rules.  His use of non-environmental music, use of video rather than 35mm (transferred eventually to Academy 35 in the end to conform to the rule, but obviously violating the spirit), and use of superficial action (murder is mentioned specifically in the vow of chastity, and I'd say incest counts as well) all are flagrant violations.  For a long time, Dogme didn't even list Julien on their website, and early on, there was no certificate displayed with the film.  Presumably to bank on Korine's (somewhat) marketable and recognizable name, they caved and issued a vague press release about how the film seemed to them to conform to the standards, along with some odd and seeminly non-sequitor comment on the process of signing the certificate.  Whatever.  I gave up on trying to figure out exactly what is was that makes Von Trier and his misogynist boy's club tick quite a long time ago. Julien Donkey-boy is an exercise in futility for the viewer, as is Korine's career up to this point, aside from the compelling narrative force he gave to his script for KIDS.  Here's to hoping he can remember how to tell a story a little less self-consciously in the future. "},{"Title":"give yourself a chance","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Let me tell you a little about art. Art tells you about yourself. When you react negatively and declare that a movie is garbage this says something about your aesthetics. It is one of the grandest illusions there ever was to blame someone or something else for your own reaction. That is what hell is you torturing yourself. The intention of the artist is so often attacked, as if the man really just picked up a piece of trash and called it 'art'. Art is not a conscious conclusion. And if it is your interpretation that it is a piece of trash labeled 'art', then you must think art is exactly what it is not, a cold rational fact. As if it were a crime to find beauty in anything and everything there is. And as if there should be a rational reason for it to be such. Give yourself a break and allow yourself to experience something other than your cold hard rationality. Reason is predictable. The fun of the game is that don't know the outcome. "},{"Title":"Strangely beautiful","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" the main reason i decided to view Julien Donkey-Boy was because it was directed by Harmoney Corine, who had written the brilliant kids. I thought i new what to expect from Korine's directorial debut, but is was genuinely and happily surprised. The film is a difficult one to watch if one is used to this type of film-making the Dogma-style of film-making. I wasn't used to it! But despite the film's grainy picture quality, allegorical allusions, etc. all of which is initially pretentious and arty, the basic storyline is one of simple beauty. Ewen Bremner's titular performance was a masterclass in method acting and he delivered a truly heartbreaking turn. Chloe Sevigny was also quietly amazing as Julien's heavily-pregnant sister Pearl. The film's most bizarre performance came from German filmmaker Werner Herzog as the domineering father; i didn't really understand a lot of his dialogue but maybe that was Korine's intention. Half way through the film i realised that i really cared about these characters and what was going to happen to them. As the film draws towards its climax and events take a turn towards the tragic, i was totally involved with these characters and the final image had a profound effect on me. Julien Donkey-Boy is a strangely beautiful film that i would like to watch again, so that i can fully appreciate its intensity and Korine's obvious passion for a different revolutionary form of contemporary film-making. "},{"Title":"While you were Art.","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Julien Donkey Boy is a profoundly heartening anomaly in American cinema. It lacks the ubiquitous gunshots, explosions, and requited love that are so hideously redundant in the vast cesspool of Hollywood-style movies. This movie represents a step FORWARD. This is a step towards DEPTH and towards quality. Among other reasons, this is why it is a FINE film.This movie is something of a pastiche. Many people simply do not or can not handle the fact that it is not 'plot-driven' or that Ms. Julia Roberts is nowhere to be found, forever grinning like a wax doll. (Haven't we seen enough of her teeth anyway?). That is fine. Perhaps the more patient of that group could stand to see this movie a second time.In the traditions of the finest ART, this movie presents more questions than it does answers. What will come of Julian? Is he in fact incestuously involved with his sister? What is up with the curiously fascistic relationship between the German father and his athletic son? The casting of Herr Herzog and Ms. Sevigny, however, with a score of Puccini, amounts to nothing less than an amazing aesthetic experience worthy of the audiences of Claude SAUTET or Pier Paolo PASOLINI. Bravo to Mr. KORINE. I hope that there is more work of this caliber coming down the pike. As a fervent snob (how could you tell?), I take pleasure in making exception for this extraordinary achievement. FIVE STARS! I would not recommend this movie to young children or Republicans. ENCORE! ENCORE TUTTI! Until the day I die, my brother and I will always be shouting, 'DON'T SHIVER, BE A WINNER!' Thank you, maestri Herzog e Korine. "},{"Title":"I'm just glad I watched it.","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It's hard to tell that you're watching characters in Julien Donkey-Boy. The overall film makes you think they're real. Performances and direction of scenes make that true. Many of the characters leave you wanting more involvement with them. Like with Gummo (1997), the story is significant with its memorable scenes. The main character, Julien, suffers with schizophrenia, but it's not focused on with a clinical view. It focuses on the family-life and Julien. Each member of the family lets you wonder where they've been, or where they're going. If Julien hadn't had schizophrenia, I wonder how different the family would have been? Julien's actions are very basic and raw, such as the opening and ending scenes. The camera work during some of the ice skating shots is great. It flows with the skater, and with simple effects, the skater appeared as a bird to me. That's got to be a vision of their mother. Man, that's good of Harmony to do that. I don't think it matters that it's a Dogme 95 film (rules created to save film from hollywood type), because, in the end, if you can tell a story in a true and interesting way, that's what matters. I still believe that a story/character is the root, and it will show to an audience if it's missing or poorly done. This world would suffer greatly if all stories were told in a 3 act classical structure, with progressive complications, and arcs. Julien Donkey-Boy focuses a tad more on character than story. There are a lot of films made and, once in awhile, one with a great story or interesting character(s) gets made. Harmony gives you that again in this film. I'm just glad I watched it. -Jeremy "},{"Title":"Gummo 2 or is it...?","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was very similar to Gummo, which does not come as a surprise, considering that it's Korine's second effort. Here he tries to fix some of the weak spots in Gummo. Like the plot for instance.  While Gummo was disturbingly funny, Julien seems to be much more sad and thoughtful. There were some very interesting ideas, like the constant presence of religious issues.  The final scenes were very interesting. Music, figure skating, beauty, fun, and as a result - a dead baby.  As a whole, I think that Gummo is a little bit better.Korine did not disappoint us.   "},{"Title":"it just blew me away","Date":"3 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i make this short for i haven´t much time. this is one of the gutsiest films i ever saw, it´s new, it´s original, it´s a masterpiece. of course, it´s nothing for the AMERICAN BEAUTY whimps who are easily satisfied or offended. there´s nothing glamorous or nice about it, it´s a gut-wrenching attack on everything. ewen bremner gives one of the finest performances in the last decade, herzog is great, sevigny and neumann as well. but again, you have to be in the frame of mind. if not, well...too bad. "},{"Title":"Uncle Eddy would have been proud!","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There are those who will applaud this type of film as being out there and Brave. Then again people like me exist and although I know that life is s***, I don´t want to pay ?5 to have that feeling reinforced. Unlike other Dogme movies, this movie was made primarily to disgust and confuse.  It was not a sympathetic treatment of the schizophrenic Julien but rather a demonisation of the handicapped. It must serve some purpose to have Werner Herzog making incestuous advances on his son but what that was, such as the rest of the movie, was beyond those who hadn´t already reached for the sick bag. Words cannot fully express my utter disgust at this film and the subversion of all that Dogme is supposed to represent. Sad. It really is sad. "},{"Title":"drifts but has its moments","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  As far as content goes, the story really only begins in the last ten minutes, and the film ends at the exact moment when things get interesting. The film wanders, but occasionally has some humorous or engaging moments, due mainly to oddball characters captured in a documentary style. As for form, the movie seems to be an exercise in making Digital Video look like something other than Digital Video, and the filmmakers actually pull it off most of the time, usually through lighting. It's worth seeing once, even if only for Warner Herzog's performance as the Dad- he gets the best lines. "},{"Title":"Dogma 95","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night,and I have to say it was unlike anything I have ever seen.  I read the comments here, and I realize how deeply the un-reality of Entertainment has become our reality, even to those who create it.This film is the future of Independent film. Period.  No lights...No sets...No camera stand...no voice overs...No soundtracks...You call it a jumbled mess, I call it reality.  No fancy post-production editing. Mini-DV instead of big film cameras.  Reality and un-Reality blend, just as in life. Soon all will have access to cheap, high quality editing and filming equipment.  The Internet will distribute.  The only thing that limits us is ourselves.run chaos look chaos chaos love chaos chaos chaos feel chaos chaos chaos chaos chaos chaos warm chaos light chaos no chaos chaos chaos....You don't understand...your talking about Dirty Harry. "}{"Title":"Bizarre... but good!","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie felt quite similar to watching Freaks by Todd Browning, expect this is now the 90s.  You often feel a bit uneasy at your stomach but also you regret not to be more open to the real world around you, not just the world that you usually see through the media or within your 10 ft parameters.  This is also a beautiful movie, once you adjust to the video pixels.  Overall, a must see experience for all of its strangeness and humanity. "},{"Title":"Mostly effective fragmentation; Herzog steals the scenes.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Saw this one at the Toronto Film Fest as well.  Some will love it, and I'm willing to bet a lot of people will hate it.  The cast is stellar, but Werner Herzog, who plays the father, really shined, especially in the hilarious scenes where he trains his son into becoming a winning wrestler.Often, when watching this film, you won't be sure how to react, or how you should react.  But it is nonetheless provocative, and should be worth the hour and a half even if you end up hating it.Korrine does fail, though, in the length of certain scenes.  Some seemingly insignificant scenes are drawn out much too long, leaving the audience checking their watches, and taking away the emphasis from other scenes that where justifiably long.Korrine also seems to take pleasure in incorporating the odd and freakish in his films, including a multi-cigarette eating man and an armless drummer (the latter which I had met in a motivational conference that was held when I attended high school).Overall a commendable piece, though it's no Kids. And though I feel Dogme95 is more limiting and self-serving than anything, it sure beats $140 million to make Armageddon. "},{"Title":"A Film","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is certainly ahead or right at the beginning of its time. First, as the first US film to receive a Dogma 95 certification, it has a realistic you are there feel.  Working without a script (except, we are told, one scene), this director and cast have drawn us a picture of dashed hopes and the search for dreams.  It is almost as though you ARE in the home of this Queens family, or at least watching their chronicles on home video, while at the same time it has a surreal, hallucinatory effect like a painting done by Van Gogh.  The story is the family life of the title character, who is based on Harmony Korine's own uncle.The cast is top-notch.  Ewen Bremner pulls off a performance as the title character that is at once sympathetic, funny, and chilling.  German Director/Actor Werner Herzog, who plays the father, pulls off one of the most interesting performances I've ever seen as an overbearing, maniacal alcoholic (who is unsatisfied by anything anyone in the family does) that will astound you in its incredible believability.  He departs from the choices which anyone I've ever seen playing this archetype in a similar role has ever done.  Chloë Sevigny is captivating as ever, as the innocent, pregnant sister Pearl, who tries to hold the family together and to help Julien run from the demons that plague him.  Evan Neumann is sympathetic as the frustrated Chris, who, his father says, must become a v(w)inner. Werner's and Evan's scenes together provide a large portion of the tragi-comedy in this piece.  Then there is Grandma, played by Harmony's own grandmother, who only really seems to be interested in her dog, while many of the films actions occur around her.  This really works as an ensemble and puts many higher budget films to shame.Like Harmony's previous film, Gummo, Julien is filled with unforgettable scenes, which might be funny, frightening, tragic or all at once.  Given the immense, explosive imagination and creativity of this young director, one hopes that he doesn't become bored with film and leave any time soon. This guy is going to change film in all sorts of ways. "},{"Title":"Wreched mess of a movie","Date":"4 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is honestly one of the worst movies I have ever seen.There is really hardly any story to this movie. The movie is like a series of random,depressing,poor quality,psychotic home movies from a family of nut-jobs that you would never show your friends. Most of the characters belong in an institution, however, the younger brother and sister are likable enough. There are some funny moments as others have stated, like when the whack-job father tells Julien that if I was as stupid as you I would slap myself in the face.This movie was mostly just a train wreck that I only finished just to see if anything would actually happen. I guess it's one of those artsy-fartsy kind of movies, to borrow a phrase from the movie itself.I'm not saying don't see it, but I do say don't spend any money to see it. "},{"Title":"Christmas eyeopener","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie on Christmas Eve. I was having mixed emotions and was spending time trying to alleviate those blues. This movie had the feeling of eavesdropping on one family's struggle with damaged emotional dynamics. My problems sure seemed petty compared with theirs, and, despite the disturbing topic, I felt better afterwards, as in there but for the Grace of GOD go I. Not sure why I sensed the potential for sexual activity throughout, though the father's attempt to have his normal son put on a dress and dance with him probably put me on alert. The acting was very realistic, as was camera use and lighting. The score was depressingly effective. I felt that the family fell within a continuum of behaviors exhibited by their (normal?) friends and neighbors. Now I'm depressed again. "},{"Title":"It's not superficial, and it's inspired me to get out and shoot my own POV work","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" That's part of the bottom line...The other part of the bottom line is that I have enough friends with schizophrenia and schizo-affective disorder to tell you for once and for all, ignore the bigots who aren't open minded enough to embrace this film. Julian's portrayal is right on target, end of story, especially when you take the rest of the sick family show in this film into account. Julian's mysterious behavior reflects my own experience with my own friends and family. Get yourself to the nearest library and look in the DSM-IV Diagnsotic Manual, and look this stuff up. Werner Herzog, as the equally disturbed father, brings something to this film I can't even begin to describe, but I can tell you, I've seen too many people like this for my own comfort.The beginning of the film exploits some of the limitations of the DV equipment it was shot on, making it as harsh, jarring and garish as Julian himself would have felt it. The ending of the film has stayed with me to this day, you still ask yourself about the potential incest months after you've seen it. It's brutally ambiguous, at least for me it was. The rear-guard snobs and bigots I've seen bash this film here and elsewhere are obviously completely ignorant of all the advances made in POV based exposition and storytelling in 20th century literature, which really fries my balls, since they harp on literary devices they obviously know nothing about.Having said that, I would personally bend the Dogma rules for the sake of losing all the extra noise and grain that gets magnified in the tape to film transfer. This film was shot largely on a Sony VX1000, BTW, but to respect the Dogme Manifesto, nothing was done to clean up the footage, and I'm not sure if there was much if any color correction done on the answer print for the 35mm pint for theaters, either. More people need to read Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury, then look at something like Lynch's Eraserhead a few times. Lead, follow, or get the **** out of the way. People like Korine lead. "},{"Title":"harmony korine","Date":"27 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  i liked this movie-i really love harmony korines work, its a great indulgence for my taste in films today because most films are quite predictable these days and lack origonality.  im not saying though that i only like unconventional films because they are cool and artsy i just know what i like and i like julien donkey boy, kids and gummo and i'm looking for ken park to watch. i can't really explain why i like his movies but i can say that i like the realism in it and i hate how movies are so commercialized and everything is so fake.  i most definitly do not wish any harm to harmony korine-i love his work and am hopeful to see much more in the near future. "},{"Title":"Another masterpiece form Korine","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have to say first that everyone will not be ready for this film.  First, it's not the typical linear beginning to end film.  And the plot cannot be picked up in the first five minutes.  It sheds light on a society that we see everyday but tend to stray away from, or possibly even overlook.  It deals with a dysfunctional family and the encounters of a brave Julien, played by Ewen Bremner (Snatch, Trainspotting).  He portrays a young man dealing with schizophrenia in an upbeat urban town, pretty much based on Harmony's real life uncle Eddy.  You experience and discover what it is like existing in a world that might not totally make much sense.  You meet his loving and caring sister, played by Chloe Sevigny, starring yet again in another Korine story.  She is forced to play the role of sister and mother to a fragile Julien.    You hit the streets with Julien and encounter a very powerful cast of strangers.  Of them are a very talented armless man, an African American albino, and quite a few more people with minor physical and mental handicaps.  As most people would feel sorry for these individuals, I tend to go another route.  You see the strength and ability of all these characters.  Juleins favorite places to frequent are a local bowling alley, a southern pentecostal church, and the skating rink.  He goes to these places to appear normal and fit in with society.  But his family life is quite a different story.  You see the environment in this household that is filled with many points of culture, but very distorted and unorthodox.  A household that is filled with music, morals, fashion, but mostly the absence of a mother/wife figure.  The whole of the family is forced to cut their losses and move on with life the only way they know how.  Depending on each other to fill the void.  The camera work is very non-traditional and covers many different formats.  Yet again, another element that would shake the average viewer.  I give this film 4/5 for its honesty, artistic value, and how much you really identify with the characters.  If you are into cinema that doesn't take you from point A to point B, I highly recommend this film.  Full of wonderful performances and true to life characters.  Favorite parts for me armless man's drum solo, the skating rink scenes, and all the solo Julien scenes.  This film taught me that there is two sides to everything and a curse for one might be a blessing for another.  But mostly how we all survive obstacles in life, despite the hand we have been dealt.  This film is closer to a documentary than that of a fictional story.  I have never seen a Harmony Korine production that I didn't like.  Full of every emotion and very witty, he is a very talented writer/director.          "},{"Title":"adjustments...","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Dog bark cleaning supplies, when the dogs bark when it comes out and Adolf comes out of the closet. When a dog barks. Cold clean air is better. And it feels better, the cold clean. Air. When a dog barks, it isn't cold. Clean? Why did the wind wind. Wind. Wind. Come back. Come back in, it's the wind, it's the cold clean wind.So, you study it. You stood there, and study it. So, when you see the corner. You study it. You stood it. Stood there with it. Study. Cleaning supplies. If you tell a story, with difference. With a difference. You can tell the story, different. You are different. The differance is you. You differ. Differences, are misunderstood. Stood. You study, and you stood there. The difference was a study. You understood how to study the diffrerences. It's different. So study it. Understood?Cleaning supplies. "},{"Title":"Frustrations","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some people say Julien is schizophrenic. Some say he's autistic. I say it doesn't matter what handicap he has. It's a portrait about an eccentric family with many frustrations. The mother is dead and father is left alone. He can not handle his offspring; one of his sons is a handicap, the other makes a fool out of himself by trying to wrestle (because he's forced by his father) and the daughter plays too much harp. And then the father himself has too much frustrations of himself.It's so intensely written and acted and the camerawork and colors are fantastic. You can really analyze the characters and there's so much to tell about all of them that you just really can let yourself go. Wonderful done. A masterpiece!!! Just like Gummo. "}{"Title":"i felt good watching this","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One reason I like Harmony Korine's films is that he gives 'invisible' members of society the spotlight for a moment.Even though the parts have little to do with the central plot, some of the most memorable and enjoyable moments come from fringe characters, like the rapping albino or the cigarette smoking man in Julien Donkey-Boy.  They each get their time to shine and display their cool talents.I rented this today, and watched the movie full of fear that I would see something that would make me lose my lunch.  I had seen Korine's other two movies and expected to see in this a cat getting sliced in half or a man's eye put out.Refreshingly, there was nothing like this.  I do like Kids and Gummo but was not in the mood today for anything too harsh.  This movie is nothing but a comment on the ideal of family that often does not work, and an example of how we all need companionship and affection from others.  Chloe Sevigny was amazingly soothing and motherly in her role.  It had quite an effect on me.9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Religious Film-making and the Right Doctrine to Read","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Dogme films have been known to cause uproarious debate and dissent amongst cinephiles, as to the integrity, accuracy, and adherence to the Dogme rules and intellect. It mirrors almost a cult or religion, (hence where the terminology Dogme derives). With this parallel in thought, it is easy to determine the movie's constituents. Not everyone is going to accept the Dogme ideals nor its products, just as Budhism, Christianity, Islam, etc...You might think me pretentious or almost myopic to equivocate movies with cults or religions, but it's not too far off, especially Dogme. Well in this church of film-making, I consider myself a devout. I worship these shrines of inspiring, super-realist, examples of divine human contemplation and visual harmony.The reverend deserves at least some if not most of the credit, Harmony Korine, whose earlier sermons include the screenplay KIDS, and Gummo. The use of video here demonstrates a pure, visceral observation of a family's interaction to their schizophrenic sibling, Julien, played masterfully by Ewen Bremner. The patriarch of the family, Werner Herzog, does a believably eccentric adaptation of his own psycho-anatomy.Upon my first viewing of this film, I thought it was a documentary on a real life schizophrenic (due to Ewen Bremner's brilliant vocation of repressing his Scottish tongue to affect a uber-convincing accent that would put fellow Trainspotter Mcgregor to shame). Chloe Sevigny does an impressive job also with the ambiguous pregnancy.This film sneaks up on you until you watch it and tell all your indie friends about it, but it stays on your shelf, because it is too powerful to watch everyday, even though you secretly want to review it. (see Requiem for a Dream, American History X, Dancer in the Dark, Magdalene Sisters, Naked Lunch). Go rent this film at least once, If you've at least gone to church once, go to this MASSive example of purist film-making via Harmony. "},{"Title":"Gripping, the Whole Way Through","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this film to be very interesting and gripping, especially the role of Julien's father played by Werner Herzog. The film lures one in from the very beginning, and keeps you interested until the very end. I felt as if everything from the acting to the soundtrack, to the filming was creative, original, and capturing. Korine really shows here what can be done with film when he pushes the limits -- and in so pushing the limits he still comes up with a very good film that I feel is better than his first (Gummo). Not only is the film a sort of commentary on mental illness and differences in general, but it is also an infinitely intriguing film. What stands out about this film is that through its' often very surreal experiences you can often find greater bits of reality in it; I felt that the film embraced a sense of total freedom that one needs for it really to be Art, but still had a concise guidance that made it very viewable and entertaining at the same time. This is a film that truly keeps your interest from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Original is not always good","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Ooooooooooo K. So you might say this film is original. Great. That's about all the positives I can come up with. Of course, I must not get it. Another positive thing might be to say at least Harmony got someone to pay him, and a host of others, actual money to make this movie. Just a little advice... if you want to make a movie that exposes all the bad in the world... try to make it watchable if you expect people to respond to your message. Oh the humanity. "},{"Title":"FANTASTIC, Yet Sad and Dark","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I have always liked Harmony's work. I thought Gummo was excellent as well. But this movie is beyond just wierd, the cinematography and editing in this film is pure genius. Now I see where Aronofsky got his inspiration for Requiem's editing. Be prepared for darkness. "},{"Title":"Awful doesn't begin to describe it","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This was probably one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  I was literally praying for the film to end during the final 30 minutes.  But (and this could be a positive) I never changed the channel because there was always the hope the somehow the calamity would be tied together into -- I don't know -- a brilliant film (a la Memento).I thought the director did a splendid job of conveying the messy disorientation of schizophrenia.  The father played by Werner Herzog was positively hateful driving his wrestling obsessed son to the limit in the question to be a champion.  Ms. Sevigny seemed like set decoration, and wasted set decoration at that.  She seemed so stuck in the middle as Ewen Bremmer, Herzog, and Neumann battered any sanity or order from this film. Again, in the right frame of mind, that could have been a good thing.  But one scene to another, just nothing made sense.  Bremmer murmured and babbled aimlessly through the whole film -- bad teeth and all.I just didn't know what the hell was going on in this movie!  Plot if there was one, please tell me where I should have found it!  This was not a comedy but I found myself laughing out loud in sheer embarrassment that a film could be this bad. "},{"Title":"A waste of 94 minutes!","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie and I just have one question, what the hell was that?!?  I just wasted 94 minutes of my life that I will never be able to get back.  This joke of a film just made the top of my Worst Movies Ever list. "},{"Title":"Worst looking movie ever","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie looked so bad it was practically unwatchable. It was shot on digital video and is so grainy that it looks very blurry and you can't see all the details. As far as the film itself goes well it was directed by the same guy who did Gummo so you can expect the usual bad acting, bizarre outlandish behavior and amateurish directing. The viewer has no clue what is going on screen as they are watching this mess unfold before their very eyes. Only the director in his twisted little mind knows all the answers. Hey at least Gummo had decent cinematography Julien Donkey-Boy has NOTHING positive going for it. Anyone could  make this movie for 500$ in their basement and you don't even have to be a supposed world famous independent film director.     "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Not a mainstream film for sure, but if you liked other Harmony Korine films you would probably like it. It was filmed under the rules of Dogme 95 or something like that and so a hand-held camera was used the entire film. I didn't like that much, I would have rather it been filmed like a regular movie, it could have been so much more than it was if some of the monotonous sequences were cut out. At sometimes it is awfully slow moving, but despite that an interesting depiction is made. There is no particular meaning to the film, which I think is fine, but some prefer a plot line of some sort. The actor that played Julien was brilliant and there were actually some really comedic parts in the film. Of course there were darker parts, but they were brilliant as well. "},{"Title":"Can we have a collection and pay Harmony Korine NOT to make movies??","Date":"4 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I thought 'Gummo' was a pretentious, self-indulgent mess, and one of the worst movies I'd ever seen. That was until I'd watched Harmony Korine's awful follow-up 'Julien Donkey-Boy', which is not only even MORE tedious and aesthetically displeasing, but phony as well. Korine doesn't bother with character development, plot, structure, memorable dialogue, or anything else people usually value in film, but because he presents it from the perspective of a schizophrenic that is supposed to make this formless drivel some kinda major artistic statement. I'm sorry, that's not good enough. This movie offers absolutely NO INSIGHT into mental illness whatsoever.  The sad thing is that because the majority of movie fans these days are idiots and most Hollywood blockbusters suck, too many people are bending over backwards praising Korine's equally worthless product. Just because something isn't 'Independence Day 2' doesn't mean it's good, folks. There are many different kinds of bad movies, and 'Julien Donkey-Boy' is a bad movie whichever way you look at it.  "}]