[{"Title":"Enjoyable, but could have used more character development.","Date":"11 October 2004","Score":"33 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I don't know why people are saying this is a horrible movie. It's actually a very enjoyable movie, but was a bit short, and short on character development. The actors do decently for being mostly TV actors, and the scenery was great, as well as the music. And it doesn't suffer from pacing problems. I almost wish I could have seen it in the theatre. Overall a good movie. As far as historical accuracy, I don't know, but Hollywood has been known to extend the truth a bit. For the most part, however, it is fairly believable. Don't listen to people that say it's a waste of time, make your own decision, but I believe it's at least worth a rental if not more.  "},{"Title":"To the millions who didn't go...it's your loss","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"31 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's a real shame.  Texas Rangers, Steve Miner's new take on the founding of the famous band of Old West law enforcers, was held back from release for almost a whole year, subjected to numerous re-edits, dumped into theatres without any fanfare, and greeted with apathy and pathetic grosses.  And you know what?  It's one of the most entertaining films I've seen all year.The film stars James Van Der Beek as an upright Eastern inventor's son who, on his first trip to the wild west, sees his parents and brothers killed before his eyes by marauding bandits.  Desperate for revenge, he enlists with the Rangers, a more-or-less vigilante band led by Leander McNelly (Dylan McDermott), an ex-Confederate soldier with a vendetta of his own. McNelly's band of young gunslingers battle their way across the Texas border country, sniffing out bandits, doling out frontier justice, romancing the women-folk, etc., etc.In other words, Texas Rangers does nothing you can't see in any B-western on Saturday afternoon TV.  It's just that it does most of it a lot better than we've seen for quite some time.  After the rather too glossy American Outlaws, it's nice to get a Western with a gritty, authentic look.  The towns look appropriately small and weather-beaten, the costumes nice and trail-worn.  The only gloss here is on the guns...and I guess some of those young cowpokes are kind of glittery, too.Miner's direction is curiously hot and cold here.  He excels in quiet moments, dialogue and character, but his action scenes sometimes come up short.  He seems particularly to have a bad habit of always putting his camera in the wrong place when his quick action payoffs arrive (bullets hitting home, knives landing on target).  Still, the picture moves with lots of energy and excitement, and Miner is definitely to thank for that. Also, he scores in the big action climax, where the Rangers storm the desperadoes' Mexican hideout.  Here, the camera always finds the right spot, and the result is a fast, pulse-quickening blowout.A fine cast gives a lot of luster to the material.  James Van Der Beek has never been just another WB pretty boy, and he takes to the Western with grace and conviction.  Ashton Kutcher is okay as a hayseed gunman, but at times comes off a little too much like he's still on That '70s Show. Usher Raymond is nicely understated as a former-slave ranger, and while Rachael Leigh Cook's rancher's daughter is really superfluous to the plot, her gorgeous face is absolutely essential.  Fine supporting turns dot the picture, with standouts being Randy Travis and Robert Patrick as McNelly's lieutenants and Vincent Spano as a cocky, villainous gunslinger.Really, though, this is Dylan McDermott's show.  I have never been much of a fan of The Practice, and was stunned by the force and power of McDermott's work here.  He carries himself with solid-as-a-rock strength, and handles his quieter emotional moments with consummate restraint.  He also looks superbly the part, eyes glowering beneath his black hat, guns blazing away from the back of his horse.  Of course, it also helps that Scott Busby and Martin Copeland's screenplay turns McNelly into a complex and fascinating character.  Haunted by the memory of his wife and child, (stolen by bandits while he was off in the wars), dogged by a sickness that is bearing down on his soul, always trusting the gun and the noose over the badge and the lawbook, McNelly is a classic western hero, bigger than life and still movingly human.  It's a terrific performance, one of the best I've seen this year, and it makes me wish that they'll keep making westerns just so McDermott can keep acting in them.Of course, they won't keep making them if people won't get off their duffs and go see the good ones when they come along.  And trust me, Texas Rangers is one of the good ones, a top-class B-picture with an A-list lead performance.  Give it a look, if it's still at your local theatre.  I guarantee you won't be sorry you did.      "},{"Title":"The sort of thing that Hollywood used to churn out by the dozen","Date":"12 February 2009","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" In 1875, ten years after the end of the Civil War, Texas, especially the area along the Mexican border, is a wild, lawless place where ranchers and homesteaders are frequently threatened by bandits. The State Governor therefore decides to re-create the Texas Rangers, who had been disbanded after the Civil War, to uphold the law. The film follows the exploits of a company of Rangers led by Leander McNelly. The villain of the story is John King Fisher, the leader of a gang of outlaws who specialise in stealing cattle and then fleeing into Mexico, where the stolen cattle are sold to the Mexican army. The gang are ruthless killers, who have no compunction about murdering unarmed civilians in cold blood. It came as no surprise to discover that the film is loosely based on fact and that McNelly and King Fisher were real historical figures; Leander McNelly did not sound like the sort of name any scriptwriter would invent for a fictitious character. The film allegedly takes some liberties with the historical record, but these are unlikely to upset anyone other than experts on Texan history.Although the Texas Rangers are, strictly speaking, a law enforcement agency rather than a military unit, the film bears more resemblance to a war movie than to a cop film. The plot is that old staple of war movies, the one about the tough, experienced commander who takes a group of raw recruits (most of them are young men with little or no experience of guns or policing crime) and turns them into a crack fighting unit. In their initial battle with the bandits, the Rangers fall into a trap, and many of the young and ill-trained men are killed. Nevertheless they regroup, attract new recruits and face off against Fisher and his men in a final showdown.The film is directed by Steve Miner, previously known to me only as the man who made Lake Placid, a dreadful horror-comedy unlikely to appeal to anyone other than those who feel that there is something inherently hilarious about someone getting their head bitten off by a gigantic crocodile. Fortunately, Miner makes no attempt to inject comedy elements into Texas Rangers, and it is a better film than Lake Placid, although that is not really saying much.The past few years have seen something of a revival of the Western genre. Many recent Westerns (Dances with Wolves, Unforgiven, Wyatt Earp, 3.10 to Yuma) have been grand films made on an epic scale, but Texas Rangers is a much more modest, small-scale effort, more reminiscent of the old Western B-movies. Its total running time is very short for a twenty-first century film- the version I saw on British television recently only ran to eighty minutes. It is essentially a good-guys-versus-bad-guys Western of the old school with plenty of action and gunplay but without any deep significance. There are occasional attempts to inject a note of moral ambiguity- McNelly can be uncompromising in his methods- but there is little doubt that he and his men wear the metaphorical white hats and the Fisher gang the black ones. This is the sort of thing that Hollywood used to churn out by the dozen in the forties and fifties. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Should have gone straight to video","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"20 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  TEXAS RANGERS is a movie that has the production values of a direct-to-video release and a cast of TV stars that give incredibly weak performances. I remember hearing about this movie way back in 1999 when DAWSON'S CREEK which stars James Van Der Beek who plays Lincoln Rogers Dunnison in this movie was only in its second season. It came out in November of last year and although I didn't get to see it when it finally came to theaters, but I did see it this weekend when I saw it on the new releases shelf at Blockbuster. It wasn't an awful movie, though it's one that I think should have just gone straight to video in stead of having a theatrical release. Maybe in a few years if this movie starts being shown on cable or gets special DVD treatment, more people will see it and it will have a small cult following. I wouldn't recommend it, yet if you are a fan of shoot 'em up westerns, you'll probably enjoy this. "},{"Title":"A Fistfull of Rangers","Date":"30 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" These people obviously love the old spaghetti westerns. I was expecting Clint Eastwood to show up at any time. So true to the old genre that it's almost camp. Even the music is true to the genre that I expected to hear the theme from The Good, The Bad,and the Ugly at any moment... Some of the lighting and background is obviously theatrical, and the editing from scene to scene is clipped in places. I don't know why people are complaining so much when this was obviously more than a little tongue in cheek, with a tip of the hat to Italian westerns. Hey, who needs a plot when you've got the good guys against the bad guys? Viewed in that light, it was well-done. Otherwise, hardly an historical document ;-) If you want to know about Texas, read James Mitchner... "},{"Title":"Pretty bad new age Western.","Date":"15 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" All the elements to makes this a great genre movie are present here, especially in its formulaic but yet promising story premise. Then where did it go wrong? By the characters and cast for starters.The movie has an impressive cast and most do a more than fine job. It's ironic that however the actors I were most worried about (Usher Raymond, Ashton Kutcher) did a great job playing their roles and the actors I was most confident about (Dylan McDermott, Tom Skerritt, among others) were miscast in the movie. But disappointing or not, every character in the movie lacked some good development and background. The main character (played by James Van Der Beek) start off promising but as the movie progresses you more and more begin to wonder to yourself what makes the main character so special or even relevant for the story. Dylan McDermott is a good actor and he also for most part is good in his role but he just isn't convincing enough as an experienced tough dying gunslinger. It makes you wonder why Robert Patrick and McDermott didn't switched roles in this movie. It would had made the story at least a bit more believable. The main villain is being played by Alfred Molina. Perfect you would think. The character however seriously lacks some development and depth which makes him a pretty shallow and way too uninteresting main villain for the movie. And then there are the actors who are just simply underused in the movie, such as Tom Skerritt. I mean does he even have lines in this movie? Cause I really can't remember any. So poor casting and character treatment all around for this movie.They tried very hard to make this movie a cool action movie, also with a bombastic action score from Trevor Rabin. But however the movie is lacking in way too many action sequences to make this a good genre movie. They also desperately tried to make the action moments cool, with quick shots and cuts, that however really don't add up to each other and instead make the movie an incoherent one when it comes down to its action. The movie as a whole has poor editing all around. It almost seems as if this movie wasn't even shot entirely and the movie was not put together until in the editing room, when it was too late to do some pick up shots.Despite it's promising premise, nothing in the movie really works out the way it was supposed to. It really is too bad because in its core this movie really had potential. But perhaps they should had known better not to touch the Western genre, that has been pretty death by now for the few past decades. This movie now is nothing more than a still somewhat watchable movie for on a rainy afternoon, that perhaps should had gone straight-to-video immediately instead. Perhaps best watchable for the die hard genre fans only, everyone else can better just skip this one.4/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Feels Like A TV Pilot","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A lot of people have commentated that Texas RANGERS feels like a straight to video film but I disagree and wish to point out that it seems more like a pilot for a TV series . The script and the way the cast play their roles certainly suggests this since we've got characters that seem anachronistic and could very well have become litery devices for a long running TV series . An example is of having one of the rangers as a black character , think about it he's in a Southern state and he's black ! What an obvious character to use at a later stage to explore racism . Unfortunately because none of the characters will be appearing in their own series this leads to a serious problem that many people have picked up on and that is there's no character development . In fact this makes the entire film feel totally clichéd and unconvincing There are other serious problems such as the way the film uses an overlayed map every time the rangers move from one location to another . This happens in nearly every single scene without fail and becomes totally patronising after the first 20 times . No seriously I'm not exaggerating , if someone treks more than a few yards we see a soft focus overlay of a map come up on screen without fail . Perhaps the fact that the film was obviously NOT shot in Texas might have everything to do with this ? Anyone who has a vague notion of where Texas might be will be stratching their head asking what the rangers are doing in Montana . I'm also pretty certain that the creation of the Texas rangers didn't happen as we're shown here TR is not a film that will satisfy everyone and I have a feeling that it will satisfy no one . Western aficionados will dislike because of its inaccurate feel while DAWSON CREEK viewers ( Am I right in thinking that this is who it was marketed for ? ) will very quickly become bored with the clichés "},{"Title":"Oliver Stone could not have deviated further from the truth.","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"17 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" From the opening shots through every scene acted out afterward NOTHING that is depicted in this movie EVER happened. It is a worse distortion than Tombstone. I don't know where to start. For openers, the actor portraying McNelly admonishes a Ranger who is about to leave the service that he is riding a Ranger horse and saddle, wearing Ranger clothes and carrying a Ranger gun, and if he leaves he will be arrested for theft. Anyone who knows squat about the Rangers of that day knows they had to bring their own horse, tack, weapons and clothes and then they would be considered for the service. Using Ranger badges for target practice is absurd beyond words. At that time the Rangers HAD NO badges. Just a letter stating they were Rangers. The makers of this movie either did not know or care. All a Ranger had to do to quit is ride away with what he brought. Also, John King Fisher was not a Mexican. He never shot down a crowd at a cattle auction. Leander McNelly's assignment in the Nueces Strip was to stop Mexican raiders from stealing cattle in Texas. His run in with John King Fisher was incidental and no shots were fired. McNelly and his men rode out to Fisher's ranch, arrested him and turned him over to a local sheriff. Days later they met Fisher and some of his men on the trail. Turns out Fisher had a friend who was a local judge and the judge let him bond out. McNelly had no authority to override that and Fisher went free for a time. The Black man McNelly took into his band was a former slave named Ben Kinchlow. He was hired as a tracker at no pay,just meals and equipment. When the shooting started between McNelly and the Mexican raiders, Kinchlow held the horses. The Mexican General was an officer in the Ruales, not the Mexican army, and he had no connection with Fisher. He was killed in the first shoot out with McNelly's men. The pistols McNelly's men used were black powder five shot revolvers. The pistols used in the movie had not been invented at the time. The rifles they used were single shot, black powder muzzle loaders. It wasn't until around three years after McNelly raided Mexico that the Rangers were given 1873 Winchesters. Over all the movie is an almost amusing western shoot-'em-up. The kind kids paid 15 cents to see back in the 1950s. It has nothing to do with the Texas Rangers. I don't know where the movie was filmed, but I know the land from Corpus Christi to Brownsville to the Rio Grande and is is an ancient sea bed, flat as a football field as far as you can see. This movie could have been titled Leo Gorcey and the Dead End Kids and the title would have been no more non-related than calling it Texas Rangers. "},{"Title":"LISTEN TO ME this film is much better than most reviews give it credit","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"21 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  The acting is great, the director did a great job and its a cool, typical cowboy film. If you like westerns watch it, if not i recommend watching it on a friday night if your plans have collapsed. You wont regret it...trust me "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie that is completely undeserving of bad press!","Date":"29 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie was excellent! I am a teenager who didn't really think she would be interested in a western - I was wrong! This movie may not have had a huge plot or a great bunch of typical movie experiences, such as romance, sex, swearing, etc. but it had a perfect amount of western-style storyline to make it fascinating! The story is jam-packed with emotion, excitement, tension, even humor. The roles, in my opinion, were perfectly cast and even if the story is kinda predictable, it's not at all boring.If you want to see it, don't hesitate! It is completely worth the money spent and the time it takes. In fact, I've watched it over 10 times and have bought it, taken the audio and put it on my MP3 player to listen to, and have the soundtrack. It's wonderful! 100% recommended! "}{"Title":"Go go Texas rangers","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this movie and whatever reviews were written about it, but the best I can recreate is that it's inaccurate. Well I get over these things easily if I'm enjoying myself. I stumbled upon it as one of the many delights of daytime TV and hell, it beats fresh air. The opening credits alone already amused me, how do you cast James Van Der Beek, Ashton Kutcher and Usher Raymond(which is a way classier movie credit than Usher by the way. Think of the hassle when he plays an usher)and sleep at night? Ashton Kutcher still talks like he could fall of a water tower any minute, and it doesn't help that Van Der Beek's last name here sounds a lot like Dawson, but Usher proves to be a halfway decent actor, he might be one of the only rappers/singers/businessmen that actually took lessons and is believable in any way. Director Steve Miner gets everything filmed, probably within time and budget, but really doesn't have a lot of creative input, this looked like a job for him, the splatter from the two better/less awful Friday the 13th-installments suits him better. The story is not that compelling but provides quite a lot of surprises, even though they're not all that well written. The big problem really is that our main actor needs an extra dimension which he can't provide. We can't all be Clint Eastwood and we don't need a bad imitation of him, but try to make what you feel seem genuine,not like you're still that guy from Dawson's Creek trying to get into bigger projects. The casting just ruins it a bit for me, it could have been very good but it's not. "},{"Title":"Young Guns, Go For It!","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A choppy mess! The changing of history is kinda irrelevant in films of this type, you tend to go in just wanting to be thrilled and tingled. Sadly this can do neither and can only light the fires of a youthful audience interested in the pretty stars on show. It's western genre movie making 101, MTV video style. There's no flow or reason for instances, the characterisations veer from possibly interesting to sideline dummies. It was held back for release by the studio for two years +, and tinkered with by Jack the Ripper in the editing room, so it's hardly surprising it was a major flop and didn't even make enough money back to pay for the post party cakes. The action scenes are competently handled, but these are the rare bright spots on a dull nonsensical landscape. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Close, but no Cigar","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Well, they managed to construct a pretty good cast Dawson (surprisingly good), Bobby Donnell, Kelso but they gave them a choppy script and an underdeveloped story line.  Fights to hold your attention, usually loses.  COULD have been an excellent movie, but fell much too short. Follows the idea that too many stars spoil the movie.Gave it a 5 because of VanDerBeeck, Kutcher, & Usher, who stole his scenes and is a highly talented individual. "},{"Title":"With a name like Texas, it must be good....","Date":"25 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I went into the movie expecting it to be great, knowing it was about the infamous Texas Rangers.  Learning that the movie was filled with a wide range of well-known and talented cast members, I thought surely this movie could not miss.  I was wrong.  The disappointing part was not the actors or the action scenes, but the plot.  The cast collectively offers an extensive amount of acting experience, yet the writing material caused the characters to appear flat and one-dimensional.Plot Outlaws shoot your brother, mother, and father...your natural tendency is to join the Texas Rangers. Good choice.  But as the movie goes along, we quickly loose sight of why we joined the rangers in the first place.   We rescue a captive girl from the outlaws.  She betrays us.   A supporting character finds a love interest.  Starts getting interesting, then is limited to the extent of a few scenes.In comparing this movie to American Outlaws, I felt that this movie had more potential, but I enjoyed American Outlaws more.  Texas Rangers seemed to drag from one plot point to the next.  I usually use Lonesome Dove as my western movie comparison, as it has a seasoned cast, action scenes, and a great plot.  Texas Rangers falls short by one great plot.  "},{"Title":"Where have you gone Clint Eastwood?","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I sat in the theatre, watching the credits. It was nearly empty, the theatre i mean. As the other two people that had just seen this horrible train wreck of a film with me left the theatre, i hung my head and cried. I mourned the Western film genre. No not really, but that wouldnt sound too unlikely if you see this horrible nightmare. I did ask the question listed above, however. Where have you gone Clint Eastwood? The last good western i remember seeing was an Eastwood movie Unforgiven. So after witnessing this western i begged that question. We need Eastwood, i don't care if he is 71 years old. All we need is one more good western, just one, and there will be hope left for the genre.But, I know this will never happen. Because after viewing this...thing, and recalling American Outlaws, i have discovered the truth. It is simply this Hollywood is attempting to kill the western. Don't deny it. Think about it. Just think about the cast of this movie. First there's James Vanderbeek (who's last name im sure i spelled wrong.) Does ANYONE out there buy Dawson as a Texas Ranger? I mean shouldn't this guy move off the creek before he tries to be a tough guy?Next theres Ashton Kutcher Dude Where's My Car? Enough said.Then theres Usher USHER?!?!? How the hell did that happen? Seriously, are you tellin me that just after the Civil War a confederate state is going to make a black guy a lawman? So, add to the worst casting in the history of American cinema quite possibly the worst script Hollywood has puked up in the last fifty years and you have THE WORST WESTERN EVER. Where have you gone Clint, where o where have you gone? "},{"Title":"Needs some balance, but over all an okay movie.","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I thought that this was an okay movie, but I felt that Dylan McDurmott had one one too many sililoquey. Maybe because his character was a preacher or maybe Steve Minor wanted to capitolize on the many lawyer characters that Dylan McDermott has played, but I felt like the character was either preaching a sermon or giving a closing arguement to a jury in many of the scenes. It is a fact that I am biased when it comes to Rachael Leigh Cook, but I felt the film needed her down to Earthness to balance out Dylan McDermett's over the top acting. Overall though I liked the movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful People on the Range","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This is an acceptable movie, but not a great movie.  It isn't Tombstone or The Outlaw Josey Wales... but the stars really look good.  Attractive TV stars join the Texas Rangers and bring law to the West.  The bad guy is really bad, the young idealistic good guy is really good, and the haunted, cynical mentor of the young idealistic good guy is kinda mixed.Not too many surprises  I think the reason I am not rating this movie higher is the elements of political correctness that have crept into this 1870's era Western  The idealistic young woman who wants to know if the Texas Ranger asked the names and served warrants on the accussed before using deadly force, the wisecracking black ranger doing an Eddie Murphy Beverly Hills Cop imitation as he crept up on a camp of vicious outlaws... in these cases, I lost my suspension of disbelief and said to myself no one in this situation would have said or acted like that... it was distracting.  Welcome to 2001.Dylan McDermott was good as the angst ridden Captain...  there is some good action scenes and the scenery is excellent.  If you like Westerns it is worth your time. You won't feel bad about going. "},{"Title":"A sort of Untouchables of the Wild West","Date":"13 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I just saw this on TV and quite enjoyed it, but yes I do agree with the first comment that it doesn't seem to have much in the way of big picture values. Good story though and could have made a really good historical movie, a sort of Untouchables of the Wild West. I really could not understand a word Rachael Leigh Cook said; an example I suppose of the lax standards that let this movie down. On top of better standards, it needed bigger stars (Kevin Costner as McEnelly perhaps, and Brad Pitt as the young sidekick). Alfred Molina, though, was good as the principal baddie. Also needed a more complex back story - Texas, after all, was stolen by force by the USA, as was California. And the near-absence of sex gives the final nail in the coffin that is the 'should have gone straight to video' opinion. "},{"Title":"Beautifully photographed, and thats about it","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Texas Rangers is a very good looking film, shot on magnificent Alberta, Canada locations. There is not much plot to speak of, just the forming of a band of Texas Rangers to hunt down a psycho cattle baron (Alfred Molina, who could play a role like this in his sleep). The film is relatively watchable, but Dylan McDermott's inept performance as the lead ranger really drags it down, along with the poorly cast youthful actors. Robert Patrick and country singer Randy Travis bring verisamilitude to their roles as Ranger lieutenants. Trevor Rabin's beautiful score seems to belong in another movie altogether. So, if you manage to find a copy of the movie, it may be worth a look on a slow evening, but anyone whose seen a real western will find no surprises here. "},{"Title":"I just want the truth","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" this movie uses hot young stars to cover up for horrible writing. the group of actors in this movie is very talented. the musical talent in the acting group is actually even more impressive. adding randy Travis into the mix, who always seems to play either a very good guy or a very bad one with usher was nice. you see Ashton kutcher playing a reckless young man with a good heart, similar to his many other rolls in movies. you see van der beek get the lead roll because of his state of supremacy of Dawson's creek. the writing in this film was based basically on a few historical facts and nothing more. for anyone that wanted to actually know anything about the Texas rangers, what they had to do, what they were faced to go up against, this movie falls flat. the introduction to the film was easily seen, of course van der beeks parents are going to be killed so he has to join the rangers. the ending is what was so tough to digest. the preacher dies, and van der beeks character takes command of the rangers even though he has only been member a few months. good decision making is smart. a well thought out plan usually works better than a quick reply. but, the commander had two other men with more experience. wouldn't they have taken command? oh well, nice movie unless you wanted honesty. "}{"Title":"Action aplenty, but great music!","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I just happened upon this film on TV accidentally, and unlike other critics I have to admit that I enjoyed it.  Sure it was way over the top with the action and bloodshed which was constant with very few breaks.The stars were fairly unknown (other than on TV), but they did a good job.  As far as history is concerned, I have no idea as to the accuracy or otherwise of the story of the exploits of the rag-tag Texas Rangers so soon after the War, but I was enthralled by the great musical score as well as the beautiful scenery.  Lack of name stars probably caused this film not to reach any major Cinemas and therefore became a virtual sleeper.  In todays film making of course, there is always a psychological theme, and it certainly was not forgotten here. "},{"Title":"Better Than It Might Have Been, Not as Good As It Could Be","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'd heard this movie was coming, was told it was missable, missed it, forgot about it and then saw it when it reached Showtime. I taped it and I'm glad I did, because it deserves a second watching. It also deserves better than it got from just about everyone who touched it along the way, from the studio who held it and re-edited it and sorta dumped it into theatres with little publicity, to the critics who quickly panned it, partly, I'm sure because so many of the actors are familiar faces from TV or music video.The movie has flaws. It plays very much like a pilot for a TV series, albeit with better production values. The plot seems uneven, which may be the script, but feels more like bad editing. I have a feeling that it was shot as an R and edited into a PG-13 and suffered for it. It is derivative, but so is most drama, even Shakespeare.The feel of the movie is fairly accurate to the time and place, with just a couple of jarring moments. While I think Usher did a great job with his character, there is no way that a reconstruction-era Texas Ranger Company would have included a Negro -- or that he would have called himself black. For the truly steeped in Western history the character of King Fisher was way off base. This is, however, the kind of flaw we've seen in Westerns that used the names of famous or infamous characters and little else about them.I liked the movie. If it was a pilot for a weekly series, I would make time for it in my busy TV-viewing schedule. Watching Dylan McDermott pass the reins of command to James Van Der Beek, who showed his mettle as a leader, was worth the time spent getting there. Most of the rest of the actors did a decent job with the plot they were given and the lines they had to speak. Robert Patrick and Randy Travis are journeymen, and acted like it. The younger cast members did well, but I have to admit I kept expecting Ashton Kutcher to ask where his horse was, Dude. I would like to have seen more development of the character Rachael Leigh Cook played. Though she was more outspoken than most young women of the period, there were some like her and it would have been interesting to see where that went.If ever a movie cried out for a director's cut DVD, this is the one. I don't think Steve Miner set out to make a nearly $40 million dollar bomb. Someone hijacked this project and ran it off the tracks, in my opinion. I'd like to see the movie all these people thought they were making.Would I recommend it? Yes, with the reservations I outlined. Call it a 6 out of 10. And I will see it again. There are nits to be picked about the firearms used, always a sore point with this reviewer, who portrays a US Deputy Marshal in the 1880s on weekends and has seldom seen a movie without flaws in this area. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as bad as everyone (including Demension Films) thinks it is","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Texas Rangers has hit controversy because of what it is I think. Is it a John Mullis film or a genre western. I would give a great deal to add the John Mullis orgainal script to my collection of screenplays, but I still don't hate this movie (desipite it's flaws). And boy are there some flaws (Rachel Leigh Cook, an actress I normally like's direction, tone and preformance are all wrong, it's too Lanny Boggs like to be in a historical drama..and she's a good actress, I don't blaim that entirely on her), the script is inbetween an intresting period film and a remake of Varsity Blues (which isn't entirely a bad thing, both would hold my attention, but there comes a point when it should chose. Bassicly this film suffers from a teen movie wana be complex- just look at the casting here (although Van Der Beek in his years and films to come, I think can pull off a masterful preformance somewhere, but not here). Then finally why was this movie (which is entertaining and decent) killed off, it doesn't deserve this treatment, it's not a bad movie, just one that feels like was killed off by a studio from the start. From what I've read John Mullis' script was baught my Miramax and they told him to change it. I've also heard other screen writter's names on this project as well, although two lesser knowns are credited. Let me say this..this isn't a bad movie but an undecided one, the direction is decent (although some scenes fail to work or add up) but not revolutionary. But it still held my attention. (6 out of 10) "},{"Title":"When the smoke clears, its a winner!","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I really don't know what went on behind the scenes and getting this movie released but whatever they did, it was worth it! The cast is worth your $7 to $10 bucks alone. I really admire Steve Miner's films. There is something about them that has great time guaranteed written all over them. Just check out his profile!James Van Der Beek, Matt Keeslar, Rachael Leigh Cook, Ashton Kutcher, Jon Abrahams, and Usher Raymond. Wow! Such a young cast doing a western and to pull it off amazes me. I mean they didn't do it alone but they were the stars. Dylan McDermott, Randy Travis, Tom Skeritt, Vincent Spano, and Alfred Molina were there too. Kinda like the old generation meets the new.I was extremely disappointed with the story though. Sure there are explosions and gun fire throughout but when it comes down to the point it was kinda weak. Let's put it this way, it didn't have anything spectacular that you could say was original. Like almost every other movie playing right now (Spy Game, Behind Enemy Lines, or even the recent American Outlaws), its not original. Sometimes I think these screenwriters pull out an old script and modernize it with a cool name and tagline. Maybe thats not a thought and the truth. I'd like to see a western like Tombstone again. I'd even like to see a new action movie without all the camera moving and jumping through the air 'Matrix' style. But that will probably not happen till I get myself out to Hollywood.Enough dreaming. The reality is its a cool hip western. A fun one that I wouldn't mind watching again someday. The cast was excellent and yes, the acting was fair. A whole lot better than American Outlaws and the violence was okay despite the PG-13 rating. Do some more reading on this movie before seeing it though, I mean I am the one who said Megiddo was a good Christian film. If you like westerns and thought American Outlaws was good, be my guest and enjoy.Andy "},{"Title":"Entertaining but ridiculous","Date":"16 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The film was pretty entertaining, very noisy but ultimately fairly ridiculous. The acting was wooden, but fun (not sure it was meant to be so funny....but was nonetheless entertaining because of that!). I also firmly believe that the good guys SHOULD be better looking than the bad guys, so have no problem with the casting overall! Although most of the reviewers mention Kutcher, Van Der Beek et al, am I the only person in the world who believes the narrator who only introduces the story at the very start of the movie was none other than the late, great, legend that was James Coburn? I scanned the closing credits (yes I watched the WHOLE thing!) but the narrator wasn't mentioned at all....was Mr Coburn embarrassed by his contribution or involvement, or am I barking up the wrong tree entirely....can someone PLEASE put my mind at rest (and settle a dispute with my partner!)? "},{"Title":"Miramax Squanders an Excellent Opportunity","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  We have a president from Texas at an unheard of level of popularity, and a population focused on justice and the elimination of ultra-violent terrorist criminals and what does Miramax do?  They take an ace in the hole movie like Texas Rangers and barely release it!  The Texas Rangers is a story of a group of brave men risking their lives to rid their territory of lawless violent criminal gangs who are terrorizing law abiding citizens.  This is a true story and is based on one of the first wars against terrorism in our country's history.  If Miramax had taken hold of the historic background and actually promoted this film, I'm sure it would of made the top ten in box office the week it was released.  Instead they release it on 400 screens! They're treating it like one of their art films that are usually released in off beat art theatres.  Miramax blew it.  Texas Rangers was an excellent film and reminded me of the good old westerns from the '40s and '50s with an excellent cast of young popular actors.  I highly recommend this film and hope more of you are able to see it.  If you can't catch it in the theatre, definitely put it on your list of videos.  I will definitely purchase it when available. "},{"Title":"Who to blame?","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Who do you blame for a movie like this? When you watch a movie you can easily blame an actor for not putting in a good performance, a writer for a flawed script, or a director for not getting the right job out of an actor, or a casting director for a miss-cast. In this movie you can blame all of them, but, the bulk of the blame goes to one certain group the producers.Alan Greisman and Frank Price must step up and take most of the blame for what is wrong with this film. This was a get-rich quick scheme that got what it deserved. When you set out to make a movie only for the money, and not for the movie, and there is no heart in it from the producers, this is what happens. There must be an undying passion from a film maker for it to show up in the final product on the screen. Here it just didn't happen. No heart in no heart out.Money talks and bullshit walks, and if you look at the following numbers, you can figure out which one this film is Production Budget $38,000,000 Total US Gross $623,374 "},{"Title":"Just didn't happen this way","Date":"14 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Although Texas Rangers is a tribute to a force that has a proud tradition of contributing law and order to our second largest state, the story of Leander McNelly and King Fisher just didn't work out the way it did. Perhaps there should have been that way, but just as Elizabeth Tudor and Mary Stuart never met in life, McNelly and Fisher didn't have it out.TV stars James Van Der Beek and Ashton Kutcher are a pair of young recruits that Dylan McDermott as McNelly signs up for the newly reconstituted Texas Rangers. During the Civil War and the Reconstruction period the Texas Rangers had been disbanded. After the carpetbagger government was finished, the newly elected Texas State government reestablished the Rangers and they had a great responsibility as the US Cavalry was dealing with Comanches as its primary mission.King Fisher as played by Alfred Molina was one nasty dude, no doubt about it. But his primary source of income was cattle rustling. He rarely committed crimes like murder north of the border, bad for business to get people madder than they really could be. He stole cattle and sold it to the local Mexican satrap whomever it might be at a given moment. The wanton murder you see here was not really his style though he'd kill you without hesitation if you got in his way.In any event the state of Texas and King Fisher reached a negotiated truce and Fisher became a prominent rancher in the Uvalde area. I saw his grave there and he's one of three prominent citizens Uvalde claims, the other two being Dale Evans and Vice President John Nance Garner.Texas Rangers is a good TV movie about this body of law enforcement in its early days, but it's hardly ever going to be rated a classic. "},{"Title":"Not Too Bad...But....Lacking","Date":"12 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I never heard of this film before seeing it listed on Showtime. I thought it was a fairly decent film...even when I saw Dawson and then Kelso come on the screen. Nevermind Usher being there too. I thought..Oh great...this will be so lame. Not so. It could have had less scenes where the good guys were riding hell-bent for leather across the plains...it was shown over and over..I wondered if the same areas were used for each of those scenes? It was some what predictable most of the time too...of course you knew the Mexican girl wasn't dead...the attraction between her and Lincoln was too obvious for her to die so soon. I was surprised that Aston could do serious acting..his stint as Kelso seemed to be the extent of his screen talents in my opinion...sorry..he isn't a big deal to me as far as Hollywood stars go. Being married to Demi means na-da..big deal. Anyway...I liked it..enjoyed it...and wished it had been a stronger movie all around. The characters needed more depth..we needed to know when, why and how they came to all be where they were. The director, producer and others cashed in on the two main stars being so hot at the moment when this film was made. With a little more effort it could have been a HUGE film...which I think it should have been. Instead..it ended up on a video store shelve somewhere and of course..offered for free on channels like SHOWTIME. Pity. I would have paid to see it on the big screen if it had been showcased as a blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Shoots Nothing but Blanks","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This troubled western has taken $38m to make, and it made under $700,000, what a huge bomb this was! The production probably was troubling which has spent 2 years on the shelves. Now why would the studio pay that much money if they probably knew they were making a bad movie? I've seen it myself and good god, you can sense the trouble surrounding the movie. The movie has an excellent ensemble of talented actors, and a talented director, completely wasted. Plus I have  read James Van Der Beek got paid $3m for the lead role. Why wast all the time and money on this pathetic excuse of a western? First American Outlaws (another pathetic 2001 western with about the same characteristics as this movie)now this? Maybe the western genre has been pumped full of lead.   "}{"Title":"Short on the Draw","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  It's 1867. In the after-effects of the Civil War, Texas is a sleeping giant falling prey to vicious marauding and theft by Mexican invaders. The Rangers were disbanded to fight for the South; now they are to be regrouped with a former pastor-turned-lawman Leander McNelly (McDermott) at the helm. At his side works Dunnison (James Van Der Beek), who is out to kill off the Bandits responsible for the murder of his family. Great premise, gorgeous photography and costuming, excellent acting... poor script. The depth of the film is replaced by action... .. and more action. Shoot-out after shoot-out can't hold up to the incredible emotional struggle that *could have* made this film a bull's eye. Don't get me wrong -- I enjoyed my matinee, but felt the script was incredibly inept at divulging the true character and emotional depth that was needed.Rachael Leigh Cook and Dylan McDermott in particular were cheated, script-wise. Her character is strong-willed (we think) and opinionated, but has only a half dozen lines tops, no romantic banter, and hardly any screen time. McDermott, to give the fullest performance of a reverend-turned-lawman, needed more lines to express his inner-torment. (Although the man is incredible at expressing himself through a heartfelt glance.) The only thing really wrong with the film is the shallowness of the script. They could have taken another half hour (the film runs a short time at one hour, thirty-three minutes) and given us more romance and character development. In the end, it could have been an excellent film; for now, it's a slightly-better-than-most.There *are* some excellent scenes, particularly near to the end when McNelly threatens to kill a female traitor among them and Dunnison challenges his decision. The bad guy is despicable. The camera photography is gorgeous, but there's too much violence (although non-graphic and bloodless) to keep the girls pacified. But, as one reviewer said, there are plenty of good looking guys in chaps! Ladies, Dylan is a knockout. Guys - Rachael Leigh Cook is gorgeous. The musical score is thrilling. I'll probably see it again on video. The film begins on a promising note but kind of fumbles along the way. It would be highly interesting to see a Director's Cut and learn what was left on the studio floor. "},{"Title":"It was OK!","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This film could have been much better than it actually was. Sure the scenery and cinematography were beautiful, but the storyline seemed to be tossed out the window after half an hour. Shame as it had a strong cast, but they weren't allowed to perform as it seemed that the director pressed the fast forward button, there is no character development and actors seem to appear out of no where. An example being Eric Johnson from Smallville, I mean when did he enter the film! He wasn't in the first half of the movie but then halfway through and without an explanation there he was. Maybe if the film was longer and they concentrated on actually telling the story then this film would be great, because all the elements are there. What a shame? "},{"Title":"Basic but distracting western that will serve as cable TV filler for a few years before vanishing","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" When his father is murdered by bandits, Lincoln Rogers Dunnison decides to join the Texas Rangers &#150; a group established by law to protect the land and stop outlaws by ant means. Along the way Dunnison meets the kind-natured George Durham, himself a victim of a bandit attack, and they join up together. Things are practically a game until the first time the group take on the Fisher King head to head, losing many young men before retreating. After this the Rangers regroup and prepare to go after the bandits again.Some reviewers have said this is like a TVM, others have said it is like a pilot for a TV series, but neither is true. The names involved all reveal that this is actually a proper film that the makers expected to be able to hold its own in the cinemas which, having watched it myself, seems like a very optimistic ambition. The plot is simple and it doesn't seem to aim for anything other than being a basic western that has bangs but not much else. The characters are painted in very broad strokes that do the minimum to establish the group but not enough to draw the audience in or convince me to care for them. The story goes pretty much where you expect it to and, while it is serviceable, it is nothing worth writing home about.The cast are not impressive but they are at least recognisable. Never having watching Dawson's Creek the appeal of Van Der Beek is lost on me and he just seems stuck on pretty boy mode, unable to do anything with his character at all. Kutcher is no better although he is at least a little comic, which helps lighten the overly serious tone. McDermott makes for an obvious but enjoyably gruff head to the group, while support from Patrick and Skerritt add something to the film. Molina only has a small but key role and at least appears to be enjoying himself but the presence of Usher is a mystery to me. Cook and Varela (particularly the latter) both add looks to the film but it doesn't know what to do with them other than stare at them.Overall this is a basic but distracting modern western. It has gunfights and such but no depth to it whatsoever &#150; if we were meant to be drawn into the characters enough to look forward to a possible series of films then I'm afraid it totally failed. It does enough to fill the time but with so many classic westerns in the world, why would you watch one starring Van Der Beek, Usher and the modern Jeremy Beadle? "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie, expecting it to be some great exceptional western.  I was disappointed.  The acting was alright, but the story was so weak. The characters were not very likable as far as I was concerned.  It jumped around to quickly from plot to plot, and overall was just a big let down. Another recent western, American Outlaws, while not the best was much better than this one.  It's characters were more likable, the story was smoother and and was more exciting and, unlike Texas Rangers, also had a little bit of comedy in it.  I would recommend for no one to waste their time seeing Texas Rangers. "},{"Title":"It's not about the baseball team!","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I give this film a 5 or 6.  This film is not bad, but it's destined for the 99 cent bin at the video store.  Very low budget; it looks like a TBS original film.  The black actor, the guy off Dawson creek, and the other guy form That's 70's show, all have forgettable performances.  The saving grace for this film is the acting of the two older rangers.  Especially  the guy form the X Files, and T2, he always seems to do an excellent role for the little B material he's giving.  Worth watching, and easy to forget. "},{"Title":"I love movies with young, hot cowboys spoilers","Date":"30 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" WOW. This movie made me laugh and cry at the same time. I love Ashton and James and Usher and Jon and Matt and....ALL of them basically. I don't usually watch westerns but this movie was HOT!! I'd give it an 8 because it's one of my favorite movies, I cried when some of the guys died, but it happens. I love the costumes and some of the humor and the acting's good and it's just all around a good movie. I would totally recommend it for someone who's about my age but that's just my opinion. Email me if you'd like to chat about the movie. irishdreams88@hotmail.com ps-I CAN'T BELIEVE no one has posted about this movie yet. how rude. just kidding, i'm sure someone out there agrees with me "},{"Title":"Revenge or Justice","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Texas Rangers was pretty good.  It does not dwell on ridiculous slow motion violence, graphic gore, slow motion vomiting, all women as hookers, and self destructive cynicism which destroyed the western genre.  Rangers has none of that.  Rangers is driven by the story and has solid acting.The musical score is fine but the majestic music does not really fit the scene after some criminals were hung which was perhaps the most out of place scene in the movie.  it also contains the one African American actor who refers to himself as black. In todays films it seems that all African Americans must refer to themselves as black in films which seems so goofy.Actually the film does touch on a few dark issues regarding the Texas Rangers but all and all respects the Rangers which in itself is not a politically correct position today.  The film ultimately refers to the conflict between revenge and justice and law.I did prefer American Outlaw which is a film that people I know have watched many times.  Texas Rangers is also worth a watch.  It did seem a little short so lets have Texas Rangers 2. "},{"Title":"A Justification Of Summary Execution","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" While I understand that tough measures were needed (at the time) in trying to pacify a lawless frontier region, this movie tries to justify lynching and summary execution without due process - and fails. It also fails miserably to address the race question by allowing the 'token' black into the first batch of Ranger entrants when the first black did not get into the organisation until well into the 20th century. This is a movie trying and failing to be 21st c. politically correct in a 19th c. gang war (good guys v bad guys). Non-riveting performances from the main players with a less than average, clichéd storyline, this is a very poor movie all round. "},{"Title":"inferior western","Date":"11 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" It's 1875 Texas. Mexican bandits are ravaging the land. John King Fisher (Alfred Molina) and his men steal cattle and massacre a town. Lincoln Rogers Dunnison (James Van Der Beek) survives but his family is killed. George Durham (Ashton Kutcher) is a fellow survivor. Leander McNelly (Dylan McDermott) and his sergeants Frank Bones (Randy Travis) and John Armstrong (Robert Patrick) arrive to recruit new Rangers. Randolph Douglas Scipio (Usher Raymond) joins. Fisher takes traveling circus performer Perdita (Leonor Varela) prisoner. Richard Dukes (Tom Skerritt) is a cattle baron and Caroline Dukes (Rachael Leigh Cook) is his daughter.Director Steve Miner started with Friday the 13th sequels, made a couple of worthwhile films but mostly weaker efforts like this movie. He has settled into TV shows. This is loud and bombastic. McDermott is gruff and trying a little too hard to be cool. The Beek is the sincere boyscout. Kutcher is the comic relief and really annoying. This is an inferior western but I've seen worst. "},{"Title":"The Texas Rangers clean up the bandits in early Texas","Date":"31 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie has some of the best scenery and photography in a cowboy movie in a long time. I agree with one of the other reviews that this movie could have used another 30 minutes to develop character. The basic story is better than the usual; a heroic band of new Rangers against the outlaws. The acting was pretty good. Bits of humor added from time to time. The costumes were Hollywood accurate and were as varied as the men in their time. The shootouts were terrific. Well staged and filmed. If you like the old west, this one's for you. I was particularly interested in the accuracy of the fire arms, a pet peeve of mine. If you like that sort of thing, I saw old Sharps, brass frame .36 caliber Confederate pistols, a Henry or two, and the only time I was aware of firearm inaccuracy was when they fired the Gattling Gun more than the clip could hold. It's nice to see the revival of the Western. Hope it continues. "}{"Title":"Personally, I Enjoyed This, I Really Did.","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A ragtag group of youngsters band together after the American Civil War to form the Texas Rangers, a group charged with the dangerous, ruthless duty of cleaning up the West.Before I begin to get criticized for liking this movie, I will say that I am aware that this movie bares little resemblance to actual history. But at the same time, I found many things about this movie that I liked. Texas Rangers is a well made movie on the whole, it's not really that good as far as actual history is concerned, it's still a good movie nevertheless. Normally, I tend to be kind of uneasy with certain movies that tend to get the facts wrong, but this movie was an exception. Sure, there is little in this movie that pertains to history, but all the same, there is still much to recommend about the movie. The performances are committed, the scenery and cinematography are beautiful, and the script is will written. Texas Rangers may not be a masterpiece of the Western genre, but as a movie on the whole scale, it works, it works very well. The critics were wrong when they panned this movie, it's not a bad movie. It's not an excellent movie, but it's not bad, and is surely worth a viewing, or two.The cast gives well committed performances. Dylan McDermott gives the best performance in the movie in my opinion. He steals the show just about anytime that he is on screen. James Van Der Beek also does good in his role. I was kind of worried by Usher Raymond, because from everything that I had heard about this acting, he's not that good. However, he did surprisingly well in this movie. Alfred Molina is menacing in his role as John King Fisher, the main antagonist of the movie. Everyone seemed committed to their roles, they didn't overact or underact. The only problem that I really had besides the inaccuracies would be with Steve Miner's directing. He did a good job, but in some of the most exciting scenes, he kind of had the camera in the wrong spots. But in the climax of the movie however, he doesn't miss, he hits the target right in the middle, so he more than makes up for his earlier mistakes.In short, Texas Rangers may not be one of the greatest movies of the Western film genre, but it certainly is not all of the grief that most of the critics gave it. Although you may be turned off by some of the historical inaccuracies, the movie makes up for it with some things that you would expect to see in a Western movie. What I mean by that is, this movie has got action, gunfights, excitement, and much more. So if you want action and excitement, you'll get it if you watch this movie. However, all of the action in this film is relevant to the plot, it's not mindless and meaningless. Well anyway, if you want to see a good Western, then ignore all of the negative things that you may have heard about this movie and see it for yourself, as it's actually a good movie, and you won't be disappointed if you watch it.8/10 "},{"Title":"Younger Guns","Date":"17 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A decade after the Civil War, Texas is overrun by a virtual army of bandits and cattle-rustlers. Ex-Confederate/ex-preacher/ex-lawman Dylan McDermott is tasked with recruiting a new a new generation of Texas Rangers to take on vicious cattle rustler Alfred Molina.From the director of such classic westerns as Friday the 13th Part 2, House, Halloween H2O, and Warlock (nope, not the one with Henry Fonda and Anthony Quinn), and co-starring cowboy icons James Van Der Beek, Ashton Kutcher, and Usher, this failed history lesson makes the stars of Young Guns look like the The Wild Bunch!All kidding aside, it's not really THAT bad. Production values are good and action sequences are well-made. An economical 90-minute running (featuring eight-minutes of end credits!) may, or may not help. It's hard to tell.The main problem is that the characters are superficial and the youthful cast of very recognizable stars looks painfully out-of-place in 1875 Texas. I'm a bit surprised this actually made it to theaters, instead of straight-to-video or The Hallmark Channel.Though miscast, Molina does seem to be enjoying himself! "},{"Title":"This movie is OK for a rainy day off.","Date":"31 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Everything is in place for this to be a great movie stars, good historic subject matter, locations/scenery, photography, costumes. However, it misses the mark when it comes to depth and heart. All the way through I enjoyed the familiar faces and the beautiful scenery, so I kept thinking I'd start to care about the characters, or that something would happen to create depth and pull me in, but no. What a waste of actors and subject matter--The Texas Rangers is a great subject, but this movie doesn't do it 'justice'. If you are home from work, sick, or if it's a rainy Sunday and there's nothing better on, this is better than nothing. It may feel like a waste of your time, otherwise, if you value your time at all. "},{"Title":"Where's Tommy Lee Jones when you need him?","Date":"6 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" A movie that should never have seen the light of day, and probably the worst Western ever made. A group of young men, right after the Civil war, take it upon themselves to bring law and order to Texas. The cover art and the general feel of his lame film is stolen from YOUNG GUNS, but it is nowhere near as interesting and most of the characters are cardboard cutouts. A wooden Dylan McDermott leads the squadron as they race around Texas hunting down bad guys. Nothing much actually happens, the film is badly edited and the often loud, overbearing music doesn't fit the production. On top of everything else, this looks like it cost about a dollar and a half to make. I can understand why this thing sat on the shelf for several years. "},{"Title":"Hollywood History - what did you expect?","Date":"2 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The movie is loosely based on the history of the Texas Rangers, an outstanding law enforcement agency - back then and now. Folks, there are great Western movies, and there are oaters. This is an oater, so forget realism and enjoy it.I really liked the wholesale massacre scenes, something that was very rare in the West. Hey, you kill all the people today, who do you rob next week? And they had some eastern law student - now a Texas Ranger - finally kill King Fisher. Believe it or not, but King Fisher eventually gave up his life of crime (he was worn out by all his trials - not the first person to be overwhelmed by the legal system) and became a well respected sheriff. But he did finally die in a shootout - in a theater of all places. "},{"Title":"Fictionalize history of an historical law enforcement legend.","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  No wonder this movie stayed on the shelf for two years--it should have stayed there!  They take a small part of the Texas Rangers and rewrite history; and then butcher it even more!!  On the contrary, the Texas Rangers were founded before the Civil War. One of their most famous members was (Confederate General) Benjamin McCulloch, who was killed at the Battle of Pea Ridge, Arkansas 7 March 1862. Texas Ranger McNelly was instrumental in bringing law enforcement to the Nueces area of Texas.  The main outlaw in the movie was John King Fisher, a colourful character of that era who was both outlaw and lawman.  He died in an ambush with his friend Ben Thompson in 1884. Also, they have the Texas Rangers throwing dynamite at the outlaws. Never happened!!! Dynamite was not invented until 1898 by Alfred Nobel. Will Hollywood ever change?  Even as fiction, the movie was not that good. Out of five stars, I will give it one star.  "},{"Title":"Factual Farce","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was supposed to be a great movie but before it even got started good, I was totally disappointed. John King Fisher and Capt. McNelly were not at all the people they were portrayed to be. I was disgusted to the point that I did not even enjoy the movie at all. If they wanted to make a good movie, they could have at least gotten the facts correct. The only thing true about this whole movie was the fact that Capt. McNelly died of TB. John King Fisher was not killed in Mexico, and he never stole or destroyed peoples property in the manner that was shown. He stole back cattle that had been stolen from the citizens of his community in Carrizo Springs, Texas. He was also a lawman when he was killed in San Antonio, Texas several years after Capt. McNelly was dead. How do I know this, I have been researching the family of John King Fisher extensively, as he is an ancestor.If you haven't seen this movie, DON'T! It's not worth the time to even look at it on the shelf. "},{"Title":"Average western","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ** HERE BE SPOILERS ** Recap Texas is a territory without law, bandits are roaming free, especially the bandit Fisher that steals cattle and sells them in Mexico. However, his brutal ways creates a lot of enemies and finally the former Southern captain Leander McNelly is persuaded to once again form the Texas Rangers. Among the many recruits are young Dunnison, Durham and Scipio who all has been affected by the bandits. With the Texas Rangers formed, the chase is on...Comment Simplistic story, just enough to satisfactory explain the shootouts. There are a lot of them, the make up most of the movie. Since they're not bad, the movie is entertaining, though it lacks any deeper thought or story. A lot of interesting cast, but the story leaves no room for any greater performances. They're not bad though. As you may have figured out, my take on the movie can be summed up in one word. Average.5/10 "},{"Title":"Old West charm, modern twists","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The story follows a group of young men turned Texas Rangers and their struggle to keep the peace from cattle stealing bandits. The movie hearkens back to the old Old West movies with John Wayne. The fight between questionably good Texas Rangers and the ruthless, murdering bandits draws you in with humor, honor, courage, and simply a good gun fight. The young and fresh cast of James Van Der Beek, Ashton Kutcher, Usher Raymond, and Rachel Leigh Cook bring the story of the west to a younger audience who will love the adventure. Although it is strange to see Dawson play a cowboy, James Van Der Beek pulls it off convincingly. The story brings the post-civil war America to life with an interesting tale of pushing the boundaries to bring justice to the people. "},{"Title":"Trite","Date":"13 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Let me begin by saying that the producers must have thought that the majority of their ticket sales would come from teenage girls with a fascination for Dawson's Creek and That 70s Show.  The acting was mediocre, and the story so clichéd and trite that one can only imagine that the screenwriters meant this film only for the juvenile mind.  Ashton Kutcher seems determined to continue to be typecast, and Rachel Leigh Cook could well do with expanding her range as an actress.  One can only hope that if a sequel is made a better script can be found. "}{"Title":"awful","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" The question isn't why this movie wasn't released for two years it is, why was it released at all? I can't remember when I ever saw a movie this bad. In fact I watched it so I would learn how a bad movie is made. What a waste of money. This movie will make it difficult for Western movies to be made. It is a shame that so much money was spent making a bad movie. I guess the money did support jobs. I grew up watching Westerns and I would like to see them come back again. I hope that maybe the movie True Grit will help bring them back. But, certainly, there are going to have to be better script writers. Though not mentioning Texas Rangers by name, talk about a large numbers of guffaws it is unreal how the Rangers temporarily transferred to Mexico to work on catching outlaws, apparently alluding Mexican Army and thieving cattle and horses. I never saw so many people killed at one time how ridiculous it could have been a ten line script. "},{"Title":"Don't Learn your History from this Movie","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" I watched 5 minutes and found way too many historical inaccuracies. Not a single man is dressed like a Texas Ranger. The Captain of the Rangers threatens to track down a departing Ranger because he is stealing Ranger clothes, a Ranger badge, Ranger boots, a Ranger horse. To this day, the Rangers pay for their own clothes. In the old days, most Rangers refused to wear a badge because it was thought of as a target for the bad guys. Horses were not provided to any Ranger -- officer or enlisted. Many, if not most, Rangers did not wear the traditional cowboy hats. The Texas sun is too strong. Sombreros were very popular. Rangers were always on their horses. They did not wear their guns low like a gunslinger. That would be stupid. They wore them high so that they could get to them easier while mounted.You could make 30 or 40 good movies about the Rangers and their dealings with outlaws like Bass and Hardin. They could make a darn good comedy out of the One riot/One Ranger Dallas prizefight. They could make a great movie about Judge Roy and Langtry. Judge Roy Bean is the guy who eventually put on that prizefight, even though the Rangers did everything they could to stop it. They could have made a great movie about the Ranger who tracked down Bonnie and Clyde.They could have made a monumental movie. But instead they focus on crap. They present crap. They look like crap. They dress like crap. They speak like crap. No one in Texas, past or present, speaks like the goobers in this movie.In their entire history, the Rangers lost just one important battle. Besides that battle (Salinero Revolt), this movie is the blackest mark on Ranger history. "},{"Title":"Old school Western","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Texas Rangers gives a fictionalized accounting of a brief period in the life of Capt. Leander McNelly (McDermott) and his band of Texas Rangers who helped control outlawing and Mexico cross-border raids in South Texas in the late 1800's following the Civil War. The film is strictly an old school sh**kickin' Western action shoot-'em-up where the good guys are handsome, the bad guys ugly, and the gals are all babes. There's little plot, lots of riding and shooting, and a PG-13 rating for violence only (meaning no bad language, drugs, sex, nudity, etc.) making it a good no-brainer popcorn flick for young and old couch potatoes into butt kickin' Westerns. Best saved for broadcast. (C) "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"27 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" This movie is terrible. The only value that can possibly come from watching this awful film is the unintentional laughs you'll get from it several times during the otherwise entirely wasted hour and a half you'll spend watching this. Okay here is a good place to give you this advice, don't waste that hour and a half, watch something else or do something else, I kept watching thinking and hoping it would have to get better but it never did. The writing is pathetic but what really stands out is the incredibly pathetic acting, Ashton Kutcher stinks in everything I've seen him in but this performance is by far the worst I've ever seen from him, maybe it's because this is the only non-comedy role I've seen him in so him trying to do drama really stands out as just wrong. James Van Der Beek is very bad in this too but he still shines next to Ashton Kutcher. If you don't believe me and really do have an hour and a half to waste then watch it, you will get a couple chuckles out of watching Ashton Kutcher deliver lines in a pathetic attempt to act. "},{"Title":"this just in...","Date":"20 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" i'm afraid i have some bad news,this movie is not so good.it's not quite horrible,but it is all over the map and muddled.it's also slow and boring.there's little excitement,and no real climax.still,i have seen much worse.i guess i was just hoping for more.the acting wasn't necessarily horrible,but most of the actors didn't appear to be putting a lot of effort into it.it takes place about 10 years after the end of the American Civil War.the Texas rangers had been disbanded right around the time of the war.now,10 years later,they are about to be reformed.their missionto protect Texas land and people from bandits roaming through the state.sounds like it has some potential,doesn't it.well,unfortunately it never reaches that potential.for me,Texas Rangers is a 4/10 "},{"Title":"If you want to know about Texas Rangers...","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" ...save your cash for a Walker, Texas Ranger marathon; it'll have more facts than this pile of crap.For a Western with pretty men, prettier ladies, and ugly sons of guns as the Bad Guys, this is okay at it's best. For this to try for the based on style? Uh-uh.The dialog was sad, the situations as predictable as a TV-movie, and the biggest sin of all- it was draggy. Not slow paced, but deadly dull with talking heads you don't really care too much about.As a Texan, I was upset for how the real Rangers were shown. While I know that not all early Rangers were men of sterling character, I sincerely hope that they were more than this group of navel-gazers. "},{"Title":"Plot?","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry did i miss the plot?  Or was it just so thin and jagged that it was impossible to see?  Am I supposed to care about these characters? I could have cared less about any of them, and anyone that thinks that Ashton Kutcher can act like anyone else than the character he originated from (That 70's show) needs to tell them that Demi's boy toy has a long way to go and many acting lessons to take.  Probably the worst western i have seen, and quite the waste of talent and big names. "},{"Title":"American Outlaws better","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Texas Rangers was pretty good.  It does not dwell on ridiculous slow motion violence and graphic gore which destroyed the western genre.  Rangers is driven by the story and has solid acting.The musical score is fine but the majestic music does not reall fit the scene after some criminals were hung which was perhaps the most out of place scene in the movie. Actually the film does touch on a few dark issues regarding the Texas Rangers but all and all respects the Rangers which in itself is not a politically correct position today.I did prefer American Outlaw which is a film that people I know have watched many times.  Texas Rangers is also worth a watch.  It did seem a little short so lets have Texas Rangers 2. "},{"Title":"Okay film, but a big disappointment","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I didn't feel this movie was as horrible as everyone has been saying....however, I think it could have used some help in the casting area. Contrary to everyone else's opinions, I felt Dylan McDermott's performance was awful.  He overacted through the entire film, and I kept comparing him to William Shatner and Charlton Heston.  Intensity is fine, Dylan, just don't overdo.  James Van Der Beek (sp?) wasn't too bad, but a little too cutesy, Usher Raymond's role seemed too much like a token role to fill the racial quota, and Ashton Kutcher....well, doesn't he ever tire of playing a moron, or is he just really like that in real life???  Dude, where's my horse?The only shining members of this cast were Robert Patrick and Randy Travis. Poor Robert Patrick...can't ANYONE give him a good movie???  He is obviously one of the best actors in the business, and terribly underrated.  He always ends up in bad movies as the one redeeming quality (remember Striptease??? everyone loved him in that one).I keep thinking if they had used better judgment in casting, this film may not have ended up doing so poorly.  All in all, a fair film.  "},{"Title":"A Real Stinker","Date":"4 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This movie was so bad i thought i was watching a made for tv movie!  I guess some of the young tv actors got to go out and ride some horses and some fun getting paid for it, but as far as making a good western they came up LAME~ "}{"Title":"Texas Hot Sauce needed for this dry piece of meat","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":" Does anyone have any sauce for this rotted piece of meat I would like to call a film? It has left this dry taste in my mouth that I feel only some A1 or actual oxen blood would be able to quench. Seriously, this was one of the worst excuses for a western film that I have seen in a very long time. I grew up watch the Duke with my father and was always impressed with the vast landscape of the uncharted America and the troubles that faces these pioneers on a daily basis. I expect to see that same quality or better in the westerns that are made today because we have the technology to make them stronger, more entertaining, and powerful, but I guess Texas Rangers decided to go a different route. They decided to hire a TV director and a bunch of TV stars to help create that sense of reality in the film. So, instead of seeing Texas through the eyes of the adventuresome, we witnessed Texas through a sound stage in Hollywood as our youth of the WB whimpered in their trailers and thought about the girls of tomorrow. Who decided on final casting for this film? I know the Weinsteins were not behind this, or were they? This was the biggest hurdle to overcome in this film, and while I spent most of my energy on that, I discovered that there were actually more hurdles to follow. The story coupled with the poor production was another hit to this already devastating picture.Let's talk about the actors that chose to place their names to this picture. How about I actually start with a quote from Dylan McDermott from the supplemental features of this DVD. He says something along the lines of, Material like this doesn't come around everyday, and when it comes to your door, you have to take it because you never know when it will be around again. Can we be certain he was talking about Texas Rangers? I wonder how much he was paid for that sound bite. The material was rated second worst behind the acting in this film. Anyone with a 4th grade reading skill could see this. I guess McDermott had someone else reading his work for him. While I would say that McDermott was the only one holding this film, he continually dropped it on more than one occasion. His character was decent, but not the greatest hero that I have seen emerge from the Mason-Dixon line. I think what hurts him the most was that he had to work next to James Van Der Beek, who never felt like a hero to me. I never really watched Dawson's Creek, but I have this feeling that he brought some of his character from the television show to the film. It was embarrassing to see him act, especially during his climactic ending that seemed more like amateur night at the local bar instead of acting. Can we be certain that this wasn't community theater we were witnessing, except with a bigger budget? The same can be said for Randy Travis, Usher (in a very pathetic role), Kutcher (suffers miserably from miscast syndrome), and Molina (typecast for the paycheck, and it was very obvious in this film). I think that most were so excited to be working with their friends, that they forgot that this was an actual paying role and they would need to put some work into it. Even Rachael Leigh Cook was absurd. Her final speech in the film had me laughing hysterically, and it wasn't intended to be funny in the least bit. Miner completely miscast this entire film, and it is obvious from the revenue that nobody else was buying it either.With no support from the actors the story was sure to fall, and it did. There was nothing spectacular or original about the story. I have even read articles that state that the overall story behind this film was false and very fabricated. How can you take yourself seriously when you are trying to make a true story from fiction? Only Charlie Kaufmann could successfully do this and I did not see his name anywhere on the credits. This was a shoddy piece of workmanship that does not deserve to be called either a western or a adventure or a drama. I would only use the word junk to describe what Miner has created.Overall, if you couldn't tell already, I didn't like this film. From the opening credits until the futile ending it was nothing but pain souring through my eyes and mind as I watched the story unfold. The ensemble acting proved that you could bring together all the wrong people and create 100% disaster. Nobody in this film seemed to fit in the least bit. With the actors completely miscast, the story seemed like wet paper. Nothing was of any substance. This was a poor excuse for a film, a poor excuse for history, and a poor excuse to try to appeal to the pre-teen girls of America. Hopefully we have all learned a lesson from this and can move on without any troubles. GULP. I hope&#133;Grade * out of ***** "},{"Title":"AWFUL - As bad a movie as has even been made!!","Date":"26 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  Where do I begin? For a movie with absolutely no plot, this movie was still predictable. To add insult to injury . . . a movie about Texas Rangers filmed in Canada!! No script  plus no plot plus lousy acting equals Texas Rangers. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Please do not watch this movie","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  This film was poorly conceived and executed. The plot? Bad-guys! Shoot them! Evidently law and order are good things, except when fighting banditos! Shoot them! There is no character development, there are no characters. There are some marginal actors who play second fiddle to lots of meaningless gunshots. None of the actors has the opportunity to do anything interesting. I don't know who to blame more the director? the writer? the morons who gave this the go-ahead? I'll admit I was looking to see Once upon a Time in China 2 (which *is* a worthwhile movie) and this was in the wrong place (partly my fault). But honestly, this was a terrible movie. Not a western, not a modern take. Just men in cowboy outfits shooting guns with the typical modern clichés disrespected, competent black man who earns respect, strong oppressed woman, religious woman, myopic men shooting. Yay! Please don't see this movie. It will make you cry. and yell at it. Further, I have no beef with any of the actors and I even like Ashton Kutcher, but the actors have no opportunity for anything. Their talent / craft was superfluous for this terrible film that only required bodies in period costumes.  "},{"Title":"ashton kutcher was hilarious...","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  but then i was laughing at him. every time he spoke i kept thinking of kelso. who thought dawson would make a believable cowboy? this is a ridiculous waste of celluloid made only to cash in on its celebrity cast. see it only if your in the mood for a larf. if you want a good western stick with the classics.1/10 "},{"Title":"Very disappointing....","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  No plot, bad casting, bad acting,  filmed in Canada????.... What a waste of time.   "},{"Title":"This was very bad","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe a movie studio would greenlight this film.  It was terrible. The story was awful.  Even the action scenes with a lot of gunfighting were badly edited.  And Rachel Leigh Cook has nothing more than a cameo in this. And they had to throw in a little racism by having Usher constantly complaining about having to be the scout.FINAL VERDICT   No wonder this movie was shelved for so long.  Don't bother with this unwatchable western. "},{"Title":"Not a good job.","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Drama","Review":"  I searched for this film at every rental store I could find so that I could watch it.  I am a fan of Westerns, and of Rachael Leigh Cook.  I almost bought the DVD, until I finally found it at Blockbuster.  I was so glad that I didn't buy it!This movie was extremely poor.  With the actors that they cast, I was really expecting a great movie, but instead it was an over-the-top, just plain awful film.I rate-*1/2 "}]