[{"Title":"Not a Harlequin style romance.","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"77 out of 86 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	Before I comment on this film two introductory remarks are necessary. (1) I recommend anyone who is aware of the way in which it was panned by the critics (puerile self conscious euro-trash, etc) to forget these reviews. I believe it is an unusually rewarding work to see. (2) The title is very misleading, just reading it one cannot be aware of the irony with which it must have been chosen, and anyone expecting to see the film equivalent of a Harlequin novel needs to be warned in advance.	The story is of a young women who loves her very unresponsive husband, but finds the dissatisfaction she feels from her rare and unfulfilling copulation with him drives her into a series of increasingly destructive extra-marital relationships. These are very graphically portrayed, although she struggles to keep her marriage intact. To me this is perhaps the most unsatisfying aspect of the film - today I would have expected that such a marriage would have broken up very quickly and the woman involved would have felt free to look for a more fulfilling relationship. However many films and novels are based on the theme of women who accept either indifference or a great deal of both physical and mental abuse from partners that they love, and I must accept that this is an important theme for a film.      	Although the story is far from new, it is handled here with unusual sensitivity and understanding. Some of the sex scenes would normally only be seen in a hardcore porn film and this appears to be what has upset most of the critics, but I cannot go along with this as a valid criticism. Why should films exploiting torture, death and destruction be accepted as mainstream, whilst those dealing with the personal relationships so vital to living a fulfilling life become subject to censorship?  However it is important to warn anyone considering viewing this film that although it contains a great deal of graphic sexual activity it is never erotic.These scenes (even those between the young woman and her husband with whom she is certainly in love) uniformly show cold mechanical and meaningless relationships which are ultimately self destructive. They concentrate on the emotions of the woman concerned and, since she is largely passive in most of them, and can often only convey the story through her facial expressions, such scenes require both a very fine actress and a very sensitive director in order to succeed. In my opinion this film provides both. It could probably only have been directed by a woman, and one can sense the determination of both the director and the lead actress to draw viewers of both sex into the story so that they are not merely voyeurs, but are forced to consider its relevance both to their own lives and to those of their friends.    	Ultimately the ending of a film of this type can make or mar it. Both a happy and a totally tragic ending for what is intended to be a look at the lives of quiet desperation lived by many women would be inappropriate. Instead the director has taken our understanding of her main character further forward by showing us that for many such women their ultimate satisfaction comes from their children rather than from their life partner.	It is a mark of a successful film when graphic images from it keep coming back to mind long afterwards, particularly when these images force one to consider whether there are lessons in it applicable to ones own life. I believe this would be the experience of most of those who see this film  Although I would NOT recommended it as either a skin flick or an erotic film for a couple to watch together in the bedroom, I have no hesitation in recommending it strongly to all those who adequately appreciate what they can expect from it.  "},{"Title":"Sistas are doing it for themselves.","Date":"24 October 2004","Score":"32 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It isn't surprising that male reviewers haven't understood this movie. It's erotica for girls, folks! Far more sexy than boring old in-out, roundabout porn. The plot, the subtext, the talking, is all a substrate to set up the fantasies - necessary, but secondary to the sex. In fact, it is almost a Nancy Friday-esque catalogue of fantasies - sex with a stranger, being a prostitute, being raped, being tied up and um, pleasured, by someone tender and caring (for a porn star). And when Maria actively sets up the sexual situations while being entirely passive within them, it is the ultimate female fantasy. We never see penetrative sex between her and the headmaster-she just lies there and enjoys it, while he does all the work. There's nothing reciprocal about it - it's all for her.The giveaway is the illustrated fantasy with Maria and Paul on one side of a wall, dressed in white and chaste, while on the other side, her lower half, dressed in naughty French maid suspenders and can-can style dress, is ready to be had by one of many anonymous, naked studs. It's almost a straight take from one of the more elaborate fantasies illustrated in NAncy Friday's My Secret Garden - the only difference being that in the fantasy on the chaste side the women were having their hair and nails done.Seen in this context, the strange, irritating and self indulgent rants of our heroine make far more sense. Why does she stay with her boyfriend? Because he is a plot device, around which the whole fantasy is woven. Why does she have a baby? Because this is one of the strongest female sexual experiences. Why is Paul killed off at the end? Well, they had to find some way of ending the movie, didn't they? "},{"Title":"A movie about realising identity - not about gender","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"29 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was very confused at the end of 'Romance' as to whether I liked it or not, and whether I thought it was a good film or not. The best bit for me was probably the Q&A with director Catherine Breillat at the end. She was (especially with the help of a translator) very interesting and articulate - whether one agreed with her or not - and I found the film a valuable commentary on her thoughts rather than the other way round.The film is confusing; as we are aware, this is not pornography - but what *is* it about? Gender issues? Masochism? The female central character goes through a number of extreme sexual encounters and eventually finds some sense of identity unrelated to her sense of being part of a sexual partnership - although the struggle to find that identity has necessitated exploring her sexual desire. The other issue is censorship, as Breillat has something of a mission to push back censorship; this is related to her philosophical take on sexuality however rather than abolishing censorship for the sake of doing so alone. That which (sexually) disgusts us is twinned to that which (sexually) uplifts - the difference is not in the type of act but in the context - all of which is an extended metaphor on censorship itself. Breillat claims that the acts we find offensive in real life are also the acts we find offensive in images, an idea which in itself can lead to some self-awareness. But to Breillat, sexuality has become stereotyped in films. Show she wants to explore the boundaries and show that those boundaries, in themselves, are not good or bad, just as many acts, stereotyped as disgusting or wonderful, are not so in themselves but only in how we make them.The degree to which she achieves this in 'Romance' may be the subject of debate for a long time to come. I hope I get the chance to see and study some of her other films. I hope the film is not cut by the censors. As to whether it is a great movie, I am less sure (after a lot of discussion and thought I'm slightly more inclined to say it is than it isn't though!) As I am gradually convinced of the director's unshaking artistic integrity I am more willing to put in the effort to understand her rather complex thought. As her film is her principle expression of this thought I have ranked it quite highly - largely for what she attempts, with whatever success, than what she achieves. As Sartre pointed out, success is more in the journey than the achievement. "},{"Title":"Romancing Marie","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"22 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marie and Paul, who are lovers, are a mismatched pair. The fact that Marie's sexual expectations are not fulfilled by the elusive Paul, can be traced to the fact that he is a model, who might be bisexual and who might care for Marie, or just be repulsed by her directness. The sad fact is that Marie feels abandoned by the same man she loves.The first clue of the way Marie and Paul are incompatible can be observed at the photographic shoot sequence at the beginning of the film. Paul is being made up in front of our eyes. He seems to be a narcissistic man in love with his looks. The way he poses for the camera gives us an indication where his mind is and when Marie tries to get his attention in bed, his attitude shows us a man who is not interested in having sex.Marie goes into a life of adventure finding sexual relief in the furtive meetings she is seen engaging in with men that only want to satisfy themselves. It's only Robert who captures what Marie is all about. As they begin a series of kinky encounters, Paul appears not to even suspect what Marie is doing. His proposal of marriage comes quite unexpectedly even though they have been living together for a while.Marriage brings a change in the way Marie looks at sex, but finds ways to make her visits to the doctor play tricks in her imagination as she is examined by a group of assistants. When labor begins, it's Robert who she contacts because Marie realizes he is in the same wave length and Paul, who never wakes up from his drunken stupor, never knows what hits him.Catherine Breillat shows she has no fear in the way she presents her films. She is frank about the way she perceives Marie's situation. Ms. Breillat film, like with A Real Young Girl, bears it all for her viewers. There is nothing left to the imagination, yet, her feminist sensibility is not to be discarded as it makes one thinks about this young woman and all what's going on in her mind.Caroline Duceny plays Marie with conviction. Sagamore Stevisin is seen as Paul and Francois Berland plays Robert. They all respond well to Ms. Breillat's commands.Obviously, this is not a film for everyone that doesn't want to see it with an open mind. Most of the subtle comments will be lost by the viewer that approaches this film as an erotic, even a pornographic attempt to mix sex for shock value. "},{"Title":"Skip the R-rated version and go for the NC-17 version.","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Though I have a comprehensive review below I wanted to add that some comments here are from people who saw a severely edited version of the film (the sex scenes removed or cropped off).  This would be similar to removing the battle scenes from Star Wars.   "},{"Title":"Why all the fuss?","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Romance achieved a lot of attention in Australia as it was initially banned. Now it's available from any decent video store so every adult can see what the fuss was all about. I think few of them will be able understand why the censors had so much problem with it. Basically you have several hard-ons and a bit of bondage in the middle of a talky French art-house movie. The fundamental problem with Romance is we can never understand what Marie sees in Paul. It's as simple as that. If we COULD understand then perhaps we'd have a provocative and thought-provoking examination of love, sex, loyalty and betrayal. But we don't. It's not to say the movie isn't worth watching, just don't expect too much. Last Tango In Paris was much braver and confronting (albeit less explicit) nearly thirty years ago. Closer to home, Breaking The Waves shares some similar themes and situations, and is a much more successful and emotionally involving experience. "},{"Title":"Not as dreadful as you've read, but too much TALK.","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"27 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Men hate it.  Probably because it's not quite the pornography its detractors accuse it of.  Women love it.  Because it restores a woman's voice to the erotic?  It also offers insultingly implausible solutions to genuine traumas; lacks the empathetic courage to embrace the dreamlike possibilities of its heroine's quest; and suggests motherhood as a woman's most fulfilling role.  The film only becomes dull in the second half, and is more amusing than you might think, but the dreary visuals, trite metaphors, unimaginative use of voiceover and dialogue, and self-pitying acting soon become enervating. "},{"Title":"at best a few curious intellectualized moments and some (appropriately) uncomfortable real sex.  the rest...","Date":"28 August 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Someone hit the proverbial nail-on-the-head with Romance. A critic wrote that it's like a bad update of an Antonioni film, and I think that's about as fair a description as one could ask for. It may also depend on how you feel already about Antonioni and his depiction of the precise lack of love or responsiveness of emotional contact in people - or, perhaps, if you've even actually seen an Antonioni movie. While Catherine Breillat probably (and, I would admit, rightfully) considers herself a thoughtful, passionate filmmaker interested in passionless people and in trying to pick apart the thoughts (or anti-thoughts) of a character like Marie, I have to ask after a while, in a film that doesn't have Antonioni-stature direction or compositions what's the point? We have seen women like this in other movies, in loveless relationships or going out to spread or fulfill their empty wishes or such with others. Such as, yeah, Antonioni, but others too.It's frustrating to watch, to say the least, but I wasn't ready at first to hold that against the movie. I wanted to see what it had to say, to see how Breillat would show people just having realistic sex, explicit in depiction (naturally, and believe you me its real sex) and talking like couples (or not-couples) do in such situations. I tried to stick with Marie's self-analyzing, her self-aggrandizing thoughts expressed in the first-person narration. In an odd way Caroline Ducey gives a good performance, or better than I remember at the time watching it, since she is good enough to not really need the narration to fill in the audience. Her face, her lack of expression, her inverted and bored and, perhaps, deep down f***ing scared self, show enough. The telling becomes overkill, even from a psychological stand-point.Some may not agree with this, and that's fine. Some may watch Romance and just love that it shows real people having problems and having such problems during real sex. For the first half I could stick with the movie even as it had its pretensions because I wanted to see where it headed with Marie's infidelity (with the unnecessary lie about being married). It's when the other guy at the school Marie teaches at, and takes her in and turns things up on the sado-masochist meter that I started to waver on it... and, odder still, got bored. It didn't interest me seeing how perverted this guy could get, or how accepting Marie was of it or how it was shot or scored or edited. I admired that it attempted at depicting such a torrid sexual situation so seriously, but it ultimately just didn't do it for me - not on the kind of level the old-school hardcore-serious-erotic films did (i.e. Last Tango in Paris).Romance is intelligent, and it does have something to say about women and loveless relationships. But was I moved by any of it or intellectually engaged after a certain point? No. It's a movie in a limbo where it wants to have something important to convey through art no matter what the cost, but the points aren't as interesting as its filmmaker thinks or terribly original. And if you just want to watch it for the sex, you're in for a not-too-good surprise. 5.5/10 "},{"Title":"A misunderstood masterpiece..?","Date":"1 December 2001","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Same as the likewise French exploitationer Baise-moi, which was released almost at the same time as this movie, there are some scenes of hardcore pornography added. But as Baise-moi only concentrates on surface visuals the message of Romance is to explain the emotional conflict of love and sexuality between men and women - told from a female point of view.A strange film at all, but also very fascinating and interesting executed - as long as you can put up its long dialogue-sequences, the sometimes metaphoric style and the fact that Romance is quite difficult to watch... Not the kind of stuff you´re normally used to enjoy as pure entertainment, because you´ll need time and nerves to sit this through..!8/10 "},{"Title":"Strong French movie","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The erotic scenes in this movie are splendid.  The actress and the director can explore female psychology in a way that men can understand. This is a movie that shows eroticism in all its beauty without vulgarity. Very good script by Catherine Breillat.  The dialogues are putting in place the exact atmosphere. "}{"Title":"Quick!!! Somebody get this girl laid!!!","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is the second Breillat movie I've seen. And I already agree with the haters. Catherine Breilat is a pretentious hack, and this movie proves it. Watching this film, I kept thinking Breillat needs to get laid, so that she can stop making these 'MEN ARE EVIL!' films.My first Breillat experience was Anatomy of Hell, and it was the biggest hogwash ever. It was like the porn version of the Lifetime network. I decided not to let one bad experience ruin it for me, so I watched Fat Girl and Romance, both left me feeling as though I wasted time and money.The movie has no plot except some woman being upset with her love life. The cover's statement the sexiest movie ever made is a flat out lie. There's NOTHING sexy in the movie. The sexiest thing in the movie is the cover art and that's it. The sex scenes are boring too, none of which are erotic.As for Catherine Breillat. I know her object is to explore Female Sexuality and that's not a bad thing. But the way she does it, it's like a parody of European Art House Cinema. I think she's faking the whole feminist angle so that she can get attention from art house seekers. Dude, do you know what would happen if a guy made a film about women the same way Breillat makes movies about men? He'd be torn to shreds. But with Cathy, it's intellectual. Yawn. Someone needs to slap Cathy upside the head and tell her that not all men are the evil creatures she makes them out to be. If anyone actually thinks Breillat is intellectual, then they don't know what intellectual is. Something something Vagina, Something something Penis, Something Something Woman, Something something Vagina and Man is NOT intellectual. It's just I hate men droning.Do not give your money to this pretentious hack or a filmmaker. Even Uwe Boll and Uli Lommel make better movies. "},{"Title":"Reversal of the Hollywood scheme","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (this is a repost... the other review I posted was somehow missing a part)In a perfect world, my opinion of ?Romance? would sound more or less like this.  This is a fairly interesting film about the crisis in a couple relation that, in some sense, manages to come up with some interesting and quite universal statements about the couple relation qua relation and qua adaptation to a life of routine after the initial sparks. The desire of the woman to test her sexual boundaries should be seen, I believe, in this context, together with the final realization that, after all, even a bondage experience can be as banal and squalid as everyday life. The film is quite typically French more spoken than physical, with the kind of conversation that French films seem to favor too intellectual to be spoken by real people in real life, but grounded enough to make you wish that you and your friends could speak like that.  It is probably not as good as ?la pianiste? but, then again, not many films are as good as ?la pianiste.? It is, however, an interesting analysis of a situation common to many couples. This, as I said, in a perfect world. Alas, this is not a perfect world and, somehow, the question of the sexual content of the film managed to dominate the question about its contents. Most of this, I must say, comes from the barbaric and puritan America, my country of adoption. To the more relaxed Europeans, I must point out that this is a country in which, on television, it is normal to see ?reality shows? with murder scenes, car crashes during high speed pursuits, and violent arrests; it is normal to see in prime time films with violent content that glorify the army and the ethos of war. Yet, it is illegal to show a woman?s breast, and curse words that in more liberal countries are considered quite normal are invariably, and audibly, beeped.  The sense and the moral choice behind all this escape me, but this is the background that one should have in mind to understand the outrage of some Americans in front of this film.Outrage which, I must say, is quite misplaced. With the exception of one or two scenes, the sex in the film is not very explicit and, even including the more ?racy? fellatio scenes, it is no more explicit that in Bellocchio?s ?Il Diavolo in Corpo,? which I saw (uncut) on Italian TV (quite late at night, to be honest). This outrage, however, and the puritanism that generated it, give this film its true significance, beyond the plot and the acting the reversal of the traditional Hollywoodian standard. The essential fact about this film is that, while sex is depicted with immaculate candor (without, I must add, the lewd and voyeuristic aspects of Hollywood?s depiction), violence is symbolic, hidden from view. The only violent death of the film is in an explosion that we only see from afar in a very sanitized version, the dead body is never shown, and the Fellinesque funeral points to the unreality and the absurdity of the whole occurrence.If a political message should be derived from this film, is a rejection of a culture that is trying to make sex unacceptable channeling sexual energies into violence, which is so often and so absurdly glorified and depicted into every gory detail. The call for sex versus violence implicit in the editing and the direction of this film is, I will add, a very healthy one.Not a great film, but a fairly good one. Recommended. "},{"Title":"Caroline Ducey worths the watch.","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched Romance for the wrong reason. I expected an entertaining brainless soft core sex movie. Instead, I got a drama with the necessary sex scenes and a clever plot.Caroline Ducey is great in her starring role. She's sweet, tender, but very sexy. Her sex scenes are not very pleasant to watch mainly because of her identity problem (specially the infamous doggy style sex scene) but still accomplishes the movie's objective.Romance could fit into the art category. Watch it if you like these kind of movies and for the beautiful and sexy Caroline Ducey. This woman is like no other because of her petite structure, thin, but with a hot body. Not to mention her angel face. "},{"Title":"An Empty Hole","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This film finds a place amidst the corners of `Last Tango in Paris,' `In the Mood for Love,' `Go Fish,' and `Trois Couleurs Bleu.' Sex as performance, life as audience of self.In terms of cinematic power, this is somewhat like `The Designated Mourner' in the sense of being a spoken meditation on self. It happens to be illustrated frankly, but to my mind effectively. This has some of the longest shots I can recall. All are narratively from the point of view of Marie. All are of her but also seen through her eyes.The two exceptions are jarring and therefore more shocking than the sex, which I found entirely natural. The first is a fantasy sequence toward the end, a much mentioned brothel/birthing split. The second is the last two minutes with a similarly fantastic and equally imagined death. They seemed Terry Gilliamish and out of place. I simply couldn't comprehend the space.This film has value in the place it defines and the rather insidious writing. It introduces some clever ideas that aren't really ideas, rather anti-ideas. And that's the point. This writing seemed more effective for me in the English subtitles than the English dubbing which was quite different. The subtitles were very much more poetic, if terse.`The son begets the Mother.' `Beauty feeds on degradation.' `There's a hole in your teaching.' `I can't even yield to myself.'There is a live birth here, something else that doesn't fit the carefully constructed abstract mood. But it is so much more powerful than a similar scene (intended for a similar effect in the same context) in Altman's `Dr T and the Women.'This is not great filmmaking, but it is worthwhile writing I think. "},{"Title":"Pretentious and Boring","Date":"17 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Let me start out by saying that I love non-English films, and I especially love those films with philosophical content, so with that in mindTHIS FILM STINKS!!!Supposedly this film investigates shows how love without sex for the main character is unfulfilling.  What this film presents--lots of casual sex with endless philosophising about it---is really boring and quite unsexy.  It reminds me of one of director Catherine Breillat's previous films, 36 Fillette, which I also disliked.Breillat made a poor choice with lead actress Caroline Ducey.  She has a expressionless face that engenders little sympathy for her situation.  She also has the terrible misfortune of resembling Celine Dion.The film, as serious as it is, has many unintentionally funny moments, especially the scenes with Caroline Ducey's principal at school.  SPOILER ALERT The ending is so ridiculous and preposterous that it seems to be a bad rip-off of a Michelangelo Antonioni movie from the '60's.  (And I don't mean that as a compliment) "},{"Title":"Insolid as a Rocco!","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A male porn star in a wannabe feminist treatise about human sexuality and unrequited desire? Get outta here!I feared the worst when I went to see this movie with some friends (we were 2 men and 3 women). After about 15 minutes (when the first person of the audience ostentatively left the cinema) we looked at each other and braced ourselves to sit through this uninspired, unsexy, unintriguing piece of film-making, and we knew that, yes, we would not be disappointed in our prediction This in one BAD movie!Although in some scenes the main actress is doing a fine job, her annoying voice from the off gets on your nerves after the second time you hear it.The sex scenes, albeit very graphical with frontal, dorsal and every other type of nudity imaginable, are rather more sickening than scintillating. Maybe that's the one point where the film succeeds; to depict sexuality as something frustrating, nauseating from a frustrated, nauseated woman's point of view.What my female colleagues hated the most about the movie was the tone of generalization. The film suggests that all women are like the main character and experience sex in that way; but, thank God, that's not true!The best scene of the movie was, strangely enough, dominated by a man (in the most literal sense), as the sadistic school head-master ties up the female main character in a Japanese bondage ceremony, all the while ranting on about how he f***ed Grace Delly (sic!) in Monaco some years ago. The monologue there was most likely improvised and, sadly enough, the improvisation is better than the rest of the (scripted) dialogue.Sorry folks, this film is not worth watching. If you wanna see well-done porn, rent porn. If you wanna see a well-done, psychologically sound movie about the troubles (and joys) of sexuality, watch Better than chocolate.This one here qualifies in neither category. "},{"Title":"You MUST watch the cut version of this film!","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 'Romance'. Another infamous French film of recent years. I just saw this in the UK on what I would be led to believe is a largely uncut release of the film. It ran at 95mins. While I am an absolute defender of the principle that films should be released uncut on whatever media, I have to go back on that stance and say not in this case. I wish I'd seen the cut version, not because of any moral concerns but merely because the film would have been shorter. At 95mins its not a long film anyway but it is just completely awful, truly awful. I really thought French cinema had shaken off all that portentous, overly written cine-philosophy. Clearly I was wrong. Do we really need another run down the road of the unknowability of woman, the contradictory impulses of desire, the dark continent of the body? - sorry, I sound like I'm writing the sequel here! Unintentionally parodic of the worst characteristics of French cinema, this film can only be saved by drastic cutting. How come 95 mins can say so much less than Tex Avery could in 10mins or fewer? "},{"Title":"Now I know how dissatisfied she was...","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I looked forward for weeks to working out the time to see this movie.  The reviews fascinated me.  It was clear from the first several scenes that this movie would prove to be a shocking hoax.  It was either a hoax or I missed the profound subliminal themes that enveloped this movie.  The script was lame.  The sex was amateurish.  The heroine evoked nothing but pity.  I felt victimized as I left the theater.  Erotic pornography would have been significantly more satisfying.  Don't waste your time.  "},{"Title":"lame movie, not even sexy","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is turgid and self-conscious.  French woman who hates herself and talks too much has a series of degrading affairs.  The script is a litany of anti-feminist statements.  The sex scenes are explicit but by  no means erotic.  The only good part was the tenderness and friendship with the man who puts her in bondage. "},{"Title":"intense, but unromantic film","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" From Catherine Breillat, the director who has made a name for herself bringing highly daring tales with female protagonists to the screen, such as 36 fillette and The Fat Girl, comes Romance, a melancholy story of dissatisfaction. Twenty-two year old Caroline Ducey delivers a wonderful performance as Marie, a school teacher lost within a sexless, unromantic relationship, who goes on a quest of sexual exploration. Romance is a film for mature audiences that tells a sad story of a woman searching for pieces of her fragmented identity. It's a graphically beautiful tale with explicit realism that sometimes treads within ambiguous waters. "}{"Title":"Sex in the City going borderline psychotic","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As is the glossy-mag custom to describe films I'd say this is Sex in the City going..going..gone borderline psychotic. Although I fully acknowledge, as a psychologist with a background in psychoanalysis, the twists, turns and depths of the human mind and state (as another user comments), I was really bored to tears in a film that makes-up really rather distressing psychopathology as uber-philosophy, choice, personality, etc. No, she was simply breaking down. My evidence- the totally facetious claim that the past is all gone. I wonder what the child whose (obsessive, boring) father she blew up will say about this past. Anyway, I was not shocked, I was simply bored and turned off. "},{"Title":"The This Is Spinal Tap of French sex flicks.","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh, the existential anguish, to feel like lost luggage! For the first fifteen minutes, I thought the problem might just be a goofy translation. But it soon became apparent that the filmmaker wasn't kidding, so I pretended she was and had a good laugh. Caroline Trousselard was a trouper, though. Sublimely silly, as only the French in full Sartre mode can be. The This Is Spinal Tap of French sex flicks, despite (or perhaps because of) its pretensions to art. I felt sorry for the cat. "},{"Title":"Forget the philosophy, just watch","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  For me, this film was about the nature of sexual relations between men and women. That is, romance and love are cons and don't exist. Sex is purely physical and the only true feelings associated with it are pain, fear, and disgust. And the only good thing to come of it is reproduction. If Catherine Breillat truly feels this way about it, then she's to be pitied. The lie is exposed in the fact that a real woman would have taken this self-absorbed male model for a walk along the Seine and kicked his ass in it during the first 10 minutes. On the other hand, as a directorial exercise, it is brilliant. You can experience and enjoy the imagery (explained in detail in previous posts) and story without buying into Breillat's pathetic philosophy. "},{"Title":"Not the quarry but the chase","Date":"23 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not sure I get Catherine Breillat, but what seems to be the theme of Romance, and of A Real Young Girl, as well, is the pursuit of her own sexuality by a woman who cannot keep up with it, and who finally just gives up trying. Like an unskilled rider astride a wild horse, she sits passive and lets sex take her wherever it will. In Romance, Marie has found herself a perfect male model to love, or at least to live with, but his only true love is himself, which is made clear in the very first scene, and ever clearer as the movie advances. Her self-defeating choice both expresses and exacerbates her alienation from her own sex, meaning both her gender and her generative organs.Reduced to its essence, Breillat's theme is woman as person versus woman as impersonal reproductive force. The development, separation, conflict, and reconciliation of these two sides of every woman are (or should be) the most fundamental themes of art, music, literature, mythology, and religion. Kudos to Breillat for tackling such an important and dangerous subject. It's just that, sigh, she does not do it very well... 1980s bumper sticker If you can't learn to do it well, learn to enjoy doing it badly. Perhaps this is Breillat's credo. Romance is worth watching as an intellectual exercise, but I cannot imagine caring about the story, or about its self-tormenting main character. Do be warned that if boring, graphic, matter-of-fact sexuality puts you off, you should stay away from all of this director's work. 5/10For a much more upbeat, amusing, erotic, and optimistic treatment of the theme of woman's reconciliation with her sexual nature (and man's obligation to defer to it), check out Tinto Brass's two latest movies, Monella and Trasgredire.  "},{"Title":"Essay about the Female Erotic","Date":"8 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is an independent thought-provoking French film with a great philosophical depth and very explicit sexual scenes, the ones that have got the attention of those morons who will forget everything when they see nakedness and hear the word genitalia.The sexual act is not the object of the movie, but the analysis of female desire and sexuality. In fact, this movie is a philosophical reflection on why female sexuality is culturally and gender repressed, and justified only when benefit men, never as a natural expression of women's nature. The movie reflects on the nature of woman desire. Is it the same as man desire? Do women have the same sexual needs? Do they express their desire the same as men do? Does a woman really need sex in a relationship for the romance to work? What is it romance?The elements that director Catherine Breillat uses to explore what female desire and how it works are1/ The main role, Marie, is a very sweet looking girl with barely sensual physical features. No big lips, angular face features, curves or full breasts. Actually, Mary is almost childish, very innocent and virginal looking. However, she has a very strong sex drive. Marie is not a sexual object, but the subject from whom desire emanates, a sexual being without shame, in control of her sexuality, driven by her own volition and decision, not to satisfy the man, but to satisfy herself.2/ The man is denying sex to his partner, and not the opposite. This is both a metaphorical representation of the domineering male sexuality -in movies and in society- that always wants to control and objectify female sexuality. However, it is a wonderful point of start to see how a normal woman, as any man, would find this disturbing and painful to put up with. By not having sex, Marie craves touching and being touched, opening the door to her desire and being desired, share her desire with the man she loves -- Physical and emotional touch.3/ Marie is not ashamed of her sexuality, and the paths of sexual exploration that she follows, although sometimes confronting, show that sex, per se, is not what she is looking for. However, she needs the sex, even in raw form, as any man would.4/ This movie shows that sex is necessary in a relationship to build a relationship, beyond the emotions you put into it. Otherwise is bound to fail. This is specially daring, as most movies will show and put on a pedestal abstract and non-real romance and love, and show that daring women end badly, and that satisfying men's urges is natural, but satisfying your own is unnatural.Marie is wonderfully played by Caroline Ducey, who is able to portray innocence and passion with great easiness and in a very convincing way. Also great is Sagamore Stéenin as Marie's macho jerk boyfriend, and François Berleand as the middle-aged unattractive man who initiates Marie in bondage. I especially liked how the character of Marie changed her clothing while she was changing, from virginal white minimalistic dresses to very sensual red feminine ones, and the inner strength she got by exploring her sexuality.The dialogs are brilliant, especially Marie's monologues and thoughts, and serve to show, from a philosophical point of view, that culture, morals, and gender division have reduced female desire to what men want it to be. There is a mix of candor and heat percolating all of the dialogs, and a lot of depth.The sexual exploration of the character is sometimes very harsh to watch, mostly because they are paired to a a great emotional distress (loneliness, self-hatred, despair, and shame). At the same time, by confronting all of that, Marie is facing her own demons and putting her shame aside.The sex scenes are not that scandalous. In fact, most of what looks like real sex is actually simulated fake sex. What is real is the bunch of erected penises there, who were due, because we women are sick of seeing fully naked women shown all around in movies while men barely show their pecs and, in the best case, their buttocks. Beyond this, most of the shocking scenes are intended to make you think, not to make your horny. Three scenes deserve a special mention 1/ the gynecological examination of Marie by the Medicine students. To me the most invading shocking scene, despite being part of the life of any woman. 2/ Marie's sexual fantasy in a brothel. 3/ The scene of a real birth, of the head of a baby coming out a woman's vagina.The movie is so daring, so no-mainstream, so thoughtful and sensitive in the exploration of the female Eros, that I was really disappointed with the end. I was really annoyed. To define womanhood and woman's strength by maternity is so traditional and conventional that really ruins the great job done in the rest of the movie. It is like a slap on the face. If you want to be daring do so to the very end, all the way along.This is a great movie, not always easy to watch, and not for everybody. However, it has so many good things that I wonder what where the critics watching and if they had heir brains switched off when doing so. "},{"Title":"Rough but Insightful","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My reaction to this film began before it started. I, as a male, am always curious to watch a film about the relationship of a couple, and particularly in the eyes of a woman, when the movie is written and directed by a woman. In this case, Catherine Breillat has presented this with the thoughts of the female lead throughout the film. I find myself struggling to be judgmental of the film from a male perspective, but I am left with a number of questions.The sexuality did not bother me. The presentation of a dysfunctional relationship and the dynamics as presented to an outsider were very well done. I, myself, would never allow myself a great deal of time to a relationship like this, but then this was not about me. What was about me was my reaction to the brutality. The woman experienced a number of humiliations and learned to shut out those humiliations to maintain her individuality. And I have read a number of reports that stated that a large number of women experience sexual humiliation in various ways. Would this explain why rape is included as a revenge against the male and against her? This is not the first film by a woman that uses this. It disturbed me, as I am sure it was meant to do, but I came away thinking that if this is wrong, why present it as something all women should encounter? At any rate, the philosophy of the film and the presentation were very good. If you want an interesting take on a dysfunctional relationship that does not involve rednecks or harsh urban settings, you will probably find this interesting. "},{"Title":"Who's perverted?","Date":"1 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Is Marie (Caroline Ducey) perverted because she wants to be used and abused, or is it her boyfriend Paul (Sagamore Stévenin) who is perverted because he denies her the love she craves because of his need to control? Or is it Robert (François Berléand) who has spent a lifetime chasing and seducing women? Or is it director Catherine Breillat herself who in France is sometimes known as a porno auteuriste?Or, better yet, is it the debased mind of the censor, the prude and the hypocrite who would deny the range of human sexuality?From Breillat's point of view, it is the censors who create the concept of obscenity.I have to say however that some movies are so graphically sexual that it is difficult to watch them without being aroused, and this is such a movie, the most pornographic movie that I have ever seen that was not pornography per se.Candor about sexuality is not what most people want. Even rarer is it for a woman to be candid about her sexuality in a forum that might include men. The fact that Catherine Breillat directed this film does not mean in any way that the sexuality of the central character is Breillat's sexuality, but it does mean she understands that sexuality; and since it is presented in a sympathetic manner, it means that she believes it is true at least for some women, at least some of the time.In effect the movie asks the politically incorrect question, do women want to be used and abused? Breillat's cinematic answer is a bit of equivocation. I think what she is saying is, it depends. For even asking such questions Breillat has experienced hatred and been denied funding. But she says All true artists are hated. Only conformists are ever adored.Marie's boyfriend who is pretty and very attractive to most women will not have sex with her. Not completely. He frustrates her for no apparent reason. He seems almost pathological in his disinterest in her. She feels not just rejected but inadequate and of course frustrated. She is crazy about him and does everything she can to interest him, but to no avail. A game begins but we see only her side of the game. His side is hardly present, but there is this blond-haired male friend that he likes to hang out with. Perhaps Paul is gay and doesn't know it or doesn't want to admit it.Marie first tries a guy in a bar. It doesn't work out because there is no feeling on her part aside from...aside from what? From a desire to hurt Paul? To prove to herself that she is attractive? Then there is Robert the older man who claims to have had sex with 10,000 women although he is anything but handsome. This reminds me of the French novelist Georges Simenon who made the same claim in much the same way. Incidentally 10,000 women is approximately one a day for thirty years, which (pre Viagra) is sometimes thought of as the length of a man's sexually active life. Some readers may recall these lines from the poem Go and Catch a Falling Star by John DonneRide ten thousand days and nights, Till age snow white hairs on thee, Thou, when thou return'st, wilt tell me, All strange wonders that befell thee, And swear, No where Lives a woman true, and fair.Or the reader may be reminded of the ten thousand things from the East. In other words, ten thousand is a number that means many, but many in a very human way.At any rate, this man Robert is past the time in his life when he can, shall we say, perform. But he knows women and he discerns Marie's desires which are to be taken completely. He ties her up and she finds that she likes it, etc.Well, what's the resolution? How should this end? Should Paul wake up and really love her? Or will she finally get completely disgusted with him and leave? Or will he wake up and then be found boring. Is that what he is afraid of?The way Breillat chooses to end the film is both a bit too easy and yet seems apt. Notice that the title Romance is a kind of sardonic take on the pornography of romance novels. Romance novels fulfill the wishes of the feminine reader but in a euphemistic and unspecific way. The hard sex that Breillat presents (in a mostly soft way) in this film is only hinted at in romance novels.On the other hand, clearly in keeping with a good ending from a woman's point of view (in so far as a good ending is possible in this film) is the fact that Marie ends up with what in evolutionary psychology is called having her cake and eating it too. She receives superior genes (or at least very attractive genes) for reproduction while winning the support of the man who will take care of her and her child. In this case these are two different men. Guess which one is which.Be forewarned that this is a MOST explicit film sexually speaking and will offend many viewers.One final question did she have to kill the cat?(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"It's certainly not Wedding Crashers!","Date":"18 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film will only be appreciated by those who enjoy film as art. We have a tendency as Americans to appreciate good food and good wine, but I don't think we really appreciate good film, especially erotic film.This isn't porn or something we watch on cable, but an erotic film that has a psychological element, a visual element, and a real story.Writer/director Catherine Breillat has given us a picture of eroticism from a feminist viewpoint. Now, that may be difficult for male viewers to appreciate, but it certainly serves to increase our appreciation for the female of our species.Marie (Caroline Ducey) has a narcissistic boyfriend (Sagamore Stévenin), who has sex for a couple of weeks or, in her case, a month, and then abstains for several months. he doesn't even like being touched. As strange as I might find this with Caroline Ducey in my bed, it certainly presents a quandary for Marie, as she has unfulfilled needs. Can there be love without sex? Can we fulfill our sexual needs and still remain faithful? These are questions that the viewer is left to ponder as Marie explores her desires and needs.There is a lot of talk about Paulo (Italian porn star Rocco Siffredi) and his place in the film, but mixing a porn star with traditional actors is a bold move, in my opinion. It is in Marie's adventure with Paulo that we see her dilemma about love and sex. They even manage a philosophical discussion about a used condom - those wacky French! It is the bondage scenes with Robert (François Berléand) that really interest me. I cannot fathom what the attraction is, but Robert really enjoys his work, and is attentive to the needs of Marie. She is attracted to him and returns for more because in the act of bondage he is paying close attention to her - something her boyfriend fails to do.There are some funny scenes in the movie - when the line of interns examine her after she becomes pregnant; and some that i could have done without - the birth of her son. I admit I am slightly confused about the ending, but the film with it's colors, and textures, and its symbolism that pays homage to other filmmakers, is certainly well worth the time and a great introduction to erotic film and the work of Catherine Breillat. "},{"Title":"Don't Forget To Bring The No-Doze To Go With The Popcorn","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this cinematic sleeping pill at an art cinema that specialized in (I dare to use that overused buzz phrase)cutting edge cinema from Europe,Asia,etc. In addition to that, they also screened some of their fare at late shows,too (for the midnight movie crowd). Now, I consider myself an open minded person,who doesn't mind the occasional sojourn into sexually oriented material, but I actually walked out on this cine turkey out of sheer boredom. The characters are so unlikable, I felt absolutely nothing for them. The sex was so boring & mechanical, after 45 minutes of this, I thought f**k this! So I ended up walking out on it (and I didn't regret it then,and I still don't regret it now). And most people regard Warhol's films as boring & pretentious. A must avoid (no MPAA rating here,but would probably pull down an NC-17 for wall to wall full frontal male & female nudity & graphic,explicit,boring,pointless sex "},{"Title":"Awful, awful, awful !!!","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Be warned the title 'Romance' has nothing whatsoever to do with the actual content of this movie. If you think you'll see people make love, forget it - it is worse than watching people eat vomit. All the way through, the main self-centred female character never stops winging. There is only one word for it ... awful ! It is an insult to the movie industry. It is peppered with gratuitous nudity. It is most definitely not recommended for those looking for entertainment.  "}{"Title":"A sexless movie","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Before i watched Romance i had heard many things about it because it was supposidly ground breaking if only for the fact that it was passed by the British censors even though it shows so called hard core sex scenes.well i can tell you one thing for sure that this film is certainly not sexy .This is a French film about a young lady who is sexually frustrated because her boyfriend does not want to have sex , so she seeks her thrills from alternative sources. I dont know if the director intentialy made this film clinical and un sexy but if she did , it worked.Caroline Trousselard was very brave to take on this part as throughout the movie she is portrayed as a piece of meat and it prodded and poked around by a numerous amount of people and i cannot see how in the future she will be able to shake off this acting roll because it is certainly different from anything she has done or will do again. As per usual with the majority of french films there is far to much discussion and all in all this film is very forgettable. For those who intend to watch this film for the sexual scenes dont bother , they are not worth it. 4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yawnfest of the highest order","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Apparently this is a tale of a woman's love for her husband, despite the fact that she gives herself - rather graphically - to every man she comes across, as her husband will not have sex with her.Actually this bored me from start to finish, perhaps the subtitles were a large put off, but the graphical sex seemingly for the sake of it put me off also.The story didn't have a lot of interest in it for me - of what story there was.  I just didn't get it. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Absolutely horrible and pretentious art film. Because it's French and it's characters self-absorbed we're supposed to take it seriously - if it had been directed by a man it wouldn't even have been considered misogynist it would be relegated to some dark shelf in the partitioned porn section at your local video store.And it isn't even very sexy. Sure, the girl is lovely and it's thrilling for a moment to see her naked after that the only thing that interested me was the whole beige and white thing - they must have Banana Republic in France now. "},{"Title":"Can love and/or sex really be this boring?","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If there were an Academy Award for the portrayal of the most boring, banal, mundane,and cliché sex scenes in a movie, this movie would surely get the Oscar! Breillat and the whole production company are grossly overrated by the media and critics; Flat,dull lighting, a boring, uninspired script, inept editing, awful music, sophomoric acting(it is an insult to real actors to call this acting); What a load of trash masquerading as original film. This movie is being touted about as being great stuff; well, it isn't; and it's about time someone said so. This movie is being hyped as genius but in all reality it is a real groaner. You'd get more out of life hitting your thumb with a hammer. "},{"Title":"As sexy and romantic as a toilet","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Only the French would make an explicit sex art film called Romance (ironic title, get it?) with the sexual elements like a dentist filling a decayed tooth, and the romance like watching somebody going to the toilet.Actually, I'd rather watch a dentist at work rather than view this merciless atrocity directed and written by the criminally untalented Catherine Breillat. Her leading actors, Caroline Ducey and Sagamore Stevenin play lovers who spend their entire time on camera looking sullen, jaded and bored with each other and life, and acting as if they too had watched themselves on screen doing nothing for 98 minutes except looking sullen, jaded and bored. Even the Italian stallion porn star, Rocco Siffredi, can barely get it up in his explicit scenes, and when he finally does, much ado about nothing.This deconstruction of sex and romance would make the illustrious Marquis de Sade, wherever he is, and Danielle Steele repent and join a good 12-step program. "},{"Title":"A sophomoric and carnal view of the world","Date":"9 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A sophomoric and carnal view of the world - there is absolutely nothing in this movie worth watching, unless you enjoy pornography or suffer from an uncontrollable urge to gawk at that which is disgusting and unwatchable.If Catherine Breillat aspired to be deep or far reaching in this creation, she needs a few lessons from Hitchcock it's the subtle and *unseen* that is profound, not the shocking. This movie is over before it begins, and is helplessly drawn to sex scenes, just like porn, because it truly has nothing else to show. A movie like the Unbearable Lightness of Being or Dangerous Liaisons are only a few examples in sex topic space that show what a piece of trash Romance is. "},{"Title":"An unconvincing and innocuous piece of trash","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is allegedly controversial, but the BBFC passed it uncut, so that aroused my suspicion. After arriving at the conclusion, I immediately thought, is that it? Yes, indeed it is. There is nothing shocking in the film, and hardly any sex scenes. The story is about a pretty schoolteacher whose boyfriend inexplicably doesn't want to have sex with her. She then seeks comfort by sleeping with a stranger she meets in a bar, and also with a headmaster from her school, who boasts he has slept with over ten thousand women, even though he is ugly (his words). He also ties the young teacher up. That is it. All very unconvincing. If you want to watch an erotic film, don't bother watching this; watch Ai No Corrida instead.  "},{"Title":"Dull and pretentious","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Somewhere I saw this film described as an updated Emanuelle and I think the comparison is a valid one.  Like Emanuelle this film is pretentious with the heroine spouting daft philosophical claptrap about sex and love continuously.  Like Emanuelle, it features characters acting in a way that I find inconsistent with any social of psychological reality I am familiar with.The only interesting thing about this movie is that it is one of only three (of which I am aware) movies containing hard-core sex that have been shown legally here in the UK.  As far as I can see, the only thing the three movies (Ai No Corrida, The Idiots, and Romance) have in common is that they depict sex as joyless and exploitative.  Is there something wrong with graphic sex being shown as an enjoyable pastime between two sane equal partners? "},{"Title":"Abstinence never seemed so considerable.","Date":"14 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It is not very hard to believe Fat Girl and Romance X were made by the same director, as much as the films differ in quality. The problem is that both films handle different subject matters. And while Fat Girl was successful in what it set out to do, Romance X fails miserably. This year I re-watched another chick-flick I never thought much of, Bertolucci's Stealing Beauty, and found myself enjoying it a great deal, so I tried to do the same with Romance X. It didn't work out, I now hate the film even more.The film is described as porn for women, and it already starts with a totally unbelievable premise School-teacher Marie (Caroline Ducey) has a boyfriend (Sagamore Stévenin) who refuses to sleep with her for no reason whatsoever. He doesn't have any problems with getting an erection, or finding her attractive, he just doesn't want to have sex. What a believable premise! Maybe it was supposed to be unbelievable, maybe this is a deep, thoughtful, surrealistic film, but it's just not interesting. The fact that it never crosses Marie's mind that her boyfriend might be GAY doesn't help it from being existentially funny. But again, maybe it was supposed to be unintentionally funny, maybe this is a deep, thoughtful, surrealistic film, but it's just not interesting.Marie fails to be a likable character as well, like most in the film. She is about 23, has the body of a 13-year old, the face of a 30-year old, and talks like a repressed, grumpy 75-year old. Every single line of dialogue that comes out of her mouth are mostly complaints on how miserable her sex life is, how much she hates men, and her amazing depressing theories on sex in general. It is not a very far stretch to assume it is Breillat speaking her lines, not Marie. Anyone who watches this film will get the impression that Briellat has never spoken to a human being. The most charismatic character, and actor, of the entire film is Ducey's first affair, a lonely Italian man named Paolo (Rocco Sifreddi) who seems to be the only human being in the film. The problem is that&#133; well&#133; Rocco is not an actor, he is a porn star only cast because of the size of his penis. You know you are in trouble when a guest porn star is the film's most interesting personality, because compared to Marie's boyfriend, he is Cary Grant. But again, maybe it was supposed to be unrealistic, maybe this is a deep, thoughtful, surrealistic film, but it's just not interesting.While it lasts for about 90 minutes, it feels like you are watching a much longer film. There is nothing wrong with films being slow and taking their time, but this one does it for no reason at all. There is a scene where Marie is lead by a man into being tied up for a bondage experience. It last about ten minutes for the man to lead her into his room and pull the ropes around her, only for her to give up. Later in the film, she tries it again, and so we begin to roll our eyes. But again, maybe it was supposed to be slow, maybe this is a deep, thoughtful, surrealistic film, but it's just not interesting.So you might be thinking that at least if the film is a pretentious, boring mess, well, at least it delivers as a soft-core porno, right? Wrong. This is the most misfire I've ever seen as an erotic film. Although I applaud Caroline Ducey for taking her extentions as an actress to the limit during the sex/nudity scenes, but they are anything but arousing. In fact, they are unbelievably boring. Only one involving Rocco Sifreddi is a bit, dare I say, far from tedious, but it would have helped if the actress at least seemed like she was enjoying it. I know this was not supposed to be a film about titties, but what else could one look for when there is nothing else? But again, maybe it was supposed to be non-erotic, maybe this is a deep, thoughtful, surrealistic film, but it's just not interesting.Romance X is one or those films that think they are art-house masterpieces, that they are groundbreaking, and that in the future it will be remembered as a classic. I've seen Lifetime Original Movies that portray strong, independent women in a more successful way than in this film. Maybe this film would have been quite a statement had it been released back in the early 70s, but in 1999 it does feel a bit outdated. Surely a film with such a controversial topic as a woman committing&#133; gasp&#133; adultery would be very shocking. How couldn't it be, a woman who attends&#133;gasp&#133; nightclubs by herself. What will she do next to be outrageous, take a valium? As a side note, the nightclub sequences have to be seen to believe. The music is bad even for Euro-techno standards and it is so low you can hear people's footsteps in the dance floor. But that is only a minor flaw in such a mess of a film. While the cinematography is beautiful and the work with colors (especially red and white) is effective, it doesn't manage to make this worth 90 minutes (which feel like 4 hours) of your life. But again, maybe it was supposed to be an unintentionally funny, unrealistic, slow, and non-erotic. Maybe this is a deep, thoughtful, surrealistic film, but it's just not interesting. "},{"Title":"pathetic","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I rarely write a comment for a film, I usually just put a vote in, but there are a few films which I feel people need to be told about, this is one of those films.This film is boring beyond belief, it is worse even than what I term a typical french film (atff).  Atff is one where nothing really happens, e.g. family go on holiday to their summer house, everyone has lunch, father is divorced or a widower and has new girlfriend not much older than daughter, daughter has to get used to it, end of film, FIN.Atff is at least interesting to watch, as a slice of life, however, Romance is worse it is totally devoid of reality.  the characters are cardboard cutouts from a cornflakes box. There is no story except girl is bored sexually, girl finds sex elsewhere.  The scenes of the couple in bed in their white room are painfully slow, (as with the rest of the film) boyfriend has a tiny dick that she tries (not very hard) to get into her mouth with no success.  Then there is Rocco's donkey dick and a ten minute boring lecture about how most men can't get it up. Well faced with this boring girl most men would find it difficult.  Then we have the silly bondage scenes which drag on and on and on, with the fumbling headmaster with his rope and handcuffs.If you want porn buy a porno, the porn here is boring and silly. A film has to be able to give you something to warrant a score of 2/10 this film gives you nothing except an uncomfortable seat. If there was a score of zero this film would have it, but, the lowest score available is 1/10 so that will have to do. 1/10 "}{"Title":"blech","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My god, what a tedious, dull, unpleasant affair. This movie fails as erotica and as a feminist manifesto, which so many misguided viewers seem to believe it to be. I had written a much longer, detailed description of this movie's countless flaws, but IMD seems to have deleted it. So let me just say that there is no reason to watch this movie. It is NOT shocking, not erotic, not even remotely interesting. If you have the choice of picking at your toenails or viewing this steaming pile of manure, pick the former.And in answer to what many fans will likely say, I watched the movie with three intelligent women who found it equally dreadful. "},{"Title":"Precociously awful","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I never thought in my life that I'd see such a bad movie made in France. It's almost a first. I'm not saying that I've never seen a lot of bad movies from France. I have. But not THIS BAD! The main problem here is the director. The film looks like it was a made by a precocious little 12 year old girl who was told by everyone around her that she's very smart and advanced for her age and someone gave her the money to make a movie and the result feels like a 12 year old kid juggling adult themes all with the subtlety of an Ally McBeal episode. This movie reeks. Forget the so-called controversy about the sex scenes. The direction, the script, the acting are the real controversial aspects of ROMANCE, because they're so freaking bad! Avoid at all cost! "},{"Title":"The sex is the least offensive thing in this dreck","Date":"12 July 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What is offensive is the utter joylessness of the proceedings. I was much more offended by the pseudo-intellectual pretentious blather spilling out mercilessly and incessantly from the insufferable characters' mouths, than by any of the infantile, shock tactic, badly filmed graphic sex that the movie depicts. Only a French feminist pretentious bore could conceive of characters that mention the myth of Tantalus while they make love. Spare me, si vous plait! Quelle ordure! (Translation what a piece of merde) Had there been some joy in it, I would have thought, good for you, girl, but the protagonist is miserable and hateful and who could possibly care?This movie is a disservice to feminists, to females and to sex. It belongs in the garbage.   "},{"Title":"This Was Written By A Woman?!","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Are they sure it was a woman who wrote this film? I*t couldn't be. I've seen some horribly boring, uninteresting, pretentious, misogynistic films before but they were written by men who think they know what women want. They want to be dominated, tied up, abused and insulted by men just to feel alive and wanted? Jack the Ripper for a nightcap after a hard day's work? I don't think so. I find it very difficult to believe that the lead actress, a school teacher, was such a poor speller that she relied on her male co-worker/personal sadist to save her, so to speak.The one point I did give to the actors is they were pretty daring in this porn drama. The entire movie was a yamfest, too. It was like sitting in a café for two hours listening to people talk about the weather or laundry detergent. Of course, if I didn't want to see this movie I shouldn't have, right? True dat. I went into it thinking it was actually a horror movie with sexual elements. Why? I read somewhere the S&M in the movie was worse than '50 Shades Of Gray'. It wasn't. The only people tortured by this film were those subjected to watching it in its entirety. Yes, I did watch the Uncut version, but I should've watched Sesame Street instead. That has more drama between Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy than this snoozefest. "},{"Title":"Why Romance X failed completely.","Date":"8 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Warning This review includes spoilers!!! Romance X, a serious art movie from 1999 directed by Catherine Breillat and staring Caroline Ducey. The film shows explicit sex.Let me first say that I am not against unsimulated sex, even penetration shots, in mainstream movies, in fact I welcome it. It is natural, beautiful, and of course arousing. So initially I therefore defied any criticism against Romance X for being pornographic.Romance X is about a young woman who has a great capacity for sexual pleasure and passion, something which is of course very positive in every respect. Her sexual encounters with different men however, her husband, an incidental lover, and a rapist, show that none of these particular men were able to satisfy her, nor even take some pleasure from being with her themselves, and then typically blame her for their own shortcomings. One thing I liked about the movie at this point was that it did not seem to be a feminist anti male film, only that the woman was unfortunate in her encounters with men. She then starts a relationship with a somewhat older headmaster at the school she is working. He satisfies her sexual desires in a very special way. This is shown in two sequences. These are graphically very exciting and appealing from a male point of view, and what adds to the subjective appeal in that respect is that the man in the sequences remains completely dressed. Towards the end of the film there is a sequence describing the female protagonist's sexual fantasy. There is a big circular room were naked women lie on benches with their heads and shoulders inside the perimeter wall and with the lower part of their bodies sticking through holes in the wall to the outside corridor where any wandering men can take pleasure in them. This fantasy concept was extremely arousing. Seeing the female parted legs sticking out of the walls was extremely erotic. Then Mrs. Breillat ruins everything by adding porno scenes with wanking men and cum shots, things that can only appeal to non-straight men. Why on earth couldn't she have had some decent fellows having vaginal intercourse with the ladies normally? That could have been with or without penetration shots. Something that would have given the said ladies satisfaction and orgasms in conformity with the protagonist's fantasy, as well as being appealing and arousing to watch for people of both sexes! I shall not reveal the last thing that happens in the film. It was after her husband had suddenly become able to satisfy her sexually (from how he behaved previously this was very unrealistic in my opinion), and after giving her a baby. I disapproved of the ending to say the least, and it then seemed that this was a feminist anti male film after all. But at this point I was so disappointed in the film I didn't care what happened in it anyway.To sum it up A good and exciting concept destroyed by it's execution. And with an ending that turned sympathy with the film into antipathy. "},{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"8 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Around the year 2000 there have been several French movies that tackled sex and violence as a part of their artistic expression. Probably the most famous has been Gaspar Noé's Irréversible (2002).I went to see Romance with a friend who is otherwise not into art-house movies. Needless to say he was half way between amazed and appalled. I took a lighter approach and perceived Romance as a dark comedy.The main character shows some remarkably masochistic tendencies. We might argue whether she discovers her true self throughout the movie or is simply looking for some love and affection because of the treatment by her boyfriend.The brightest moment was definitely the role of Rocco Siffredi. You wouldn't expect he could act, but he could.The bottom line is that this movie is probably beloved in mild sadomasochistic circles. Otherwise there was not much art in it... "},{"Title":"A Explicit portrayal of frustration................","Date":"15 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well after all the hype this movie generated in various film festivals,I just decided to check out the movie.Movie is alright, in terms of the story and acting, but if its only about the explicit scenes, then I wouldn't really appreciate the movie much.Well lets face the fact that every second movie coming out of France in recent times has been associated with explicit scenes of sexual act or gross violence.May be the only difference over here would be that they show a baby being born in the end otherwise really nothing much to brag about.Lets not get this thing wrong, I liked the movie but I thought something should have been there in the movie which wasn't there.Well all said and done another good movie from Catherine...........8/10 "},{"Title":"Much ado about sex, but fairly good nevertheless","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In a perfect world, my opinion of ?Romance? would sound more or less like this.  This is a fairly interesting film about the crisis in a couple relation that, in some sense, manages to come up with some interesting and quite universal statements about the couple relation qua relation and qua adaptation to a life of routine after the initial sparks. The desire of the woman to test her sexual boundaries should be seen, I believe, in this context, together with the final realization that, after all, even a bondage experience can be as banal and squalid as everyday life. The film is quite typically French more spoken than physical, with the kind of conversation that French films seem to favor too intellectual to be spoken by real people in real life, but grounded enough to make you wish that you and your friends could speak like that.  It is probably not as good as ?la pianiste? but, then again, not many films are as good as ?la pianiste.? It is, however, an interesting analysis of a situation common to many couples. This, as I said, in a perfect world. Alas, this is not a perfect world and, somehow, the question of the sexual content of the film managed to dominate the question about its contents. Most of this, I must say, come from the barbaric and puritan America, my country of adoption. To the more relaxed Europeans, I must point out that this is a country in which, on television, it is normal to see ?reality shows? with murder scenes, car crashes during high speed pursuits, and violent arrests; it is normal to see in prime time films with violent content that glorify the army and the ethos of war. Yet, it is illegal to show a woman?s breast, and curse words that in more liberal countries are considered quite normal are invariably, and audibly, beeped.  The sense and the moral choice behind all this escape me, but this is the background that one should have in mind to understand the outrage of some Americans in front of this film.Outrage which, I must say, is quite misplaced. With the exception of one or two scenes, the sex in the film is not very explicit and, even including the more ?racy? fellatio scenes, it is no more explicit that in Bellocchio?s ?Il Diavolo in Corpo,? which I saw (uncut) on Italian TV (quite late at night, to be honest). If we can get the people past the shock of discovery that normal couples do have oral sex, I would say that the first paragraph of this review sums up pretty well my overall opinion of the whole film.Not a great film, but a fairly good one. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"A sexually unsatisfied woman finds fulfillment elsewhere.","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Along with the seemingly overheated title released this year The School of Flesh, Romance stands out as another dud that will not quicken your heart nor stimulate your mind. Talk about a misnomer, not having any semblance of a romance is bad enough but to hear the pretentious, cold, calculating, diatribes from Caroline Trousselard (a scary ringer for Celine Dion) about sex and man may want men to swear off women forever. The problem with this film isn't its feminist slant nor its treatment of men as sexual carnivores but its constant bombardment of style over substance. Apart from sex being depicted in a real and penetrating (sorry!) fashion, this film gives one the impression of tires stuck in mud. Movement but not really. Finally for a film which is equal parts Whore (the Ken Russell film) and Under the Skin (Samantha Morton starred in this one) it doesn't really relate anything new about the sexual politics between men and women and all the brazen sex scenes can't hide that.  "},{"Title":"A Different Film Than Many Here Write About","Date":"23 June 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw the uncut version of this film last night. To me, this film came off as a sort of a black comedy. This film is about a woman who is perhaps looking for romance, but her own actions and choices, and her interpretation of these keep her mired in a circle that goes nowhere. There are surreal moments throughout that keep me wondering how much of the film takes place in her head, given the amount of voice-over that occurs.All in all, this is not a film about eroticism, though there are a few moments of that too. The film is really about a woman's search for emotional satisfaction and her modus operandi that doesn't allow her to achieve it. Again, the title -- Romance ends up being more ironic than literal.The film moves along quite well in spite of the amount of dialog -- but so did My Dinner With Andre. The cinematography and subtle soundtrack are first-rate.Those who want their films to be of the cut-and-dried variety or wish this to be a film of erotica will be frustrated. Those who will take it one its own terms will likely be rewarded. "}{"Title":"well...","Date":"27 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i don't want to critique much about the film, i just want to say i'm disappointed that the first review that's showed on the film page (that i saw) was a really really negative one. this movie raises a lot of interesting questions about sex, sexual deviancy, relationships and sexuality. it may be done in a more european or artsy way, it sure has it's own flaws, however it's still a very thought provoking film. the connection between emotional love and physical love, and how much each has a role within human relations are just some things that the film explores.i think ti's definitely worth a look if you're interested in the philosophy of sex. (not to sound really pretentious or anything) "},{"Title":"Do women really like to be tied Up?","Date":"11 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I gave away a spoiler in the title, but I just wanted to add some of my own observations of this film. This is a case of art imitatiing life. Underneath, women are attracted to being degraded, talked dirty to, and to generally dangerous situations. It is a turn on. (it is ingrained in their genes), and the boyfriend is just probably...GAY. Whatever. That is what this movie tells me. There was a woman psychiatrist in New York who said that young girls needed to work in a brothel for a time to get it out of their system. Our heroine in this film does just nearly that. What might have given this film a little tension would have been to have made her a devout Catholic, with a history of childhood abuse by her mother A girl who became totally bonkers by this abuse, became attracted to danger, and the the exploration of sexual freedom was the culmination. Just imagine her going between the bedroom and the confessional. "},{"Title":"a mediocre film boosted by its love scenes","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I guess, this film was ok. It is definitely not as unwatchable as other French films focussing on a man-woman relationship (usually through extensive dialogues). The characters behave rather realistically, the story is coherent, and the cinematography is good. Considering these aspects, the film should probably earn a 5/10. But of course, there are the sex scenes, and those seem to have paved the way for a more liberal and open portraiture of sex in European films. These scenes are rather unspectacular to watch, yet they address practices which may be disturbing for some people. I found the depiction adequate for the story. For this pioneering work I raise my score to 7/10. "},{"Title":"Some points about this acclaimed pointless movie","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One virtue of French movies is that you could remember it differently if you want to. If you see yourself as a stranger to the male-central world, put aside the fantasy and ego, you may find the movie some redeem value. I never saw a child born. It's heart-breaking. Pursuing, mating, keeping the relation, till having a child. It's the painful process and serious matter. The existence itself is exhausting and anxious. That maybe why everyone in the movie plays in the world.Paul and Robert belongs different world. You could see it from their condos. Paul's is white and TV & bed, while Robert's is colourful and luxurious. Interesting metaphor for their sexual desire. There is a scene where Marie had some mumbling something about etre and avoir while facing outside of the windows. Having little knowledge of French, I boldly guess that shows that the separation of soul and body. She use bondage to find satisfaction, but nothing bounded is satisfactory.As to the ending, it's the typical French one. Love/revenge and hate/mate and homicide/suicide. But it's just unnatural, as if the writer run out of ideas. Take a look of Dream life of angles/Betty blue. Life don't have to be happy ever after, nor break down. There are many reasons desired can't be fulfilled. But beyond the camera, there are also many reasons life better goes on while pain goes on.Lots of noise during the screening season, and so far it gathered 600+ vote and 50+ comment. Really some achievement  for a foreign movie. But it is not another In the realm of sense, even though it shows one more technique not shown in the former one. Neither it's romantic. The tape cover would give you this kind of false hope.After all, sex don't have to be joyful.  "},{"Title":"Little Romance, Lots of Talk. It must be French!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Romance fits comfortably into that most common of French genres, the cuckolded husband drama. From L'Atalante, through L'Mepris (or Contempt to those of me who don't speak French). The basic plot line of these films go like this French husband and wife love each other. French husband looks away. Or actually truly neglects the wife. And poof, off goes the wife for a more virile man. It's always been a fantasy that if you go to France, look scruffy and start flirting, your typical French wife will abandon her live-in lover for some dirty take-out action. But in these French movies, nothing is ever that simple.You see, Romance also fits in to that other adorable French genre the talk-and-screw (can I say that?). Basically, people have sex. Then they talk about how unsatisfying sex is. Then they go have sex with other people and are largely relieve to see that it wasn't just a problem with their original partner -- Sex really is boring, but philosophical babble? Now that's a turn on. Thus, if you have the fantasy from the first paragraph, you'd better study up on your French language tapes before you head over, because that housewife you bed is bound to want to discuss something painful with you either before, after, or (Heaven forbid) during the loving.Serious, Romance has mostly gained notoriety on these shores because it's on the graphic side. There are some erections. Actually a lot of erections. And sometimes those erections interact with some mouths and, well, it becomes censorable, under normal circumstances. Even Showgirls didn't dare tamper with that taboo. Then again Romance doesn't have a single scene of violent sex in a swimming pool, so everything balances out in the end.The plot of Romance goes very much as I described it above. Marie is in love with Paul. Marie is a teacher. The film uses this to prove that she likes interacting with people. If you know what I mean. Paul, on the other hand, is a male model. The film uses this to suggest that he may be a little self-centered. Paul and Marie have been going out for a while, but they stopped having sex months earlier. Paul's OK with that. Marie? Not so much. A sleazy encounter with a sleazy man at a sleazy bar leads to sleazy sex followed by boring pretentious talk. And Marie is hooked. Her sex life goes deeper and deeper into degredation.Now OK. This film, as written and directed by Catherine Breillat posits the notion that it's legitimate for a woman to love one man, but get her sex elsewhere, as women's bodies are their own to do with as they like. No questions there. My problem? Well, sure Paul is a dork and he doesn't really deserve Marie. But since the Breillat makes no attempt to show what Marie ever saw in Paul in the first place, we're uninterested in her affairs and frankly wonder why she doesn't just leave him and find a man who satisfies her both emotionally and physically. Why go to a different store for each thing you need when there's bound to be a full service grocery somewhere? It's unclear what Marie's longterm goal is. And sure she doesn't necessarily need one, but since Paul is so darned uninteresting, what difference does he make anyway? Michel Piccoli in Contempt was at least interestingly spineless and Jack Palance was at least amusingly slimey. And poor Brigit Bardot in the middle? Well, she had a choice, but she knew what she wanted. For Marie to say that she wants to be a hole is pointlessly reductive. It distills the film's point into an easy capsule, but it doesn't really take it anywhere interesting.Good luck to Caroline Ducey finding work in the future. She's not unattractive and I guess her performance was a step or two up from sleepwalking, but I don't suppose this will open any appealing doors for her. And as for Catherine Breillat,  I guess I would just have to say that for my tastes making a point is fine and well, but I'd rather that the point be made within an interesting story. This time, it just didn't work.I'd give Romance a 4 out of 10, but I suspect that had it been a touch less French or a touch less graphic, I might have gone even lower... "},{"Title":"Provocation as a self-purpose","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Oh no, this is really too old-fashioned - we've had this already 20 years ago! An explicit film about sexual desires and addiction. It was provocative then - is it still provocative nowadays? Maybe in France. No one was really interested in seeing this film in this country. And I had myself cheated by some over-enthusiastic critics, I think!An explicit film about a woman living her sexual desires? A film about sexual addiction? I think on top of it, this is a film about a French director whose only chance to attract public attention is, to make films like those. And there's few beyond that. Least of all a film to start a discussion on sexuality in a new and refreshing quality. The pseudo-philosophical off-comments don't alter a thing. "},{"Title":"She is not good in bed","Date":"6 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Derek Wilson in a South African newspaper used words like sexually explicit, curiosity value, a randy woman, hardly titillating (no pun intended), incomprehensible silly ending, men she portrays are pathetic.  All true, I would add that Paul was not just pathetic, he was a prime idiot, thus the movie obviously does not target me because I am not!  To me, Romance is not an art movie, it's too weak to be that, and fails as a porn movie because Caroline Ducey is simply not sexy enough.  If the sex scenes were real and not acted, she is not good in bed!  She was reasonable only in the rape scene (rape??).  Thus Breillat's only achievement is to get a porn movie into mainstream cinemas.  Not enough! "},{"Title":"How disappointing...","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Anticipated as being provoking and daunting, I went to the cinema hoping Romance would cut with the stereotypes of French movies. Also, the fact that the director was a woman, made me at least expect a breath of fresh air in the more-than-stressed subject of the attitude of women towards sex and relations.But no... all I got was the (weak) portrait of a nymphomaniac trying to make a very boring and uninteresting to follow 'metaphysical' speech of 'we girls are also supposed to have fun' and 'women can also be sex predators'. All of this is wrapped with some very unconvincing sex scenes (the oral sex scenes are absolutely ludicrous), and with the feeling that the directors desire to pass on a message was transvestite by the temptation to shock easy, show 'some penises and oral sex' and make a lot at the box office.This is not the way French films are going to regain their long lost brilliance... "},{"Title":"Should this movie be taken serious ???","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  German Critics wrote about this movie Men aren' t able to like this film! I have seen it and I confirm it. But I have to add, that the female audience laughed much more about this movie then the male. It seems that the (in the US) forbidden advertisement poster was no provocation but an announcement This movie contains exactly that stuff, horny boys pay their bucks for. In addition the movie provides many trivialities about men, women and their relationships, I don' t consider to be correct or even important. If it wasn' t a woman who had directed this movie, I would call it a dirty mind of an old man. I hope the crude dialogs were a result of the translation - otherwise even the especial point of view (in the abstract!) and the exceptional roles (e. g. man has no sexual desire, instead his girlfriend) couldn' t save this movie from being pure crap. "},{"Title":"it sucked. bad. except the ending.","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  i didn't like the movie. it's quite boring actually. then again it could be just me or may be i didn't get it.the only thing good was the ending. bizarre, but interesting w/ subtle dark humor.  "}{"Title":"Did I miss something?","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a feminist story, Romance would make a pathetic celebration of a woman's ability to make choices because its heroine's are so lousy. The film's true theme is a division between sexual pleasure and love--unfortunately, it's the most tired stereotype of women perpetrated by culture for centuries. Call it the Madonna/Whore split. Instead of attacking this kind of dichotomy as unhealthy, Breillat presents it as the quirky sickness of one individual woman. Worse, the film espouses a relentlessly gendered view in highly contradictory terms. Marie's generalizations are truly gross. Based on her whims and limited experience the protagonist assigns obviously universal traits to one sex or the other (an ability to enjoy the disgusting, i.e. the smells of the body; an interest in domination; passivity, etc.). In terms of sexual politics, the film could have been written by a misogynist male--or Camille Paglia. It indulges in unhealthy shame-mongering.It's too bad, because the film does demonstrate the need (despite the danger of exploitation) for frank sexual nudity in film, to explore stories that involve characters' struggles with sex and sexuality. But this film is so poor in its vision, so wrong in its philosophy, that most audiences (who probably already stood to be disappointed that the film isn't actually pornography) will be doubly disappointed and may assume that films which use graphic sex for literary purposes will always be negative and unsatisfying. "},{"Title":"Why didn't she just leave him?","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have never submitted a comment on IMDB though I am a cinemaphile. But this movie got under my skin in such a bad way! Why didn't the main character just leave her lover? Okay, she was IN LOVE with the diffident model. But what does it prove that he kills himself at the birth of his child? What am I suppose to learn here? That she has such low esteem that she allows men to use her but she remains cerebrally detached so that MEN don't win? You can actually look at this movie as EYES WIDE SHUT realized because she actually fulfills sex in her wakeful dream state. But all in all, makes women seem dumb. "},{"Title":"Cold, Cold Heart","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Romance has already gained notoriety in England (it opens tomorrow) for being passed uncut by the normally prudish British censor.  For the first time since Ai No Corrida we are allowed to see an erect penis on the screen. The censor reckons that this is an 'art film' and certainly anyone going to see it for erotic entertainment will be sorely disappointed.  I saw the movie at a preview introduced by Catherine Breillat. She said that we might expect the film to be hot whereas, in reality it is 'glacial'.This is a gruelling portrait of a woman in a sexless relationship, who loves her boyfriend but gets nothing in return.  Do we identify/sympathise with her?  Partly, but the spare, cold mise en scene and use of long takes and long shots creates a distantiation effect.  Yes, there are some shocking scenes (the baby crowning, the juxtaposition of sperm/lubricant on her stomach and the lingering shots of her being bound.This is a film worth seeing but take your parka "},{"Title":"Romance **1/2","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This explicit study of sexual obsession, which has some interesting parallels with Vicente Aranda's equally torrid LA MIRADA DEL OTRO (1998), was my first encounter with the work of the controversial French film-maker. Even if the film does feature adult film star Rocco Siffredi (who does get to do his thing on camera, of course), it turned out to be more restrained than I had been led to believe. Don't get me wrong the sex scenes on show here do not leave anything to the imagination...and that, in a way, renders them less erotic and thus less effective. Having said that, the film benefits from a strong leading performance from Catherine Ducey who, although portraying a character whose abrupt changes of mood proved rather off-putting at first, eventually grows into her part as, through the course of the film, we see her submitting to (among others) rape, casual sex with a well-endowed stranger (Siffredi, naturally), regular S&M sessions with her boss (I'm sure the fact that she was a primary school teacher did not sit well with the French Educational authorities), voluntarily offering herself as a live patient for a group of apprentice gynecologist and finally being impregnated by her frigid boyfriend! The lengthy, meticulous and dispassionate S&M sequences are disconcerting in themselves but nothing quite prepares one for that abrupt, surreal and possibly heretical finale. "},{"Title":"Did we see the same movie?","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" OK, I do respect your take on the movie Romance, but let me tell you all about the movie I saw, which I feel may have gotten overlooked in the first review. The main character is not a woman who is bored with her sex life. The problem is that the man that she has given her heart and soul to refuses to have sex with her and sadly, this unfortunate woman equates sex with affection. To her, all men want to claim a female's body and if he doesn't want her, then he simply cannot love her. Her boyfriend states that he refuses to have sex because he feels that it will ruin their relationship, however,their relationship is doomed even before he spills his seed inside of her. Our heroine does indeed look outside of her relationship for sexual fulfillment, but she justifies that her heart does not belong to her well endowed affair, but to her flaccid lover. She begins to spend her nights away from him, trying her best to convince him and herself that she indeed is not as desperate for him as she feels; then she meets a horrible fate when sodomized by a man who solicits her for sex. Even then she painfully cries that it was what she wanted and that he did not rape her, but her world continues falling apart.Later, she is seduced by a much older and unattractive gent who gives her what she feels she has been lacking all along...the validation that her body is not just some hollow shell. She allows him to bind and gag her and he allows her to do what she has simply wanted since the movie's start, to just be silent and to feel...something, anything. This movie's sadomasochistic theme may not agree with all of you and many of you may find it perverse (it certainly is strong in sexual content) but, to liken this movie to a porno is an insult and very judgmental. I certainly would not give this movie more than 5 stars, just because it's shot rather poorly and the dialog could be better, but still, the ending alone is gold enough when we find that our heroine may just be all right after all, in spite of her many, many issues. "},{"Title":"beautiful film exploring various male stereotypes via female nymphomania","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I found Romance an insightful look at sexual psychology with some rather unnervingly accurate portrayals of male insecurities/inadequacies. The set design and cinematography are second to none, giving the whole film a hyper-realistic style that I reckon surpasses both Stanley Kubric and David Lynch. I've heard that some people dislike the graphic sex, but it never seemed gratuitous to me, and only served to strengthen the main idea of the film - sexual relationships between a passionate woman and various male stereotypes she used for the sexual satisfaction she wasn't getting from her impotent, aloof boyfriend. The acting was flawless and convincing at all times.I found the whole film refreshing in its honest look at sex from a woman's point of view that wasn't the usual moralistic one portrayed in movies that from my experience is often not the norm in in reality. "},{"Title":"One of the worse movies in the history of cinema","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the worse movies in the history of cinema. The history line it self is just unbeliable and stupid and the script looks like written by a six year old school girl. They claim in the DVD cover that this is the most sexually audacious film since last tango in Paris, which is an insult to that movie, to the people who love movies and to the cinema itself. I did not know crap was audacious. It also says it is the sexiest movie ever made. It is not god even as an erotic or pseudo porn movie, as the sex scenes are quite pathetic and puritan. If all this was not enough, the actors are terribly untalented, and specially the main character is so terrible actress. To sum up, one of the worst films ever.  "},{"Title":"Less than great","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is to filmmaking what Foucault is to philosophy  pretentious, boring, meaningless twaddle.The thing that I liked best about the film was the camera work.  I thought that the angles, and camera motion was very effective.  However, everything else was the worst cliche of French films. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Been browsing the comments left by other viewers and I am not surprised to find that most people dislike this movie. Not because it is a bad movie (on the contrary; it is brilliant), but rather because it would be expected that the overall movie viewer, poisoned by Hollywood mentality, cannot handle this kind of artistic and profound features.Breillat is above all two things - one which I love and one that I absolutely despise an author and a feminist. The fact that she is both is apparent and only a complete moron would fail to see that; and both are visible in this film.Even though I strongly dislike generalizations and often find them to be the tool of the untalented artist, Breillat is forgiven because with Romance she is bringing movies closer to literature. I found this very refreshing, since you really would have to watch it two or three times in order to really absorb the poetic language and its meaning.Judging from the comments previously written the average poster is a male, who never read a book in their entire life, failing to look beyond Breillats feminism and is totally furious because the explicit sex scenes didn't turn him on as much as he had hoped for.So basically this movie is not for everyone, but if you're one of those people who like to be left with things to contemplate after you've seen a movie, this is definitely for you! "},{"Title":"Uninspired and failing in its purpose","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is clearly a film that inspires great reaction, hardly surprising considering the subject matter.  However, like many other critics here I feel that if you take away the sex you are left with a deeply uninspiring film that coasts along on cod philosophy without courage or depth to explore true emotions.It's not that I disagree with the director's take on cinema, in many ways she is doing brave and important things.  I just wish that she would do them better, and put them in a more relevant context.  Breaking the boundaries of cinema should always be done, we should rail against a system which finds the thought of an erect penis shocking while the gore of a thousand horror films is commonplace.  However, can't you have an interesting story as well?The acting is uniformly wooden.  The actors are given admittedly little to work with, but the long lingering stares and fixed expressions fail to convey any emotion other than an ennui which I found affected the message of the film.  How can this woman talk about passion, she doesn't look as though she has experienced a moment of passion in her life.Even the imagery was uninspired, though admittedly beautiful and very well done.  A woman in a red dress in the centre of a room, a white bedroom, accompanied with white cat.  All are attractive to see, but so predictable they are empty signifiers.Perhaps too much thought has gone into this film, perhaps too little.  It seems to be little more than a manifesto for pushing back the boundaries, and only a film which connects to people on more levels will ever be truly successful in that objective.And finally, while I appreciate that this is a very stylised piece of cinema, I found the experience of watching people behave so unrealistically quite absurd and at points excruciating.   "}{"Title":"The truth about the sex scenes...and why they are there.","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  First and foremost, there has been some comment regarding the final explicit scene regarding oral sex whereas the man's penis is shown to be in the woman's hand not in her mouth.  This is a framing device that matches a scene at the beginning of the film whereas we quite clearly and unquestionably see the penis in her mouth (the first so-called shocker of the film).  Since we can guess that both scenes were shot at the same time we can easily deduce that there was no attempt to fool the audience, what the director wanted us to see is quite literally what we see, and what the actors and director chose to show us.  We have determined from the first scene that neither the actor nor the actress mind performing this scene in front of the camera (be mindful, even though her mouth is on the man's penis, there is no actual sex).  Quite clearly the FINAL scene was NOT an oral sex scene but merely an erotic stroking of her chin upon the man's penis (a common technique in sensual massage, which tells us that those commenting have had much less experience during their lives than the actors did while filming this movie!).  This is an important detail however because it tells us much which happens between these two scenes...and literally the moral of the story.  At the beginning of the film we meet Marie, she wants sex, lusts for it, and her mate is unable to match her desire.  Her mate seems quite satisfied with the sensual contact, but for one reason or another (never quite clear) sex is something that is not on his agenda.  The shock of the audience seeing her pull his penis out and provide oral massage is merely because we have not seen this type of explicit scene in mainstream cinema.  In comparison to other scenes in the film it is really quite nothing, and a similar scene at the end would have proven anticlimactic.  She spends the rest of the film searching to quench her sexual desires, yet sensuality is something that is not on HER agenda.  So she has meaningless sex considering herself just a hole until by the end of the film she has experienced all that she is going to experience for a while, returns to her mate, and meets him on his terms, for a night of sensual pleasure...namely the final scene as described above (with penis seen in her hand--yes you were suppose to see it there!)  Do we need to see all the graphic sex scenes that appear throughout the film...including the actors literally having sex (loose definition here...more correctly, penetration)?  Maybe the point here is like what Lenny Bruce said about racist and swear words...the more they are used, the less meaning they have.  Sex has nothing to do with love and is often violent.  I've always thought it strange that in cinema a man can put his mouth on a woman's nipple, but a woman cannot put her mouth on a man's penis.  Given the nature and frankness of films during the past thirty years this does not seem such a big deal.  I would think if the actors were prepared to do nude love scenes this would not be that much of a stretch.  Also, I should make it quite clear this is not a porn film.  While the actors are going through the motions there is no indication that any male actor ejaculates into any actress (mouth or otherwise).  One of the men Marie meets on her journey is in real life a porn star.  He is quite good as an actor and I would not have known he was a porn star based on this film.  One of the reasons he was used apparently was because he could hold an erection during a particular scene where Marie helps him put on a condom.  Given all the efforts over the past decade to educate about safe sex it is curious this type of scene has not been more popular in other films.  It certainly would be an acceptable excuse for directors wishing to add a little sizzle to their film.  In this particular case the scene is quite straight forward (no pun intended).  Naked man sitting in bed next to naked woman, puts on a condom.  They talk a little about condoms and she helps him to smooth out the latex with her hand in a way that is not sensual or lewd, but obviously caring.  It is a very nice scene and works quite well.  By this time we are not shocked at a woman touching a man's penis (let alone with latex separating skin from skin).  Yes, you will see penetrating going on but not much sex.  The version I rented had a split second scene of an extra pleasuring himself onto what appeared to be another person and that's about it.  There is a scene after the condom scene where the two actors seem to be doing it...but we don't see anything, so I doubt they would go through all that trouble and not show it.  Even if they had, it would merely be penetration.  Perhaps another reason to hire a porn star is that he could control himself during penetration...and if the actress playing Marie could not, what partner would mind?  The question I had was how the actor playing Marie's mate was able NOT to get excited.  The actress looking quite lovely in the nude, it would be difficult for most men to control themselves laying so close to her in bed, let alone being pleasured by her (I wish there were out-takes of this film, I'm sure a lot more happened then what was shown on screen).  There are some disturbing scenes of violent and experimental sex that make this unsuitable for children, but I would suggest the condom scene be used in sex education classes in high school.  Hopefully this will open the door for other films to show sex in healthy and realistic ways.   "},{"Title":"Semi-porn with an intellectual touch","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Romance X is about a young girl, Marie, who's deeply in love with her boyfriend, Paul. The only problem is that he's not willing to have sex with her. This brings their relationship to the edge. After a year or two, Marie 's starting to become obsessed by it and ends up picking men off the streets to have sex with her. Soon, it's not all about the deed itself (or pleasure) anymore and Marie finds herself in the middle of a sickening game of sexual power and perversion, which goes further and further...When this film came out, it caused a bit of a fuzz. Its sexually explicit scenes upset many viewers. It raised some questions about whether it was pornography or art. Having seen the movie, I can say that it's certainly not a porn flick, but that it's not better than your average relationship drama. The problems of these characters are very recognizable and the acting is pretty good too, but Catherine Breillat(the director)seems to focus on sensationalism rather than on story. This film got a lot of attention in the media and I'm sure many people watched it.(including me). It was even programmed at a relatively early hour on one of the Belgian channels. And I think this is the problem with the movie people watched it for art's sake. There's nothing wrong with that (there's nothing wrong with seeing an ordinary porn film either), except for the fact that everybody was made to believe that this was ground-breaking stuff and that it was cool to name this a masterpiece. Well...it isn't neither original(see THE IDIOTS(which was good), or the Belgian S.(the same problem as this film)or some recent French(!)films(SITCOM for example)), nor a masterpiece. Still, this isn't a bad film either. There are some good ideas and feelings in it. But that doesn't distinguish it from an average normal film. Except for the explicit sex scenes that is. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Why was this movie allowed to even be made?","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw a little blurb for this as an advertisement in the student newspaper here, and since it was showing at the student union and was free, I thought I would give it a try.  How terribly disappointed I was.  It was about an hour too long, had horrible writing, and no apparent plot.  101 ways to tell if foreign film is bad---when the one German in the audience walks out halfway through it.  The one highlight for this movie was the end; it was halfway interesting and showed Marie as an empowered woman rather than a confused teenager. "},{"Title":"Can a movie get -10 Stars?","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie stunk! I can't believe I paid $7.25 to see this dog. I didn't care about the characters & I didn't care what they went through. There was nothing in the movie that was that 'shocking' that you can't see in any old porno flick (the Story of O comes to mind). If you want to see a good movie about a similar subject, see Belle Du Jour. Much better, much more intelligent. A person (don't know who she was) gave a little spiel before the movie and said that Catherine Breillat was having a hard time getting her movies made and is rather obscure. There is definitely a reason.  "},{"Title":"Only half as interesting as it looks...","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I really wanted to enjoy this film but it just didn't work out. I was hoping to see a realistic and perhaps even educational story about relationship-conflicts and adultery but, to my regret, I saw an incredibly pretentious and isolated film...All very stylish and dared... I won't deny that... but overall un-involving and illogical. It's about a young woman who goes out on a sexual odyssey because her lover does NOT want to have sex with her. The obvious decision would be brake up with him if it really bothers that much!! But no, she doesn't and therefore we get to see a series of semi-pornographic sequences and a whole lot of philosophical mumbo jumbo! Writer/director Catherine Breillat really tests one's attention span here. In general, I love films that are slow and atmospherically built sequence by sequence but this Romance X was a bit exaggerated. Sex sequences are explicitly observed and then you receive a whole analysis of them...You either appreciate this style or dislike it. Also, it didn't bother me that much, but Romance X clearly is a woman's film. The portrayal of several men in this film isn't exactly anything to be proud of. Either way, there are better things to waste your life with...  "},{"Title":"90 minutes of wasted time","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film was nothing that it promised to be. I did not only waste the money for the ticket, I also wasted 90 minutes of my free time. It is strange to think that it is possible that people make films that are as bad as this one - DON'T WATCH IT !  "},{"Title":"I hated that movie","Date":"11 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Life is wonderful, love is the essence of life and sex is one of the most beautiful ways to express love. Then why would someone want to consider sex as a tool of power, a sort of weapon between individuals to prove oneself to oneself? That sad story of a woman with a fixation on sex, on the mechanics and the organs of sex, not even its beauty, is a loss of time and money. Pouah! And don't even think that this movie is sexy, it is not. It's sad. Very sad. "},{"Title":"pornographic art house movie","Date":"25 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Marie (Caroline Ducey) is a schoolteacher with steady boyfriend Paul who doesn't have sex with her. She keeps cheating on him with ever riskier partners. One older man likes to tie her up. She's a detached damaged person as she tries to come to terms with her relationships.This is a pornographic art house indie from France. The sex is explicit. It's basically one nude scene after another. She is completely naked with a lot of male nudity as well. This would be shocking twenty or thirty years before. It does feel like another graphic sex art house movie. Ducey's cute looks clash with her sexually depraved encounters. The sex is visual shock and awe but the interior monologue is somewhat mumble jumble. "},{"Title":"99.9 percent boring","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Here is another crude drama made for people who sincerely believes graphic depictions of sex is controversial. ROMANCE is a failure on every level! It makes no sense how the girl, walk in a constantly sexual frustrations about her man, but still stick together with him all along! The drama is just impossible to care about. About the sex, it is never really cutting edge, and it ain't really erotic either. It actually seems like the intention is to show sex as being heinous. Which leads to a silly part where she meet an old school teacher who awkwardly ties her up in bondage positions. What is really the point? Does Breillat suggest that certain sexual obsessions are plain absurd? The man obsessed with submission is depicted as an arrogant creep to be rather offending. One single highlight though, appears near the climax. Surprisingly a bondage scene with some fingering that almost looked hot. But it is unlikely to stay awake, and the next moment the movie ends with an out-of-place finale that makes no good sense to anything we've already seen in the empty plot. "},{"Title":"a feminist movie","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What if a woman rises above societal norms and expresses her own sexuality? This is the central premise of the film. Men are always in control of their sexual energies--they do with their ding-dongs as they please and women are always just at the receiving (and waiting) end. Not so in this film. The woman transcends what the macho society orders hence, inverts the sexual political structure. She can now say what she wants, what position she prefers, when, where, and how. In Romance, the woman is not just a needy woman awaiting sexual alms from men. She is given the sexual dignity she rightly deserves. She is not only a sexual object, or a child bearing thing, she is someone who has a voice, a need, her own rhythm, a dignity. The movie gives the woman mileage to air what she thinks of herself, of men, and of their relationship. One may not agree with everything she does and says, but that's not the point. The point is in romance, the woman is equally important as the man.The film though is a drag (with a few totally explicit eye opening sex numbers). One could easily fall asleep with the monotony of characters' dialogue and narration and the frugal use of sound; the pale colors of the set also adds up to the lulling effect of the whole film. However, these are not without meaning in the over-all mood of the film. And precisely because of this that one sees through the film's beauty--costumes and set design (whites and pale tones) are symbolic of blandness and/or the lack of passion/romance; quiet atmospheric sound allows us to hear the woman's soliloquy clearly; and the explicit sex scenes (oral, sado-maso, rape, masturbation, cum shot) show the naturality and the indispensability of sex in romance. The sex scenes don't hide anything from the viewers not because it aims to be controversial or erotic but rather, it wants to make the viewers understand the woman better. "}{"Title":"I appreciate the Effort","Date":"12 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am all in favor of films that a woman explores her sexuality. I am even more in favor of films that an attractive woman explores her sexuality. You're probably asking, what could go wrong? I don't know, but despite this poor repressed French woman delving deep into her bondage fantasies, something is missing. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Different, but certainly *not* shocking","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well, this movie is nothing special, but... I read most of other people opinions here, and it become very obvious to me that most likely age and background of the viewer has alot to do with perception of such movies like Romance X, that are loaded with i.e. oral sex scenes or closeups of genitals. For older generations of prudent americans (americans especially), to whom a blow job is something they would never try to do with their wife (such activity is limited to bad girls only in their opinion LOL) it has certain amount of shocking scenes they certainly can't and won't stomach. Yet being very liberated and open-minded person as I think of myself, I was surprised to see scenes of ejaculation, and I mean close-ups including loads of sperm landing on actress' body - I was really stunned to see it on regular tv channel. As a matter of fact I am sure it was very first time I have seen such scene on 'regular' tv channel! Also scenes of fantasy brothel at the end of the movie were something you would never expect to see on regular tv channel. Closeups of baby coming out of genitals were incredible as well. I've seen live birth few years ago, but to see it without any attached emotions, without affection, on tv, in a movie - it is totally different experience! For these bold scenes I gave this movie 7. Otherwise it is just boring story (man can't have sex, unsatisfied woman seeks for pleasure somewhere else - boooooring!) and wouldn't deserve more than 3. And BTW - why is it that girl on the cover of VHS  (or DVD) shown here on imdb has such big bossom? The actress in this movie is at most size 1, why is it that in order to sell it in USA someone always decides to 'enhance' the girl's natural wonders sometimes to the sizes of milky cows? That is more disgusting than any supposedly shocking scenes in this movie, shame on you, americans!  "},{"Title":"If this movie didnt have sex in it, no one would talk about it.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What bad and boring movie this was. I was zapping through TV and caught a scene of a woman performing oral sex. So of course it caught my attention, since I thought, hang on, that cant be what I think it is, not on german TV!!Well, I quickly realised that the style of the movie seemed all too familiar. After checking the Internet I realised why. This movies director also made Base Moi. I didnt like Base Moi and I certainly didnt enjoy this one. The Director is Catherine Breillat and some people call her stuff shocking and provoking, but it seems to me that the only shocking thing here is the fact that we are paying so much attention to crap like this.If Catherine Breillat would not use any explicit sex scenes in her films, than no one would even take notice of them. People consider her a brave director for the subject matter and explicitness of her films. But the sex scenes in her films are just a gimmick, its just a trick so people will watch the movie and talk about it.The only thing that I find intrigueing from her films is that it seems that the only way for a mainstream film to have explicit sex scenes, is to make the scenes unerotic and unenjoyable, only then it seems will people not classify it as boring porn. "},{"Title":"My expectations were too high?","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Not a bad movie, but not a good one neither. Caroline Breillat's Romance surely goes beyond what's usually done by film-makers, but somehow, the movie doesn't catch up to us.Marie is tired of trying to get her boyfriend excited in bed, so she goes elsewhere. Entering of fantasy world where sex is omnipresent.Some scenes drags on too long but I would also add that there's nothing shocking about this movie. It's not because there's some raw sex that it should be banned. What's better, two people having hard core sex or two people being decapitated by a chain saw amateur?Out of 100, I give it 77. That's good for **½ out of ****.Seen at home, in Toronto, on June 23rd, 2002. "},{"Title":"Annoyance","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" *** Spoilers ***This is certainly an ambiguous movie; on the one hand, and I think Catherine Breillat deserves an Oscar, an MBE and the Bundesverdienstkreuz am Band for this, it is a successful attempt to explore a new cinematic language for the sex act, which hitherto, even in supposedly avant - garde films, is notoriously hidden under a Victorian blanket of soft focus and lighting, cheesy music, shots of water drops on rhythmically moving bodies and simultaneous orgasms. Is sexual intercourse so filthy that it can't be shown directly? Why does it have to be banished and left to the porn industry? The director and especially her female lead go all the way into new territory here, the camera revealing erect penises, penetration, ejaculation, the vagina being medically examined and giving birth.If only Breillat had focused on this achievement; unfortunately, and I think she deserves to be cruelly punished for this (ideally by having to watch her own film repeatedly), she finds it necessary to expand her production into a showcase example of naff, pretentious French movie-making. The central character, Marie (Caroline Ducey), an ethereal beauty of the type which the French movie industry seems to genetically engineer and breed for its purposes, is struggling with her equally ethereally beautiful boyfriend because he won't sleep with her. In the real world he could only be gay, impotent, or a pathetically twisted b****rd, but at this point Breillat becomes strangely coy and wanders off into pseudo - intellectual territory. For one, she never even attempts to tell a story or to involve the viewer. What is more, the movie is just brimming with plainly unbelievable details; Marie is an elementary school teacher even though she is so dyslexic she can't even copy text to the blackboard; the principal of her school boasts that he has slept with 10,000 (or was it just 1,000) women, including Grace Kelly (or Grace Delly, as she is called in the script). And to really mess it up, about half of the movie's running time is made up out of Marie's monologueing about her personal philosophy of life and the universe in a whiny voice.It seems as if Breillat wanted to pack too much into one movie an attempt to push back cinematic boundaries, a portrait of a psychologically troubled young woman, a talky - brainy movie about the less savoury aspects of love and sex. In the end she comes away with a movie that doesn't do anything properly.'Romance' is not a movie without virtues, but overall it simply isn't very good. I had the impression that the director was trying to make it as visually shocking as possible (in addition to the already mentioned scenes, there is also flagellation, bondage and rape) in order to cover up her inadequacies as a film maker. If you want to see a film that displays sex honestly and truthfully and still works as a movie, I would very much recommend that you see 'Intimacy' instead. "},{"Title":"You're better off with a Harlequin Romance","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie purports to be an introspective and psychological examination of a woman's self, using sex as the means of illuminating her. In fact, the film consists mostly of rote scenes to make the viewer wait for affectless (if at times near-hard-core) sex scenes adorned with dully intoned monologues about what women truly want, none of which ever rise much above the novelty or sophistication of the average Saturday night girl's dorm lounge conversation at a northeastern liberal arts college. The, er, thrust is that while perfectly nice, attractive women may crave to be loved by under-endowed male models with Mercedes convertibles and all-white apartments, they secretly wish to be treated as just a body during sex, and to be handled passionately and even roughly at times. Shocking, huh. For those in search of sensation, the film proffers a few plums. The scene with Italian porn superstar Rocco backdoor Sifreddi will not surprise his fans. Eyebrow raising to most American filmgoers will be the group of student gynecologists getting some glove-handed experience, and a third-reel closeup of a baby's head (and then the rest of him) pushing into the world for the first time. Overall, though, Romance satisfies the widely accepted definition of pornography, in that it exists primarily to appeal to the prurient. Its quasi-intellectual ponderings are merely glittery bits hung on a frame of filmed sex, and add little enjoyment of any kind. Pity, then, that Ms. Breillat couldn't have simply acknowledged the genre of her film, and employed her attractive and game cast a pure sex movie. Perhaps it would have made for a more successful picture. "},{"Title":"*SPOILERS*","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My dentist expressed surprise that after ten solid weeks of root canal work I did not react to pain. I asked him whether he had ever sat through the four hour French avante-garde film 'Celine And Julie go boating'. Root canal work pales in comparison. I tell him that the only two good things that ever came out of France both belong to Laetitia Casta. I agree, she has very nice eyes, he said sternly, the drill hovering  menacingly. Blimey, is it safe? No sense of humour, my dentist, he's a Tom Cruise fan. But it seems the French also share my aversion to French films, prefering American films to their own subsidised soporific fare. The French film, contractually obligated to always star Gerard Depardieu, is in decline. Can Catherine Breillat's film break the mold of a bunch of French people standing around in rooms gazing at their navels? Lugubriously named 'Romance' in what passes for irony across the (too close for comfort) pond, it attempts to blow the lid off sexual politics. Things get off to a dodgy start when our heroine Marie attempts to administer oral sex to her boyfriend Paul. He expresses disinterest, thus causing videos across the world to be switched off in disbelief. She Betty Blew it. No, she hasn't, and he's not gay either, merely French film boy. His expression is permanently pained and appears catatonic. Has he been to my dentist? No, French film boy is always like that, Camus on one side of the bed and a French letter on the other (un-used due to existentialist crisis or too much garlic bread).The next day our heroine is sitting in a cafe. She has long dark hair and is smoking. Don't they all? Paul joins her. She takes an interminable length of time to speak. Paul counters with another enigmatic pause. Does he love her? Will she leave him? Is he too bourgeoise to make love to her? Is he drunk? Will he wake up tomorrow and find he has been transformed into a giant cockroach? Or failing that, Saddam Hussein? Why does Jean Paul Belmondo look like a frog whose had an anvil dropped on it's head? We are destined not to know the answers to these questions as Marie goes off to find impersonal, masculine sex with Rocco Stiffready, I mean Siffredi. Rocco is a hardcore porn star who has decided to extend his range by playing the part of Paolo. In the buff. Marie gets things off to a flying start by telling him she despises men. Has Tom Cruise entered the room? (I've got a million of 'em, son). She was lying on the bed and just saw the top of someone's head, so it was an easy mistake to make. Maybe it was Toulouse Lautrec looking for a paint brush (naked, Toulouse? Give me a break).Anyway, our Marie gives laughing boy the shove and is accosted in the street outside by a young man who is feeling hungry and offers her ten francs for a sexual service, which being a liberated, modern women she immediately accepts. This he proceeds to do on the stairs to her apartment block, considerately leaving a gap for people to squeeze by. Suddenly the young man turns her round and proceeds to probe for a tooth pick in an unlikely place. Then he leaves without paying. So he was British. I'm not ashamed! she cries. No, she is a women. She is whatever she is. She is...SHE. Marie believes that when a man has sex with her, he honours her. But has she forgotten that the French have something called 'crime passionalle'? If a man has a mistress and his wife objects, then he can kill her and walk free. What a great system, I'm moving to France! No, it's blockaded again. Who is it this time, golf caddies?Meanwhile, Marie's headmaster at the school she teaches at is giving her the eye. He takes her home and smugly tells her he's slept with a thousand women. How does he manage it when he doesn't stop talking? This plot turn must have the teacher's union in hysterics. Where does he find the time? Does he mark homework during sex? Or are all the school kids at Calais too? Anyway, our smoothy, long in the tooth headmaster proceeds to tie our heroine up. Is he going to show her a French film? But this is too liberated for her, and she tells him she is frightened and trapped. I haven't felt like that since seeing 'Jean De Florette'.So has Catherine Breillat single handedly taken French cinema into a new golden age of exploration and inclusiveness? Has she illuminated the sensual inner world of the modern women and brought us to a startling conclusion about the inexplicable aching sadness within? Has she answered the universal mystery of why when you get on the Paris Metro you always end up exactly the same place you started from with half an hour of your life wasted?Non.  "},{"Title":"A very interesting story about a woman and her physical desires.","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie very interesting although. It deals very openly with sexual desires of a girl that have been deprived from sex for a relatively long time by her boyfriend and what she does to change this situation. It was a non stopping dialogue of this girl with herself. It showed also clearly the conflicts inside of her during her search or let us say sexual and emotional research. Despite many very open scenes of sexual intercourse I would not classify this movie as a porno movie in any way. It was simply about a girl that wanted to understand her desires. It had also a very strong French touch in its dialogues that help us to interact in a better manner with her. I would recommend this movie for opened minded people who want to better understand humans and their desires without being embarrassed of watching overt  "},{"Title":"pretentious and pointless, a waste of time and space","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've never written a user comment before, but had to for this film, largely because a comment before mine was so glowing that it fooled me into renting it.  I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a movie less than this.  The characters' motivation made no sense to me, the plot was close to non-existent, and the slim message I could find was so deeply cynical towards both men and women that it was completely lost on me.  Don't waste your time, unless you love pretentious art films.  The only enjoyable thing about this movie was reading the rest of the user comments, some of which were spot on in describing just how bad this film was and why.  I just wish I had read them BEFORE seeing it and saved $4 and an hour and a half of my life. "},{"Title":"Belle of the Ball","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  How much of this is meant to be comical is a matter for speculation. Maybe this is a serious look at a woman's sexuality (specifically a pretty, young and wealthy one) but the audience reaction might have highlighted just what a comical business sex can be.  I'm not sure whether I agree with reviews that see this as a feminist classic the protagonist doesn't object to any of the violent humiliations she suffers.  Perhaps this is how the director feels about similar experiences.  But I certainly don't want to criticise her; she could be a similar talent to Bunuel and that would be a great achievement.  See this film, you won't be bored but nor will you be titillated (much) or enlightened about female sexuality (or perhaps many women are like this?).  Further films from Catherine Breillat will be very intriguing if Romance is anything to go by; it poses more questions than it answers and that is a very good thing.If anyone likes to discuss this or any other French language films, please feel free to write to me (in French or in English). "}{"Title":"Shocking, yet beautiful","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The thing that led me to this movie was the fact that it has been released Unrated in the United States.  I had to see what the big deal was.  I was very pleased with what I saw.  I think it is a very interesting film due to its explicit content.  Nothing is in bad taste in this film.  The lead character, Marie, was awesome and I think a very strong woman, which was a nice change.  Her boyfriend is a jerk but this is common.  It was how he acted toward her that made his character fascinating. If you are not afraid of subtitles or uptight about sexuality on screen, as many Americans are, go see this movie.  It is not for the squeamish. "},{"Title":"Directing by numbers","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have no problems with the graphic content of the film and admire the BBFC for actually giving this a certificate (let's hope this is a watershed). My problem is that the film was so bad.  If you think of every stereotype image of a foreign language film they are all in 'Romance' - so much nudity that it becomes boring, irrelevant sweeping background shots, conversations between people that only contain a few sentences but last about ten minutes and an 'ending' that is simply that - as though the director ran out of film  "},{"Title":"Yes but there are a couple of laughs as well","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A lot has been written about this film. In England, the first surprise we get is when our heroine clamps her mouth around her boyfriend's penis. All this in a mainstream film.Yes it is turgid in places but there are moments I liked. It is affecting when she becomes upset at the bondage session. However, like a naughty child she comes back for more. I thought the sight of the old seducer rooting in his box of tricks for the sort of equipment a plumber might use then cursing when he does not have enough handcuffs and ankle irons very funny scenes.Other good bits? Well I like what happens to her boyfriend. He deserves all he gets. Also the final scene is excellent even if it does seem to have strayed in from another movie. "},{"Title":"Expected better","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Romance was not a totally bad experience, but it was missing a few items to bring it to the level I personally expected.  Mostly, there isn't any real progression for any of the characters and neither is it ever mentioned why their respective sexual lives are so screwed up.  Thereby it leads me to conclude that the movie mirrors its own characters who cannot open up. However, I still do believe the movie is worth seeing despite a few shortcomings.  And I might add, it does deliver more on the sexual subject than Eyes Wide Shut was publicized to do... "},{"Title":"Could have said a great deal more.","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The French (in film at least) seem to have something of a penchant for women with desolate and destructive sex lives. From 'Belle du Jour' to 'Les Valseuses' and now 'Romance'. Unfortunately Romance lacks the subtlety of the former or the humour of the latter. In fact, it would only be a little unfair to say that it lacks the humour of the former and the subtlety of the latter.There are a number of scenes where Romance achieves quite impressive portraits of domestic intimacy. One notable example is the heroine's Italian lover struggling with a condom while she disinterestedly discusses her liking for the disgusting. The fact that the lover is played by a porn actor adds a probably deliberate irony.The film's excuse for the desolate sex life is the deliberately celibate long-time boyfriend. And early in the film the relationship between heroine and boyfriend is disturbingly real. Sadly he sinks from irritating into completely unbelievable and the film sinks with him. "},{"Title":"what the French do best","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A woman's rumblings from her inner most source of need, desire, reluctance, here explicit and succinctly constructed as a cinematic thesis on sex between the sexes, is ultimately a tract for her own domestic emancipation.In so many scenes, she could've been me talking to a transient partner in bed . . . of course, I've never had a husband waiting at home, among other things; but the film is fearlessly relevant regardless of gender.ROMANCE should be compulsory viewing for any adult who has even thought about having sex with anyone. "},{"Title":"Doesn't advance much on Godard and Last Tango","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This depiction of a young woman's sexual odyssey is already notorious for its explicit content, but ends up surprisingly tedious, churning through familiar notions of confused negotiation between self-respect and physical gratification; of the status of one's desires when in love with a sexual cold fish; of how to reconcile exploration of one's intimacy with the specter of obscenity and sluttishness. The film tosses off so many potentially misogynistic statements and attitudes that - given that it was made by a woman - it starts to seem like a sustained test of both the filmmaker's and the audience's faith (it has a pseudo-spiritual, ritualistic quality about it) it's probably more verbally shocking than it is visually. It does ultimately amount to a moderately moving portrayal, aided by a nuanced actress, but doesn't go much beyond the cinematic territory mapped out in the 1970's by Godard, Last Tango and others, female director notwithstanding. "},{"Title":"Porn?","Date":"9 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" While watching Catherine Breillat's 'Romance', I was really confused? Was this a xxx or a film? A strange film.... which needs to viewed only if your 18 or above.'Romance' is a disappointed, there is nothing apart from SEX!!! Agreed, it one of those films where young lads will rush to watch Caroline Ducey getting it in every way possible. But apart from the explicit Sex Scenes, there is nothing that works in this sad-film.Caroline Ducey has guts, in fact the most daring actress since Maria in 'Last Tango In Paris'. She knows what she has done with her image, sadly or happily, she'll be known as the women who did it all for a film that released in 1999.Watch 'Romance' alone. This cannot be viewed by anybody else around, be it your boy or girl friend. "},{"Title":"I get the message, but then I wish I did not look","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to admit I watched this mostly in 2x FF, just to read the subtitles and move the (excruciatingly naive) action along.I can think of many better ways to stage a backdrop for the study of female erotic self, but this was not always annoying. Outside of the ugly closeups (puhleez, there was no need, I can watch live birth on Discovery, thankyouverymuch), lack of personal grooming (oh my god! I thought European women are acquainted with the razor or wax! this is just nasty!) and the often appearance of unattractive people, there were some very sexy moments.I am an American, I want my soft porn lit well and I want to see beautiful bodies+faces in beautiful settings with cool soundtrack. This was generally shabby in a sort of a stray-cats-going-at-it- by-a-trash-can-on -a- cold-winter-day way. Maybe it appeals to the French, who knows.You kinda get the message, but then you wish you did not look. "},{"Title":"If you're easily offended or traumatized, slowly back away","Date":"9 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is fascinating because it forces you to completely reanalyze your view of sex, however it usually manages to at least slightly traumatize most people that watch it. I've seen quite a few movies and this is one of the only ones I've watched thats really made me uncomfortable. There is a lot of sex in the movie and it is presented in such a way that you're not meant to find it pleasurable. Pay attention to the color scheme red, white, and black. Why do you think that it's like that? What does this mean in the context of the movie? Prepare to be disturbed while you follow a nymphomaniac school teacher on a strange sexual adventure. "}{"Title":"How did this film get an R","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't remember when the MPAA came out with the NC-17 rating, but this film puts any film with that rating to shame.  If a different version was released in the United States, there would be almost nothing interesting left in this film.The film talks about nothing but sex.  It shows, sometimes explicitly, scenes I have never seen in a porno film. (Did the MPAA relax its standards, because it was arty?).  Who knows?This film makes Looking for Mr. Goodbar seem like an After School Special.  (Although it contains a lot less violence and drugs).Definitely a must see, if you are tracking the transition of mainstream films (at least in France) to the inevitable pornography. "},{"Title":"stunning","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Quite a remarkable achievement indeed. Beautifully shot, with great cast, the movie leaves a powerful and memorable impression, even explicit sex scenes aside. That is not to say that those scenes are inappropriate, quite on the contrary, they form the very essence of the story evolving around Marie's vehement dissatisfaction with her sex relationship with Paul, whom she loves (or so she thinks). Marie being the main character investigated in the film, Paul's motivations are not that clear and are never really explained. This does not make the sight of him having solitary dinner with a Bukowski book instead of being in bed with Marie any less entertaining.One of the most remarkable new movies shown in NY within the last year or so, it well deserves its (somewhat scandalous) fame. "},{"Title":"A film about sexual situations should have interesting sex scenes,THIS HAS ONLY BORING ONES","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I cannot see what type of audience would enjoy this boring sex situation drama.Let me first state I love good hot scenes done by actors who at least are pretending to have sex. Romance has one sexual situation scene after another,over 80 minutes worth of the total 96 minute running time. Full frontal nudity,non-simulated sex scenes,a rape scene & two extended bondage scenes. There is not one single moment of sexual excitement.The leading actress is skinny as a rail & not the least bit exciting or sexual. The guy playing her boy friend is a complete dullard. the older man needs instructions making a bondage scene believable.SPOILER The ending where we see in full detail her giving birth,is near unwatchable & also is in bad taste.I have no idea what the female director was doing, unless it was showing her own distaste for her sex & sexual attitudes.This has to be one of the worst films ever made. If you must see porn watch a real porn film not this garbage. This did not have a theatrical release in the USA. IT DID NOT DESERVE ANY.I really mean to use another word.Ratings * (out of 4) 13 points (out of 100) IMDb 1 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"The Best Foreign Film of 1999","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"9 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Romance(1999) is an example of couragous film-making with a taboo breaking presentation.  What I find amazing is that the sex scenes in were real and were shown in a realistic manner.  This film deals with a woman who's in search of control in her life and needs someone who she can have an emotional as well as a physical relationship with.  Romance(1999) is a film that deserved an Oscar for Best Foreign Film for its a movie with raw intensity, and tremendous acting.  This film not only deals with the physical aspects of sex but also the emotional aspects as well.There are a few reasons why I enjoyed watching this film.  First, the narrative is done with a female perspective which is refreshing to see.  Second, the sex in the film is not just plain fun but an emotionally draining moment where the characters involved put their hearts and soul into making these scenes work.  Third, there is an air of anti-establishment and rebelliousness which I could identify with and understand.  Finally, the director had the guts to dive into subject matters that many directors in Hollywood do not have the fortitude to explore.Caroline Trousselard gives a couragous and very gutsy performance that has to rival the one given by Harvey Kitel in Abel Ferrara's Bad Lieutent(1992).  She does in the film what few actresses or even actors are willing to perform in a feature film.  Romance is one of the best films in France that I've seen in a long time.  Actually its the boldest and most daring film to be released in the USA since David Cronenberg's Crash(1997). This movie especially with its subject manner reminds me of the films of Pier Paolo Pasolini.The sado-masosctic scenes are distrubing but not in the level of the Marquis De Sade as many passages from his work exceed the notion of distrubing.  Romance is an excellent film to cap off the first one hundred years of Motion Pictures.  Catherine Breillat is a brillient director who hopefully can make more couragous and provokative movies like Romance(1999).  She is the best director from her generation in the French cinema today.   This should be an inspiration to many female directors to make films about subject matters that many male directors are not willing to portray.The birth scene near the end was an amazing and beautiful but difficult thing to watch.  Romance steps on the line between an art flick and a prono film.  The child represents the end of the protagonist's search for someone to get close with.  The scene at the end also symbolizes Marie's complete transference to womanhood.  Finally, this is a film that should be viewed by people who are sick and tired of films with scenes of sex that don't mean anything.     "},{"Title":"Not my idea of Romance","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Reading Roger Ebert's review of this, I was intrigued, but, after seeing twenty minutes of this film, I was thinking about what I else I could have bought with the two dollars and fifty cents I spent on this film at Blockbuster.Let's just say that this movie was boring, which is the last adjective you wanna think of when you rent an artsy sex film, and, c'mon, does anyone in real life that you know of act like these characters? Of course, they are French, which may explain a lot.Anyways, I'm the most open minded person when it comes to film, and I anticipated seeing this film. Reader, disappointed is not a strong enough adjective to explain my emotions after viewing this tripe.Breillat can do better than this. "},{"Title":"A Rohmer film gone bad.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  That being said, I enjoyed this film, although 'enjoy' is probably not the right word. It's a bit like watching a car crash, but one where no one dies. Lots of flesh on display, but nothing really hard core. She massages a man to get him aroused, puts him in her mouth. It doesn't work. So she searches elsewhere and has a few 'wild' experiences (rape, bondage, etc.)  Shocking I suppose for how it pushes the envelope in the USA- we rarely see anything this sexual, we're just used to guns and bombs and blood- it's an interesting piece, well acted, and made all the more curious for the fact that it was writen and directed by a woman.     "},{"Title":"A great brave movie","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in a cinema that shows mostly non-commercial movies. I especially noticed the reactions of some older women who where watching the film. They were totally shocked with the sex scenes and left during the intermission. I don't believe the creators of the movie hadn't anticipated such reactions. They bravely left the movie uncensored though for the viewers that understood the need for the existence of such scenes. Those are the scenes that made the movie something more than just a romantic movie. "},{"Title":"Thoughtful, intense, provocative, courageous.","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like the uncut versions of Beineix's Betty Blue, Bellocchio's Devil in the Flesh, Murakami's Tokyo Decadence, and Oshima's In the Realm of the Senses, Romance is a superbly mature, intelligent, thought- provoking and erotic examination of sexual relationships and interactions which - in common with these earlier films - is carried along masterfully by a highly talented, courageous and intense lead actress, and very focused directorship.Only continental European, Japanese, and - occasionally - Brazilian Art Cinema seems mature enogh to deal openly and explicitly with the very real passionate and / or darker sides of human sexual experience.  These films, showing aspects of real life, with real psycho-sexual themes, as experienced by millions of real people daily, venture where British and American directors and actresses (with only a few exceptions, such as Jane March) fear to travel (audiences too, perhaps?).  Romance sets out to answer few, if any, questions.  What it does do, more importantly, is challenge us to think long and hard about sexuality and love.  Particularly effective is its raw examination of sex as power and the continual shift in the balance of this power from one protagonist to the other.  The graphic sex scenes, including penetration, are crucial, at times very erotic (because of the very real effects of penetration mirrored in Caroline Ducey's facial expressions), and always well-performed to get their message(s) across to the viewer.  This is not meant to be an erotic film in the sensual sense of the term, nor is it meant to be comfortably romantic to watch.  Indeed, if Romance were not uncomfortably challenging and requiring of attentiveness and concentration it would fail in what it sets out to achieve. Particularly effective in this respect is the clever, cynical, and sometimes humorous existentialist commentary by which Marie communicates her thoughts and feelings to us throughout her psychological and sexual journey to find herself and to understand her sexuality.  Amongst many other things, Romance portrays one perspective of female sexuality - that of raw sexual longing and emptiness - so accurately from a female viewpoint that, after watching the film four times, Romance continues to leave my female partner in awe at the combined talents of Ms. Ducey and director Catherine Breillat.Ms. Ducey exhibits great courage in exposing her quite real psychological vulnerability as she pushes herself - and allows herself to be pushed directorially - across acting boundaries of mainstream cinema only rarely crossed before, that, concurrently, echo her character's journey across similar sexual and psychological boundaries.Having seen Romance many times now it seems clear that viewers who do not wish to be challenged to think about the uncomfortable darker sides of human relationships and sexuality, or who find it disquieting or distasteful watching unsimulated and multiple partnered sex scenes, will not like this film.  Contrary to many reviews that I have read, I do not find Romance to be unsympathetic to males, and Ms. Breillat certainly does not depict all of her male characters as being worthless or exploitative.  Her perspective on heterosexual relationships - as portrayed through Marie's circumstances - is a bleak and depressing one, but given that many real life relationships are this unhappy and emotionally unfulfilling the film seems fair and balanced throughout.  Ms. Breillat never says - or implies - that this is a depiction of everything that love and sex can be.  The relationship is, clearly, recognizably real to many of us either from experience or observation, and obviously does not encompass the better sides of sex and love which also exists in our world.  Romance is disturbingly real in those areas that it does seek to cover.One final point.  I can only find four other films in Ms. Ducey's / Trousselard's filmography.  She has that wonderful intensity, artistic interpretative ability to bring a character to life, and that same range of eye communication as that other great French actress, Juliette Binoche.  I look forward to seeing Ms. Ducey star in a wide range of films, in a wide variety of roles, as her career develops.   "},{"Title":"Disturbingly hot","Date":"5 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I couldn't identify with much of it, but this movie did hit on the disquieting contradictions of sex and romance.  Some of the imagery has haunted me and gets to some parts of the female sexual psyche that many will not want to explore or even have pointed out to them.  It has taken me years to get cynical enough to really appreciate this movie.  Not for the young romantic!   "},{"Title":"Intricate exploration of the the relationship between power, sex, romance, and love.","Date":"29 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film explores the relationships between power, sex, and love in a unique way from a woman's perspective.This perspective gives us intimate insight into the mind of Marie and how she views the triad of power (when she has it and when she gives it away), sex (when she can have it and when she can't), and love (when she uses it to her advantage and when it is used against her).Romance is a great film to get you thinking about your relationships, how they interrelate, and how they shape your life and those around you. "}{"Title":"Bizarre, Profound, at times uneasy to watch, you'll never forget it","Date":"4 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I had to see this movie twice before I could really form an opinion of it. But since viewing it I have been unable to get it out of my mind. Here is a film that gives us a heroine who unable to get her boyfriend to sleep with her (notice the gender role switch) seeks out other men to sexually fulfill her, yet mentally and emotionally blocks them out.The lead is so introspective (she doesn't even stop talking during sex) that she becomes a ludicrous, familiar victim of love.There is some hard core sex in this film, but on the whole it is less erotic and more psychological. If you get through and see that it is at times meant to be funny than you can enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Honest view of an unloved woman","Date":"19 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The film presents a harshly realistic psychological view of a woman whose love is unreturned by a narcissistic man.  Sex with mutual love becomes elevating.  Without love, sex turns to desecration and self destruction. Her natural desires lead her through a series of graphic but horrendous encounters. The naked images are challenged by the woman's internal thoughts disregarded by most image oriented males.  Ironically, the S&M partner shows the most tenderness towards her ultimately being witness to her fulfillment as a woman and mother. The scenes of the internal exams a woman undergoes reveal to a male viewer a nakedness he never experiences.  "},{"Title":"Misanthropy, Autobiography or What?","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is not erotic - it is pornographic, in the most exact sense. Since the director is also the writer, what man (or even woman) can doubt that the protagonist's emotions, thoughts and actions are possible in a woman.  The heroism of the actor who plays the heroine is undoubted.  She is the subject (victim?) in the extreme of the pain and indignity actors are subject to in the service of their art.  And this is art, as puzzling as any film you are likely to see in years. "},{"Title":"A Must See","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this at the Edinburgh film festival and although I didn't agree with a lot of what the director said at the Q&A I still found it a very good film. I find it strange that several others have commented on it being made by a woman because I don't think it could have been made by a man, there are too many images and concepts that are, for want of a better phrase, female specific.  "},{"Title":"More than you would expect.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a much better movie than I was expecting. It leaves you thinking, and at the same time it is successful as eroticism. The director and lead actors have actually done something new and courageous. There may just be some things here that will influence the direction of future movies.   "},{"Title":"Romance sans romance","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" You'll see precious little romance in Romance, a stark and bleak examination of a sexually frustrated elementary school teacher who seeks fulfillment outside her relationship with her live-in boyfriend. What you will see are erections, full penetration, coitus, oral sex, ejaculation, bondage, rape, multiple GYN digital exams, and child birth. A well crafted, cutting edge mainstream French flick narrated by the protag (Ducey), Romance wanders through her neurotic mental meanderings dwelling on sex with a hollow and unsatisfying storyline. Probably not worth a look except for the curious, Romance is a much less powerful and compelling sexual psychodrama than another Breillat film, Fat Girl. All white subtitles with no CC's are also a liability. (B-) "},{"Title":"A comment on the comments","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When browsing the comments, one thing struck my mind Almost everyone seem to be all against or all for this movie! Usually when discussing movies or art in general that means that we're dealing with something very daring and challenging. So in my experience that is the biggest recommendation any film or piece of art can get - it means I have to check it out. Please bear this in mind when reading these reviews. Those against are simply to afraid to be challenged, or they just don't get it, because of a product that don't fit into their 'consumer habits'. "},{"Title":"A more than great movie.","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a 'more than great' movie. To me it was the first film who was really capable to express the depths of our 'human' mind. It was hard and shocking, it was bizarre, yes even unhuman. Some would find it maybe to extreme or ridiculous. But that is how people are. We are not domesticated, we are not civilized when it is about our deepest inner emotional spiritual life. The film is about power between sexes, and what is the power? Sex!Life is not all about us, ourselves. It is important to, maybe much more than the importance of ourselves, take the other in his otherness in to account. Another theme is the distinction mind-body. The protagonist is giving her body away to everybody who desires it, but her mind, her desire is with him who does not desire her body. She is crying, crying because of the deadly powers of that desire, the Tanathos of our (too) creative minds. My last remark is something to think about is it remarkable that this movie was directed by a woman? (Catherine Breillat) "}]