[{"Title":"The kind of film Hollywood would never dare make","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"52 out of 63 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I just thought it was excellent and I still do. I'm grateful we're still able to see different stuff from what Hollywood almost floods us with. Saving Grace is smart and enjoyable - those who feel offended by the marijuana thing better go see the America's bride sort of movie.Saving Grace also shows that a funny movie doesn't have to be stupid. I was laughing my ass off during most of it but also pondering questions about what was the female lead character supposed to do to pay her deceased husband's debts.In a nutshell - a witty storyline with typical English humour and good acting and directing. You couldn't ask for more.7/10. "},{"Title":"What British film making is all about . . .","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Great actors, an oscar nominee actress, stunning scenery, good strong story line and more laughs than you can fit into my new handbag (and thats quite big). This film was brilliant. It was beautifully acted in the more serious scenes and the funny moments were . .well, side splitting. I have never heard a cinema audience laugh so much, and tears were streaming down my cheeks during the 'stoned ladies in the tea shop' scene. Well done to the British film industry and to Craig Ferguson whose magic ingredients have made sure this is one of my favourite films of the year, if not of all time.  "},{"Title":"Drug trafficking, the elegant way.","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" What is so startling to me is the number of comments here. How come, 93! The film has utterly fallen into obscurity in town. I just by chance popped by a VCD shop, which is on sale, and so fortunately to have picked up this hilarious movie (73pence or US$1.29 ^_^).The film title is just funny enough to make you associate the story with it.Grace, played by the versatile actress Brenda Blethyn, was in financial trouble. And this small and elegant English village lady cannot but save herself by a not-so-elegant trade through the help of her own gardener and her late husband's unseen mistress in London.I especially like the daredevil scene when Grace is fully dressed up touting her masterpiece cannabis (cultured in her own green house) to the undesirable figures in sleazy areas in London. Her act is comical, prudent and daring at the same time. I find it hard to imagine a well-dressed and French speaking Chinese grandma would approach me touting home-made grass so reeklessly in Wanchai or Mongkok.English humour or European subtlety can never be reproduced by Hollywood, the air, the smell, everything belongs to the Brits and Europeans. Lovely small production with bold attempt. "},{"Title":"Delightful","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Excellent view of a mature woman, that is going to lose everything (even the pruner has a mortgage). The way she gets involved into this special business, the innocence, and the true love that exists between the people of a little town, it's mixed perfectly to give us as result a fresh, light and funny comedy. I couldn't stop laughing with a very funny scene of two old ladies in a drugstore.I love European films, and with movies like this one, my opinion grows stronger. A movie that I also recommend with my eyes closed, in this same genre, is Waking Ned Devine.Saving Grace, a comedy that many friends enjoyed as much as myself. You will love it. "},{"Title":"Take the high road to a comedy that truly lights up.","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Saving Grace is a nice movie to watch in a boring afternoon,when you are looking for something different than the regular scripts and wants to have some fun. I mean,the whole idea of this movie and all the marijuana in it is such a craziness! It was the first movie I watched with this theme(drugs/marijuana) that is not really criticizing it,only making jokes about it. Grace Trevethyn is a widow,who lives in a small town in U.K. and has many financial problems because of her dead husband, who committed suicide since he was full of debts. The problem is that Grace, who imagined to have some money saved for her, discovers that she needs to pay all of her husband's pounds in debts to not lose all of her things, specially her house that she loves so much. She never worked before, and is in a tragic situation until Matthew,her gardener who is very found of smoking pot, decides to make a partnership with her in selling marijuana in large scale. "},{"Title":"Feel-good movie","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is inspiring to anyone who is or has been in a tough jam, whether financially or emotionally. You will definitely laugh, which is the best medicine! ) Left in a bad financial situation when her husband dies, Grace has to find a new way to make some money and it's not exactly legal which adds to the humour. Even my boyfriend liked it so don't think that it's a chick-flic. "},{"Title":"Top banana!","Date":"2 July 2003","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace proves once again that you can't beat a good old dose of British humour.  Despite an admittedly dodgy ending, this quaint and charming story of one woman's unique method of raising much-needed money lights up (Weak pun intended) my day every time I watch it.  Brenda Blethyn is faultless as always and the ensemble cast are superb.  (Especially the legendary Lesley Phillips - this man deserves a knighthood!  It's full of comedic gems, too, such as the doctor's 'bad news' regarding one woman's pregnancy.  The post-office scene is also destined to become a classic (It's frighteningly realistic, too.  I should know...)All in all, only a dope (Yes, another tragic pun) would fail to be enchanted by this wonderful little film.  "},{"Title":"Liked it, but disappointed in the end.","Date":"5 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A delightful gentle comedic gem, until the last five minutes, which degenerate into run of the mill British TV farce. The last five minutes cost it 2 points in my rating. Despite this major plot and style flaw, it's worth watching for the character acting and the unique Cornwall setting. Many fine little bits to savor, like the tense eternity we all go through waiting for the bank approval after the clerk has swiped the credit card...made more piquant when we're not - quite - sure the card is not maxed. "},{"Title":"A Lovely, Charming Movie","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A lovely, charming movie in the vein of Local Hero (http//us.imdb.com/Details?0085859) it populates a small coastal town in Cornwall, England with gentle ordinary folk who all get dragged into or affected by a plan to save a lady in the town who has fallen on hard times.Lots of little fun bits easily lost in first viewing e.g. note who is serving drinks in the bar at the end of the movie -) And the scene close to the end of the movie where all the inhabitants are dancing on the lawn, including a naked policeman (you can tell he is a policeman because he still has his helmet on!), is absolutely priceless. "},{"Title":"A lovable, feel-good comedy","Date":"26 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Charming doesn't even begin to describe Saving Grace; it's absolutely irresistible! Anyone who ventures into this movie will leave with their spirits soaring high (haha).Grace Trevethyn (Brenda Blethyn) has just lost her husband, but her problems are about to get a whole lot worse. Her dearly departed has left her with no money and outstanding debts. Faced with losing everything, she has to find out a way to get a lot of cash...fast! She gets an idea when her gardener, Matthew (Craig Ferguson) asks the town-famous horticulturist to give him advice on a plant he is secretly growing. Grace immediately realizes that his plant is marijuana, so they decide to use her gardening skills to grow a lot of top-quality weed, and then sell it to pay off her outstanding debts.The most notable quality about Saving Grace is its likability. Every character is extremely sympathetic, and, save for the first 20 or so minutes, the film is non-stop good cheer. Everyone wants a happy ending for everyone, even if it means turning a blind eye to some rather illegal activities.The acting is top-notch. Brenda Blethyn is one of Britain's finest actresses, and here is why. She turns what could have been a caricature into a fully living and breathing individual. She's a nice lady, but she's not stupid. Craig Ferguson is equally amiable as Matthew. He's a deadbeat loser, but he's so likable that it doesn't matter. The rest of the ensemble cast fits in this category as well, but special mention has to go to Tcheky Karyo. The French actor always has a aura of menace about him, and that suits him well, but he also has great comedy skills.Nigel Cole finds the perfect tone for Saving Grace. It's all about the charm. One of the problems I have with British humor is that all the energy seems to be drained out of the film. Not so here. The film is thoroughly likable and always amusing. That's not to say that Saving Grace is just a likable movie that will leave you with a grin and a good feeling. While this movie is not an out and out comedy, it does boast two or three scenes that are nothing short of hysterical.If there's any problem with the film, it's that the climax is a little confusing. The questions are answered though, and the ending boasts an unexpected twist.See Saving Grace, especially when you're having a bad day. "}{"Title":"A vy funny film  will make you laugh outloud","Date":"18 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the best films I have seen in years and years. It features Great acting. There are also lots of Wonderful plot twists. It takes place in an Interesting setting. There are plenty of Compelling character arc's. The writers actually used Intelligent dialog. There is Nice soundtrx. I Just ordered it online. I Will be happy to add it to my library. It's not a predictable film and it does not insult your intelligence like so many other formula comedy films of today. You will find it a delight especially if you spent anytime inhabiting the sixties or other times reminiscent of them. I would highly recommend it to anyone who want to settle down and watch something to make them feel gd and have a great time and lot of laughs. "},{"Title":"A delightful little film.","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, the plot has some slightly silly aspects.But, this is a fine film. I'm really glad I watched it (twice so far).Blethyn is delightfully sexy and endearing as Grace.The supporting cast are fine craftsmen to a man and woman.Really nice music, too. Just right. I would watch it again just for the score.One could say it's Merchant-Ivory does Cheech and Chong. And in a sense this would be accurate. But, it would miss everything that's endearing and fresh about this well-done film. It would miss the kindness and wit. Love thy neighbor is the highest commandment this film makes the commandment smart and fun. "},{"Title":"In many ways a typical English comedy","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I guess that when you ask someone to name a British movie that deals with drugs, they will almost immediately say Trainspotting. Well, if there is one movie you can't compare Saving Grace to, than it must be that one. These movies have only two things in common and that is the fact that they talk about drugs and that they are English, but any further comparison is useless and impossible.Saving Grace is a movie about a wealthy, small-town English widow who discovers that she isn't as rich as she has always believed. Her husband has committed suicide, leaving her in debt for 300.000 British pounds, thanks to his failed business ventures. Facing the loss of all her belongings and her home, she turns to the only thing she's got left her skill as a greenhouse gardener. In the meantime her gardener has a few problems of his own. To make some money, he tries to make a few marijuana plants grow in a hidden location, but isn't very successful at it. But then he comes up with a brilliant idea that will help the both of them. They will grow the plants with the help of her gardening skills and her greenhouse, believing that no-one in the village knows what they are doing...This movie may not be the best one about drugs that you've ever seen and I'm convinced that Hollywood wouldn't even dare to make a movie about this subject, but the makers certainly proved that it is possible to make a nice movie with it, that is more than just worth a watch. This is a very witty and perhaps also a very typical English movie. The story is nice, although the ending is a bit corny, it's charming and has some good English humor to offer, next to some nice acting and directing. This is a very nice movie which I give a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Grace indeed!","Date":"13 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved this movie. I usually rent DVD's at  Blockbbuster to play while I am on the computer. I must have played this movie about 12 times. I listened to both sets of commentarys. This movie was fun and Tcheky Karyo melts my M&M's. If you liked this and want to see another great ensenble of UK actors rent  Brassed OFF "},{"Title":"Goodness gracious","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yet another example of what British cinema can achieve a simple story, told and acted well. Brenda Blethyn gives a layered and warming performance as the recently widowed and financially straitened Grace, ably assisted by a solid supporting cast. The quirky small town card gets played to the hilt, similar to many TV series and films that have come from the British Isles in recent years (Ballykissangel, Hamish Macbeth and others come to mind). Like the forementioned, this film makes use of some ravishingly beautiful rural scenery, in this case the wet and wild Cornish coast.Some viewers might find wholesale acceptance of cannabis use a bit challenging, others might find the ending just a little too cute and safe. But it's an enjoyable spliff, to be sure. "},{"Title":"Predictable Fluff","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Nothing much in this film with the exception of Brenda Blethyn (Secret and Lies).  The film is not creative in any way.  If you have a desire to see two old women get stoned and eat corn flakes and behave like absolute morons than you may enjoy this one. I'd save my money; it's guaranteed to make the tube soon and it should be FREE. taproot "},{"Title":"British comedy once again tops the lot!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Brenda Blethyn is surely a force to reckon with - if she can carry a film about drugs to Sundance and push it successfully, that must mean something. And I can see why they loved it. We Brits know how to make people laugh by using extreme situations in everyday circumstances and this one catches it just right. The sense of timing in this film is perfect, and our Bren's supporters shine through - especially Clunes as the bumbling Doctor, and Craig Ferguson's mouthing off session in the pub is classic. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like too many recent British films, this one takes a great cast and gives them a flimsy, cliched script to work with. The performances save it from total disgrace, and it has some charm but it certainly didn't make me laugh. Where are all the great British writers hiding? "},{"Title":"Interesting cannabis commercial","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well this was a weird little film but boy, did I like it! Saving Grace is not so much a movie as it is 90 minutes long, easy-going cannabis commercial. The message clearly is there's nothing bad about smoking pot or even growing it. I guess big part of the audience who has never tried the stuff before got the sudden urge to light up a joint just because of the way Saving Grace deals with this drug. On the other hand, people who hate this film most are the ones who still think that marijuana and heroin are basically the same thing.Biggest problem of Saving Grace is the regrettable fact that it's way too nice, too jovial and not nearly dramatic enough. With a little more energy and better story twists the movie could have been even more interesting and entertaining. It works like this too, though and I loved to see Ken Campbell playing the local policeman. I immediately remembered his face from one episode of Fawlty towers and it's great to see he's still working. All and all, a rather good film although the ending is corny, and I know I'm not the first one to point this out. "},{"Title":"Grace Saved!","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Saving Grace (2000) Dir Nigel Cole / Cast Brenda Blethyn, Craig Furguson, Tcheky Karyo, Valerie Edmond, Martin Clunes Amusing yet familiar comedy about what Grace needs to be saved from. She is played by Brenda Blethyn whose husband's death results in a demand for 300 000 pounds to save her home. Apparently he jumped from a plane without a parachute, which results in his death. He was also involved in many schemes that are surfacing at the wrong time. Her Scottish gardener Matthew suggests that she grow pot. Together they will sell marijuana and split the money. Matthew's girlfriend is pregnant and warns Grace not to get him into trouble. Amusing plot boils into formula and a wayward conclusion. Director Nigel Cole does well with the humour but it is his cast that pull off the stops. Blethyn does a terrific job as someone known for goodness yet converted to wayward directions out of desperation. Craig Ferguson makes the ideal sidekick who is warned yet still gets caught up in the deception. Tcheky Karyo is winning as the drug lord countering standard material with a reaction to Blethyn that goes beyond respect. Valerie Edmond plays Furguson's girlfriend whose moral centre predicts much. Martin Clunes plays a doctor who is a friend of the Ferguson character. Worthwhile satire of society's attitude towards dope is often funny. Score 7 / 10 "}{"Title":"A good time filler","Date":"18 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A classic in the stoner genre. This film has all the hallmarks of good English cinema; it has a highly reputable cast, the beautiful English countryside and village locations, and a script which is witty and pithy. As a whole, it is a sort of classy Cheech and Chong without the slap-stick. The acting is tight and the cast well selected for their roles.There will be no great surprises to be had in the film once the plot is known, nevertheless, the dialog and performances well make up for its predictability. Very enjoyable to those who like the genre, although probably a little pedestrian to those who don't. "},{"Title":"Mildly interesting and a chance to see the first incarnation of Doc Martin.","Date":"12 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film begins with a rich guy killing himself. Soon, his widow, Grace (Brenda Blethyn) learns that she is NOT rich after all--as her husband made a long series of bad investments. In fact, the problem is even worse than this--she's about to lose everything because she has so many creditors. Eventually, she and her gardener, Matthew (Craig Ferguson) come up with a plan to get her out of debt--convert her greenhouse into a marijuana production plant. This film is mildly funny--though I am pretty sure it will offend some as well since it appears to be a wholehearted endorsement of pot use. This bothered me far less than the very end--which seemed really, really, really contrived (and a bit stupid). Still, up until the end, it is mildly amusing. While I'd normally say it's a film you can take or leave, it IS a must-see if you are a fan of the TV series Doc Martin as it's the first appearance of the guy (played by Martin Clunes). However, like you'll notice through his three movie appearances and TV show, the character was VERY inconsistent. Here, he's a pot-head and has little to him other than his love of the plant. Not at all an auspicious beginning. "},{"Title":"Light hearted, laugh out loud and very upbeat","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's a light hearted, fun to watch movie. It's a typical British comedy in that it's incredibly funny despite the tragic premise on which the story is based. However it's not a dark comedy, something movies coming from the Isles are renowned for; to the contrary, it's distinctly upbeat and light. Situations are somewhat exaggerated at times which is kind of expected given that the movie is pretty much in the farce/crazy comedy mould and the purpose is chiefly to amuse people rather than making the story seem believable.A big factor that prompted me to give the movie 10 stars apart from the sheer laughs and the fact that I'm generally very generous while rating movies I like was its heart warming portrayal of the good side of the human nature. It was endearing to see how everybody (mostly) did their bit to help and protect the lead character during a crisis phase in her life without having any personal interests involved. This emotional aspect made the overall experience all the more whelming for me and well worth all the 10 stars I gave.It's a must watch refreshing comedy movie that is sure to help lift you up if you are upset about something. Not to say it's one of those movies where you need to be upset to be able to appreciate it properly, even if you are not, it'll leave you a much happier person with a greater belief in the inherent goodness of human nature(till the next setback which will not take long, I'm sure). "},{"Title":"A Different Kind of Pot Movie With A Refreshing High","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mark Crowdy and Craig Ferguson co-write 'Saving Grace'. Crowdy goes to produce it while Ferguson plays one of the leads and they get Nigel Cole to direct it. Collaborating with many other talented people, the result is a splendid and refreshing little English comedy. Let's get the flaw out of the way. I found the ending (conclusion) a little drastic. How that that's settled, the film also presents an interesting argument. The argument of Marijuna. How harmful is it? It is mentioned that it's not as damaging as any hard drug like cocaine and even less than alcohol, both of which are true. At the same time 'Saving Grace' doesn't encourage people to become potheads but the barely occasional spliff isn't necessarily a bad idea.Back to the film at hand, it is a very British film. That is not to say that the story doesn't hold universal appeal or that it's riddled with clichés. Quite the contrary. The humour is witty, clever and even innovative. The characters are very real and likable. The Cornwall setting by the sea is stunning.The actors are excellent. Brenda Blethyn does is again delivering yet another remarkable performance. How could you not like Grace. Craig Ferguson definitely makes you laugh and holds his own with Blethyn. Martin Clunes, Bill Bailey, Valerie Edmond, Leslie Philips, Phyllida Law, Diana Quick and the rest of the cast provide marvelous support. Tchéky Karyo's Jacque was a little underdeveloped but he does get some funny lines and delivers them effectively.'Saving Grace' takes you to a fresh and real high offering plenty to laugh at and about. "},{"Title":"friendly froth","Date":"3 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Saving Grace is a predictable marijuana comedy. It fun to see Martin Clunes playing a young doctor in a seaside town in Wales long before anyone thought of doing Doc. Martin. It is fun to see Craig Ferguson young (2000) and remarkably sexy. The marijuana of this movie bears no resemblance to the marijuana of reality, but that doesn't matter. It is all just silly fun. Nobody is rude to anyone else. Nobody insults anyone else. The humour comes primarily from people acting out of what you imagine to be their character. Brenda Blethyn is a little bit like a younger Maggie Smith who speaks volumes with a few twitches of her face muscles. It has the expected implausible supernaturally happy ending. It leaves you with a happy feeling, no bad aftertaste. "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"10 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Saving Grace is the kind of comedy you wish you could watch every night. The film rests on a slightly offbeat premise that in the wrong hands could easily become heavy-handed slapstick trash along the lines of Scary Movie. Never once do we get the sense that plausibility is being stretched everything that happens in this film could very well happen, even if it's not likely it could all come together just this way.But then, how many times does something in life ever turn out 100 percent as it did before? Brenda Blethyn and Craig Ferguson are absolutely brilliant flawed, lovable, good-natured and very three-dimensional with their emotions. The supporting cast is quite good, as well, and as with every good movie, not one detail is wasted. That mistress who shows up and gets kicked out two minutes later? Don't forget about her she'll be a key player down the road.All in all, just dandy. "},{"Title":"Deserves appreciation..","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Saving Grace is a good example of the British talent in comedy film making,real good story and brilliant performances makes it an outstanding film in its genre.The location was just marvelous ,so relaxing and beautiful,well i was not sure about watching it but i am glad that finally i did and so i recommend this light hearted comedy to every fan.Nothing about the movie was below average which makes it an excellent watch.The idea of illegal farming by a grownup woman makes it damn interesting which is brightly executed here.I am a big fan of British comedies and this one proves it why..as i said that it deserves appreciation and i am sure that after watching it most will agree with me on this. "},{"Title":"Funny, feel-good movie","Date":"12 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thoroughly enjoyed Saving Grace! Its a really funny, feel-good movie. The premise of the prim and proper English lady and her dope-smoking Scottish gardener growing marijuana to alleviate Grace's financial difficulties after her husband's death, is hilarious. The ending is of course predictable but also lots of fun. The beautiful scenery, the dope-smoking town doctor, the small-town gossips, the trout-smuggler obsessed policeman of the town, the French drug-dealer, the dope-smoking, D&D playing small time side-kick - it all adds to the flavour and fun of the movie. Well worth seeing, definitely recommended! "},{"Title":"A real feel-good film!","Date":"25 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this film. It's one of those I can watch again and again. It is acted well by a good cast that doesn't try too hard to be star studded.The premise of a newly widowed housewife who turns to selling pot to make ends meet could have been made into an Americanised turd of a movie or an action thriller. Either would have killed the film completely.The film plays out like an Ealing Comedy with a terrific feel-good factor throughout.It is worth watching just for the scene with the two old ladies and a box of cornflakes... (no that's not a spoiler!) "},{"Title":"Pleasant enough, and sometimes funny","Date":"8 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Grace's husband dies leaving her with so much debt she may have to sell her house. Her only talent is gardening, and the man who mows her lawn is having a problem with his special (and illegal) project, which she is able to solve.Though Grace is a church-going woman, she is desperate and sees an opportunity to solve her financial problems. Can this project really be such a secret? Someone must be looking the other way. After all, there are these bright lights which are required to grow these special plants.Being a British movie, this offers a higher caliber of acting than many similar movies in the United States. Or maybe it just seems that way with the accents. This is not a laugh-out-loud funny movie for the most part, but just wait until you see this dainty Julie Andrews type making deals with low-lifes on the streets of London.If that's not enough, two little old ladies drink what they think is tea. What happens to them is hilarious! "}{"Title":"Alice Doesn't Live Here.. meets Cheech & Chong","Date":"3 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A sweet little movie which would not even offend your Grandmother, Saving Grace seems cut from the same cloth as a half-dozen other British comedies over the past two years...underdog is faced with adversity, finds the strength to challenge and learns something about him/herself in the process.Widowed and thus broke, Grace is a master gardener, and is enlisted to help her friend/employee Matthew grow his pot plant.  He's been doing it all wrong, so Grace helps him out.  They realize that she is the perfect person to harvest pot, which they can both benefit from.  He enjoys smoking, she needs to raise funds to pay her mortgage. Highlight is Grace travelling to London to deal some of her merchandise, dressed in what looks like the white suit John Travolta wore in Saturday Night Fever and therefore sticking out like a sore thumb. Blethyn is always watchable, and you can't say that about a lot of people..well, I can't, anyway.  Ferguson is very good, and Tcheky Karyo, who I liked in La Femme Nikita, is memorable. Not profoundly moving or insightful, but immensely entertaining, and at a brisk 90 minutes, feels like a walk with friends.  8/10.  "},{"Title":"British Comedy With Some Memorable Scenes","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think I liked all British comedies I have seen so far and this one is no exception.One theme that numerous gags were derived from here is the effect the new product of Grace's _green_house has on unsuspecting individuals. While this tends to wear a little thin towards the end it is also the basis for some of the most memorable comedy in the film. Being a tea connoisseur helps to appreciate many of the gags, and this is not because it's a British film...As noted by others this film has its lengths and they do get in the way of a thoroughly enjoyable experience because a lingering feeling remains that it could have been more compact and had a bit more punch.But maybe it wasn't meant to be and have those things? I think the theme that drives the story here quite fits a film that starts off merrily then gets a bit dozy, unfocused, only to pick up again after two cups of nice black coffee and a pack of chocolate cookies.I say, light up (what? the TV screen of course) and watch this film. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"11 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is an hilarious movie. One of the very best things about it is the quality of the performance by each actor. From the largest role to the smallest, each character is vivid, unforgettable and so understandable. It can also make you laugh so hard your health will improve. "},{"Title":"Lightweight but very funny, entertaining British film.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SPOILERS - Grace's (Brenda Blethyn) husband has died as the film opens, and she soon finds out that not only is there no inheritance, he also had the 300-yr-old home in hock to about 300,000 pounds! Eventually, the whole town participates in Saving Grace, or rather her home. Craig Ferguson plays Matthew, her hired hand, impeccably. Soon, Grace turns her greenhouse into a perfect habitat for quickly growing the best dope ever! Funny scene, townspeople sit outside the pub at night, count down 5,4,3,2,1 - as they put on sunglasses - then LIGHT SHOW as the greenhouse is lit up. Of course growing pot is illegal, but the local police conveniently ignores it, just until Grace can get out of debt. The small British town and involvement of the locals has much of the flavor of Waking Ned Devine. Grace, Matthew wind up in London trying to peddle the dope, 20 kilos. The crooks end up following them home, and show up along with the repossession man, the police, and the ladies tea and garden club. A scene ensues, the large stash gets burned, the smoke stones everyone so that no one remembers what happened.Cut quickly about two years forward, Grace has married the French drug dealer, she has written a book The Joint Venture and is given the yearly award in NYC, while friends watch back at the pub. And, obviously, saved the home. The filming was done in Cornwall, a seaside fishing community. This has the typical British humor, very fresh and funny. Blethyn is the same actress that plays the mother in two of my other favorite movies, Music Fron Another Room and Secrets and Lies.  "},{"Title":"Mr. Wycke never looked so good!","Date":"12 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is film that was actually recommended to me by my dentist, and am I glad he did! The blend of British humor (should I say, Humour?) and the reality of a lost, middle-aged widow trying to maintain her lifestyle were a hoot. Add to that mix the reality of what it takes to actually grow pot (those plants under the bushes were NOT going to make it without the TLC they received), and it is a truly hilarious, yet touching film. I laugh every time I conjure the vision of all the bar patrons sitting in their lawn chairs with sunglasses on counting down the lights! Maybe it's just my Mendocino County blood, but the Brits definitely got this one right!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"A funny extended commercial for pot...","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is definitely a 'must see' for those who occasionally smoke a reefer in their secret hide-out, trying to avoid being caught by parents, teachers, the police, etc... The protagonist is a lady in her forties, living in her mansion, breeding orchids, and absolutely unaware of the fact that her so-called rich and truthful husband is actually broke and cheating on her. When he all of the sudden dies, she is confronted with the truth. The bailiff comes by to tell her that she is in a huge debt. She doesn't know what to do, until her gardener tells her about the recent success of marijuana in Britain. She decides after some long thinking to get rid of her flowers and start breeding pot instead... The story is quite original, the performances outstanding! I can think of only a few movies that made me laugh more than this one. Still, the melodramatic touch is present. The film is typical British the jokes aren't vulgar, there is no violence involved. It shouldn't be mentioned that it is recommended to have taken a few draughts before watching 'Saving grace'. It will be so much more fun! Especially the scene with the 2 old ladies in their tea shop is hilarious. I thought my jawbones would burst. 9/10  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Normally, British humor is flat, dry and mostly not funny.  With the exception of Ab Fab, I have never laughed so hard at british humor.  This movie was orignial and hilarious.  The characters were emotional and full of life.  The actors were brilliant, and delivered award winning performances. Though, the ending was a little to surrealistic...well, so was the movie, but who cares, it was funny...All that weed!!!  Craig Ferguson was superb in his role as the gardener.  He always cracks me up on Drew Carey, and he didn't let down here.  A must see for anyone that wants a good laugh.  A touching story and just something to enjoy on a nice sunday afternoon8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"What a buzz! (DVD version)","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Walking the tightrope between comedy and drama is one of the toughest acts in cinema. How do you get laughs out of other people's misery and not start feeling bad when it goes on too long?Well, this surprising little gem of a movie will deliver great big laughs, beautiful scenery, and quite a good buzz as well. I particularly like the concept that a trick of history made alcohol legal since white Europeans liked it, and marijuana illegal, since 'those other races' used it...undoubtedly true and exposes a racial side to the marijuana laws so openly flaunted by populations all over the world.An extraordinary DVD Extra commentary...two of them in fact...run thru the whole movie with both the actors, and then again with the writers. I kept seeing things I was sure were not in the first movie, but then realizing how easy it is to miss much of the subtle comedy on the first take. What a hoot! Don't miss it! 9/10 stars "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't want to rent this as it seemed another gimmicky type of british import. I was surprised by this film. It's funny and warm. Great script and ok acting. It's a movie my mom and grandma would like too. All around a solid piece of work. It is a cute and fun movie. I like it more than waking ned devine, a film some other posts compare it to.  "},{"Title":"Good and Funny","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a movie that as good as you can guess like other comedies that import from U.K. It is really funny and I like the performance by Brenda Blethyn. She is always good and barely disappointed by her. I was also impressed by Tcheky Karyo although he comes late in the movie. I hope he can get his break in America soon. Anyway, just relax and enjoy this lovely lovely film.  "}{"Title":"Thoroughly enjoyable light comedy.","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My wife and I thought this film was very nice light comedy.  Of course we both like England and its countryside so the setting helped.  Some good acting and a cute story.  We both recommend it for a uplifting evening. "},{"Title":"A Gem","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace is a true gem.  A British movie that most people wouldn't dream of picking up.  Its funny, well developed, has a good script, and great performances.  Whats not to like?I thought that all of the characters were hysterical, especially Grace and the old biddies that ran the store.  Too funny.  I'm looking for the DVD because this is certainly one for the home library.10/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Comedy","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well acted, enjoyable comedy.  Direction was clear and to the point.  Director uses the talents of the actors well.  The ending was a bit out of sync with the rest of the movie, but it was still enjoyable to watch "},{"Title":"Quaint, entertaining and enjoyable","Date":"23 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This droll English comedy kept me enchanted and amused throughout.  Grace Trevethyn (Brenda Blethyn) is widowed by her husband when he takes a flying leap out of an airplane without a parachute.  Upon putting their affairs in order, she discovers that he spent all their money and mortgaged the estate leaving her penniless and steeply in debt.  In a last ditch effort to save the estate, she hits upon the idea of using her hothouse and her considerable skills with plants to grow and sell high quality marijuana.  Thus, the formerly wealthy widow collaborates with her gardener to grow and process the weed and attempt to bring it to market.  The results are often hilarious, especially her negotiations with the drug kingpin and the reactions of the local residents.The film is well directed and written with numerous funny situations throughout.  Director Nigel Cole keeps the pace brisk and works well with the actors to produce a good deal of physical comedy laced with comical reaction scenes by various characters.  He also treats us to some terrific locations that show off the wonderful English countryside.  The acting is excellent, especially by Brenda Blethyn, who is quite humorous as the fish out of water determined to make her way in the drug culture.  She has a quality that makes her equally believable as a proper English aristocrat and a common conniver.  Craig Ferguson is also good as her partner in crime, a hapless fellow whose harebrained ideas are always getting him into trouble.The story is not very original, the film having thematic similarities to numerous British comedies of the recent past (`Waking Ned Devine', `The Full Monty'), however one can do worse than imitate the success of these films.  I rated it an 8/10.  Overall, it is quaint, entertaining and enjoyable.  For those looking for a light film that will tickle them, this is an excellent choice.   "},{"Title":"Jolly good","Date":"31 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hey, has anyone ever said the Brits can't make comedy?  Not me.  Following a string of great funnies like Saving Ned Devine, the Full Monty, Lock, Stock and Smoking Barrels, this is a laugher.  Reading through the reviews, I was glad to see someone mentioned Tight Little Island, another sleeper from the 40's.  Lots of fun.  See it. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Brenda","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A good film which with a decent ending would have made a very good film.Moment of the film for me was the seemingly endless pause as Ferguson and Blethyn waited for the credit card to be validated at the DIY shop. Blethyn displayed magnificently the art of acting without dialogue.  Every nervous twitch, every anxious look enabled us to mirror exactly Grace's thoughts of panic and the hope against hope that the card would not be rejected.  The facial relief as the machine whirred into action completed a superb moment.I think the reasons British films 'do' comedy so well is that there seems to be a large reservoir of solid classically trained acting talent to draw from.  Blethyn, Diana Quick, Ken Campbell, Phyllida Law are all out of the top drawer.  Clunes was effectively 'Professional Man Behaving Badly' but he does it very well, so let him get on with it.Like in Chance in a Million and Outside Edge where she also has this air of vulnerablility, I also found Blethyn incredibly sexy.  I probably wasn't supposed to, but hey, if the Frenchman could, why couldn't I? "},{"Title":"Don't Beleive the hype","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I went expecting something close to Waking Ned Devine or the Full Monty. Sadly for me I'd rate this one the lesser of the three. It was mediocre. The performances were solid, story average with a few funny bits but I guess the hype from all the reviews left me wanting more. A movie to definitely take your mother-in-law too. Enough Said  "},{"Title":"A very enjoyable film with some great moments","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Saving Grace' is not that original film in many ways and yet it had some really big positives. I loved the shorthand narrative style which the film incorporated. It can be hardly seen better than near the beginning of the film. In a couple of minutes of cinema time we know so much. Grace walks out of her house after a months' mourning and goes down to the local shops. The woman at the local corner shop, who is usually a real penny pincher, tells her not to worry about the money she has owed her.Grace is a little taken aback.Then she walks out and comes across a local charity worker asking for donations. She is about to throw money into her tray when the worker turns away and refuses to accept money from her. It is absolutely no surprise thenwhen this sequence in the film ends with Grace having a meeting with her lawyer who tells her her husband's suicide has left her with huge debts! The community knew before her! This kind of erudite shorthand storytelling reminded me of the best kind of theatre where so much can be told and so much can be covered by performers and on the ball audiences. My other favourite memory of 'Saving Grace'is the scene where Michelle Grace goes to London and goes around the streets wheeling and dealing for drugs in her Sunday best. This was a classic scene which I'll remember for a long time. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"A British Feel Good","Date":"12 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Wow, the Brits have done it again. A small, sweet, well acted feel good flick. But here, under these wrappings lies a message. Masked by hilariously stoned tea ladies, a hilariously stoned village doctor, a hilariously stoned widow, and in fact just about hilariously stoned everyone, is a little message about getting hilariously stoned. Slightly naughty of a mainstream feelgood comedy, but then again, this isn't an American comedy, this film's undercurrent agenda sets out to show the hypocricy of banning weed whilst allowing alcohol. If I had to pick something wrong with the film it would probably be some of the naff postcard-ish photography. Cornwall is stunning enough to not have to go out of your way to make it look like a postcard. "},{"Title":"an excellent surprise","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  one of these movies where you don't hear a lot about it and then it comes in like a bomb... the little alternative theater in my town is being sold out every single night for this movie! everybody comes in - from the grungy 14-year-old youngster to the silent 80-year-old ladies - and they all love it! just like Waking Ned Devine this movie will be a huge success on video I guess because nobody will be able to stop laughing... ) great recommendation! "}{"Title":"British Comedy is Best","Date":"25 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is just another reason why the British are the Kings of Comedy. Right along the lines of the Full Monty and Waking Ned Devine, simply outrageous and hilarious.  I recommend this film to all.  I give a 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Superb British comedy!","Date":"11 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I heard of Saving Grace, starring Brenda Blethyn, I knew I had to see this film, and this was not only because I remembered her from another favourite film of mine, Mike Leigh's Secrets and Lies. I love the New British Cinema - does this term exist? If not, I just coined it -) - in general, especially those comedies, where we laugh with the characters, not about them.   So, having seen Saving Grace, I wasn't disappointed. A host of absolutely believable characters and superb acting throughout the cast had me laugh, cry, or sometimes just smile through this lovely gem of a film.(10 out of 10 points) "},{"Title":"politically incorrect and quite charming","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace is a very charming and rather British little comedy. Although it has a somewhat slow start you gradually come to like it as you grow more familiar with its characters. The big strength of the film lies in its supporting cast. Grace's neighbours and friends are absolutely lovable - and they get the funniest dialogue.The ending is a little disappointing. (Warning Spoilers ahead!) Once the weed has gone up in flames, Grace is back with her original Problem Where to find the money she needs to keep her house. Obviously she has to find it somewhere, since a comedy like that simply needs a happy ending. The idea of making her an overnight success as a novelist, however, ist pretty lame. "},{"Title":"leaves you wanting more","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was reluctant to see a comedy about marijuana but relieved to see an audience of boomers remembering rather than young people planning ahead. The delight of this movie is the supporting characters in this wacky little Cornish town. I think they gave us just the right amount of the daft lady shopkeepers. I wanted a bit more of Vince, the town layabout and UFOlogist. But I wanted even MORE MORE MORE of mobster Jacques Chevalier, charming, magnetic and more than a little bit dangerous played beautifully if briefly by French film star Tcheky Karyo. "},{"Title":"A cute movie.","Date":"23 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This was a cute little movie.The story was interesting. The acting was competent. There were a few laughs. And it held my interest for the length of the film.It wasn't a rave out loud masterpiece, but it was an interesting movie.I will rate it a 7. A good show.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant British Film","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a wonderful couple of hours. A really good British film which I hear has been taken to the hearts of the Americans. ( and I thought they had no taste) The story was great, the acting very good across the board and the filming and location, in Cornwall (Port Isaac especially) was stunning. Well worth the 9 out of 10 I gave it. "},{"Title":"English Comedies as they used to be in the 50's and 60's","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Was surprised to find a movie as good as this which had such limited distribution, particularly in an area such as greater Phoenix, which surely must have a record number of movie screens per capita. Most comedies currently showing were far inferior, and yet were on at least 30 screens. I guess that's movie politics at work! This one is going to be hard to find on video, but for those whose local theatres refused to show it, make an effort to rent it. You won't be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Not in this joint","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  How did Brenda Blethyn get involved with this turkey?  Saving Grace is no Secrets and Lies.  This is a fanciful tale about people liking each other so much they can excuse a crime or two. This is a feel-good movie that you can enjoy on your worst Monday.  Grace, the main character, lives a sheltered life until her husband's death forces her to deal with financial problems including the loss of her 300 year old house.  The film never makes clear why Grace is entitled to special treatment that none of the other townspeople get in this picturesque rustic English fishing village.  We see the old maid shopkeepers magically eliminating her credit charges and the woman soliciting charitable donations who refuses to take her money.  There is the poor but benevolent handyman, Matthew, who continues to work for Grace even though checks she writes to him bounce.  There is the good doctor who, oddly, spends most of his time in the pub. There is the kindly vicar who tells Matthew's girlfriend, Nicky, that it is better to 'accept the things you cannot change' rather than turning to authorities about a crime.  There are the local pub regulars who delight in watching the light show coming from Grace's greenhouse, knowing full well the reason for this spectacle.  There is the stern-on-the-outside, kind-on-the-inside policeman, bent on catching poachers, but apparently nothing else.  There is the mistress who nevertheless becomes Grace's ally even after Grace has told her off.  There is the London drug boss who not only likes Grace's merchandise but also Grace as well.  Finally, there is the matter of an ending that is more ludicrous than comical.  Is there no end to the kindness of people?  In Saving Grace, apparently not.   "},{"Title":"Delightful, charming, and even healing. The up-side of small town England?","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A wonderful movie! Some movies taking place in Britain can be so dreary. I may be a Troglodyte, but the movie cliches of some British comedies have not appealed to me very much. For instance Excessive fog, constant drizzle, rocks EVERYWHERE, muted colors, faded lives, drab personalities, repressed sexuality, depressing personal lifelessness, desperation, and quirkiness that goes beyond odd to downright weird and sometimes creepy-- these common features used by film makers in SOME English movies have made me hesitant to see any more of them.By contrast, Saving Grace was charming, uplifting, and a genuine pleasure. It showed people living in a positive frame, and a life-affirming manner. THESE people were loving. Whether their love was spoken or not, or even conscious versus unconscious-- you could sense the high regard they had for one another. They radiated optimism and generosity. Without much fuss, the characters in the story gathered to support each other-- Grace, specifically-- and the depth, brilliance, and wholesomeness of their characters made me feel that perhaps I, too, could aspire to a degree of that! I liked them, even the weird ones. I appreciated their innocent warmth, joy, and their imperfect (and thus familiar) personalities.On screen, they had managed to heal and uplift their world, and in the theatrical process, I was able to feel some of that miracle myself. I needed that, and I liked it. Thanks, movie! I cannot ask for more, and I usually don't get near as much. Saving Grace is great. It's worth driving an hour to see. Trust me-- you'll be happy you went! I gave it a 10 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I can remember seeing.","Date":"13 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Kudos all around for Saving Grace.  This movie was hysterically funny, but it's smart comedy that is intended for thinking adults, rather than dumbed-down comedy aimed at mindless teenagers.I have to say that seeing Phyllida Law and her partner stoned in the shop when the banker comes in was worth the price of admission all by itself.Run, don't walk, to see Saving Grace. "}{"Title":"funny","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace is like a return to the Ealing comedies of the '40s and '50s--like, for example, Whiskey Galore updated to marijuana.  It is never less than amiable and often very funny indeed, as, for example, when Grace smokes weed for the first time.  It is wonderful to see Brenda Blethyn getting the title role.  Rescued from a mediocre career by Mike Leigh's Secrets and Lies, she is now getting the opportunities to demonstrate her great talent.   "},{"Title":"OH MY GOD!! Utterly brilliant..","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Not only does Ms. Blethyn do it once again in her own magnificent style..the movie is everything one wants a comedy to be. OH...how I laughed.. and laughed ...and hated it to end...it joins my list of all time favorites along with fish Called Wanda and other British delights...DON'T MISS THIS ONE... "},{"Title":"The bright spot in this dull movie season","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Which pretty much summarizes it...Saving Grace is simply the best comedy I've seen in a very long time. It doesn't surprise me at all it's a British film. As with those horrible US comedies of the last two years or so, and the German comedies not much better actually, it is refreshing to see a film with so much heart and brains again.You could see from its premise that this would be a very original movie, but it was really so much more. Brenda Blethyn, one of my favorites since Secrets & Lies, shines again, the supporting cast does no less. The scenery is simply gorgeous (and that I say as anything but a fan of the cold, rough climate and landscape of Cornwall...), the writing's spot-on, there's not a single gag in the movie that doesn't work; suffice it to say the rest just falls into place.Kudos to everyone involved. I can't wait to see more gems like that in this (so far) dull movie season 2000. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"See Grace? Bring Depends!!","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Remember the expression I laughed so hard my sides hurt? Well, this movie will help you remember if you've forgotten.  Craig Ferguson (Drew Carey's Mr. Wick) truly shines as Matthew - the surrogate son/little brother Grace never had so she employs him as a gardener (who can't make plants grow!)Brenda Blethyn is hysterical as Grace - the widow whose husband has left her in desperate straits.  Martin Clunes, sadly, plays a doctor I'd never entrust my life to, but has one of the funniest lines in the movie (Listen for the term little kilts!) Valerie Edmond, as Matthew's girlfriend Vicky, doesn't add anything to this movie except a subplot.  Prepare to giggle and guffaw as Grace invites the ladies of the flower club over for tea and they beat her to the punch! However, the heartiest laughs are saved for Grace's foray into London and her subsequent actions when she arrives home.  Lots of visual humor here, too. Truly, a must-see to improve your mood!  "},{"Title":"I loved it - it's hilarious!","Date":"6 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although the plot of this movie seemed somewhat dark, it was one of the funniest movies I have seen in a long while.   Brenda Blethyn is terrific as Grace and the scene in the village shop where the London banker encounters two of the members of the flower club ranks as one of the funniest minutes of movie history.  I highly recommend seeing this movie.  "},{"Title":"Typically funny British Comedy","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In the vein of Brass Off, The Full Monty, Waking Ned Devine and other British comedy films, this little gem is set in a memory charm bracelet of films I could watch over and over again.The people seem real and the situations though often improbable are believable.  While I think the ending strained the boundaries of the belevability envelope a bit, it couldn't ruin what was for me an entertaining evening at the movies.  "},{"Title":"Funniest Thing I've Seen In Ages","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wasn't sure what to expect when I went to see this film, but I absolutely adored it.  I had a splendid time picking out and recognizing actors from other British productions and thought they all did a smashing job here.  I especially enjoyed the performance of the good doctor who you might recognize from the British version of Men Behaving Badly.  You'll also recognize Matthew as Drew Carey's boss.  The plot may seem like something more reminiscent of 70's U.S. humor, such as Cheech and Chong, but this is done in a slightly different way.  None of the characters involved in growing and preparing the hemp plants are raving stoners for one thing.  For another, there is more to the plot then just getting by while stoned.  The movie is about a woman's life spinning out of control and her attempts, by whatever means necessary, to reclaim it. I would highly recommend this film.  It is funny and heart-warming.  You'll enjoy yourself immensely. "},{"Title":"What a fun movie!","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace is one of those British films that makes you wish you were British.  Everyone is a little bit off-kilter, but no one is really wicked. The movie takes place in Cornwall, and the scenery is gorgeous, and beautifully shot.  The performances are all exemplary - even though there are some characters who seem a bit two-dimensional, the actors manage to bring life and humanity to them.  This is one of those movies you are sorry to see end, and in this ho-hum movie season, it's a shame to have already seen it, and not have it to look forward to anymore. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Classic","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Has a woman ever won an Oscar for a comedy role?  Brenda Blethyn sure has a crack at it in this hilarious movie.  Writers who don't know how to resolve a story line can take a lesson from this script.  One of the most entirely enjoyable movies in recent memory.  More please from this crew! "},{"Title":"Sit back and Enjoy!  You'll roll into the aisle with laughter!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well - this is simply a fun movie.  There isn't much to the plot and it is a bit predictable and it's pretty simple-minded, but if you just want to sit back and laugh for an hour and a half, this is the fun film for you!  Everyone in the theatre (from 15 - 80 years old) was rolling and screaming in laughter.  Everyone got the jokes and the lines were really funny.Brenda Blethyn IS Grace!  She's really great.  I've seen her in many films, and she is always fantastic.  Not that this is an academy award film, but her portrayal of Grace is amazingly good and should be recognized for its merit.  She is simply one of the greatest UK actors to grace modern films.The characters are all lovable and developed well throughout the movie.  So if you want a really fun film, go see this!  Also, see it in the theatre as the scenery is so beautiful and the video version will lose some of that beauty.  But either way - SEE THIS FILM! "}{"Title":"SPLENDID !","Date":"31 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a SUPER, SUPER movie.  Only the British could have made it.  It is charming, warm, funny, and fun.  I walked all the way out of the theatre laughing, and the good feeling lasted the rest of the evening.  Each of the numerous characters is expertly played.  The scenery is beautiful.  The movie is like a pleasant mosaic the pieces of which are put into place before your eyes in a most charming and, at times, hilarious manner.  BRAVO to the cast and crew ! "},{"Title":"Ah, those wacky English.","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"       Too bad the Yanks don't have as much as a good sense of humor as the English do.  And it's seems to be a yearly tradition that a witty, charming, and funny movie from Great Britian is being released in the U.S.  There's THE COMMITMENTS, TRAINSPOTTING (dark, but still funny), THE FULL MONTY, WAKING NED DIVINE, and LOCK STOCK & TWO SMOKING BARRELS.  Now for the 21st Century we have SAVING GRACE a film like the others mentioned is indeed a winner!      Grace Trevethyn (Brenda Blethyn) is in serious debt, her husband has just past away and she realizes that she doesn't have that much money left.  She can't even pay her loyal gardner, Matthew (Craig Ferguson), and he needs money to support his girlfriend, Nicky (Valerie Edmond).  But Grace is a excellent florist, she has a huge greenhouse and loves her plants.  But one of Matt's special plant is dying, due to lack of sun, and there's a good reason, it's marijuana!  Matt begs Grace to help his sick plant so he can relax after working and smoke it's buds.  So Grace decides to help one of the plants and nurses it back to excellent health.  Then she realizes that selling marijuana on the street could be very profitable, and she'll be out of debt!  So along with Matt, Grace decides to take very good care of the plants so they will be more valuable. And the entire town knows about what Grace and Matt are doing, but they're keeping their mouths shut, especially Dr. Bamford (Martin Clunes) since everyone in town loves hemp.  But what is Grace to expect when she decides to sell hemp to a scary and suavely looking French man who is a drug dealer, Jacques Chevalier (Tcheky Karyo).      This is a nutty English film, like all the other's it has quite a build up before it begins to get funny.  Once it's built up and you know the characters, it's hysterical!  And it keeps getting funnier and funnier until a really funny climax. Leave it to the English, the same country that gave us BEDAZZLED, Benny Hill, MR. BEAN and all of the Monty Python films.      Brenda Blethyn is great at comedy, just imagine her dressing up real fancy and going up and down London's seedy red-light district street, Portabello Road, trying to sell joints.  It's a riot!  And Craig Ferguson (famous for Mr. Wick on THE DREW CARREY SHOW) should get a lot of credit also since he not only co-stars but also co-wrote and co-produced the film. And it's nice to see Martin Clunes play a nice, nutty, and funny character unlike his cruel villian role in SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE.  And the two old ladies who own and run the town's store are very funny themselves.      What makes this movie even more funny in reality is that there are movies that bring in old people only or movies that bring in young people only.  SAVING GRACE will bring in both young and old, since it's subject matter will appeal to a lot of people.  After this year, Brenda Blethyn and Craig Ferguson will be popular in the States and will get bigger roles in more American films.  Just like Tom Wilkson and Robert Cryle who were both in FULL MONTY.  Go see this film, before the bloody  commercials ruin the jokes and fun!  ****1/2 (out of five) "},{"Title":"The Best feel-good comedy of the year","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is pretty much a British version of Cheech and Chong's Up in Smoke.  Some might think this might make it dirty or something, but this film is pretty clean cut- except for the weed.  Plot involves a widow (Brenda Blethyn is a delight) who is about to loose her house, until a friend (Craig Ferguson who also co-wrote and co-produced) helps her out to grow lots and lots of pot in her green house.  Some might think of this film as odd, but I find that it is odd for It's advantage.  This film doesn't back away from showing the better qualities of a high life, and It's cool.  Definately a wonder of high quality time comedy.  Ferguson (of DCrew Carey show fame) co-wrote and produced with Mark Crowdy.  The scene with the two tea dirnking ladies is a marvel of ridiculous comedy.  A "},{"Title":"Got the munchies...","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace, a very warm and funny story of a woman at the end of her rope. Superb attention to details (Trans Am, Cast wardrobe). Priceless scene with the shopkeepers and the cornflakes. Excellent cast and Brenda, what a hotty! also Tchéky Karyo, a favorite from the Luc Besson flicks. Check it out! "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Expect to see a best actress nomination for next year's OSCARS. I'm going to see this film again.  It's nice to finally see a movie this year that actually goes back to the old ways of writing and filming movies instead of Hollywood formulas and their pathetic demographics. "},{"Title":"It's A Trip!","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace is a warm, funny escape from reality.  It has quirky characters and beautiful visuals that will turn around any bad day that you may have been having before you sat down to enjoy this film.  It just makes you feel good! "},{"Title":"An audience picture. And I'm in the audience.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  No award-winner or world-beater, but a comfy, likeable Brit comedy in the Ealing tradition Think Tight Little Island or Passport to Pimlico, with their insulated societies, misplaced proprieties, and genteel larceny.Much as alcohol was considered automatically hilarious in so many old screwball comedies, marijuana elicits almost as many automatic laughs as a plot device as it does as a stimulant. So this dope-smoking comedy draws a number of what might be considered cheap chuckles from the stuff. All the same, it's well plotted, well acted, and well paced, and it doesn't wear out its welcome. It's not, as it could so easily have been, over-cute, and the Cornwall locations are pretty and evocative. And Blethyn and Ferguson are excellent. "},{"Title":"A Nice Way To Spend Two Hours!","Date":"19 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In the Spirit of Waking Ned Devine, Saving Grace has its own  share of laughs, certainly enough to recommend this British romp. Brenda Blethyn is outstanding as Grace, a woman who suddenly finds herself broke after her husband's untimely death. She is forced to make a difficult decision to keep her financial ship above water. There is a great supporting cast here, beautiful photography of the Scotish coast and music that fits well with the story. I can't say I liked it as much as Waking Ned Devine, but I did enjoy it. "},{"Title":"rolling in the aisles.","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hillarious in places, very funny in the rest, the only problem was not laughing too much at the pot-related story in the company of my parents. Behind the laughs, the underlying topic is a serious question (behind the stoned giggling) about the illegallity of cannabis, but the film would appeal even to people with no knowledge of the drug or interest in it.The cast obviously had a great time filming it.  With good peformances from (as always) Brenda Blethyn and Bill Bailey much, i felt, was improvised on set and ad-libed.  Especially so the scene in the local shop where the two elderly female shopkeepers had been unwittingly brewing up potent herbal tea all day, much to the confusion of entrents to the shop who were sunjected to OAP's eating breakfast ceral from the packed, talking nonsens collaped on the floor, with fake googly eyes on. "},{"Title":"the shop ladies","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the coolest part about watching the movie (aside from the movie itself) was watching old people in the theater almost falling to the ground laughing during the scene in the shop with the two ladies.  they were funny as hell! this joint venture will have you rolling in the aisles, indeed! "}{"Title":"Desperate times bring desperate measures... Or, Where have all the orchids gone?","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A very funny film that exemplifies all that is best in British film-making&#133;Astounding photography and settings, superb characters, a sweet script (bits of 'Waking Ned Divine') and a soundtrack that adds to the film instead of detracting from it are all elements that I have come to know and love about the magic that is British film-making &#150; especially in recent years.Brenda Blethyn as Grace is a totally believable bit of casting genius. She is all that she needs to be without being too much or too little. She IS Grace.Craig Ferguson (who also co-wrote and co-produced) as Matthew, her gardener, is also perfectly cast as the young man whose girlfriend needs love and support but whose mind is definitely on other things.Other bits of casting genius need be mentioned Ken Campbell as Sgt. Alfred the town constable with a 'blind eye,' Clive Merrison as the Vicar that speaks mostly in homilies and whoever played the barkeep (sorry missed his name!) that tells the story of Kafka's 'Metamorphosis' as told by Jacqueline Suzanne are all brilliant bits of hilarity and bring to life the old saying 'There are no small actors; only small parts' because their roles are not big but they bring validity and life to the characters they portray all too briefly.In fact, ALL of the supporting characters were, across the board, performed with just the right touch of sincerity and honesty that made them completely believable and enjoyable to watch. The end is a complete and total surprise that solves all the plots twists and completes this film in its short (94 minutes) life span. It is a great execution of an even better idea.The audience laughed, cheered and applauded at key moments in the film&#133; They truly enjoyed this wonderful bit of British film-making &#150; as, hopefully, will you. "},{"Title":"Brenda Blethyn is Very Appealing","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Brenda Blethyn is very funny in this comedy.  She is backed by a well-cast array of supporting players.  The story takes a little while to get going and the ending is a bit contrived, but otherwise a very enjoyable film. See it. "},{"Title":"funniest movie I've seen this year","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  great laughs for the baby boomer generation. well written, the story keeps you intrigued. Several dozen scenes are priceless, drawing numerous funny and poignant moments from the storyline.  The acting and directing were flawless. there was never a moment where I saw anyone acting.  Only the ending, which was a little bogus, prevented me from giving this movie a 10. "},{"Title":"A jolly jape","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Our Californian friend obviously knows something about the Padstow\Whitby connection that we British do not.  Lots of little gems in this film.  Far from boring.  If you liked Waking Ned you will like this film.  I did and so did my eighteen year old daughter.  Obviously appeals to all ages. "},{"Title":"Best british comedy since.... well a very long time ago","Date":"6 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Laughed so much at the cornflake scene it almost hurt. Set in Padstow, Cornwall (Distance from whitby a good 400+ miles) It shows just how comical the use of soft drugs can be. The  2 scenes that really made us laugh were the scene in the shop with the cornflakes, and where Grace asks for one.  "},{"Title":"Typically British bit of fun","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think people going to see this movie are going to enjoy it for different reasons.For me it was the marvellous scene-setting that drew me in. A picturesque village (Cornwall surely, not Whitby?) and some excellent characters made it a very easy film to watch. Clunes is great, as is Bill Bailey. I've always been a fan of Ken Campbell too, so it was good to see him even if he was slightly subdued.Personally, I can do without scenes in which funny old women have their first encounter with dope, but some will probably laugh their socks off.  "},{"Title":"Another quirky Ealing style comedy","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This wasn't quite as good as the billing and the story almost ran on tramlines but it is amusing. All the Ealing elements are there, friendly small community, local worthy in difficulty, big bank threatening, baddies who are incompetent, a funny climax and a happy ending.Look out for Emma Thompson's mum as a stoned shop-keeper with a strange line in headgear and Denise Coffey, an under-rated actress who I remember running home from primary school to see in 'Do Not Adjust Your set' with Eric Idle in about 1967.Worth a look and Blethyn is good as always but not quite as good as it could have been, perhaps a tad sentimental for modern British tastes but might play well in American art houses. Nice Cornish (?) scenery. "},{"Title":"A gem to be enjoyed","Date":"27 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As an inhabitant of North Cornwall, we were particularly keen to go and see this film which was shot largely in the fishing village of Port Isaac. The scenery was, of course, absolutely breathtaking but I had to admit that I was not expecting to have quite so many laughs!  Credit must go to the writers who captured so well the low season atmosphere in the village. The performances were all extremely believable and entertaining without anybody being too starry.  Brenda Blethyn was quite a revelation to me, having only seen her as LVs mother before.  She played the upper-class widow to perfection.  Craig Ferguson was a suitable charmer and it was not surprising that the hardy young fisherwoman fell for him.  Fine though these performances were, I have to admit that my absolute favourite was the small time hippy dope dealer, Vince, played by Bill Bailey IV who would far rather go and pick up his daughter from flute practice than get embroiled in some sort of big operation in London's gangland.  His face of optimism was killing when, lost in Cornwall with a very shady bodyguard, he gets out the map, buys bucket and spade and suggest they make a day of it!  I don't think there was a bad performance in the film (remember the two old dears in the shop!)  This was sheer escapism and as long as you don't allow yourself to become involved in the wider moral drug debate, extremely enjoyable. After all, who could believe that marijuana could be grown on that scale in Cornwall?  Bless you!  CAROL COOK, CORNWALL "},{"Title":"the first funny Martin Clunes film of all time.","Date":"25 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Set in the idyllic seaside surroundings which may or may not be Whitby, this hilarious british comedy about a bankrupt middle aged widower who turns to hemp cultivation to keep her house is possibly the first funny Martin Clunes film of all time. Clunes, who plays a rogueish Dr Ramford who's more interested in finding his next spliff than treating his patients, (I've not got a good record at keeping things alive) is only a minor character, but always gets a laugh in everyone of his scenes. The main character, Grace, played by Brenda Blethyn,(Secrets and Lies, Little Voice),  gives a memorable depiction of a women desperately trying to cope with adverse circumstances whilst not letting down appearances. The scene where she gets stoned for the first time had everyone in the cinema in stitches, and was frighteningly realistic. The other main character, Mathew, played by Craig Ferguson (of Drew Cary fame), is fine as the unemployed gardener who first introduces Grace to the possible financial benefits of cultivating weed.Overall a dead funny film that had us laughing all the way through.. It won the audience award at the Sundance film festival and it's easy to see why.  "},{"Title":"A serious drama with comedic elements","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is about a newly widowed woman unexpectedly inherited the debt of her late husband. She had to raise a lot of money quickly to get herself out of trouble.This film at first sight looks quite serious. It is a drama of a woman's struggle against morality and her situation. Brenda Blethyn's acting is great. She portrays the woman in a way that we care for her a lot. The viewers can easily connect with her unfortunate situation. The scenery taken on the coastal shores are breathtaking. The village in which the story happens look tranquil and traditional, which makes the story of the tight knitted community more convincing.On closer examination of the film, in fact it is a very subtle comedy. It is a film that makes you smile from the inside, instead of making you laugh out loud. The funny scenes include the intoxicated elderly, the spaceship joke and the dedicated policeman.This film is worth a watch! "}{"Title":"GRACE UNDER PRESSURE","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Yea, the ending is a bit off the top but basically the entire movie is ludicrous ...didn't make me laugh any less! It's a true delight in a very British sort of way...which is to say the intense and convincing character development makes the whole thing work. You really start to care about  all the individual quirky inhabitants of this quaint but intensely loyal Cornish town. Think Local Hero and Waking Ned Devine. Everyone's  loyalty is especially intense for the middle aged Grace Trevethyn...played so sympathetically by the effervescent Brenda Blethyn. Her much younger cohort in crime is Matthew Stewart, Grace's Scottish grounds keeper, portrayed by the curt and hilariously truthful Craig Ferguson. (I'm the hip one. You're the hip replacement.) Grace's sweet way of approaching her impending doom just endear her to the audience. And Matthew's tirades are so real and so darn funny that even his continual swearing only help exemplify the unjust state of his situation. No one could find fault with his logic. `I avoid confrontation. If you grew up in Glasgow in the 1970's you'd avoid confrontation too. All I want is a easy life.'Loaded with superbly entertaining foibles...sloshing around bathtubs in Wellies, innocent purchasing of electrical supplies at the local warehouse store and shlepping about with aluminum ducting tubes in an attempt to make a highly secret (pun intended) high tech pot house. Included is a wonderful supporting cast of very likable characters, who love Grace so much they seem to help her in spite of the fact they all know she's breaking the law. Just a fun little family. As my daughter says, `The only problem with this movie is that it ends!'  "},{"Title":"One of the Funniest Movies Ever","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The British do it again!  In this movie, about a middle aged, prim and proper widow who takes to hydroponically raising pot in order to alleviate her dead husband's debts, the British humor shines! The subtle British humor is evident throughout the movie.  The pub scene comments on Kafka vs modern adult authors brought tears to my eyes as I laughed out loud! The bud scene is one that Cheech and Chong themselves could not have done better! I recommend this movie to anyone who likes more than one good laugh! "},{"Title":"A spiffing good time!","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is what British film making is all about. This is one of the funniest British films I have seen since 4 Weddings. Looking from a far this film has all the ingredients to make it a classic, a well written and thought trough script, a great cast, including an Oscar nominated actress (Brenda Blethyn) and dramatic locations, but somehow it managed to slip through the net.On the whole the main story line moves along well, but losses it's momentum and comic edginess near the end but just manages to struggle along to a half decent ending. On the other hand the will they, won't they, sub-plot between Nikky (Valerie Edmond) and Matthew (Craig Ferguson) was handled much more fluidly.After dissecting it piece by piece you end up with a well written film worth watching which has it highs, my favourite scene is when Grace and Matthew first try out their Greenhouse Illuminations, and lows, the whole trip to London. But in my opinion what shines through the most is Valerie Edmond's performance as Nikky, she has the making of a great actress.9 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"Hilariously funny","Date":"13 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you ever desire to smoke a joint, try this movie first, it'll give you a kick that I believe must be superior to any kind of drug. Laughter is the final kick. And Brenda Blethyn gives you a kick that is unsurpassing with this great British comedy. "},{"Title":"predictable and superficial","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When looking at the new wave of British imports that became (more or less) popular in the late 90's, such as Secrets and Lies, Waking Ned Devine, or the Full Monty, one might see something that distinguishes them from the rest of the predictable, one-joke movies Hollywood keeps churning out.  They had a certain originality, a quaintness, one might say.  Camera angles, acting styles (see the brilliant S&L, if you haven't yet.  Hard to believe all the whole thing was improvised), and dialogue were all things that distinguished these films from the rest of the pack.  Unfortunately, Saving Grace does not fit in with these movies.  The situations are predictable, the editing-superficial.  Even the plotline sounds like something from a sitcom--A widow grows pot to save her estate from mean creditors.  When looking at the long list of talented people that helped act in, write, produce and direct this shallow movie, it seems quite mind-boggling that this was the result.   "},{"Title":"** 1/2  Funny but not impressive","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  One-joke comedy that benefits from the brilliant performance by its beautiful star Brenda Blethyn. Blethyn plays the widow of a seemingly rich man who after death leaves her without a penny in the bank and nothing to protect her from losing her beautiful country home. The solution is easy, of course grow weed in your greenhouse. This she does with her reefer-smoking gardener (Craig Ferguson, who also co-wrote), but the trouble starts when she has to try and sell it all. Extremely funny all the way through, but the film's last third is so flaccid it seems to undermine everything it's been working for up until that point.   "},{"Title":"All a bit silly really","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A very lighthearted comedy based on the simple joke  of getting the old person next door stoned. It starts  off pulling a strained laugh but wears a bit thin as  the movie progresses while the joke doesn't. Brenda  Blethyn is, as usual, a class act and I was left  wondering why she took the part. A decent premise,  a nice location, a couple of first class actors in  Blethyn and eventually Karyo... all of which couldn't  save Grace from a bad script and sloppy directing. To  see Blethyn at her best try Little Voice or Secrets  and Lies. "},{"Title":"lovely movie","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I saw it last night on TV, and was quite delighted. It is sort of the movie which makes you feel nice and warm around heart, and believe that there is still some goodness in the world (all the neighbours pretended not to see what grace was doing in order to help her and protect her- the old policeman is my favourite), although you know that this story is not quite realistic.I loved acting (they all seemed just as ordinary, common people, living in small picturesque English coast town) but the greatest thing in the movie was the wit and humor it has! Just remember the scene in the shop with two old ladies after they had their tea!!Perhaps the ending was a little bit confusing, but it didn't stop me from really, really enjoying the whole story! "},{"Title":"A nominal telling of a clever story.","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace is a light-hearted comedy/drama about a penniless widow's creative approach to saving her estate. This very British film is only a nominal production, but Brits and non-Brits alike should enjoy the wry, witty, and clever story and some fine British actors. Will be appreciated most by those who enjoy British humor. "},{"Title":"Saving Grace (2000) -- Not that original","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was disappointed in my expectations, being mostly drawn by the presence of Brenda Blethyn.  The plot seemed to be searching for a plot that was more than hyperbole, but never quite made it.  As I was watching, my mind focused on my opinion this is a remake of Waking Ned Devine -- with similar threads of small supportive town in a massive cover-up pending the visit of the corporate ogre. "}{"Title":"All a bit silly really","Date":"30 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A very lighthearted comedy based on the simple joke  of getting the old person next door stoned. It starts  off pulling a strained laugh but wears a bit thin as  the movie progresses while the joke doesn't. Brenda  Blethyn is, as usual, a class act and I was left  wondering why she took the part. A decent premise,  a nice location, a couple of first class actors in  Blethyn and eventually Karyo... all of which couldn't  save Grace from a bad script and sloppy directing. To  see Blethyn at her best try Little Voice or Secrets  and Lies. "},{"Title":"BritCom OK, But Nothing Special","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I see Saving Grace as one of the recent, dime-a-dozen Britcoms that are populated by quirky characters, amusing situations and nice scenery. Echoes of Hamish MacBeth, Waking Ned Devine, The Full Monty. A pleasant diversion but nothing more. I found the ending a bit forced, and the soundtrack was terribly derivative (Make Me Smile was prominently featured in The Full Monty as well). "},{"Title":"Amusing one-line joke but hardly great cinema","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  No worse than the average Sunday night in front of the television, but not much better. An appealing story as Brenda Blethyn and a few other delightful oldsters sample the delights of smoking dope. It has its moments, but unfortunately it could have been told a lot better - this is rather a one-joke movie. "},{"Title":"Weak","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The plot, character development, and gags in this movie are all extremely weak.  Quite a waste of time.  The conclusion of Saving Grace is supposed to make one feel warm and fuzzy as though the characters have grown through their struggles.  There was no such development to make such warm fuzzy feelings possible.  The drug gags are cliched and much of the movie doesn't ring true to life.  The plot builds what is supposed to be tension but the characters aren't developed enough to care.  Then it rushes through a resolution of all the outstanding problems in about a minute of screen time leaving the viewer feeling like they have just wasted their time. "},{"Title":"I don't know what prompted me to order this film...","Date":"15 April 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...but I regret having seen it. Since the ratings on IMDb are relatively high (and they must also have been relatively high on Netflix), I guess I put it in my queue because it is advertised as a gentle comedy from the UK, a category that has produced many films I liked immensely. Saving Grace, on the other hand, falls into the category of laugh-less comedies usually populated by Hollywood movies produced and directed by the talentless. Brenda Blethyn is a capable actress, and I have liked her in other movies. The concept -- a gardener growing marijuana to overcome the penury she finds herself confronting after her husband's death -- does not offend me. Notwithstanding the strenuous efforts on the part of the cast to produce humor, the film falls flat on its face (falling flat on its arse might have been funnier) as far as I and my wife were concerned. Be forewarned, oh gentle reader, not all offbeat British comedies succeed. This one is a dud. "},{"Title":"As predictable as it gets","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When you get your hands on a British film you expect some sort of quality. And when it comes to acting, camera work, lighting etc; this film does the business. It's done by highly skilled craftsmen. That alone can bring you an enjoyable one and a half hours. But when you look under the layers of professionalism, you don't really find anything. Apart from making you feel good and advocate a drug liberal view, there's really nothing there. The script is mediocre, the plot is predictable and the ending must be one of the worst east of Hollywood. In all it's English cosiness, it's just a shameful and cynical attempt to make another Full Monty. Why they made this film? I haven't got a clue, apart from making money of course.  "},{"Title":"Cheech & Chong Meets Benny Hill","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" SAVING GRACE (2000) **1/2 Brenda Blethyn, Craig Ferguson, Martin Clunes, Tcheky Karyo, Jamie Foreman, Bill Bailey, Valerie Edmond, Tristan Sturrock, Clive Merrison, Leslie Phillips. (Dir Nigel Cole) Craig Ferguson, best known as the unctuous British boss of Drew Carey on 'The Drew Carey Show', has a unique gift for making ridiculous situations actually enjoyable as he proved earlier this year as a gay Scottish hairdresser with a dream in 'The Big Tease'. Here he plays a straight Scottish gardener with a penchant for a particular herb in this frequently amusing comedy.Oscar nominee Blethyn stars as Grace, a recently widowed British horticulturist who suddenly is faced with the possibility of bankruptcy after her banker informs her that her late husband owed a mountain of debt and no funds to provide her with a blanket of security. Deciding on her fate she turns to Matthew (Ferguson) her well-meaning Scotsman groundskeeper after he asks for her green thumb in his dwindling marijuana plants on the property of the local vicar. Seeing the forest for the trees &#150; so to speak &#150; Grace agrees to help Matthew and the two wind up with a cash crop of pot in the double digit kilos to serve as a nest egg as the creditors swoop in like vultures.Blethyn, one of the more underrated actresses of her generation, provides a certain vulnerability to the flakiness that ensues and is allowed to emote on all levels particularly her first venture into toking a joint with blissfully funny results if not topped by her attempt to solicit a proper dealer in London's Notting Hill.Ferguson &#150; who co-wrote the screenplay with Mark Crowdy - also continues to show his true colors as a comedian and an actor, especially in his sweet loving moments with his girlfriend Nicky (Edmond), the local fisherwoman, who becomes pregnant and a constant ethical reminder to his larcenous ways.The film only falters in the final reel as the entire hamlet winds up getting high and comes across as a bizarre hybrid of 'Cheech & Chong Meets Benny Hill'. Otherwise a diverting way to pass the time even if you're having the munchies. "},{"Title":"Star rating 2 out of 5","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace is surely one of the leading contenders for the 'How to Ruin an Adequate Film in the Final Few Minutes' award.  Naturally if you mix a quaint Cornish village - largely populated by retired genteel ladies - with a liberal dose of marijuana, a certain amount of silliness will ensue.  However, the last seven minutes of the film descend into the totally ludicrous and is not even redeemed by being particularly funny.  It is a real shame, because this comedy has the potential to be every bit as good as 1998's Waking Ned Devine, which also portrayed a picturesque small village and its oddball inhabitants trying to extract themselves from a tricky situation.The protagonist of Saving Grace is middle-aged, recently widowed Grace Trevethyn, whose husband's legacy of bad debts has forced her into an unconventional way of earning money.  Helped by her gardener, Matthew, she turns her horticultural expertise to the lucrative cultivation of marijuana.  Unfortunately, this leads her into confrontation with the local police, her husband's creditors and a French drug baron. . . . . . . . . . whom all turn up at her greenhouse simultaneously.  The relationship and rapport between Grace and Matthew is well-portrayed, and Brenda Blethyn gets the viewer emotionally involved with her likeable character - you can really feel what she is going through.The casting of the minor roles is excellent, even if some of them are rather outlandishly eccentric.  However, the transformation of Jacques the drug lord into Grace's romantic interest is highly implausible and does not fit the tone of the movie at all.  And surely hydroponics is not such a revolution in the world of cannabis growing?  Sadly the film swaps gentle humour for slapstick and ends up being as fake as the marijuana plants.  "},{"Title":"High Times Rating = 9.5","Date":"11 June 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My comments may be a bit of a spoiler, for what it's worth.  Stop now if you care enough....Saving Grace should have been titled A Paper-Thin Excuse for Old British Women to Get High On-Screen.  This film is dumb.  The incidental music is an annoyance as are the obvious, hackneyed tunes that sporadically pop up to comment on the narrative (Spirit in the Sky, for example - Oh, I get it!)  This is basically a Cheech and Chong movie made credible by its stodgy English setting and Brenda Blethyn's overwhelming power to inflict emotion on an audience using her voice alone.  I could literally hear the folks over at High Times magazine receiving their jollies over the enormous buds that litter this picture.  Worst scene?  Easy. Brenda attempts to peddle her illicit wares on the street of London in a blaring white dress-suit. Not funny.  Not original.  Not interesting.  Not a good movie.  The 7.2 rating is the result of zealots over-voting.  Don't waste your time... "},{"Title":"Insulting Ending Ruins Cute' Movie","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" A very straight nice old lady, desperate for money to save her house and possessions, grows pot in her house, smokes it with a few old-biddy friends and then sells it. That's the story for this low-key comedy, emphasizing the absurdity of the situation and some of the humor the predicament brings. For much of the film, it works. The humor isn't of the laugh-out-loud variety but it does keep you entertained for an hour-and-a- half, so I guess it serves its purpose.There ARE funny moments and Brenda Blethyn is fun to watch in the lead role. But the ending really ruined a cute movie with insultingly-bad messages that only the ultra-liberals of the film world would like to see happen.Like most people, I would prefer a happy ending, too, but it should not all warm and fuzzy for those who blatantly break the law. Also in here are the typical (1) children out of wedlock but that poses no problem and is deemed okay; (2) clerics portrayed as morally weak people; and (3) even a medical doctor who gets stoned, too! Hello? And reviewers here blast Hollywood? This is exhibit A how a secular society has lowered the standards in the UK and Europe in general. Hey, people at least have a trace of morality instead of nothing but a Timothy Leary If it feels good, do it message. "}{"Title":"Quite a funny flick","Date":"30 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This light hearted comedy should be enjoyed for entertainment value. It gets quite hysterically funny at times, but if you haven't spent any time on 'that' side of the tracks you will miss the comedy when it erupts.The cast of characters meld well together and are quite believable in their roles. How Grace handles meeting her dead husbands girlfriend was well played. She's a true lady. And, my favorite is Grace's white pimp suit that she wears.I highly recommend this flick to anyone who wants to laugh out loud, who cheers for the underdog or just wishes to watch something different. "},{"Title":"a jolly good movie","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" After her Oscar-nominated turn in Secrets & Lies, Brenda Blethyn starred in the equally great Saving Grace. And let me tell you, this is not the sort of movie that you find every day.After her husband commits suicide, Grace Trevethyn (Brenda Blethyn) discovers that his irresponsible financial decisions have left her with a massive debt. Fortunately, she finds a way to make ends meet marijuana. That's right, Grace starts cultivating it.Every aspect of this movie was played to great effect; there isn't a dull moment anywhere in it. And I sure didn't see that end scene coming! But anyway, you gotta see this movie. You just might feel more than a little festive after seeing it. If nothing else, it might function as a good lesson about knowing one's finances. But of course, there's a LOT more to it than that! "},{"Title":"Highs and Lows...","Date":"14 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is reminiscent of British films of the 50s; something Ealing might make and Alexander MacKendrick might direct. It follows a peculiarly British format. We have the picturesque village populated by lovable and slightly quirky characters who, while seemingly respectable, are not averse to breaking the law &#150; as long as nobody is actually harmed. This even includes the lovable local police constable. The film's relationship with reality is tenuous to say the least, but that is no bad thing, and the film never holds itself out as being anything other than a feel-good fantasy. It works very well for a while, but sadly falls apart quite dramatically in the last half-hour.Brenda Blethyn, a versatile and hard-working actress, plays the eponymous Grace, whose husband has just shuffled off this mortal coil (or stepped off an aeroplane, to be more precise) leaving her with crippling debts that threaten to destroy the comfortable lady-of-the-manor lifestyle to which she is accustomed. Grace is an expert gardener, a fact not lost on Matthew (co-writer and producer Craig Ferguson) who is failing miserably in his attempts to cultivate a modest crop of cannabis. After seeking her advice on how to nurse his plants back to health, it isn't long before the unlikely couple hit on the idea of going into full-scale production. Matthew's girlfriend who, unknown to him, is pregnant, is not happy about her boyfriend's foray into drug-dealing, however, and conflict looms&#133;While the subject of this movie might seem to some to be offensive material for a light-comedy, it is all carried out in such a polite and reserved manner that it is almost impossible to take offence. This is probably because the consequences of what Grace and Matthew are doing are virtually ignored (apart from one scene in which Grace switches off a radio report about a dealer being jailed for 15 years). Although the film takes place in the present day, the Cornish fishing village in which the story takes place is cocooned in some kind of cinematic time-warp; for example the local shop sports a Robinson's golliwog in the window and a torso mannequin on the counter, neither of which have probably been seen in these Isles for the past two decades. The hymn All Things Bright and Beautiful features prominently in the opening couple of reels, as if the producers are trying to subliminally remind us that hemp, too, is one of God's creations. It's almost as if the makers are deliberately trying to distance their film from the real world while also keeping it recognisable. And the cast comprises of many familiar faces from British TV, all of whom have relatively positive personas. So, really, it would be kind of rude to be offended. There aren't many laugh-out-loud moments in this film &#150; it's not that kind of comedy &#150; but there is that element of goodwill about it that carries you along even as you struggle with a sense of ambivalence. Probably the best scene is the one in which Grace decides that, if she is going to sell this stuff, she should at least find out what it's like. Anyone who has ever smoked a joint (*ahem* not that I ever have, you understand&#133;) will find it impossible to prevent a broad grin of recognition from spreading across their face as they witness the effect Grace's inaugural spliff has upon her. Unfortunately, shortly after reaching this peak, the film dives downhill fast as the action transfers to London and Grace's attempts to find a buyer for her merchandise. Although the story picks up Bill Bailey as a small-time hippy dealer, which is a definite plus, the air of small-time larceny befitting of a Guinness comedy is lost completely. And the last reel is an absolute disaster. SAVING GRACE manages to overcome a number of shortcomings up to this point, but no film could survive a climax like the one we are given without losing a number of the brownie points it may have accrued with the viewer. "},{"Title":"Quite funny","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace is never riotously funny, but it delivers quite a few good laughs and I enjoyed it to a significant degree.  Brenda Blethyn is a fine actress, and does a good job at portraying widower Grace, who resorts to growing marijuana to pay off her massive debts.  The supporting cast also does a fine job.  French actor Tchecky Karyo has a funny little role.  The premise alone is appealing.  The idea of an over-the-hill woman growing and smoking pot sounds funny enough.  And the film plays around with the premise wisely every now and then.  Of course, there are flat moments, like one where two elderly women mistaken Grace's marijuana leaves for tea leaves and they start pulling childish antics at the store where they work.  That was a mindless gag that didn't quite take off.  The film's tone is downbeat and occasionally dull, but I got enough laughs to give this English import a recommendation.  My score  7 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"What You Watch When You're Moving and You've Cancelled Dish","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I would not normally watch a movie that looks too cutesy by half from the box cover. Then again, with the dish shut off--and hundreds of unwatched movies in the basement--what else is there to do on a Sunday evening? And then I started watching Saving Grace, and started laughing. The movie is pleasant and generally likable, with just a smidgen of edge, but too many f-bombs. I'm a child of the 70s, so I get marijuana humor, to a point. Saving Grace, with the exception of an absurd lurch into organized crime, never stops being gentle and entertaining by needling dopers and their worship of burning the fatty. The movie isn't meant to be thoughtful or deep, just a story of a middle-aged widow who faces down bankruptcy in her green house, the perfect fare for spending time with your spouse, amidst boxes and crates. "},{"Title":"I expect the Aussies would find it funny","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Every so often, Elstree turns out a jewel. Unfortunately this is not one of them. The English like their humour either subtle, or over-the-top farcical, Americans prefer smutty or slapstick (hence the transatlantic popularity of Benny Hill & Fawlty Towers). Saving Grace has none of the above. Such humour as there is is purely situational, and consists largely of ordinary people doing completely ridiculous things due to the nature of Grace's cash crop. This is the kind of unfunny humour I associate with films from Down Under, where inane offerings like The Castle have huge success The plot thesis is thin, and it's development is non-existent. The main characters are simply not credible, despite superb acting from just about everyone in the cast. In fact, I would suggest that the only really believable roles in the whole film were Matthew Stewarts's girlfiend Nicky (Valerie Edmond), the Vicar (Leslie Phillips) and Quentin Rhodes, the London lawyer (Clive Merrison). Everyone else was a cardboard cut-out caricature.I find, too, a huge wasted opportunity in the failure to exploit the incredible beauty of rural Cornwall to its maximum potential. Far too much of the movie was interior shot, or down in the narrow village lanes where it is impossible to appreciate the surroundings.All in all, a pleasant enough waste of an hour and a half streaming it on N*tfl*x, but if I'd had to pay to watch it, I'd have been really disappointed. "},{"Title":"Fantastic idea, implemented poorly","Date":"10 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Saving Grace was a typical feel-good comedy, partly lighthearted drama and partly pure laughter value. Sadly, it falls somewhere in between the two and fails to hit heights in either genre. I just got the feeling that from such a fantastic idea (a middle-aged woman turns to growing drugs to help her financial situation), so much more jokes could have been made of it. The best example of this was when Grace, a middle aged country woman, goes to london to try and sell her marujana plants. This had the potential for some hilarious jokes, instead the scene was plain and just not funny. Likewise in the drama side, it never seemed to hit any nerves or make you feel for the character, despite Brenda Blethyn playing the role incredibly convincingly.  In conclusion, Saving Grace is a sturdy film which stands alone as a watchable feel-good comedy, i just felt let down because such a good idea could have made such a better movie. Maybe the screenwriter was smoking the stuff rather than writing about it. "},{"Title":"sex versus drugs","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  you mix marijuana with small town english folk and youre bound to get the kind of silly humour you get if you mix sex with american college type movies ala the american pie travesty.reading through these comments made me think of something though, if this is considered feel good then what isnt? What would people have thought if instead this middle aged widow had resolved her problems by opening a brother in her house?undeniably drugs are more harmful than sex yet sex still manages to be more taboo.in fact im gonna bet my bottom dollar that no one would dare to make a sweet natured, harmless, feel good, selling sex is a okay movie. Not even english people who ofcourse are alot better than those conservative, right wing americans(big eye roll).im not sure if this movie is telling you that everything works out great if you sell drugs, it sure did work out great for Grace, she didnt even get in trouble with the law even when they knew. Im glad im not young and impressionable anymore. "},{"Title":"Reefer Madness of King George","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Brits have some natural advantages that they keep blowing. British actors have always been distinctive, since perhaps Irving. Many of those acting characteristics apparent self-consciousness, facial hesitations, practiced body fluidity when speaking... seem more appropriate and satisfying today in the revival of character acting.British production values are generally higher than Hollywood's. Only part of that pertains to using actors who can act, a different issue than that noted above. They seem to spend more time on language and manner to set the tone of the film, and less on high concept machinery bombastic music, special effects, action, simple conflicts. And the English seem to engage the audience in natural environments in a more intimate way than anyone else except the Australians.Now, we have a fad of village films where the English poke fun at themselves for the benefit of Americans. The idea is a little tawdry, especially when quaintness and simpleness of rurals is used as the main tool. Make no mistake, this is a film made for American audiences at the very beginning someone speculates that the husband's death was due to his mistaking the door of the bathroom. No Brit would say that, but what they would say might puzzle Ohians.This film starts off so well, leveraging all these British strengths. The actors are very good, Grace is first class. Though derivative of other films (even Hamlet), the first 20 minutes sweep us, intrigue and tease. Then it all devolves into so much mush. And that's all independent of the story, which is incidental in any case, so long as townspeople get to act silly, wise, loyal. But how quaint to focus on dope. Did the writers believe Americans would think this cute? To judge from early reception, I guess it is true. How humorously, with what condescension the world must see us. Secrets and Lies is more true, uses Blethyn better and embarrasses neither maker nor viewer.  "},{"Title":"How much irritation can a film provoke?","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I absolutely fail to see what is funny in this film. The humor seems to be destined for corpses. It's slow. The story is too simple to be true. The characters do not raise much sympathy, a few non-important characters aside. Nothing surprising happens. What did the writers of this script think? Oooo funny! Let's make some old lady's high on pot! Let's make them.... giggle! Let's make them... behave like little children!! Oooo, yes, that's absolutely brilliant and original!This film has irritated me most from all the films I've seen in the last five years. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable though not very accurate","Date":"26 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Saving Grace is a feel good movie with it's heart in the right place. Grace is recently widowed and realizes her late husband left her with a lot of debts. She could lose her lovely house and sees no other solution to her misery than to start growing marijuana. She's living in a beautiful village where most viewers would love to live and the villagers are all wonderful people most viewers would love to have as neighbors. There's only one thing wrong with this picture and that is the way it portraits the effect marijuana has on it's user. It's obvious none of the actors or writers of this film actually ever did smoke the stuff. The way the villagers act after smoking a joint is ridiculous and only supposedly funny. It's precisely in those scenes that wit is replaced by English slapstick, and that is a pity in a movie that is none the less very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"OK film spoiled by plot fiasco at end SPOILER","Date":"28 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Comment includes SPOILER.This film was a fine light comedy, building nicely towards the finale and then suddenly everything goes to pot (literally). It almost seemed like the film was originally shot with a different ending and there were some test screenings that said don't like this, what about that? and as a result a possible sensible end was thrown away and bizarrely replaced. The official chap that kept trying to phone and eventually arrived in person - what about him? The dramatic imperative suggested that he was trying to contact her about a successful investment which would solve her worries, but he just disappears. marring the drug lord? where did that come from? Too bizarre for words.  "}]