[{"Title":"Not great, but not a bad movie that so many say it is.","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, it was my weekly free rental, so it didn't have to be great. But I cannot understand all the highly negative criticism of Here on Earth. It has a very true theme, everyone deserves to find true love before they die. However, it plays more like a made-for-TV teen romance than a theater blockbuster. But it is better than many of the teem movies made recently.Sam (Leelee Sobieski) is a small town girl whose big plans to go to UM on a track scholarship got waylayed by a knee injury. She has a boyfriend Jas (Josh Hartnett) that she has known forever, he loves her (I know you better than anyone, Sam.), but we can see there isn't the passion one expects of true love.Along comes Kelley (Chris Klein), the smart (valedictorian) rich kid who is stuck on himself, the last person Sam's sister and parents want her to get mixed up with. But there is a spark of passion there, Sam starts to feel for the first time she might find true love. You see, she has a secret. The knee injury has affected her liver and she is on a fast path to death.Kelley and Jas are like two elk competing for the one fertile female at springtime. Verbal and physical challenges, an ill-advised car chase results in a crash into gas pumps and burning down the local hangout. Both of their sentences require them to work all summer to rebuild the restaurant. Kelley stays in the garage apt.When the summer is over, the restaurant rebuilt, Sam has been laid, Jas is no longer Sam's girlfriend, Kelley just boards the bus and leaves without visiting the dying Sam. He has things to attend to, a life to get on with. However, back at home he has second thoughts, sees yellow roses planted by his deceased mum, and goes back to be with Sam. At her funeral, he reads from poetry they both enjoyed. She found true love before she died, he learned about what is really important.The story is not novel, but it still is a pretty good one. Josh Hartnett is excellent as the unpolished bumpkin, Leelee as the philosophical girl looking for meaning in her short life. But Chris Klein looks out of his league. He still has a way to go before he can graduate from his teen gross-out roles in films like American Pie.I never felt totally immersed in the film, because some of the acting and some of the dialog didn't quite ring true. However I found it to be a pleasant 90 minutes and it probably deserves a rating somewhere around 5 to 7, which is where the IMDb votes cluster presently.  To rate it a 1 as so many have, or to call it possibly the worst movie of all time are just absurd.The DVD was fine, with Dolby 5.1 sound, but the extras consist primarily of several trailers for other films put out by this company. "},{"Title":"If you Find Love, Hold On to IT","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very unusual film which starts out with a rich dude getting a brand new sports car for graduation and decides to take it for a spin in the local town. Rich boy meets poor girl in 'Mabels Diner'who is a waitress and local boy friend gets very upset and a fight starts out. There is a car chase and all kinds of problems seem to take place and the Rich boy and Poor boy wind up having to do Community Service as ordered by the town judge. Rich boy and Poor boy just do not get along and the Rich boy winds up winning the heart and soul of the poor boy's girl friend. There are plenty of walks in the woods and poetry is quoted and some very deep thoughts about life. Poor Girl says, Some people go through life and never find Love, I can say that I found love and am holding on to It. You will need some tissue's if you are sensitive, there are plenty of romantic scenes and I doubt very much if you will guess how this picture will end. The producer and director came up with a good idea and finally put an end to a film. If you like true to life stories with poetry and very sensitive subjects, this is your film. "},{"Title":"The writer of Here On Earth owes me $10 and a new skull","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Dear Mr. Seitzman, Or Whomever I May Hold Responsible For Mr. Seitzman Not Meeting His Rightful Fate Of Being Eaten Alive by Rabid Wolverines;I do not know you, and so cannot comment on your character; for all I know, you give to charities and help little old ladies cross the street. Still, I must insist, for the common good, that you never write another screenplay as long as you live. Put down the pen, step away from the laptop! If you refuse to heed the pleading of wounded brains, I have watched a movie or two in my life, and I believe you will find my counsel helpful 1. Do not include love scenes in which overwrought teenage boys name the body parts of their girlfriends after US states. If you must pen such a scene, please do not name the breasts New York and New Jersey; it causes unnecessary speculation as to which cities occupy the nipples. Also, it is almost incomprehensibly stupid and annoying.2. Do not rely solely on John Hughes movies in order to reinforce class distinctions.3. Do not bludgeon the audience over the head with exhausted clichés. Yes, yes, Kelley and Sam stand out in the rain, and it cleanses them of their cares. We get it. Yes, the roses continue to bloom in Kelley's dead mother's greenhouse, even though every other plant has begun to rot. It Is A Symbol Of Their Love. It is also very painful when applied via blunt-force trauma to the backs of our heads. For the love of God, Mr. Seitzman, we get it. We all get it, all across the land. Amish people, the hard of hearing, unborn babies - we all get it.4. Do not require the actors to perform mime sequences. Ever. No, never.5. Did I mention that you should ease up on the trite symbolism? Because the audience can draw the parallel between the rebuilding of the restaurant and the building of the relationship between Kelley and Sam without any help. Truly. We get it.6. Go through your script, and cull out the following lines, and any lines resembling them I don't know what we are anymore. I don't want to lose you. He's just like the rest of them! (And its corollary, Daddy, you don't even know him!) 7. Yes, yes, she's in heaven, running around in a field. We get it.8. And in other news, we get it.I have seen dozens of terrible movies in my life; I never expected to suffer for your art, and I would have just left the theater, but an elephant with the words DOOMED LOVE painted on its side fell from the sky and pinned me to my seat.In closing, your writing bites, you owe me ten dollars, and I hate you. "},{"Title":"The road not taken. Poetry on screen.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My small town local theatre didn't get it in. Instead they opted for a comedy. I chose to go instead, to the next town over and see this. It was well worth it. This is a very touching story with enough humour to lighten the mood. Chris Klein is a wonderful actor and really played his part well. The man brought tears to my eyes. Leelee Sobieski was as good in this as she was in Joan of Arc. Josh Hartnett who plays her small town (boy)friend was so sweet you almost wanted him to get the girl. The 3 actors have very bright futures ahead of them. As long as they choose their roles as wisely as they chose these. "},{"Title":"Let's count the bad cliche's.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Rich vs. poor.  Big city vs. small town.  White collar vs. blue collar.  These things are not original themes in movies.  So when one chooses to involve these themes, the situational story-line had better be very original, or very good.  This one was neither.  I never believed in the romance of the two young lovers in this movie.  Neither convincing nor compelling, it just fell flat.  Don't bother, even with a video rental. "},{"Title":"Here on Earth is a tear jerker for all ages...","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All I have to say is that this movie is the bomb.  You are going to cry when you see this.  I mean, this is a reminder for everyone how hard and easy it is to fall in love.  It reminds you of the days during your youth when you were carefree and everything that was bad for you was washed away with a single kiss.  Even though I am still a teen, this is how I live my life. When I am with that certain someone, everything that was negative in my mind was erased.  So, I give this movie a 10 for it's heartfelt message and touching plot.  Actors Josh Hartnett and Chris Klein I also give a 10 for having a cute face. "},{"Title":"I wrote better storylines in Kindergarten","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was one of the worst I have ever seen. There were so many problems with both the story and the actors that it's unbelievable that someome actually gave the go-ahead to release it. For starters, the story is lame. It is a movie based entirely on a love triangle with three unlikable characters; consequently, no one cares who ends up with who. This story moves at a snail's pace, at some points almost impossible to watch. The audience is supposed to identify with Samantha, a small town waitress who is bored with her life and her nice-but-not-so-bright boyfriend, Jasper. I can understand that. However, it's impossible to feel sorry for this girl, or understand her actions, because of the way she shamelessly chases after the rich spoiled jerk, Kelly, who looked down on her, her boyfriend, her family, and her town because they were poorer, AND the horrendous way she treats her longtime boyfriend. She runs around with Kelly, making out with him in public, right in front of Jasper's best friend, all without having the decency to tell Jasper she's cheating on him, then callously dumps him, telling him flat out she'd rather be with his enemy, then leaves him to for all she knows commit suicide or beg in the streets or whatever, because if she doesn't hurry, Kelly will leave without her. So Kelly and Sam both prove to be selfish and uncaring of who they hurt. Jasper is the only mildly likeable character, but even he is hard to watch, drooling after undeserving Sam is as bad as Sam drooling over undeserving Kelly. And by the time the climax comes, Sam is so unlikeable you just really don't care what happens to her.Finally, this weak plot may have worked(not likely, but possibly) if they had chosen some different actors. Leelee is a talented actress- in supporting roles. She has neither the charisma nor talent to carry a movie- especially a weak plot like this one. And Chris Klein (Kelly) does a great job with comedy, but he lacks the talent to make Kelly anything more than a one dimensional shallow rich guy. Josh Hartnett did okay, but wasn't given very much to go on. Jasper also comes across very one dimensional.The producers/directors/whoever was in charge clearly did not read the script, but was just counting on the casting of 2 popular heartthrobs and the soundtrack by teen idol Jessica Simpson to make this movie a success for the 12-18 female demographic. Let's hope that's what they were shooting for; if they were trying to do anything else they failed miserably. "},{"Title":"The Dreaded Knee...","Date":"21 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To be fair, it has been several years since I watched the bile committed to celluloid known as Here on Earth, so forgive me if my memory of the film is a little sketchy. I'll stick with the main points which plague the soul of the unfortunate viewer.Scene One Chris Klein, after having been thrown out of prep school (because he looks like a seventeen year old--yes, very believable), gives what I assume is his valedictorian speech...to a field. Let me repeat that for you--a field. I think we're supposed to be moved by the combination of shame and eloquence he is failing to express. Klein has the delivery and facial expressions of a cardboard cutout. He is a decent looking piece of cardboard, but little more.Scene Two After some joyriding and teenage pyromaniac hijinks, Chris Klein and Josh Hartnett do some damage to the local diner, of which he is forced to rebuild. Of course. Because who better to help with construction than some random moron who crashed into it/ burned it in the first place. Better yet, let's have said random moron move in on Josh Hartnett's girl, Miss Sobeski, the girl he fancies for...her equally wooden line delivery? Scene Three Chris Klein's character is making out with Leelee Sobeski's character and decides to name her various body parts after the states on the eastern seaboard. My soul weeps. Really, how can this scenario turn out well? Surely you must alienate several million people if you imply their home is equivalent to Miss Sobeski's more...erm...feminine areas. Secondly, naming her breasts after New York and New Jersey prompts some confusion as to whether Miss Sobeski is actually freakishly disproportionate.Scene Four Leelee is running. She falls down. This gives her...knee cancer. We always knew it could come back, her father(?) says. Right. Knee cancer. From tripping. Perhaps I missed something. As I said, it's been a few years. Surely I missed something. Didn't I? For the love of God, please tell me the girl did not contract KNEE cancer from falling down. That scream you just heard was my soul dying. "},{"Title":"Lacking in several areas..","Date":"9 September 2002","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ..that separate good, memorable movies from movies like this.  Its not entertaining, touching, funny, interesting and at times feels a little sub-human.  The principals act like they are other-worldly, in the worse way, when they are supposed to be relating to each other and the audience. Starts out conventionally enough.  Rich kid gets new car for graduation but the dean says he can't have the car until after the ceremony.  Goes joy-riding nonetheless, and stops in the diner on the wrong side of the tracks for a quick argument with the local yokels.  Wise-asses the waitress/girlfriend of the head yokel. Shockingly, they play chicken until they accidentally burn down the diner they left three minutes earlier (aren't all diners five feet from the gas station?).They told they have to Pay The Price in court, so the only reason to get this 'fish out of water' to stay in town is to come up with the scenario that both boys have to assist in the rebuilding of the diner. Worse than that, the rich kid in staying with the family of the un-rich kid..in the room above the attic.  That 'room above the attic' has rescued many a person in need of a bed..Rich kid inexplicably is treated well by the girlfriend, who never mentions to him that he nearly killed her.  This does not bode well, of course, with her boyfriend, and is never fully explained.  You don't know why Sam (Leelee Sobieski) falls for Kelley (Chris Klein), or why Jasper (Josh Hartnett) allows it.  Chris Klein is tolerable, Leelee completely intolerable, and Josh does not register much of an impression.  The character with the most life is the judge that sentences Kelley and Jasper to help re-build the diner.  She gets off at least one funny remark, which is more than anyone else does.  Everyone is so morose and humorless that you will feel a little sill if you even think of smiling while the movie is on. The ending is one way to end the piece, not the most original, but at least it was over.  I don't enjoy trashing a movie that some little girl somewhere in the world might really love, but since I am not one, I have to.  The nicest thing I can say about this movie is that its not mean-spirited, and although it fails to compel, its innocence and home-spun, corny dialogue comes from a nice place.  4/10.   "},{"Title":"A five hanky tearjerker","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is a genuine five-hanky tearjerker that slathers on the schmaltz thick as marmalade.  The story begins with a rivalry between a group of prep school boys and local townies that have a reckless car race that ends up burning down a local diner and gas station.  The judge sentences the two drivers to a summer of community service rebuilding the diner.  Kelley (Chris Klein) is a spoiled rich boy with attitude.  Jasper (Josh Hartnett) is a local hick with a good heart and a bad temper.  Needless to say, the two boys hate each other.  To complicate matters, Jasper's girlfriend Samantha (Leelee Sobieski) is developing a serious case of the hots for Kelley.  They begin an affair complete with dewy looks, running through fields, stolen glances and every other schmaltzy film technique ever invented.The prep/townie rivalry escalates into a love triangle with all the foreseeable showdowns and confrontations.  Just when everyone is working themselves into a good lather it is discovered that Samantha is seriously ill.  Pass the Kleenex.The film has some very sweet moments but the story is far too formulaic and predictable.  It has the feel of a TV movie, which is not surprising since director Mark Piznarski has mostly TV projects on his resume.  To his credit, the cinematography was beautiful and his choice of locations was superb.  The overlook scenes were particularly lovely.Chris Klein gave an adequate performance, but was not very dynamic and a little stiff.  I felt that he was much better in `American Pie' playing a more sincere character.  He seems like too nice a guy to play this spoiled and arrogant rich kid.  Leelee Sobieski was a good choice for Samantha.  She comes across as very vulnerable and sweet.  She was adept at capturing the delicate teenage balance between tentativeness and determination.  I actually liked Josh Hartnett better than I did Klein.  Perhaps he was better suited for his character, but he seemed a lot more believable as Jasper.This is a great chick flick.  It is sentimental, romantic, endearing and sad.  Guys are likely to spend most of the movie writhing in their seats.  Unfortunately, it wasn't very original and suffered from too many clichés.  I rated it a 6/10.  Add one or two points if you like sentimental romances and another if you like a movie that makes you cry.  A good film for girls' night out. "}{"Title":"Disgusting and manipulative.","Date":"8 September 2001","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  HERE ON EARTH (2000) Rating 3/10At one point in Here on Earth, my sister and me said aloud the reasons why this movie was so bad. At this point, Leelee Sobieski's character was jumping on a bus to go away with Kelley (Chris Klein). Here are some of the things we pointed out we don't care for Leelee Sobieski's character, whatever happens to her, she is a two-timing bitch. Nor do we care for the fate of the rest of the characters. You can't just jump on a bus without a ticket and no money. You don't just leave your boyfriend there standing on the side of the road. I could go on forever, but I think the word stupid really sums up this movie. While not only being highly unrealistic, this movie is boring and heartless, while what the goal obviously was to make the audience really be enthralled and the film be totally emotional. No, the crew has not reached their goal. This has turned out to be a cheese-ball of a film where you don't like the characters and have no sense of sympathy for what happens to them. There are also a lot of sight flaws in this film, um, hello, the guys beat up each other (yet another flaw, for the first half an hour, the 2 guys are just pounding in one and other's face, as if the script-writer's could think of anything more `entertaining') and within the next day their scars are gone. And did anyone else notice Kelley (Klein's character) wears the same shirts throughout the summer? I'll stop there now, but if I could be bothered, I could list the flaws in this movie and sell it as a novel. Stay away from this film.    "},{"Title":"See this move if you  like A Walk To Remember","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was great! I saw it last night on ABC Family. And it was amazing! It almost put me into tears. It was truly great. It was very similar to Nicolas Sparks novel/movie A Walk to Remember If you readers haven't read the book or seen the movie you must see it! The beauty of life and not taking it for granite was mostly the symbol for the movie. Sam found love with Kelley for a short time and it was worth it! Even though she died in the end, she lived a happy/loving life with Kelley even though it was short. I would love to find my true love. The movie will capture your heart. If your into chick-flicks.The moral of the story is (in my opinion) Live life, find love, and Bonzai!(Celebrate! In Japanese) "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In all sincerity, this is quite possibly the worst movie ever made. The crux here is that the producers were intending to make a good movie, but failed more completely than with any other production I've yet seen. The acting is phenomenally poor phony emotions, phony intonation in conversation, and an atrocious lack of any believable body language. Throughout the film, character development is disjointed and inconsistent. A few of the primary personalities in the movie undergo a completely irrational character-shift. Unlike an eye-opening plot twist, the character shifting in this movie leaves viewers with a feeling of open-jaw are you kidding me? incredulity. Overall, this film gives you the sense that you're watching the pre-practice cut. I would highly recommend spending your time on something more enjoyable - like scrubbing the toilet, or sanding the paint off of a deck. "},{"Title":"Holds the record for recycling the most material from other movies. 1/2* out of four","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** HERE ON EARTH / (2000) 1/2* (out of four)Mark Piznarski's Here on Earth holds the record for a movie containing the most recycled material in 96 minutes. Literally every contrivance, cliché, and familiar plot element are somewhere in here; there is simply nothing unique, original, or fresh about it. God, what an agonizing motion picture to sit through; I wish I saw the film during its theatrical release last year so it could have earned on my year's worst list. This is the kind of movie where the story makes itself instantly obvious, and goes downhill from the opening credits, and worst of all, takes itself seriously. Here on Earth is clearly one of the most horrible, painful movies to come down the pike in some time.Here on Earth is a teen heartthrob film, so it must contain some of Hollywood's most prized young men who are attractive and inexperienced enough to accept a role in a movie as bad as this. Chris Klein and Josh Hartnett fit that vary description, and take the lead roles by storm. Klein plays Kelley, an arrogant and insolent student with a wealthy father (cliché number one). He is to graduate as the valedictorian and attend Ivy league college following in the footsteps of his father (Stuart Wilson). This sets up the I don't want your life, cliché in which the father tries to control his son's life, while the son resists rebelliously. Throw in Kelley's deceased mother who committed suicide a while back. When his father brings home another woman, he brutally questions his intentions (the  no one can replace mom cliché counts as number two).Josh Hartnett plays Jasper, a character on the opposite side of society to Kelley. His family owns a local diner. Enter his long-time love interest, Samantha Cavanaugh (Leelee Sobieski) a waitress at the diner who covers for her sister (who has no purpose whatsoever rather than controlling the following scene) when Jasper and Kelley act like childish morons by racing their cars and (oh no) crashing into the diner, causing it to erupt into flames. (Conflicts between the rich and poor will count as cliché number three.)The bungled car chase sets both Kelley and Jasper up for a contrived and plausible conflict. They  get in trouble with the law, but because this movie feels the need to exist, the local judge orders them an alternative to serving time they must work together to help rebuild the diner.The two boys work hard during the summer growing strong and getting a nice tan. Samantha's eye catches Kelley, and romantic sparks fly. Jasper is jealous, but wants what is best for his true love (cliché number four). Her parents (Annette O'Toole and Bruce Greenwood) disapprove of her little romantic triangle (cliché number five), but she continues two timing Jasper without a second thought. Her father also happens to be the local sheriff, how surprising (lets count that melodramatic nugget cliché number six).The contrived romantic feelings between Kelley and Samantha count as cliché number seven. But Samantha's relationship with Jasper is never defined, so how can there any romantic tension? If the film is going to induce involvement in Samantha's choice between the two young men, then we need to see both characters from both sides. The movie depicts Jasper as a distraction to her rightful love, Kelley. It's clear Jasper truly loves her, but it is also clear she does not love him back. This absolutely slaughters the romantic tension early in the story.Leelee Sobieski does no harm here; however, her charm and kind performance do not fit a two-timing character like Samantha. John Hartnett is also right for the role of Jasper, but the movie gives him nothing to do except bicker with Kelley. Chris Klein gets to make a hunk name for himself here; he spends much of the movie shirtless, sweaty and overworked. Unfortunately he does not show off his acting ability, maybe because he has very little. The supporting cast is much more talented. Bruce Greenwood supplies the best performance in the film, but does not have near enough screen time to save anything but a few brief moments. I also enjoyed the performance by Stuart Wilson, who perfectly fits the role of a rich, controlling father of high social status.Then we lean about Samantha's knee problem exactly one hour and ten minutes into the movie (another spoiler ahead). What is this, she has a serious incurable illness (yet another contrivance into the picture, approximately number eight). Her terminal disease brings the two competing young men together as friends, well, at least I think that is what the movie intended to show, that the loss of one loved by two nemeses can bring both together (cliché number nine).Klein rehearses his valedictorian speech to demonstrate his character is more than a shallow stereotype, but we have seen this so many times before I would prefer a rich character rather than a deeply sentimental who hides actual feelings (cliché number, um, was it ten)?. The conflicts between Kelley and Jasper are desperate and inane; a your mom comment triggers a fist fight while they rebuild the establishment. There is a retread from Armageddon, as Samantha and Kelley sprawl out in an open field, horny as hell, as he slowly moves his fingers around her body, naming areas after US cities (why not call that number eleven). The movie uses alcohol as a means to increase the romantic tension an intoxicated Kelley makes a fool of himself after getting in a fight with Samantha's date, Jasper, but the following day he recites desires only to dance (cliché number, oh no, I am losing count).  "},{"Title":"Poorly written and acted","Date":"18 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This was a sad waste of two such promising actors. Chris Klein's character was unlikable from the start and never made an improvement. What did she see in him?? He was rarely kind, never thankful for what he does have...and a coward. Pass this one by on the shelves. You'll be glad you did. "},{"Title":"First half of the movie was great, after that it was all down hill.","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really liked how they introduced the characters. The beginning was very well done. How they introduced Samantha's illness was poorly done and the film really suffered because of that. If they had introduced Samantha's illness better, this film would have been much better. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chris Klein, Josh Hartnett and Leelee Sobieski star inHere On Earth, a movie that had promise in the beginning but ran out of gas.Despite the talent of these three young stars, Here On Earth falls apart at the seams because there really is no sense of direction as to where the movie should go. Not only is this movie cliché, but there really is no way for the audience to feel anything because it just isn't there until its too late. This movie is a snoozer and didn't take me long to realize this was the case. After all, I had to ask myself who wanted to watch a movie about a girl who is trapped between two men, it has been done to perfection in better movies.I was sorely disappointed at the outcome but in retrospect I'm glad I didn't see in the movie theater.  "},{"Title":"A Silly, Corny and Tragic Love Story","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Samantha Cavanaugh (Leelee Sobieski) works in her family's restaurant and is the sweetheart of Jasper Arnold (Josh Hartnett). One day, Kelley Morse (Chris Klein), a spoiled rich young man goes to her restaurant, and challenges and offends Jasper. They dispute a car race, ending tragically with the destruction of a gas station and the Cavanaugh's restaurant. They are arrested and the judge sentences both to rebuild the place. Kelly moves temporarily to the location and Samantha falls in love with him. Then, she finds she has cancer and the story has a tragic and predictable end. I watched this movie just because of the teen stars (Josh Hartnett, Leelee Sobieski and Chris Klein). Indeed the film works until the judgement. Then, Sam has a crush on a selfish, spoiled and empty character without any explanation or special reason. Further, she spends most of the time running, and suddenly it is revealed that she has an incurable cancer on her leg and she is going to die. Although having a good cast, the screenplay is very ridiculous. My vote is five.Title (Brazil) `Seu Amor, Meu Destino' (`Your love, My Destiny') "},{"Title":"It might have been good if there wasn't a 3-minute commercial break every 5 minutes.","Date":"7 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I suppose it was a thoughtful and overall okay movie...but it couldn't hold my interest long enough for me to find out.  Lengthy and frequent commercial breaks very well may have been to blame, but somewhere in the movie I opted to ditch the slow-paced and seemingly plotless flick for Animal Planet. That said, the main characters were unlikable - which works in some movies, but not this one. "},{"Title":"what a crap!","Date":"22 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I still don't understand how this kind of movies get made. It's so incredibly stupid, dull, predictable, and not at all original... Klein and Sobieski, the lead actors, are unable to express any kind of feeling. The characters totally stink, Klein switches from being a big jerk to a gentleman, and Sobieski is so flat and uninteresting that half way through the movie I kept wishing something would happen and she would just die.This movie is a big waste of time. Vote 1 out of 10. "}{"Title":"Lame, Lamer, Lamest","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Boring... lame... boring... stupid... lame... more words to describe this? Who cares about this pathetic girl???  She cheats on her boyfriend with an arrogant, pathetic loser... I suppose they deserve each other... the only character in the film who has a backbone and decency is the poor kid's best friend...Don't waste your time, I've already done that for you... "},{"Title":"Why?!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Why did they have to waste money on this crap?!WARNING! CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!The plot down-to-earth-good-kind-girl meets a rich-snob-ignorant guy. Her boyfriend gets jealous and with the guy, they burn down a resturant? (Over an UGLY girl?) Guy has to stay in town to build a new resturant, perfect for the love story to begin. But, hark!!! The girl is dying!!! Isn't that a surprise boys and girls? But she teaches him love life, and enjoy it. He's sad she is dying. She dies. He is sad. But has now learned to love life.What's the moral of the story? When, dying, teach another person to love life.LIKE EVERY OTHER LOVE MOVIE EVER MADE!!!!AAAAAH! This movie was the crapiest thing I have ever seen!!!! Did the director want to try to make this plot original?! AAAH! And the friggin' girl would not die!!! It took her a half hour?! I felt no pity for the charactors, and the love story died the first hour of the movie.1/10DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE, UNLESS YOU WANT TO BE BORED OR GET A HEAD ACHE!!!!  "},{"Title":"Hell on Earth is what it should be called -","Date":"2 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  - because that is exactly what it felt like when I watched this.  Man, this IS the worst film I have ever seen.  If LeeLee Sobieski's character was a runner, they should have picked an actress who could run.  She had the grace of a three legged mule. Chris Klein's gee, I'm a sensitive male is getting a little old.I will forever hold a grudge against my friend for making me watch this instead of playing a round of golf like I had originally went over to his house to do. "},{"Title":"predictable and stupid film","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a waste of time. This very poor movie considers true love the one of a pretty face with flowers and a night of pleasure instead of the one of every day, the one that lovers build every minute with every gesture and breath, the not so predictable. I always knew what was going to happen next in this movie. It´s awful how can someone spend millions in a movie that relays on a plot that anyone can predict. And forget. Besides, the end (she is dying and Carter comes before she dies) is a very easy way to solve the trouble of confronting lovers in a real life situation and see if in everyday life he would choose her anyway. A poor, stupid movie. "},{"Title":"Josh Hartnett! Josh Hartnett! Josh Hartnett!","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so maybe I did enjoy the film A LOT for the simple reason of the gorgeous and talented Josh Hartnett being in it but I did think the film was good anyway. The story is nice with some funny and sad moments. I'm not to keen on Chris Klein though and this movie didn't really change my opinions on him. I mean, he's not exactly good-looking and his acting is quite scratchy but I guess he did okay here. Leelee Sobieski did quite a good job too. As for Josh Hartnett he played his character brilliantly as always. Here on earth is a great film which I'd advise anyone to see. I give Here on earth an 8/10.  "},{"Title":"No redemption at all","Date":"9 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was god awful.  The main character showed no redemption at all. Ok, I take that back.  The main character had very little redemption.  All but Josh Hartnett's character showed virtually no growth as people. <SPOILER ALERT>******************************************** Chris Klein's character only changes a bit at the end of the movie.  He shows no sorrow about what he had done, never apologizes to the family that took him in, never stands up to his father and never straightens things out with Jasper.  Lee Lee's character shows hardly any development.  She knows she's going to die but yet she's still afraid to follow her heart.  There's no risk.  If she was going to live a normal, long life, I could understand. The only character that shows any sort of personal growth is Jasper.  By putting Sam's well being and feeling in front of his own, he becomes a better person than them all.<END SPOILER>  The only thing this movie has in common with Titanic, is that it should be at the bottom of the ocean as well. "},{"Title":"corny cheese, or is it cheesy corn...either way skip it.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  POSSIBLY SOME SPOILERS*** This flick caused me to dry heave massively while watching it. So many sappy lines in this one. So many forced emotional scenes. LeeLee looks good but, the girl cannot act. Chris Klein needs to stick to comedy. The shafted boyfriend(Jasper)probably did the best acting job.So many cliches, too many to count. Boy and girl from different side of the tracks fall in love, much to the shagrin of her current boyfriend and her family, the girl is dying ( I think it was some kind of uncurable knee cancer), boyfriend and new guy have many confrontations, and finally said boyfriend slides out of the way so she can be happy (because he LOVES her).  Such bad acting and predictable writing make this movie absolutely horrible.I felt sick.  "},{"Title":"Romantic...Touching...A Modern Day Romance! D","Date":"26 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here On Earth is a surprising beautiful romantic tale about Samantha who has both boy problems and health problems.  As her love for her current boyfriend, Jasper, fades away, her love for Kelley blooms like a new spring flower.  I found this movie very touching, very warm, very romantic, and touching.  I enjoyed every bit of this movie...and that's pretty rare!  I highly do recommend this movie to all movie lovers!  This is one film you don't want to miss!!! DBy the way...if you're a very sentimental person who easily cries while watching movies, BRING TISSUES!!! On the other hand, it was a really really good movie!!! Very romantic...and surprisingly good!!! D "},{"Title":"WOW!","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I own this movie. I've seen it over 20 times and every time I still get weepy.  Its a Great love story, surprises, and you can definately feel chemistry between Klein and Sobiesky. I definately give this movie a perfect 10.  I recommend this to anyone. "},{"Title":"Rubbish...pure, unadulterated rubbish","Date":"5 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Where to start, where to start....hmmm...well how about some of the stiffest, most unnatural, unbelievable and camped-up performances one can imagine?  How about stereotypical characters, situations and locations?  Or what about a manipulative, cloying, utterly wretched script?  I can't think of one element in this movie that was original, worthy of watching or interesting.Note to all you Josh Hartnett/Chris Klein/LeeLee Sobieski fans - enjoy their collective fifteen minutes, folks, because they're not going to be famous much longer... "}{"Title":"blech, insulin shock","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wishy washy girl (Helen Hunt lookalike Lee Lee) torn between 2 boy studs Mr Shirtless male model bad boy Klein or long time buddy, cutie patootie, Hartnett, who's really sweet and gosh, so loyal. But Lee Lee's lust makes her pant heavily for Klein, eventho it's apparent to anyone with decent eyeballs that Josh is the much better catch. Sappy MTV crowd mush story, with scenes so predictable, a blind person could telegraph what was gonna happen next... Close ups of 3 leads make it almost bearable. Almost "},{"Title":"Gee, shucks -- young love!","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fine young cast is wasted in this empty, mawkish, manipulative film that tries to be a combination of both a cute comedy and an insightful drama. The plot moves so slowly that the 90 minutes seems endless as characters do nothing but mope and emote. The dialogue is filled with stilted cliches and fortune-cookie attempts at pseudo-philosophy.Apparently aiming at being a moving and profound look at life and love, the film ends up being merely pretentious. The only real weight is the burden that the talented cast is forced to carry as best they can. But, never fear -- they are held up by the puppet strings of the contrived plot. "},{"Title":"I wanted to claw my own eyes out within half an hour...","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Films like this are one of the many things that give Hollywood its bad reputation among independent creative artists. Being at the advanced age of twenty-four and already having had two girlfriends (okay, one girlfriend and one exceptionally good female friend) die on me, I turned the DVD off feeling insulted. Mr. Cranky's review of the film says it all, but I thought I would offer some of my own personal commentary just to embellish the point.Ever heard the saying convert ****holes who, having accepted Jesus into their hearts, remain ****holes? Well, this film is a living example of it. I had as much sympathy for the characters in this film as I would have for a baked potato, and that did not change one iota by the end. The dead mother plot device might have done it for me - quite frankly, I would be very indifferent if my mother died, especially if she had done so when I was about ten years younger. Plot points follow this paragraph, by the way, but you might save yourself a lot of boredom if you just read them.The manner in which we are supposed to feel sympathy for Leelee Cantactworthadamn's character is simple. The writers and director decide to give her cancer. Apparently, she has broken her knee playing sports before, and the doctors tell her crying family that the possibility of a tumour growing in her leg as a result was always a possibility. What the f***? Having had a cancer dug out of my face myself, resulting in similar disfigurement to what Cybill Shepherd is reputedly going through at the moment, I find this plot device even more insulting now than I did when I saw the film. I will not feel sympathy for a cardboard cut-out if she dies of cancer, and I will want to kill her myself if she is afflicted with cancer via such a lousy, insulting, and just plain inconsistent with the facts setup as this. Hell, her family must belong to the HMO from Hades if cancer as the result of a knee injury was always a possibility, and yet it spreads throughout her body so far it cannot be rectified before anyone even notices!Of course, another source of eternal amusement is the contribution of music by Tori Amos, a woman who still apparently wishes she was more unusual than the chew-toys in breakfast cereals. I'd love to see the look on her face after being played some of the record collection I've put together after years of living in circumstances that would make the writers of this film shudder in terror. Which brings me to another point - when the hell is Hollywood going to stop insulting us with these pseudo-alternative films and present us with something truly exceptional again? One could could the current Lord Of The Rings trilogy, but that is only exceptional because of good source material and a quirky director. Hell On Earth, by comparison, seems geared to prove that Hollywood is only geared towards a very narrow, rigid demographic.In case I haven't impressed upon you how bad this trash is, let me close by just saying that this film's entire plot was done a billion times better in about twenty minutes of Groundhog Day. "},{"Title":"More corn than Nebraska","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  In Hear On Earth, Sobieski is a small town girl who's been with Harnett forever. Enter Klien, a spoiled rich kid with a bad attitude who burns down her family's restaurant in a chicken race, and Sobieski falls head over heels in love with him because (a) she sees him naked to the waist and sweaty and (b) they like the same poem. Duh.If you sucked the Kodak moments out of this poorly written sophomoric claptrap, you'd be left with a poorly acted thin story which is completely predictable, obvious, and wreaking. Don't waste your time. "},{"Title":"Romantic Tripe","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie to see the direction one of the most promising young talents in movies was going.  Unfortunately, with this movie, Leelee Sobieski has chosen a path not only well worn, but completely free of any meaningful destination. This movie used every hackneyed trick in the book to leave the screen, tap you on the shoulder and politely ask if it can have your heartstrings so that it may give them a good tug.  Romance can be done well, and when it is, the viewer is left feeling the love portrayed on screen.  During the emotional climax of this movie, I laughed.  Heartily.  To save you the time and money, I would suggest, instead of seeing this movie, you have a meal of Karo syrup and Velveeta.  It's about the same. "},{"Title":"1000 monkeys on typewriters could write Hamlet...","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"36 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...but it only took one to write Here On Earth (2000).PLEASE DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE.This movie is horrible. North Korea could use this film to torture dissidents. The acting is rigid, the dialogue predictable, the plot unoriginal but still contrived... I wouldn't watch this again if someone paid me. I'd rather slam my skull against a brick wall than watch this again. I'd rather drown in a vat of bleach than watch this again. I'd rather watch Gigli or North or anything starring Chris Farley.This movie should have been categorized Horror. The only thing romantic about this film is the credits. I've seen more chemistry in a jug of water. Drama is calling out dialogue before the actors do, just to see how often I can get it right, except that drama requires conflict and I just kept getting the dialogue right.I saw a trailer for this movie and was very intrigued. While none of the actors were stars at the time it was made, they're all very talented and I had high hopes this would be something unique and entertain that I would tell my friends to watch.I'd get thrown in front of a train if I recommended this to any friends. If you can't find the DVD, check a furniture store. I think they're using them as shims on the short leg of a table. Hospitals are using it to teach amputees to run.This isn't even something that makes a fun drinking game. It's just a BAD movie. The acting is especially awful when one considers how talented many of the players are. Writer Michael Seitzman also wrote North Country, a movie I'll now be avoiding like the plague.I think The Plague was a working title for Here On Earth.This is director Mark Piznarski's only feature film, his credits including television shows, TV movies, and the sixth director for a documentary about drying paint. I wonder how he can sleep at night.No animals were harmed in the making of this film, but many reputations were.2 out of 10 It's. Just. Bad. Please don't watch this. "},{"Title":"A Nicolas Sparks movie from the perspective of the guy who gets punched....","Date":"13 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *MILD SPOILERS* - Hey, you know how there's always that one guy in every Nicolas Sparks movie (usually rich and spoiled) who makes a crude remark about the hero's girlfriend and then gets punched out in a public place (usually a wedding reception or a party)? Well, if you've ever wanted to see HIS story, this is the movie for you! Even though this came out 2 years BEFORE A Walk to Remember, it came out a year after the book - I don't know if someone at 20th Century Fox ordered some writers hey - make a movie kinda like this book NOW!, but what I do know is this movie sticks closer to the Sparks formula even moreso than AWTR! Besides Sparks standards like a small town, disapproving parents, class issues, disease, and death, this one throws in future Sparks tropes that were missing - love scene in the rain, multiple montages of people building or renovating something (usually a boat, tractor or a house; here a diner), a love triangle with a nice guy, and a PG-13, shot from the shoulders-up sex scene - they're all here. All we're missing is handwritten letters in a box and a North Carolina coastal setting and this would actually be the ultimate Sparks movie. I wonder if he consciously or subconsciously borrowed a bunch from this movie - a true Who Made Who? situation.But is it any good? It's entertaining and watchable, but it's also head-scratchingly wrongheaded in concept or execution. The main character is arrogant, he's sleazy, he's ungrateful, he makes fun of poor people - it seems like they're setting up some kind of redemption story, but then they forgot to film the redemption parts! He's just as big an a-hole at the end as he was at the beginning, and we're supposed to root for him for some reason as he steals another guy's girlfriend, then treats her like crap, then leaves and disses the entire town, then comes back like nothing happened. It might make some sense if Chris Klein showed any of his aw-shucks, goofy persona (from Election and American Pie, etc...) but he's simultaneously unlikable and uninteresting here, not to mention he bears a striking resemblance to mass murderer Elliot Rodger. I mean, look at his smug look on the cover, you're about to get a whole movie of that. This is the first Chris Klein movie where I don't want to hang out with his character (and yes this includes Street Fighter).Why are we supposed to cheer on Leelee Sobieski as she cheats on her boyfriend with this guy? They have zero chemistry and they never portray her boyfriend as anything less than a good guy, and I'd argue more women would choose Josh Hartnett over Chris Klein- it's mind-boggling that we're supposed to sympathize with her as she makes out with Klein RIGHT IN FRONT OF HER BOYFRIEND'S BEST FRIEND and he's supposed to be the bad guy for ratting them out? As a Paul Verhoeven-esque satire of the tragic romance genre, this kinda works, but viewed straight it's kind of unbelievable that they released this movie without major reshoots or re-writes. "},{"Title":"This movie sucked ass","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Read the title. Everything about this movie was godawful. It was terrible. Really really bad. Hated it. Worst movie ever. Chris Klein should kill himself. Did I mention it sucked? Well it did. The worst part about it was the acting, storyline, directing, and dialogue. Anyone who likes this movie should be sterilized. Who greenlit this trainwreck? Whoever that is should be in prison. I may sue for infliction of emotional distress. I can't even deal. I can't even. When our society collapses, future historians will see this film as the cause of our downfall. I'm not exaggerating. The thing I hated most about it was everything. "},{"Title":"What on Earth...is This Crap?","Date":"22 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here on Earth (2000) Dir Mark Piznarski / Cast Chris Klein, Leelee Sobieski, Josh Hartnett, Michael Rooker, Bruce Greenwood Depressing film where girls left the theatre in tears. I cried too after realizing the money I spent to view the shame. Title regards a reality check although there is no proof that the filmmakers clued in. Mable's Diner goes up in flames after a drag race between two high school graduates who are competing for the affections of a female. Charges are dropped pending that the boys help rebuild Mable's Diner. Frankly I think they should have been forced to write a better screenplay. It is clear that Chris Klein and Leelee Sobieski will fall in love and that ex-boyfriend Josh Hartnett will stop acting like an ass. Dull and depressing with director Mark Piznarski doing the best he can. Klein is given an embarrassing scene where he gets drunk and talks to cows. Sobieski has medical problems and refuses remedies. Hartnett is tiresome and repetitious, and that accepting forced grin he gives at the end is enough to make you puke. Michael Rooker appears as one of the stone faced stern authorities making sure Mable's Diner lives again. Bruce Greenwood plays the standard Sheriff and that's about it. Nothing we haven't seen before. Theme of taking responsibility for your actions bypassed for a film so lame one suspects that the screenwriter wasn't here on earth. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Young terminal disease adds spice","Date":"1 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I want to be generous, so--I'll give it a 4. The makers spliced two films in the first, two stupid young boys do stupid things, then get directed by a wise judge onto a life road where they grow up and turn into men (this plot element comes unnoticeably to fruition, if at all); the second movie hacked in half and appended to this one is Love Story. My mother wanted to watch this movie and I wanted to keep her company, but it was getting unbearable, even with the pretty scenery, so I decided to look up the actors because she was curious. When I found out the young heroine was terminally ill with cancer, I decided that might be just interesting enough to enable me to stick it out. "}{"Title":"Romantic but HANDS DOWN A Walk To Remember was better than it","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here On Earth is a 2000 Romantic Drama about a cocky guy named Kelley(played by Just Friends actor Chris Klein)who he and his mates(one played by 40 Days and 40 Nights Josh Hartnett destroy a family restaurant called Maples and he has to do community service to fix up the restaurant again. Along the way he meets a girl named Samantha (played by Never Been Kissed star LeeLee Sobaski)and later falls in love with her. Before Sam fell for Kelley we see her go to a hospital. But what is she doing there?The romance between Klein and Sobaski was WAY to quick I mean in A Walk To Remember it was different cause Landon didn't fall for Jamie in 30 Min's it was longer here its kinda forced.The story is sorta similar to A Walk To Remember as a lot of people said that a certain charcther dies of cancer. Also LeeLee's charcther cheated on her on screen boyfriend for someone else,and to me I always wonder why she dumped Jasper it didn't make sense.I never seen this movie before only AWTR so I decided to watch it on some free movie site.I can taste the ending a mile away but if your up for a romantic movie then check it out.Overall VerdictSo is Here On Earth any good well its not as great as A Walk To Remember as its all so bland throughout but still I'm giving it a 5.But the theme song Where You Are by former married couple Jessica Simpson and Nick Lachey was cute. "},{"Title":"Am I supposed to feel sorry for the chick with cancer??","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The biggest problem I had with this movie, other than how completely unrealistic and ridiculous the entire plot was, was how the writers of Here On Earth apparently expected the audience to sympathize with LeeLee Sobieski's character. Never in my life have I disliked a cancerous female leading character more than I did this girl. She is nothing more than a horny, cheating, BORING teenaged idiot who thinks she's in love with Chris Klein's character after knowing him for all of 10 minutes. Clearly, it's lust based on the fact that she fell for him after seeing him shirtless. I mean, come on. That's not love. That's pure sexual attraction. These two characters had NOTHING in common except for their love for poetry. Oh wait, and that they both have dull personalities. Maybe that's what brought them together. Throughout the movie, the only character I felt any remorse for was Josh Hartnett's character. It was absolutely heart-wrenching to watch this poor guy endure his girlfriend's obvious affair behind his back after the only thing he'd ever done was love her and be completely loyal to her in every possible way. And this b*tch goes and cheats on him with a rich pretty boy simply because he looks good without a shirt on. And then when we find out she has knee cancer, we're supposed to be all broken up inside and find it beautiful and touching that her ex-boyfriend and new boyfriend come together as friends to be with her on her last days alive. Yeah, NO. The two-timing tramp obviously learned nothing from having cancer since she felt she could just cheat on her boyfriend being that she was going to die anyway. Talk about going out with a bang! I guess she figured she might as well enjoy her last weeks on Earth screwing a hot guy behind her faithful boyfriend's back. If this girl was so bored and uninterested in her boyfriend, why didn't she just end it instead of cheating on him and making it SUPER obvious by making out with Chris Klein's character right in front of her boyfriend's best friend? It was almost like she WANTED to hurt him...for no reason! In fact, any decent human being would end a relationship even BEFORE meeting a new love interest if they were no longer in love with that person anymore. But alas, the leading lady in this movie was anything but a decent human being. So in conclusion, I despised this movie solely based on my hatred for the main female character played by the completely plain-looking and talentless LeeLee Sobieski. And Chris Klein could use some SERIOUS acting lessons as well. Josh Hartnett was at least tolerable. "},{"Title":"An all-time stinker","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was trying to find a movie that a wide range of ages could enjoy for a family movie night. What I found was an embarrassing collection of overworked, overacted, underwhelming clichés surrounded by nauseating music, gut-retching plot twists, and knee cancer. Yes, knee cancer. I know that Chris Klein and Josh Hartnett are lucky to have ever landed an acting job and they prove why in this film. Leelee Sobieski, on the other hand, held some promise. Well, she turned that promise into an insult in this stinker. I truly wonder at what point in the production of this thing did absolutely everyone realize they had created a disaster. Didn't one of them have the guts to say Uh, this stinks, let's throw it away before our careers go down in flames. But no one did, and we are stuck with this as being part of the American film time capsule. Let's hope the aliens don't know how to load a DVD player. Yuck, pooey, schmuck. "},{"Title":"Great Film!!!","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot was really good. The stars made their part very well as well as the other casts, which made the film very cute..I can't believe Chris Klein can act as serious as he did with the film. He made it well as well as Josh! Well for me they made a cool selection of the leading lady which is Lee Lee Sobieski. She did well.And of course, i really love all the soundtracks, in fact, they are already on my i-pod especially the 1,000 oceans of tori Amos.I wish Chris will do this film type again.. And also Josh and Lee Lee.I appreciate also the drama itself. But the end was very tragic. I got lonely at the end when she died.Goodluck to them! "},{"Title":"very good movie","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" this is one of the best movies I have ever see. I think this is the best movie of the 21st century. this is a very good film, I would watch it over and over again every week. I love this movie. it is a perfect film, I rated this film 10 out of 10. this is one of the best movies I have ever see. I think this is the best movie of the 21st century. this is a very good film, I would watch it over and over again every week. I love this movie. it is a perfect film, I rated this film 10 out of 10.this is one of the best movies I have ever see. I think this is the best movie of the 21st century. this is a very good film, I would watch it over and over again every week. I love this movie. it is a perfect film, I rated this film 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A classic boy meets girl tale","Date":"1 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This might be one of the most underrated movies. Yes it's predictable but it's a movie you should look when you're in the mood of just watching a movie not expecting anything. I saw the trailer and I thought that I could predict the whole movie, but some things were different. I think that there is a clear message in this movie...when you find love don't let it slip away. Though I love Josh Hartnett's character Jasper I see what Sam(Leelee Sobieski's character) sees in him. Kelley(Christ Klein's character) is kind of an ass, but you see him grow throughout the movie. I feel sorry for Jasper because he was so in love with Sam and Sam chose Kelley. When Kelley finds out that Sam has cancer he ran, but Jasper stayed(not that he has anywhere else to go)by Sam's side. He is the one Sam should've chosen, he is sweeter, cuter and above all else he stayed right one her side. And yes Kelly came back, but he isn't cute or sweet. I hoped there was gonna be a happy end but it doesn't. Sam dies and I was depressed when that happened, I was looking for a feel good movie, and I kinda got it and I kinda didn't got it, but still I loved the movie "},{"Title":"Opposites that attract","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here On Earth is about opposite people who fall in love. They must change their whole lives to be together. Samantha is a teenager from a family with limited income. She has always dated Jasper. They love each other and will be together forever. At least that's what they thought before a boy named Kelly came into the picture. Kelly is a rich kid from the other side of town. Kelly and Jasper are in a car race and accidentally hit Samantha's family diner which causes it to catch fire and be destroyed. Kelly and Jasper then help rebuild the diner.  Kelly and Samantha begin to like each other, and now Samantha must choose. Does she go with Jasper who she's been with forever, or does she go with Kelly who is different? She falls for Kelly, but it wasn't easy. They have numerous problems, everything from flashbacks of a parent's suicide to one of them getting cancer. Through thick and thin their love holds them together.The main intention of director Mark Pizanrski was to show that if we want something bad enough. we will do anything to get it. Kelly and Samantha wanted to be together. They change their whole life to be with each other. They stood up to people they loved and had to face tough situations. But in the end it was worth it. Samantha declares that `some people live their whole lives and never fall in love, I lived my life and I fell in love.' All the hard work had been worth it. This is to me what Pizanrski wanted to get across.My favorite part of the movie is the characters. They do such fine acting that the audiences feel as if they are a part of it. The characters will make them laugh and cry at the same time. Without the excellent acting of the cast, Here On Earth would not have been a success. They are what make the movie entertaining.  "},{"Title":"Here on Earth","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I can't understand why people say, it's a horrible movie, Okay it's not a Casablanca or something, but it's not a bad movie. The movie has a great cast who play there characters good, I think we are going to hear a lot more about that three young actors. "},{"Title":"so blah....","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie for the first time (and last time) last night because after seeing a commercial for Hollywood Homicide, I was in the mood for a Josh Hartnett movie.  I should've watched Pearl Harbor, at least I knew the characters in that movie.  Josh Hartnett was the only good thing about this movie, but even he was not enough to save it.Yes this movie follows the typical teen love triangle where the problem is solved only because someone is sick.  But I think that the biggest problem with this movie was that the characters were so undeveloped.  If I had not read the back of the video box before watching the movie, I probably would not have even known what the character's names were.  The only character that I could even connect to was Hartnett's Jasper.  Other than that I just watched Kline and Sobieski hold the same facial expressions and speak in the same tone the entire movie.  (If your tv is anything like mine, you're going to need to have the volume up as high as it can go if you want to decently hear the dialogue).I think that the plot upset me the most though about the film.  I like Hartnett's character from the start, probably because I was only watching the movie for him.  And Kline's character grew on me as I saw him change into a better person, plus the scene with the cows cracked me up.  But Sobieski's character made me so upset that I was wishing she'd die because she was just hurting the two boys.  Hartnett did nothing wrong to her and yet she cheated on him with a boy she didn't even know (he must've been a good kisser).  So you like the new boy in town, at least have the class and decency to break up with your boyfriend before you start making out, geography style, in the grass.I would give this movie a 1, but I think that Josh Hartnett, and the cows, saved it from that rating so I'm giving it a 2/10.   "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"13 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think Here on Earth is one of those movies you can't watch over and over, I've watched it twice (out of bordeom) and yeah I'm sick of it. Also it reminds me a lot of A Walk to Remember. It drags on a fair bit and all the excitement is over within the first half an hour. Whatever, watch it if you're bored and you need a movie that you didn't need to concentrate too much on. "}{"Title":"What crap!","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here on Earth is an absolutely awful romance-wannabe. The characters are merely cookie cutter at best the young, doomed girl whom is torn between her love of the past and the breath of fresh air sweeping through the sleepy town; Kelley, the poor/rich boy who learns a life lesson and of course Jasper the jilted lover. Of these three I found Jasper to be the most interesting simply because he shows more than two emotions throughout the entire film.The romance (and I use that term loosely) between Kelley and Sam is missing. There is not enough development of these two as characters for me to care about their budding relationship. And what was that scene between them under the tree with the states? AWFUL! Boo! Hiss!Chris Klein is way too sensitive in this movie and Leelee Sobieski's movements are very awkward--in fact it is painful to watch her. (Think back to the scene in the kitchen with her dancing around) Josh Hartnett redeems the movie a bit with a character that actually has more than one layer. Just skip the movie altogether and save yourself from this dud.  "},{"Title":"Give It Some Credit","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only rented this film because I had a free coupon, was home alone, and wanted a sappy movie.  I guess I didn't think it was so bad because it's what I was in the mood for at the time.  Yes, the movie was somewhat predictable, but it did have a decent story line which carried some meaning. It's definitely not a movie for the intellectual crowd, but I think most teens looking for a good romance will enjoy it.  Chris Klein was very handsome in this movie, so if your a fan of his, you will like that aspect of it.  Also, have a box of tissues nearby!     "},{"Title":"Utterly Predictable Stupid Trash","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  that's designed to appeal to utterly uncultured braindead teeny-boppers. There isn't one predictable, stereotyped line or scene that they missed in this cynical attempt to cash in on little teeny-boppper chicks. For anyone older than ten, mentally, this film will make Gilligan's Island look like an art film. "},{"Title":"AHHHHHHHHH!!!!!","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hell, is this an awful movie or what? I'm not saying it's the worst ever, 'cause I've seen some serious bad stuff in my days, but it's almost there. Lee Lee Sobieski has this problem with her you can only cast her if you want a sad, innocent, boring girl, 'cause that's all she can do. She has always the same face, for crying out loud! And Chris Klein, he annoys the hell out of me. I mean, in Election, at least he was at his place, as the school stupid jock, but I can't buy him being all sweet boyfriend and going to Princeton. His expressions annoy me, and I just can't get myself to even stand him. Now, Josh Hartnett might not have been great in this movie, but he's not a bad actor, and I like him.****Spoilers, but who cares, you know how this ends***************** That's what made it impossible for me to see Sam choosing Kelley over Jas. I mean, come on! The movie begins as a bad romance, with this stupid girl cheating on her loving boyfriend, but we're supposed to feel sorry for her. Then, we find out she's dying. Well, die already. The loving boyfriend forgives her, and Kelley becomes a better spoiled rich idiot after loving Sam. And she dies, a century later, but she's happy, because some people live their lives without ever falling in love, and she lived her life and fell in love. Duh, it would be better to just die, that way this movie would have never been made. Don't see it. Show it to someone you hate. If you know someone who likes it, consider never talking to them ever again. It doesn't deserve a grade.  "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here on Earth is a watered down version of A Walk to Remember.  Here on Earth didn't flow nearly as well and LeeLee Sobieski was totally wrong for the role.  She didn't seem real at all and doesn't seem to know how to act in a romantic role.  Chris Klein was also off in the movie.  He cannot be taken seriously and does not know how to gauge his emotions on camera, it was almost like he had no emotions at all.  All in all this movie was held up only by Josh Hartnett's stellar performance.  He seemed to be the only actor who knew what he was doing. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie sucked!! I am a teenager at which this movie was geared to and even I thought it sucked!!  Leelee tries way to hard to play a serious part, hello its a teen movie.She completely hams it up.  Chris Klein is so fake looking it funny.  This movies only saving grace was Josh Hartnett who offers a close portrayal of a regular teen.  I can't even explain it, IT SUCKED BIGTIME!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Stop The Insanity, But I Can Cry","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just want to tell you this movie was not one of my top 100 favorite movies.  Many people seem to enjoy this movie, but I'm not one of them.  Josh Hartnett seemed to be the only one with real acting skills.  Leelee Sobieski seems too boring for this role.  Chris Klein has never been one of my favorite actors, but he did an okay role in this movie.  I like him more in roles like Oz from American Pie.  But that's another story.  Anyway, I did cry when I watched this movie, and it wasn't tears of this movie is bad.  It was really tears because towards the end I started to like the movie, and the ending just made me teary eyed. "},{"Title":"Where to start???","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Hope, I never see movies like this one, was surfing channels and came onto one of the channels that was playing this. For some time it got my attention, then....God it became sappy from there onwards. Where to start, I better not start, as I might not end beating this movie up. It was an hour's waste of time, the first 30 minutes were okay, then things just became corny enough for me to watch. "},{"Title":"Flop on Earth","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If I only had one thing to say about this movie it would be  Whatever you do, don't watch this one even if somebody was forcing you!!! This is got to be the sappiest film on the planet!  The story is so predictable and corny that it's not even funny.  Bad acting?  Yes, very bad but don't blame the actors.   Chris 'dude, don't I look like Keanu Reeves' Klein, Leelee 'I'm Helen Hunt's clone' Sobieski and Josh 'Get me a haircut NOW' Hartnett are great actors if they are given the possibility to prove it.  I mean wasn't Chris Klein great in 'Election'? It just shows you that bad acting always comes from bad directing.... Anyway, spare yourself 2 hours of getting upset like I was by not watching this. You'll thank me for it!!! "},{"Title":"Boring movie w/no character development!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ***WARNING possible spoilers***I had never seen Here On Earth and decided to pick it up @ the video store. WOW I have never seen a more boring movie.  Kelly's character is never developed, and you never come to like him. I always viewed him as the rich preppy jerk who never apologizes for his actions.  And Klein cannot act. I'm sorry to those of you who may be fans, but he really can't.  I never once believed him, or felt sorry for him.  As for the girl, you end up being mad at her for choosing Kelly over Jasper, and was I the only one who was NOT sad when she died? However, I do believe that Lee Lee S. is a great actress, but this movie is just awful, and her character is as well. And Jasper, portrayed by Josh Hartnett, was adorable. Hartnett did a good job with what he had, and really was the only good thing about this movie. He was my favorite character, and I felt so bad about the girl leaving him. He seemed sweet, charming and cute, while Kelly was a jerk.  I found myself yelling at the screen, What are you doing?!? Stay w/Jasper!!  Sure, it helped that I find Josh Hartnett a lot more attractive than Chris Klein, but still.Do NOT see this movie, spare yourself, and rent something else. "}{"Title":"some spoilers","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  OK, I enjoyed the movie, and was saddened at the end.  But please tell me what girl in their right mind would choose Kelly over Jasper...or Chris Klein over Josh Hartnett!  Not this girl!  Come on Leelie (Samantha), wake up and smell the hottie! "},{"Title":"RENT IT!","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, I don't know what all of the bashing is about for saying this film is so horrible! The actors and actresses did a wonderful job in making you know what they felt like in the movie. The couple fighting scenes are cool, hehe and the love stories are definitely realistic, especially for teenagers like me. After watching this movie..(don't read the last part if you don't wanna know anything about the ending) I learned that life is too short and not to cheat on anyone because I realized how truly hurtful is really is. So....please, GO SEE THE MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Too bad, but it misses.","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film's setup is OK rich kid's probation is helping rebuild the restaurant his irresponsible behavior burns down. And I liked the female lead, Lee Sobieski. At various points, she reminded me of Helen Hunt, of Laura Linney, and even of Jodie Foster. But somebody in the small town would have told the rich kid that she was a cancer patient, so the big revelation scene never would have happened. Too bad, but the whole film turned out to be a Love Story knock-off.  "},{"Title":"What a disastrous disaster.","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Slowly played, ineffective story line, and a disastrous change of plot, that makes even the most fanatic teenager cry. Total waste of time. And I am asking myself why did I see this movie? Probably because the tape cover lied! "},{"Title":"Shrewd Attempt to Sell Albums","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As the end credits rolled by to the strains of  Britney-with-vocal-chops Jessica Simpson, it occurred to me that this movie was little more than a vehicle for promoting musicians from the Fox affiliated stable.The plot and characterization are so sterile and free of the burden of reality that I remember thinking more than once who would care?I don't think I'm alone when I say that teenage life is just not like this, and few people that I know seriously think love is this important and all-consuming. Point is, a real Samantha would think the cancer was probably more important.At one point in the film, Samantha scampers off inside the Boston mansion to play hide and seek. When we next see her, she is sitting *in the bath tub?* The foreshadowing here is as subtle as a house fire. Klein immediately gives a speech about his mother's death in the tub, -- could it be any more forced?As trite and derivative as the soundtrack that accompanies it. "},{"Title":"Positively Horrendous","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is kind of a spoiler... Josh Hartnett and Chris Klien are adorable.  They are cute, each in their own way, and are refreshingly different from the generic Leo and Matt Damon clones.  Despite these qualities, this movie was horrible.  Even though they are good-looking, I cannot stare at them for two hours like Here on Earth requires. This movie was boring.  Boring, boring, boring.  I almost felt entitled to pick up a copy of War and Peace to entertain myself. The horribly sappy dialogue, the lagging scenes, and the overall fakeness make this a movie that I hope never to see again.I was not asking for much out of this movie. I just wanted to kill two hours.  However, after fast forwarding through the seemingly endless bickering and babbling and utter confessions of the soul, it took up about 40 minutes.  Had LeeLee Whatsername chosen Jasper instead of Kelley, I might have watched the whole movie.  Then again, War and Peace is looking better all of the time.   "},{"Title":"A real Romeo and Juliet tale","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here on Earth stars Josh Hartnett and Leelee Sobieski as Jasper and Sam, two semi-poor teenagers who have been best friends/in love all their lives. You know the type- a friendship so close it has to become something like dating and a love so close, it can only work as a friendship. It is very clear that Jasper loves Sam, though the feeling is not mutual. Then, we are introduced to Kelley, the rich snob. The two hate each other by principal and this is shown when they accidentally both destroy 'Mable's Table', the diner which has been in Sam's family for two generations. The court sentence - Jasper and Kelley must work together to rebuild it. The entire story is really a poignant modern Romeo and Juliet and I cried for the final ten minutes of the film. It should be up there with Steel Magnolias, Titanic, etc... Though the ideas are somewhat cliché and trite, the overall ending and film are too good to miss.RatingCast EXCELLENT (5 out of 5)Characters VERY GOOD (4 out of 5)Success in the overall genre SUPERB (6 out of 5)Script TOO GOOD TO RESIST  (1039449359834346443 out of 5)You will be sucked into the emotions of the characters and fall in love, feel you are taking somewhere else, yet stay right here on earth.PS You won't ever look at Robert Frost's Birches again- trust me! "},{"Title":"You have got to be kidding!!","Date":"27 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is terrible!  I am a Lee Lee Sobieski fan, but she couldn't save this movie.  There is nothing in the movie to make you care about it.  Kelley (Chris Klein) is a spoiled rich brat at the beginning of the movie and is still one at the end. There is no character growth.  No one learns anything. You expect someone to grow in a teen movie but nada!   What a waste of time. "},{"Title":"I like it","Date":"7 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i think the plot is quite fine, though a bit old fashioned, is till like it cos it's so touching!this film has a special charming point, the setting is quite cool and the cast is awesome!!! anywayz, i think it should go deeper into the life and death' thing and how important love is. Should also talk about the thing between josh and leelee more, like how leelee starts to fade her interests in josh etc. "},{"Title":"Josh Harnett was great","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I went into this movie expecting a cheesy romance which is pretty much what this was, however, I think Josh Harnett saved the movie for me.(I don't think this contains any spoilers, but it might so if that bothers you don't continue reading.)The movie wasn't sad because Samantha (Lee Lee Sobieski) became ill, it was sad because of how she treated Jasper (Josh Harnett).  I think most of the parts with Kelley (Chris Klein) and Sam were pretty typical of a romantic drama (the scene in which they lay in the grass & he begins kissing her & naming parts of her body after states reminded me of the scene with the animal crackers in Armageddon) and pretty boring but the scenes between Jasper and Sam or Jasper and Kelley made the movie worth watching.  I didn't like Kelley much but I think that when his character finally showed some emotion it made him a little more interesting.  I didn't like Samantha much at all, I thought she was pretty mean, so if she was supposed to come across as the innocent victim I don't think the writers did a very good job of doing so.  There were also three or four really funny parts (like the your mom jokes) that made the movie a little better then it would have been without them.  Again, I didn't think Samantha's illness was all that sad but Jasper's emotions did make me teary-eyed throughout the movie.  If you like sappy romances where really hot boys get their hearts broken & cry, you will probably like this movie.  Otherwise, I wouldn't spend the $3 to rent it. I personally enjoyed the movie and give it a 7/10. "}{"Title":"good start, bad finish","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chris Klein, Josh Hartnett and Leelee Sobieski star inHere On Earth, a movie that had promise in the beginning but ran out of gas.Despite the talent of these three young stars, Here On Earth falls apart at the seams because there really is no sense of direction as to where the movie should go. Not only is this movie cliche, but there really is no way for the audience to feel anything because it just isn't there until its too late. This movie is a snoozer and it didn't have to take me that long to realize this and and put myself in the who cares mode. I mean who wants to watch a movie about a girl who is trapped between two loves, I unfortunately did because I didn't know going into it.Here On Earth did do one positive thing for me, which solidified that Chris Klein has come to Hollywood becoming one of the brightest new talents.This is a movie I wanted to see at the theaters, so when it came on video I rented it right away. I was sorely disappointed at the outcome but in retrospect I'm glad I didn't see in the movie theater.I urge everyone who reads this to stay away from this movie at the video store because it is one disappointment that you will waste your time with.  "},{"Title":"Could've been better","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was good, everyone acted great, but this attempt to be a tear-jerker was not there. I just don't see this happen to these people. The movie was not awful, but it wasn't so great. If you like chick-flicks, then watch this. But if not, don't bother.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"This is definitely one of the worst movies I've ever seen.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure if I was just having a bad day and happened to see this movie in the midst of it, but from what I can remember, I walked out of the theater after tolerating the entirety of this movie wishing I could get my money back.  Either I or one of the people I was with predicted every single event that occurred, it was sappy, without much motive or morale, and all in all an incredibly bad film.  I would recommend not even bothering to rent this pitiful excuse for a movie. "},{"Title":"Realism/idealism","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First video in some time where most of the characters are neither dysfunctional nor supernatural. Not perfect but worthy of approval. While one would wish more people were like these, idealistic portrayal outstrips reality in some ways, but wouldn't the world be a nicer place? "},{"Title":"Weepy, weepy, weepy","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here on Earth is a movie that follows a formula without really thinking about itself.  The central premise of Leelee Sobiesky's decision to switch boyfriends is rather bizarre abandoning her loyal standby due to his involvement in the fire at her mother's restaurant, and shacking up with a conceited snob who was just as responsible for the fire.  Basically this movie gives us no real reason to believe in their relationship, other than the penchant of either character to quote Robert Frost.  I'm sorry, movie, you've got to try harder than that.  I've been known to be a softy about movies, but this is easily one of the weepiest, corniest kneejerk romances I've seen.  After a while it starts to get laughable - the movie is trying to slap tears out of the audience.  All it got from me was a smirk. "},{"Title":"Low on Mirth","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has many flaws, but perhaps the worst is the fact that the central characters - Kelley and Samantha - are completely unlikable. Chris Klein (as Kelley) comes across as a despicable elitist throughout the film - his supposed transformation into a nice guy is unconvincing. Leelee Sobieski, despite looking very attractive in a young Helen Hunt sort of way, comes across as a selfish twit. The only moderately likable character is poor old Jasper. Josh Hartnett actually seemed to express some real emotion - in stark contrast to the robotic performances of Klein and Sobieski.The intended moral of the story is that life is precious and you should live every moment to the fullest. And, sure enough, by the end of the film I was thinking Life is precious. So I will never again waste an hour and a half of my life watching another movie as bad as this one. "},{"Title":"Why not on Mars???","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Set in a small town, an out-of-town boy (Chris Klein) is forced to stay in town over the summer to help with the rebuilding of a restaurant after he was party to its accidental destruction. This brings him in contact with a girl with a secret (Leelee Sobieski), who finds herself torn between her new interest and a lifelong friend (Josh Hartnett).The perpetual teen film takes on a new direction with far more sobering, sometimes sweet, but over-sentimental tale of young love. Borrowing from staple fare such as the 1970s weepies Love Story and Sunshine, Here on Earth, the title of which stems partly from the poetry of Robert Frost, has some rather nice moments, but is ultimately simplistic and trite, to appeal to a cynical audience. Teenage girls, however, a largely untapped market, may warm to this tale of love, life and death, and the participation of an attractive trip of actors. The movie suffers from Michael Seitzman's wishy-washy script, one that is too obvious for its own good, and director Mark Piznarki, in his feature debut, milks the material for all its worth. Plus points are some beautiful cinematography (on location in Minnesota) and a strong soundtrack. Performances are varied. Chris Klein, resembling a young Keanu, shows as much dramatic range. Effective in less demanding roles (American Pie and Election), Klein is clearly uncomfortable as a straight dramatic actor. His stronger co-stars overshadow him, beginning with Sobieski, who photographs beautifully, and conveys the right qualities for the fragile and poetic character she beautifully plays. Hartnett is a rare find, and will be seen later in Virgin Suicides to better advantage, though here he gives a rather nice and intelligent performance in a simple character.There are some lovely elements in Here on Earth, and for its target audience, it's a welcome change from male-dominated teen dramas that flood the market. Male audiences will be turned off by the film's excessive sentimentality and consistent references to Frost. This is a well-intentioned film that could have been more effective as a solid drama, had it not been for its simplistic approach to the material, and the wooden performance of its lead actor. "},{"Title":"Complete and utter devastation","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie just plain out sucks.  What disappoints me the most is Chris Klein.  Coming off of such hit movie that was American Pie.  He just blew it here.  This movie whimpers and sulks at every turn, and it just makes no try to attract it's viewers.  I found myself talking to the person next me the entire movie, this movie was boring right after the car chase at the beginning ended.  Stay away from this movie, this is not a chick flick, this is junk. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This one was the first movie I saw in theaters in a long time.  I loved it. I saw it the day it opened, only I didn't get around to reviewing it until now.  This movie was a work of brilliance.  Don't just assume that this is another Drive Me Crazy or She's All That.  It's so much higher, deeper, and better than those.  Leelee Sobieski is going to be a STAR.  I can guarantee it.  She deserves more than she gets.  The guys weren't as great, but they are much better actors that some of the other guys out there. This movie is definitely award-worthy. "},{"Title":"Look past the Chic Flick aspect","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Take your girlfriend, but look past the Chic Flick aspect of this film. Samantha says it very well, I'm not dying.  I'm living, just not as long as you.  And Jasper doesn't realize it until the end, but he learns about life and teaches Kelly more about life as the result of the conflict arising out of his changing relationship with Samantha. Good acting by Leelee Sobieski and Josh Hartnett.  "}{"Title":"No Tears Here...","Date":"14 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was too reminiscent to Love Story. No doubt there may be even a sequel detailing Kelly's Story. Nonetheless, I was impressed with the performances overall. The movie moved well, and it gave you some interesting thoughts to take along with you. It was a true LOVE story which did not over dramatize teen sexuality as well. As for my favorite in the film, it was definitely Elaine Hendrix XOXOXOXO's.... 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A much more fulfilling teen-oriented movie than others in the late teen movie explosion.","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With strong characters and a touching story, Here On Earth is intriguing and beautiful. It was refreshing to see the appearance of real people in real situations. The adult cast was detailed and effective, especially Bruce Greenwood as Samantha's father. Albeit Leelee Sobieski and Chris Klein, who fell flat through much of the movie, weren't as compelling, real teens were well represented by Josh Hartnett. His portrayal of Jasper Arnold, the other boy, was well rooted. Definitely a bright new actor in Hollywood, his emotion in every scene whether it was fun or tragic, was deep and moving. Although I was disappointed with the drawing of the Cancer card as the cry-factor of the movie, there was enough beauty in the story to keep it alive. Overall strong characters and picturesque countryside made Here On Earth worthy to be here on earth and in our hearts.  "},{"Title":"Chris Klein is the next Brad Pitt...","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is the best movie I have ever seen! I am so serious...I absolutely loved it. Chris Klein was incredible! I can totally see how Samantha fell in love with Kelley. He was so gracious and wonderful with her. The acting by everyone was amazing and the story was great! Chris Klein is definitely the next BRAD PITT. He has incredible talent and I can't wait to go see the movie again and again.Thanks for a wonderful movie!! "},{"Title":"Here on Earth illustrates the work of a BEGINNING FILMMAKER","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As I watched Here on Earth I was literally taken back to my Seventh Grade After School Special Days.  Every time there was a cut, lyrics like Once you pop you can't stop! would flash through my mind - and I kept waiting for a television commercial to jump on the screen.  But nope!  It was always another shot of Leelee Whatever running magestically through the forest.Unfortunately this director falls into some typical movie making traps that are capable of ruining an entire film.  I'm referring to those moments where two self-centered teenagers hold their glances a little TOO long.  Or those occasions where the spectator might feel like looking at the actor's lap to make sure there isn't a script there.  All scenes are one of two things - either WAY over done or entirely vapid. My question is, Did the director of this film have a vision?  IT seems that he is all over the place - and there is a general feeling of uneven flow.If we re-edited the entire thing and threw in some more special effects it might be worth watching.  The only thing that burns down is a cheesy little restaurant resembling a 90's version of the Fried Green Tomatoes diner. Ooooh.  The excitement.I'm not insensitive- it's just that I have little tolerance for a film that glances over scenes that have so much depth and possibility.It's obvious that the filmmaker did not include his screenwriter on set during the shoot.  It seems that certain scenes simply do not work - but a few small script changes (like developing Samantha's relationship with both her father and her original boyfriend a little more)  - could have made all the difference. "},{"Title":"A Beautiful Movie!","Date":"3 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here on Earth was beautiful.  Every actor was superbly cast in their role. The plot was set so I thought there could be no happy ending, but I was content with the final result.  This movie was much smarter than other movies that star teens.  I loved it! "},{"Title":"Can a tender sweet teenage love story survive in a market flooded with teen romps?","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here on Earth By Dean Kish	Can a tender sweet teenage love story survive in a market flooded with teen romps? 	&#147;Here on Earth&#148; begins with a spoiled boarding school guy named Kelley (Chris Klein) taking a joyride in his graduation present, a brand new Mercedes. During this joyride he locks horns with the locals and enrages a local guy named Jasper (Josh Harnett). Jasper and Kelley engage in a dangerous car chase. As the chase develops Jasper&#146;s innocent girlfriend Samantha (Leelee Sobrieski) looks on but when the chase ends in a fiery explosion destroying the small community&#146;s local diner. The diner is owned by Samantha&#146;s mother.  	After the destruction of the diner, Kelley and Jasper are brought in for trial and sentenced to rebuild the diner. This destroys Kelley&#146;s chances at an early admission to Princeton. But eventually he doesn&#146;t really care as he falls deeply in love with Samantha and has a summer he will never forget. 	&#147;Here on Earth&#148; is one of those movies that at times can be filled with an ocean of feeling but at the same time be so predictable and almost disastrous. The fault I believe lays in the development of the love between Kelley and Samantha. Is there an actually relationship going on between Samantha and her previous boyfriend or was he always her best friend? Could Kelley actually show some emotion instead having to relay his feelings in a drunken stupor? Or why does Samantha always have to yearn for Kelley?Another eminent fault is in the story itself. The story is so predictable and vacant of depth I am not sure if the actors had much to work with. I have to stop and think, would this film have been deeper, passionate and maybe have a heart if a woman had written the screenplay? Maybe this kind of emotion comes with experience. My third and final fault is that these actors are to good for this material. Sobrieski is developing into a young Helen Hunt and has shown a lot of depth in previous projects. She riveting as Joan of Ark. Klein needs to loosen up a lot but he still needed a little more depth in Kelley. The film&#146;s supporting cast Michael Rooker, Annette O&#146;Toole, and Bruce Greenwood are a lot better actors than the wooden country town people here. Boy, does O&#146;Toole look bored.  	Don&#146;t get me wrong but there are some things I did like about the film. Its nice to see that Hollywood is once again attempting to try to make an epic teenage love story. The Romeo and Juliet concept is still a glorious tool when used with passion. The best example was James Cameron&#146;s Titanic. The actors there didn&#146;t have much more to work with then these but through the story-telling and the characters growth we believed their epic romantic journey. Another thing I liked was the music Andrea Morricone, son of renowned composer Ennio Morricone, shows he has his father&#146;s gift. I also credit director Mark Piznarski for holding the film together but like the film&#146;s writer Michael Seitzman experience will hone these guys into better players. (2 of 5) So Says the Soothsayer   "},{"Title":"great!!~~~","Date":"1 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie was so good~ ~!!! i thought that the plot was so great. it was sad story about love and lost. it was a story about love, friendship, and family. i loved the poem birches in the movie, it explained the whole movie. the actors were great also, Chris Klein did a great job considering its his 3rd movie.  everyone did a good job on this movie and i can't wait to see it again. everyone should go and see this movie!!~~ "},{"Title":"Josh Harnett's hair, the green hat, and this movie are all CHEESY!","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok, I'm a chick and I didn't even enjoy this chick flick.I went into this theatre not really expecting much and that is about what I got. What was supposed to me a touching, moving romance about 2 teens that fall in love was ruined by a really lousy script, so-so acting, and all together I didn't think the story was put together very well. How do all these girls find Josh Harnett attractive?? He has the worst most irritating hair of any actor. The bangs cut straight across and his hair sticks out in the back, and in this movie he was wearing a green baseball cap that didn't go with anything he was wearing. Bad wardrobe!!! The movie is about 2 teenagers that fall in love. Kelley played by Chris Klein (a major HOTTIE) and Sam played by LeeLee Sobieski. Kelly is a spoiled rich kid who has to help rebuild the restraunt that Sam's family owns since he was involved in causing it to burn down. Even though Sam already has a boyfriend, Jasper-played by Josh Harnett, that doesn't stop Kelley from going after to her, much to the anger of Jasper. Sam finally ditches Jasper to fall in love with Kelley, even though her parents strongly disapprove of Kelley. She then finds out she has cancer but this doesn't get told to Kelley until about 3/4 into the movie and its sort of just dropped out of nowehere. This could have been a good movie but the terrible writing ruined it. It was very plain dialogue and there is not one memorable line that came from this movie. There are a couple parts in the film where lines just get blurted out of nowhere that have nothing to do with the scene. For instance when Sam is laying in bed ill from the cancer, her dad sits down to talk to her and out of nowhere says I wish you hadn't met that Kelley kid. ??? Okay...so out of nowhere he says that.  Then towards the end of the film, Kelley has to go back to live with his parents because the restaraunt is finished. So even though he is in love with Sam and she is ill, he just packs up and leaves??? He then comes to his senses and comes back but it was just silly. But this movie isn't a total disaster. It does have an awesome soundtrack and some nice scenery was shown in the film as well.Overall I give it 4/10. "},{"Title":"it was good!!~~","Date":"31 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie was really great. i thought that the acting was good, but i josh harnett didn't play in enough scenes, it was a great story about love and lost and finding love.  chris klein was great for this being his third movie and leelee was great also. this movie contained all the young actors in hollywood and it was just a great story about love and family and life. "},{"Title":"Touching story, acting could be better","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just saw this movie last night.  I admit, I cried.  But it was from the thought of something like that actually happening, not because that is what the actors evoked from me.  At some points of the film, it was almost as if they were reading from cards, no emotion, no flow, no movement.  They didn't really seem to have their hearts in their characters.  Worth seeing, but I should have waited for the video to come out. "}{"Title":"What a waste of time and money.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes I wonder how films like these actually get made within the studio system.  Here is FOX 2000, probably investing several millions into a production that should have never been distributed as a feature film.  Here on Earth is a film worthy of a video release only. From the first line of dialogue, you know you will see characters that are stereotypes.  You are disappointed afterwards to find that they are not even that.  They are just cardboard characters, whose motivation is never understood at any time.  Things happen to them and they make decisions, but never with any real motivation. As with any love film, the chemistry between the leads is the most important aspect.  The two actors do make a fine couple visually, although emotionally they are not so touching. Leelee Sobieski is a really fine actress, as she has proven in both Joan of Arc and a not so great Merchant-Ivory film.  But her talents are completely wasted here.  Why she ever decided to take this role is beyond me.  It is a more adult and sexy role, but not a deep one. For Chris Klein, on the other hand, this could have been step forward.  He has already proven himself as a comic actor, always taking the role of the not-so-intelligent hunk, in both Election and American Pie.  Here he goes for both the leading man and a more dramatic role.  I hate to say that he does not succeed in either.  His most memorable moment is his funny bit speaking drunk to the cows.  But it is not entirely his fault, when the material is so weak. The film does offer some nice photography here and there, but there's very little creatively done in the composition of the shots. While obviously trying hard to be the Love Story of 2000, with a very similar structure, the film fails to capture what made that old movie an instant classic. "},{"Title":"Toooooooo sad!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I knew this would be a sad movie, but come on!  The whole theatre was in tears...I'm a Josh Hartnett fan, but I truly felt bad for his character Jasper.  Poor guy gets brushed aside.  Leelee gave an ok performance, Chris' was better but I think Josh's was the best, not just because I'm a fan. He really got emotional, Chris did too, but I just couldn't feel Leelee's pain or sadness...  Overall, it's an ok movie if you like dramas (I don't) "},{"Title":"Not Oscar-worthy, but a pretty GOOD movie","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had actually been waiting for weeks for this movie to come out (I love good dramas ecspecially with new, young actors...) I had high expectations for this movie, and although they were nearly met, more plot development and less moping of the characters would have helped. Still, I found myself feeling sad for the good guy that doesn't get the girl, and happy for the other good guy(you have to see it to know what I mean.) Almost everyone around me was crying, and there were many touching points in the movie(ie.-Kelley's Speech.) For some in the theater, during points that were supposed to make you mad, one guy sitting behind me actually yelled profanities at one of the characters who enraged him.  Talk about involving your audience!All in all ,see this movie when you feel like thinking about life--and the meaning, or lack thereof. "},{"Title":"Destined to become the next Titanic","Date":"15 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  With the opportunities that Chris Klein has had over the past few years in his yet young acting career, this film shows that he can really move an audience.  Lee Lee is just as good, handling her sentence as if she had the wisdom and strength of a wise old person.*** 1/2 "},{"Title":"don't spend a dime or waste your time","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was about as entertaining as watching paint dry and the cast didn't help. Between Leelees whining, Chris Kleins plastic Ken-doll smile and Josh Hartnets permanently perplexed expression I found it hard to make it through.I think the casting director might have been asleep at the wheel.It is supposed to be a tragic love story but the tragedy begins when you press play and continue to watch. I have to say that the worst part of the movie is that it somehow made me cry, even though I'm in denial about that. Watch out for the drag racing scene its pretty intense. If you like predictable, dull plots and bad acting this movie is for you! "},{"Title":"Here On Earth","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here On Earth is a Drama/Romance about College kid Kelley Morse (Chris Klein) after he destroys a county restaurant in a car drag he is sentenced to community service and falls in love with a country poor girl. Also stars (Leelee Sobieksi) and (Josh Hartnett) Here On Earth didn't get given enough credit I know these type of films have all be done before, but it was a strong film acting wise, and storyline was decent, Predictable but then again all these films are, I'm not saying run out and buy it but you have to take it for what it is a Drama/Romance you can't deliver much more than this film did, it is just people are getting sick of these being made, I thought it was a bit B grade but I would recommend it to Romance fans.Chris Klein changing roles which is good and Josh Hartnett we all know his range is up there with the best. "},{"Title":"A good review, unlike the rest!","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think the reviews other people have given this film have been harsh. Here On Earth is a wonderful heart-touching movie, with good acting all the way through. The soundtrack was excellent and the script was very emotional. I saw it advertised to be shown on TV, so i decided to watch it and i am glad i did, because it showed me that friendships are so special, because you never know when the one you really is going to leave you. So those who have criticised it, its your choice and your opinions are valid, but please, people who actually are thinking of watching it, don't let those put you off, then you can judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Oh cool, the guys at the sugar plant will be able to keep their jobs for another 50 years.","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Sweets are OK, but too much of it will make you sick. It's exactly the same for this movie I don't have any problem with some romance in a movie, but does it really have to be so much and so sugar sweet?The acting is quite good, but it isn't enough to hide the obvious plot twists and poor story line. The story is very predictable a girl knows exactly what to do with her life until a new guy appears into town. At first she doesn't like him, but than she starts to like him more and more and in the end she falls in love with him. Of course she will have to choose between her new lover or her old life, including her first love. Will she follow her heart or her mind...? You'll probably already know it, but if you really want to know for sure, watch the movie. The movie is intended for only one group of people I guess Teenage girls with a lot of difficulties finding themselves and the way they should go in life... I'm not a teenage girl and I have already found my way in life. Conclusion This movie is NOT for me. I reward it with a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Shoot yourself instead","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes thats right just shoot yourself instead of watching this movie. You shouldn't want to know anything about this movie, other then you should die by a gunshot to the head rather then watching this movie. If you don't follow my advice, Chris Klein or another horrible actor in this movie might make a good film, and because of this movie you won't be able to bring yourself to watch their movie. But I wouldn't worry about that, because anybody associated with this movie should be sent to Siberia. There should be nothing else to say about this movie, but my warning about this movie will not be seen unless i make this 10 lines long.  "},{"Title":"Gen Y Love Story","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" HERE ON EARTH (2000) ** Chris Klein, Leelee Sobieski, Josh Hartnett, Annette O' Toole, Bruce Greenwood, Michael Rooker, Annie Corley. Weak script cribbed from 'Love Story' and any forbidden teen romance since 'A Summer Place' with troubled preppie Klein falling for townie Sobieski and forming an unlikely triangle with her boyfriend Hartnett who is forced with Klein to spend their summer rebuilding her family's destroyed eatery business in the most unlikeliest of scenarios. Still the fresh faced young talent does its best &#150; especially a star in the making of perennial Helen Hunt lookalike Sobieski and eerily channeling Keanu Reeves, Klein. (Dir Mark Piznarski) "}{"Title":"#1 on my top ten list of worse movies of all-time","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ok first, WARNING This Includes Spoilers.That said, this movie is absolutely horrible!!!  I saw it about two years ago, so forgive me if I don't correctly recall parts of this film.It starts with Chris Klein and his buddies sneaking out of their prep school to go cruising in his new car.  They go to a small diner, and start hitting on their waitress, Leelee Sobieski.  Her boyfriend who is also there, Josh Hartnett, sees this and goes over to tell them to back off, which, in the real world is a completely normal thing to do as well as expected. Things happen, blah blah.  They end up racing, and crashing into the gas station just outside the diner.  Boom.  It blows up, nobody gets hurt. They are told by a judge that they will both help rebuild the diner. Chris Klein who doesn't live in the area ends up staying with Josh's family, in the garage.  La la la.There are some serious subplots going on  Chris Klein has issues with his dad, Leelee is avoiding knee surgery, there's a whole thing with Josh's family I believe.  Now, on top of all of that, Leelee gives Josh the ol' boot, because she falls in love with Chris.  More silliness ensues. Now, the end is actually funny and sad.  Leelee, who has been putting off this knee surgery, dies of the knee injury.  Possible?  It probably is, you know, infections and all, but, do you feel bad for her, not at all.  Not only did she do it to herself, (I can't quite remember what happens, but something like she cancels the appointment for surgery, or just doesn't go), but it's a little ridiculous.Now we're at her funeral, where Chris I believe reads Leelee's favorite poem or some silliness, and if I recall correctly, there's really not all that much emotion going on with him.  Now we go to the back of the church, and there's our friend Josh, hysterically crying.Ok, you tell me who do we feel bad for?  Chris?  He loses the girl that he stole from Josh, and she's dead now, although he doesn't seem to be that broken up about it.  Leelee?  The girl who crushes Josh's heart and runs off with Chris, only to be completely stupid and ends up pretty much killing herself.  Or Josh?  The man who was simply protecting his girlfriend, whom he truly loved and was then snubbed, and loses her, not just once to Chris, but a second time, when she dies.I vote Josh.  The poor guy probably kills himself later, or drinks himself to death.Anyway, terrible, terrible movie.  Now I know that a lot of people are probably like, relax, it's just a movie, or, you don't understand the romance of the film.  But, I'm just as much a sap for good love stories as anyone else.  This however, does not qualify as a good love story.  And, if you saw someone blindly walking in front of a speeding car, wouldn't you at least shout to them? "},{"Title":"BLAH, hated it","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This comes close to the worst movie I've ever seen. The writer starts you out in a way that you'll side with Jasper (Josh Hartnett). When he did absolutely nothing wrong, Sam (Leelee Sobiesky) leaves him for Kelley (Chris Klein), in a way that leaves you mad at Sam. You aren't let in on what she feels, so her feelings with Kelley aren't real to you, and their relationship is phony. It drags you in either direction, and it gets rather exhausting and annoying. The only good thing about this movie that I saw was the cast. "},{"Title":"A terrible film","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Here on Earth has got to be one of the worst films in the past few years. Terrible acting from LeeLee, Chris (who is always terrible), and Josh.  It is hard to believe that Chris Klien could be cast as anything but the slow jock from Election.  He has less range than... oh let's say Mark Wahlberg. Leelee Sobieski, or Helen Hunt, can't act for beans.  Josh Hartnett is surprisingly pulling in good reviews and box office bucks... but that was no where near around the time this cheap film was made.*spoilers, but read on don't see the movie*It follows the boring story of Leelee's charactor, Sam.  Sam is dating Jasper (Hartnett) but has her eye on Kelly (Chris Klien).  The movie makes you want to feel sorry for Sam, and as many preteen girls did, I didn't. It's hard for me to feel sorry for sombody who has been cheating on her kind poor boyfriend with a rich snobby jock.  In the end we are suposed to think that Kelly changed because Sam showed him the light.  But it is impossible for me to do this because I see strait through this horrible sap-fest.  And by the end you can't stand Kelly and you don't care what happens to Sam.*2/10*  "},{"Title":"ZERO tissue weepie","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure why I disliked this film so much. Maybe I'm too old or too male or too something. Just who was the target audience here? If you're it and you liked it, then I'm happy for you. Personally, I found it a bit of a pill. The characters were uninteresting and unlikeable, the script was just plain embarrassing and some, though not all, of the acting was uninspired. Mawkish, tedious and occasionally nauseating -- Surely there's something better on.On a related issue Why is it that whenever I see Chris Klein in a film I get an urge to slap him silly? Does anyone else get that? "},{"Title":"another Strong Performance From Josh Hartnett But Not Enough To Save This S**t!!","Date":"23 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This picture is the worst love movie that i'av ever seen. The car race was excellent, Josh Hartnett was excellent, the rest was crap! Every time that Josh Hartnett was in it, he was either having a fight, starting a fight or sweet talking Sam. After Sam was in hospital i just gived up on this movie. I never hoped to see the credits on a movie before until i saw this.FINAL THOUGHTS Josh Hartnett should quit the love films and go onto action, thrillers and horrors. ratings 5/10 "},{"Title":"rubbish","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Life is too short to waste on two hours of Hollywood nonsense like this, unless you're a clueless naiive 16 year old girl with no sense of reality and nothing better to do. Dull characters, poor acting (artificial emotion), weak story, slow pace, and most important to this films flawed existence-no one cares about the overly dramatic relationship.  "},{"Title":"A truly horrible movie","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this on cable because I was a big Leelee fan.  Big mistake.  What a horrible film.  You don't care one bit for any of the characters in the movie.  Chris Klein plays a guy who is a complete jerk in the film, and steals away Josh Hartnett's longtime girlfriend.  If the writer knew what they were doing, this film would have followed the proven formula, and made Hartnett an ass, and Leelee as the girlfriend trapped in a bad relationship, from which she's saved by Klein.  But Hartnett is a really cool guy, who shows a lot of emotion and love for Leelee.  You then hate leelee, because she cheats on Hartnett with Klein, who is a jerk to everyone in the town that's trying to help him and really stuck up. It's also really campy, and the characters do everything but run around the kitchen dancing and lip synching, and using hairbrushes and spoons and fake microphones (although they come very close). What a horrible horrible movie.  You don't even care what happens in the end because the director never lets you care about the characters. "},{"Title":"This movie was TERRIBLE, but Josh Hartnett was great!","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I rented this movie the other day b/c I love romance stories, but this has got to be the worst one I have ever seen in my life. I find it hard to believe that Sam would fall in love with Kelley after they've said hardly no more than 2 words to each other when she has a great long-time boyfriend who's devoted to her completely. I thought Kelley was a major jerk throughout the movie, and he never changed at all. The only good thing about the movie was Josh Hartnett. I thought he did a wonderful acting job, and I'm going to start watching more movies of his. "},{"Title":"Let us Lambaste","Date":"16 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  One can always tell if I'm enjoying a movie by the number of times I cross my legs, switch positions, make slight rustling noises, etc., etc.  The lesser = the better.  I moved so many times throughout this movie that I succeeded in knocking over my friends giant tub of popcorn and getting a huge thigh-strengthening workout.Sobieski, a young actress who at some points in A Soldier's Daughter Never Cries gave some promise for her thespian talents, played poorly in a poorly-written part.  Depressing fact number one.  Number two Chris Klein was in it.  Depressing fact number three Chris Klein had lines.  Number four Chris Klein played a valedictorian.  Woah.  Dummies from rich families unite!  Even worse, he actually tries to act, but only succeeds in sounding like a mentally disabled overactor in an increasingly sappy independent version of a Cecille B. DeMille film.  Go back to humping your American Pies.This movie was terrible in almost every sense, save Josh Hartnett's mildly endearing performance as LeeLee's stiffed boyfriend Jasper.  Luckily, he refrains from trying to have too many moments, unlike all the other characters.  Of course, this is why he's much better than the rest and he actually shows some mettle here.  If you like Josh or are thinking of casting a kid who knows a few things, he's your man. Hartnett is a sharp actor, but the rest need no further lambasting.2 out of 10 (for poor Hartnett in this terrible film) "},{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater. . what a waste of money. But I was with my friends and I was laughing and talking. So I thought maybe I'd missed something so, stupidly, I rented the movie. . another waste of money. Sam (LeeLee Sobieski) is a raving idiot for living nice guy Jasper (Josh Hartnett) for snobby rich-kid Kelly (Chris Klein)This movie is a piece of trash. I did not shed a single tear, was it supposed to be sad? because I sure didn't think so. The only credit I can give this movie is that Josh Hartnett is hot. There's your only reason to watch the movie. F+ (for Josh)  "}{"Title":"Don't Waste Your Time","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie in the theater. . what a waste of money. But I was with my friends and I was laughing and talking. So I thought maybe I'd missed something so, stupidly, I rented the movie. . another waste of money. Sam (LeeLee Sobieski) is a raving idiot for living nice guy Jasper (Josh Hartnett) for snobby rich-kid Kelly (Chris Klein)This movie is a piece of trash. I did not shed a single tear, was it supposed to be sad? because I sure didn't think so. The only credit I can give this movie is that Josh Hartnett is hot. There's your only reason to watch the movie. F+ (for Josh)  "},{"Title":"Just as you have the relentless teenage slasher films, you also have a seemingly endless stream of goofy teenage romance films.","Date":"2 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here On Earth is not a total failure. I mean, thank God they didn't decide to cast Jason Biggs somewhere in this movie. I'm hoping against all odds to never see him on screen again. But on the other hand, Chris Klein and Leelee Sobieski didn't exactly draw out the emotions the way that a quality romance should. Despite the many shortcomings of Here On Earth, it did have many redeeming values. The rivalry between the rich kids at the private school and the poor kids in town, although slightly exaggerated, was fairly well presented. It is never satisfactorily explained why Klein (whose character is curiously named Kelley) felt that it was so necessary to eat dinner in the poor town just after having been given a brand new car (during the Mercedes-Benz commercial that is the beginning of the film), but the ensuing scene in the restaurant, although followed by an idiotic car chase, was actually pretty well done (`What did he say?' `I think he said come kick my ass.').The love triangle that takes place between Kelley, Samantha (Sobieski), and Jasper (Josh Hartnett, whose great performance single-handedly provides about 90% of the reason to watch this film) is one of the better parts of the movie, and it is definitely the element of the movie that somewhat sets it apart from the multitude of cheesy teen romance films that are constantly being cranked out these days. Although this particular predicament is fairly entertaining, Jasper's change of heart just comes too suddenly and too completely, especially given the constant tension between himself (as well as most of his immediate family) and Kelley, who are forced to live together as they work to rebuild the diner that they collectively destroyed in that dumbass car chase earlier in the film.The end of the film was pretty obvious from the beginning, but in case you haven't seen this movie (and haven't seen the movie's cover, which should qualify as a spoiler in itself), I guess I should warn you that there's a spoiler ahead. Before this movie even starts, you know that Kelley and Samantha will fall in love just as surely as you know that there will be a Running Through The Woods Scene somewhere in the movie and that at some point, someone will utter the hopelessly clichéd line `Some people live their whole lives and never fall in love.' It is clear that there is nothing new here in the form of romance, and even the fact that Samantha dies does not make it original, because this has been seen plenty of times before, such as in the spectacular Best Picture of 1994. Despite the fact that the entire film is one big cliché, there were several quality performances in the film, particularly from Josh Hartnett, Leelee Sobieski, and Michael Rooker, in a well-cast role as Jasper's overbearing father. And yes, even Chris Klein delivered a satisfactory performance as the out-of-place rich kid, despite having been cast against the type of character that he has come to be known as from previous films. There is no new ground covered by Here On Earth, but there is something to be said for the fact that despite its total unoriginality, it is still able to keep your attention.  "},{"Title":"Stupid, Sad, Sorry I Watched it","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  ******************SPOILER********************SPOILER******************** This movie stunk. Just let me say now that I totally agree with what carissaphillips had to say about this.  What was Sam thinking?  She was with a guy who told her he loved her (3 times in total), was EXTREMELY HOT, and stuck with her though her trying times (Josh Hartnett).  But, she decided to break up with him, no, cheat on him with a snobby,ugly, spoiled, rich-brat jerk loser who never said he loved her in the entire movie(oh wait, he wrote it on the wall, does that count?), and left her in her time of need because he was scared (Chris LOSER Klein).  Who would you want to be with? The only reason I sat through the entire movie was because it had Josh Hartnett in it and hoping that maybe she would die at the end.  I wanted Jasper to get another girlfriend who was actually worthy of him. The whole your mom thing was funny.  I enjoyed it.  I hate it when people around here say it but I think that Kelley deserved it.  Jasper should have said it to Sam as well, she needed a good slap. How the romance started is a mystery to me.  They never said anything to each other anyway so I don't understand how they got together.  I was thinking about the cheese sandwich you gave me...did it have mustard or mayonnaise or.....  Oh what a come on.  The supposedly romantic lines were so stupid.  Plus he's sosososososososo UGLY! I must admit, I did cry in this movie.  For a long time, really hard.  Not because she died, but because she broke Jasper's heart.  He cried in this movie so many times...he tried to smile for her but he couldn't stop the tears.  He cried when 1) He told her he loved her 2) She got sick 3) Chris Klein came back and he saw how happy she was w/ him 4)  she died. I cried when he cried because he loved her her entire life, and told her, and yet she was dumb enough to not care and love a guy who left her in her time of need, and who DID NOT CRY at the funeral. 1 1/2 stars only because I LOVE JOSH HARTNETT! Oh by the way Chris Klein, YOUR MOM! -Wiley's sis  "},{"Title":"A Gigantic Waste Of Video Tape","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well, if you set aside the fact that this movie features abysmal acting; and, if you set aside the fact that the story is muddled and wanders off in about five different directions without ever deciding which way it really wants to go; and, if you set aside the fact that I didn't find a single scene in this movie that was remotely interesting; well, if you set all that aside, this is still a REALLY terrible movie!I take it that this is supposed to be a love story about rich guy/poor girl. I never really understood for a moment how this romance between Kelley (Chris Klein) and Samantha (Leelee Sobieski) ever got started. The inexplicable romance is made worse by a complete lack of chemistry between Klein and Sobieski. The screenplay (by Michael Seitzman) is dull to the point of stupefying. How Seitzman managed to write the thing without falling asleep is a miracle; that he would think anyone would want to pay to see this is unbelievable.Did I mention that this is a REALLY, REALLY terrible movie?I'd give it a ZERO, but the IMDb doesn't provide for votes of ZERO. So I give it a one while holding my nose. "},{"Title":"Wow!...This is Grade A garbage!!","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here On Earth might not only be one of the worst films of 2000, but quite possibly one of the worst of the past 10 years. The story is slow and cliched, the directing uninspired and the performances, with the exception of Michael Rooker (why he chose to do this film, the world may never know), are simply laughable. Though most moviegoers will find this to be so sappy and manipulative it's funny, many teenage girls will find it touching and enjoyable. In short, if you are not a big fan of *NSYNC, The Backstreet Boys or crappy sappy teen-flicks, be afraid. Be very afraid!  RATING 1/2* (out of *****) "},{"Title":"Next Titanic, yeah, right . . .","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some possible spoilers - but seeing this movie will spoil your evening anyway.This film really could be the next Titanic - it's long, slow, and sinks like a rock.  What a waste of Leelee Sobieski!  There is almost no character development of Chris Klein's spoiled rich boy, nor any reason other than lust why Sam would go for him.  In addition, the dialogue is stilted and the plot twists are either predictable or asinine - for example, Kelley's mother's suicide and Sam's cancer.  By the time she collapsed in the woods, my wife and I had already written this one off as a dog, and I joked, She probably has cancer of the kneecap.  It was the stupidest thing I could think of.  I guess it was the stupidest thing Seitzman could think of too.Even Leelee's great legs and considerable talent couldn't save this stinker. "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"16 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Predictable, bland teenage fare; manipulative to a hilt and never any good.  Chris Klein is going to get pigeon-holed into roles like this (see American Pie, which was far better) if he's not careful.  I don't think any effort even went into this film vis-a-vis attempting to make it different from the similar films of the genre - if there was, it definitely doesn't show. "},{"Title":"A Total Waste of Time and Talents","Date":"4 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had been waiting eagerly to see this movie, but when I finally got the chance, I was very disappointed. I had to stop half-way (or was it quarter-way?) because of the poor script and directing. Not to mention the poor cast! Josh Hartnett is the only one who can act, and he's much more suitable to be the hero of the story.Well, basically the story is just about a loose girl from the country who cheated on her long-time decent boyfriend only to have meaningless sex with a spoiled rich brat. This movie failed to draw my sympathy, not even when the writer intended to. I wonder where the moral values go?The actors are so stiff that when I resume the movie (few weeks after it was interrupted due to its boring nature), they still failed to make me pay attention. The spoiled couple can only disgust me! What a movie!I think all the people involved in this production need to sit down and review it together so that they won't make the same mistakes next time round. And next time they might consider Josh Hartnett as the protagonist... "},{"Title":"Formulaic and poorly executed","Date":"11 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ho hum.  Rich good looking kid gets in trouble, poor girl falls in love with him, jealous ex-boyfriend causes tension.. yadda yadda.  I actually laughed out loud in many parts of this movie because the next scene was so predictable and just plain stupid.  As one scene moved on to the next, I often found myself wondering just how we got there, like I had skipped a few chapters in a book.The script was pretty pitiful and didn't have me or my wife caring much about any of the characters, except the jilted boyfriend.  Now, if the ex boyfriend had gotten an axe, and hacked apart the girl and rich kid, then.... then we would have a movie, and all the stupid dialog and leaps in plot could be acceptable.  But, since this movie attempts to be touching and totally misses the boat (and ends up resorting to the romance equivalent of divine intervention to try and jerk a tear)... it just falls very very flat.Avoid this movie.  Clip your toenails instead, you will have more fun. "},{"Title":"Horrible Film!!!!!!","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I had great expectations for Here on Earth, being a huge fan of Leelee Sobieski, but I was sorely disappointed.  The movie had extremely inadequate characterization, a lack of depth, and no continuity. The plot was hard to follow at best.  There was no background information - it seemed that we were just jumping into a very poorly written sitcom in the middle of the season. Each scene had little connection with any other.  It was very choppy. You hope that after a film is edited, there is at least some flow, but in this case there was none. You could almost take the scenes and place them in any order you desire and the end result would not be any different. I didn't even know a few of the characters' names until close to the end of the film.  The characters were not believeable and I didn't feel any connection to them.  I was not drawn to the story, or lack thereof, because the entire film was so erratic. It made no sense. I gather that it was supposed to be a love story but Here on Earth had me and my friends laughing hysterically from the sheer absurdity of it all. You want dynamic characters in a movie, but Chris Klein's jumped around so much that you couldn't tell if he was coming or going. Leelee Sobieski came across as a desperate and selfish, which I'm sure was not the intent. As for the love story - it just wasn't there. It was contrived to say the least.  The only believeable person was Josh Hartnett.  I feel very sorry that Sobieski was in this film. She is a far greater actress than this movie deserves.  Here on Earth is among the top five worst films I have ever seen.  Do not see it unless you are looking for a laughing fest at its expense.  Even then, you might be better off renting something with Robin Williams.  "}{"Title":"Give Us Some Credit","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Some of the negative reviews for Here on Earth have said that it should appeal to teenage girls. As a 14-year-old girl, I would like to protest. Please give us some credit! We do have minds, you know. I did think that She's All That was okay and I loved Never Been Kissed. But Here on Earth goes a bit to far to be even interesting. Perhaps if it had been funny it would have been somewhat better.Unfortunately, the characters are completely unlikable, the plot is dull, the scenes that are meant to make you smile or cry are unrealistic. The climax, meant to be a tearjerker, is quite a surprise and makes no sense whatsoever. I am prone to crying in movies but I really couldn't cry. It was simply too unbelievable and badly acted.I have liked Lee Lee Sobrieski in her smaller part in Never Been Kissed, and I hope that she chooses a role with more complexity in later films.There is one part in the film, near the end, when Kelly is talking about his mother's death when at his house that is the only part really worth seeing. It makes you a little queasy, but is the only bit of acting that is at all touching. It's rather nice filming too.2 out of 10 - I doubt that I would have given it even that, but I liked that scene. ) "},{"Title":"Are you kidding me?","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Are we really supposed to take these two serious?  All I am going to say about this movie is that I inevitably feel more stupid after sitting through this one. We are lied to, and forced to believe that the funny guy from American Pie (Chris Klein), and the sappy girl from Deep Impact (Leelee Sobieski) are supposed to in love?  Whatever. I must admit, that after roughly 65 minutes, I gave up on it.  I did however hear, second hand, apparent ending. YAWN!  "},{"Title":"surprisingly good!","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand why critics would bash this movie. It's a teen movie that's actually serious, which is a rarity. I'll admit that there are moments that are hugely sappy, but c'mon it's about young love, it's gotta be sappy to be valid. My biggest complaint is Chris Klein. While he was funny in American Pie, he apparently isn't ready for the switch into more dramatic fare yet, he's very uncomfortable looking in some of his mama stuff. Hartnett and Sobieski on the other hand, demonstrate a remarkable amount of depth and believability, as do the parent's. Although the script is heavily cliched with the lovers spouting off poetry, the actor's make it work. The directing sports some powerful images on the screen. Beautiful cinematography, nice music, great young actors, I was impressed and I'm a jaded critic when it comes to teen movies. "},{"Title":"The very definition of average, bordering on not-so-good.","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Average. One word which describes this film to precision is average. Here on Earth is a lot like a collage in that the filmmakers have cut out the sappiest, most sugar-laden parts of other romances and pasted them one atop another into the 90 minutes of HoE. The dialogue is trivial, and delivered as if even the actors know how ridiculous they sound. The soundtrack is replete with cliche strings which all sound in grand, sweeping moments during which several teenage girls in the audience can be seen quietly weeping. Chris Klein, the arrogant prep student turned bleeding heart romantic, was far better in films like American Pie where his goofy, dumb love was charming and worked in the situations far better. In HoE, Klein tries very hard to be a jerk and tries even harder to become a hopeless lover. The other actors in the film, like Hartnett, deliver solid performances but certainly nothing to write home about. Here on Earth plays out like a cheap Hallmark card. Aside from a decent alt-rock soundtrack, the best part about this film is making fun of it with your friends later. "},{"Title":"This is one of the 25 worst films ever made","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" *** This comment may contain spoilers *** Warning this does contain spoilers I have seen some pretty lame films in my day. And that only stands to reason seeing as I see about 80 films a year. I would have to say that out of those 80 films I see at the theater, maybe 5 are really really good, 15 or 20 are not that great, 40 or 50 are okay and then maybe 5 or 10 are absolutely terrible. Here On Earth falls into a category unto itself. This is one of the most predictable, vehement, despicable films I have ever seen. It is loaded with unlikable characters, maudlin situations about after-school-special kinds of topics and enough fluff in here to make THE YOUNG AND THE RESTLESS look like American BEAUTY. And I am not being unfair. This is an awful film.This is the story of a rich guy, a poor girl, a poor guy and a small town that makes fresh cookies every day for all of it's town folk. Are you getting warm and fuzzy yet? Let me continue. One day, the rich snot comes waltzing into town with his new graduation present that his dad has bought for him and he insults the pretty girl at the diner, almost gets in a fight with her long time boyfriend and then races him and destroys the little diner that she works at. So he is sentenced to a summer in the small town where he and the boyfriend have to fix the diner together. What this does is gives us plenty of opportunity to see Chris Klein with no shirt on so we can understand why the girl at the diner would fall for him. He has abs!!! Oh and he is rich!!! And.... he is the biggest jerk with no respect for anyone. He is James Dean, he is a rebel that doesn't give a damn!! He is rude to everyone in town, he doesn't want to associate with anyone that is trying to be nice to him and he acts like a spoiled rich brat. But Leelee Sobieski still falls for him. There is no reason given as to why she does, she just does. Oh, pardon me, that's right I forgot to mention that he likes the same poet that she does. Well if that doesn't get you wet then I don't know what will.Here On Earth also has some of the most predictable moments I've ever been privy to in film. There was one point when I left the theater to get some popcorn and read the graffiti on the wall of the bathroom and I told my fiancée exactly what was going to happen in the next ten minutes. Upon my return she just laughed and said I was right, even when I said that there was going to be a dancing scene. And furthermore, the disease that she suddenly contracts is cancer. This is the most beautiful cancer patient I have ever seen. Have you ever watched a cancer patient die slowly? They lose weight, they lose their hair, their gums begin to rot. It is not a pretty picture. Sobieski glows after she contracts cancer, like she is pregnant. What an insult to people that have watched love ones die slowly from this disease. And how do you contract knee cancer from falling down in the field?Now I realize I have seen way too many movies and this causes my cynicism to run rampant at times, but this is ridiculous. There wasn't one thing to like about this film or the Chris Klein character. He is a jerk, he is obnoxious and he never once tries to make peace with anyone around him. Here On Earth is not only a bad film, it is an irresponsible one. This received a 4.2 on the IMDb voting chart, and that is way too high. This is an embarrassment to screen writing and whoever gave the green light to this being made should not only lose their job, but he or she should have to promise never to step foot near a script again.0 out of 10, and that is being generous. This film should be shown at film schools as how not to write and direct a film.If you are bored and really need something to do and your choices are cleaning a farm full of cow manure or watching this film, choose cleaning the cow manure. It'll smell better and you'll feel like you've done something good with your two hours. "},{"Title":"One Word","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All I have to say is one word...SUCKS!!!!. The only reason I gave this a 2 is because Josh Hartnett was in it and he's cool. Should have beat that Klein guys ass...stupid dumb and brainless. By the end of this movie you can't stand Klein and you really don't care what happens to Leelee. Hartnett was the only good thing about it. "},{"Title":"The view of a younger generation","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Alright, I'm 12, so this is where you get to see the movie from a pre-teen's point of view. I've also commented on Magnolia and Bicentennial Man, both great movies, if you want to check it out. Alright, Here on Earth was a beautiful movie with astounding scenes and images, very pleasing to the eye. The writer (I don't know who it was, check IMDB) either worked very hard or has a good appreciation for love, poetry, and drama. I cried 4 times throughout this movie, once for over 30 minutes. It was really sad, really beautiful, really meaningful. IT's a great movie for anyone, say, 11 and up who isn't a romantic-comedy freak. Yeah, it's romantic, yeah, it's comedic, but (in my opinion), it's better than She's All That or Whatever it Takes. I never cry! It's a tender story. Go rent it and tape it ). "},{"Title":"good movie!","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" OK..you people need to settle down! This movie is not that bad. I saw it for the first time last night and fell in love with it! I do have to admit that I have never been a fan of LeeLee Sobieski but she grew on me in this movie. I do think Josh Hartnett is good looking, but c'mon..Chris Klein is the most gorgeous man I think I have ever seen!!! He made that movie better for me. C'mon girls..when he has no shirt on and goes to get water I know your mouth dropped. Yes, I know in the beginning he is a jerk, but in the end he realizes how he acted and learns to be a great guy. If he wouldn't have come at the end..then I would have been mad. I do think a couple of lines did not need to be said but all in all it was a great movie! I definitely recommend it! "},{"Title":"fantastic movie!","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie! It's my number one favorite. Although there were a few flaws (what movie doesn't have flaws?), this movie was very well written, directed, and produced. The characters in this movie are very real and believable. They made all of the characters fit into a specific role. I think that the most apparent thing about Here On Earth was the love triangle as well as the other emotional situations brought into the movie. It's not one of those movies where you just can't seem to relate to anything, because in it are situations that everyone is or has been in. There are so many different things going on in this movie that it is hard not to relate to it. I am just 18 years old and I can even relate to it. It was heart warming and wrenching at the same time. Here On Earth will make you laugh, cry, and sometimes angry. I give this movie an excellent review and recommend it to anyone who loves romance and passion! "},{"Title":"A romantic tale","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Perhaps I am a softie or a romantic, but I can't agree with many who pan this film. It is far from the greatest of films, but it was touching in many ways. It is rather formulaic, but the formula works here for the most part. A rich upstart teenager comes into a small town and manages to get into a fight with a local and burn down the local diner. In a made-for-television kind of Solomonic wisdom, the judge sentences them to work together to rebuild the diner, Mabel's Table, the 'hot spot' of this whistle-stop town. Rich out-of-towner and local boy fight over the local girl, who has a tragic secret she is concealing.Leelee Sobieski, plays the lead as Samantha, the local girl track star whose knee gave out, jeopardising her chance to go to college. Chris Klein plays Kelley, the spoiled rich kid who is nonetheless intelligent and has a heart he begins to discover during his time in the small town. Josh Hartnett is Jasper, the local boy who wants nothing more than to keep things the way they are, including his relationship with Samantha. Most of these performances are serviceable without being stellar; they are typical romantic B-film fare, with many long, ponderous glances overlooking scenic views, and silly situations in which everyday life is shown.The action is slow, but then, it isn't meant to be a fast-paced film. Samantha is torn between the comfortable sameness of her life in the small town with Jasper and her family, and the attraction that rich 'bad boy' Kelley represents, particularly after she learns he does have a heart. Samantha overhears Kelley reciting the valedictory speech he was prevented from delivering because of his sentence to build the diner; Kelley in the end does get to the deliver the speech, under different circumstances.Jasper and Kelley fight (both verbally and physically) over the affections of Samantha, but when Samantha falls ill, they are able to put this aside for her sake. The diner is rebuilt, the town is restored to wholeness, but the situation with Jasper, Kelley and Samantha enters a new dimension, as fate has a different ending in store that none of them anticipated at the beginning of the summer.The other actors in the film are really background for the tale - few stand out, but one who does is Annette O'Toole, who plays Samantha's mother, a role very similar to the one she takes up on 'Smallville' as Clark Kent's mother.The story is gentle, sad, poignant - not terribly original, but very understandable in human terms. Love is unpredictable, and love often hurts. Love sometimes requires a sacrifice. Love can transform you. These are all themes that come across in the film, if not always terribly successfully.It is a film worth watching, though. "}{"Title":"Could have been good","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Except the script was HIDEOUS. I felt sorry for the actors trying to make something out of this not so interesting, yet sweet story. The lines were so obscenely cliché I couldn't take it. Sobieski and Klein in particular looked uncomfortable delivering their lines. Hartnett had a better part and is a wonderful actor - he was the only character with any substance, probably because he got totally screwed. Could have done without Klein's mommy issues in the film, which excused him from being a total jackass. Otherwise, it's a nice story about being young and in love and feeling torn.I recommend this film if you want to watch something sweet without complexities. "},{"Title":"Great love story and a good drama about not so perfect world","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Before I watched the movie I read some of the comments posted here, and since most of them are so negative I almost did not watch the movie. Well, that would have been MISTAKE. This is a good romantic drama. And yes, it it not perfect and does not have perfect ending but either you like it or not, we live in not so perfect world. I found all the actors acting well and yes I cried at the end wishing just a little that somehow that one more Disney miracle and ending could happened. I dare to say that most of the posted comments come from cynical, i don't give a ... people. Some of the reviewers did not like the fact that Sam had to choose between good hard working (and extremely likable)local boyfriend and the spoiled kid from big city. One comment said Another thing I hated about this movie was its message Dump the sweet and caring guy you've known and supposedly loved forever and run off with a rich porsche-driving jerk. Newsflash THERE IS NOTHING FAIR ABOUT LOVE. Love comes as it wishes seeps us from our feet, messes our life and when it's gone we wish with all our being for it to come back. This move is not about perfection but about friendship,commitment, choices and love. In Samantha's own words Some people live all their life never falling in love.I have lived my(short)life and I have fallen in love This is not make you feel good Disney movie, but it is MAKE YOU WISH TO LOVE AGAIN movie. Go ahead rent it and watch it (but only if you still have some softness and romance left in you). DO NOT WATCH ON TV--commercial breaks will completely spoil it. "},{"Title":"worst movie ever","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can honestly say this was the worst movie I have ever seen, and I've seen thousands of movies in my time. I'd rather have my left hand cut off than have to watch this again. It wasn't the acting, or the camera work, or anything like that. It was the plot. This movie has the worst plot I have ever seen. Jasper has done nothing wrong to his girlfriend and she leaves him. She give no explanation for this, nor does the film mention it. The film then proceeds to make her look like a hero. It doesn't focus on Japsers grief at all, while the slutbag girl screws some random guy that just moved into town. I'd like to email the writer of this piece of crap and get some of whatever he was smoking when he wrote this. I have never commented on a movie before like this, but this needs to be done to ensure future people aren't exposed to this horror. The only good part about this movie, and the reason I watched it to the end was so I could see that slutbag DIE. Wow, is all i can say.....what a terrible movie. "},{"Title":"The best film whit not a typical Hollywood ending...","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this film recently and it has completely moved me in so many ways... The love shown by both of men and the mystery of Sam is unbelievable... she is happy to have fallen in love, but so afraid she's gonna loose Kelley-that he's gonna leave her,that she can't make up her mind whom is she going to love.. finally,when she decides and realizes she loves Kelley, we find out the unimaginable...you have to see this film...it makes you realize that you only have one life and you shouldn't waste it ...and when you fall in love,for real,you should hold it tight and never let go...and even if something goes wrong and you don't stay together,you should never regret what you had...because some people live their whole life and never fall in love...if you have that feeling,if only for a short period of time,you are one of the lucky ones ...you must always carry them in your hart,in the happiest memories...and always tell people you love, how you feel about them,because you never know when you're going to loose them... "},{"Title":"Chris Klein has a beautiful acting quality","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I know the plot sucks, but Chris has a transparent acting quality and a sensitivity in his appearance and a good chemistry with lee who is more a tough cookie. Both actors have a lot of potential and as Jack Nicholson would say You have seen nothing yet I like it that Chris shows in his role more female qualities instead of the male steroids you see in a lot of American movies. Maybe I am more romantic then the rest of you critics, so I wanted to say something more positive about the actors in the film, which they deserve. I am from the Netherlands and I think we like more subtle played roles. Well,go and see for yourself.  "},{"Title":"Nice movie, but bad acting.","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie, it could be better, but it's not a high bugget movie. I think most of the actor's were acting very nice, except Chris Klein (His acting looked to fake). Maybe it's because he hasn't much experience, but Josh Hartnet also doesn't, but he played very real, and very good, that count also for the other's. You are born to be an actor, or you are just simply not. And i think Chris Klein is on of the last, maybe he doesn't have the drive/will to do it. Looks do not always insure you of a great actor, Chris Klein shows that. But the movie is good, nice story, nice screenplay, nice shots and nice music. Greetings,Michel van Dijk  "},{"Title":"A predictable plot saved by some good actors","Date":"28 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry folks, with 137 comments on this one little nothing film, it has to be boring to yet read another.  However, I was moved to do so after just watching this movie.  Made in 2000, obviously before Josh Harnett made PEARL HARBOR, it gave him a chance to show his talent.  A very natural actor, he does what he can in a thankless role.  It was very hard to believe he could ever throw himself on the likes of Leelee Sobieski, a Helen Hunt look alike - without the talent, who seems to go around having the hots for another guy who comes to town, without even batting an eye to those around her that love her.  No sympathy from this viewer and I couldn't wait for her demise.This tiny epic was written badly by Michael Seitzman, what else has he done, and directed by Mark Piznarski, who had the sense to back up Miss Sobieski's bad acting with an amazing cast.  Noteworthy are Chris Klein as the out-of-towner, Bruce Greenwood and the wonderful Annette O'Toole as the girl's parents.  They all do admirable jobs with stale dialogue. Oh yes, the Judge was terrific and had one of the best scenes.I apologize again for repeating which many others have done before me, but I just had to make my comments.  If I had to watch the girl sit around in one more scene and stare into space, I'd go nuts.  Frost would turn over in his grave had he heard her interpretation of his words.  I give it a 4 in respect of the 4 careers of Klein, Hartnett, Greenwood and O'Toole.  I think Mr. Piznarski capable of better work. "},{"Title":"Just another love story...but Sobieski is promising","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Private school hot shot Kelley (Chris Klein) and local boy Jasper (Josh Hartnett) get involved in a car racing and accidentally crash the diner owned by Sam's (Leelee Sobieski) mother. The two young men are sentenced to help to re-build the restaurant. Jasper and Sam has been together since childhood, but one day when Sam follows Kelley to the mountains and hears him saying her favourite poem, she falls for him at once. Their mutual attraction intensifies and meanwhile Jasper is left broken-hearted. To Kelley's astonishment, Sam is actually dying of cancer...The first time I saw this film two years ago I thought it was a beautiful story, although the second time I watched it I didn't find it anything special. This is just another flick (especially for teenagers) to watch when you're in the mood to chill out, and hopefully you won't get bored. Still, the three young actors deserved credits, in particular Leelee Sobieski, who is extremely talented, versatile and promising. Expect her to reach the top one day. If you like her, don't miss 'The Glass House' and 'Joan of Arc', for the latter she received a Golden Globe Award nomination, and she truly deserved the award. "},{"Title":"Here on earth, there are better movies to watch","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Chris Klein, Josh Hartnett and Leelee Sobieski star inHere On Earth, a movie that had promise in the beginning but ran out of gas.Despite the talent of these three young stars, Here On Earth falls apart at the seams because there really is no sense of direction as to where the movie should go. Not only is this movie cliche, but there really is no way for the audience to feel anything because it just isn't there until its too late. This movie is a snoozer and didn't take me long to realize this was the case. After all, I had to ask myself who wanted to watch a movie about a girl who is trapped between two men, it has been done to perfection in better movies.I was sorely disappointed at the outcome but in retrospect I'm glad I didn't see in the movie theater. I urge everyone who reads this to stay away from this movie at the video store because it is one disappointment that you will waste your time with "},{"Title":"Not bad..","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like love stories you will probably like this movie, if not you will probably fall asleep on it.  As a lover of romantic films, I found this one quite good although Leelee's character didn't chose the guy I wanted her to. On the surface, this movie seems a little like Love Story with the rich boy/ poor girl thing, but it's not. Leelee's character is a little hard to sympathizes with since she cheated on her boyfriend. Josh Hartnett is really good in his role and so is Leelee, and Chris Klein pulls a passable performance. "}{"Title":"Definetally watchable and can be enjoyed if you look past the flaws.  I must see for any die hard Josh or Chris fans.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before i start i better mention that i have been a huge fan of Josh Hartnett for a couple of years now.  Here on Earth wasn't released in theatres in the UK so i had to wait until the start of may 2001 until i could see it on TV.The main plot revolves around a love triangle, a rich student and a girl from the wrong side of the tracks fall in love with each other, yet she already has a boyfriend who she's been friends with since childhood.I had previously read reviews of this movie which mainly consisted of bad ones.  Although i did enjoy this movie i found it was seriously flawed and that most of the reviewers criticisms were true.  The script is the main this wrong with this movie, it is so dated and wouldn't look out of place in the 50's.  It is also corny and really unbelievable in places, as well as some of the characters being two dimentional.  The relationship between Kelley (Chris Klein)and Samantha (Leelee Sobieski) doesn't really work that well as the way the script is written you end up feeling sorry for Jasper (Josh Hartnett).  Kelley seemed unlikeable from the start as he comes across as being arrogant and spoilt, and it is blindingly obvious that Samantha is looking for someone else (other than Jasper) from the beginning.  This makes it hard to be sympathetic towards their situation, and characters, which ruins the whole point of the story.  The acting is good especially as the actors had to cope with this terrible script.  Hartnett definetaly stands out from the rest but there isn't enough required from his character for him to show his full potential.  The main scene's including Jasper only require him to look broken hearted and pathetic, which would make anyone fall in love with his character even more.  Like many critics have said, the story would have worked better if Jasper was even remotely dislikeable.  Leelee also does well with her character as it is clear Samantha is in love with Kelley yet does not want to hurt Jasper.  Klein does ok yet his character seems wooden in places, so much that the script writers had to resort to him taking his shirt off to distract the audience from the awful diologue in then scene where they talk about handcuffs.  Kelley's feelings towards Samantha are also not clear, he is supposed to be in love with her yet he doesn't show much emotion towards her.  The supporting cast does well, i felt the character of Jasper's mom was most prominent as the relationship between mother and son was portrayed really well in the scene infront of the piano.  Samantha's relationship with her father was also good and it did feel as if her and Jasper had been friends since childhood.  I also enjoyed the scenes between Kelley and Jasper as their verbal sparring provided most of the humour from this movie (especially Kelley's constant reference to the relationship Jasper has with his cows).The main flaw of this movie is that it does not seem to 'flow' smoothly and so seems to 'jump' from scene to scene.  In many places it also seems rushed as if the story jumps forward in time to quickly.  It then ends too abruptly with a tragic event which seems as if it is stuck on the end because to writers were rushed and couldn't think of anything better.  I feel that if it was developed slower throughout the whole movie the writers could have got away with such a cliche'd ending.  I must admit it did bring a few tears to my eyes (although i do tend to cry easily at movies)Overall i would say this film is....................OK as i did enjoy it, i found it became better the more times i watched it.  It is definetally worth watching if you are a huge Josh or Chris fan or even if you've got nothing better to do.  It can be enjoyed by others if you're expectations are not too high but it is clear why it wasn't released in theatres in the UK.  "},{"Title":"quite good actually!","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  We just rented this movie, because we all happen to like Josh Hartnett.  I thought that the movie would be a disappointment, but we ended up watching it three times that night! I thought that Josh was excellent. Of course, there is one more thing.. I don't think that this is a guys movie.. so all of you guys out there.. I think you should pass this one! a romantic eye-tearing movie!    "},{"Title":"Extremely Moving!!!","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget all the bad reviews, see this movie for yourself.  It's not about the actors or how predictable it may be (although I thought she was gonna end up with Josh H. despite seeing the Jessica Simpson/Nick Lachey music vid a thousand times!), it's about the emotional aspect.  This film allows you to like and relate to the character of Samantha (portrayed by the excellent actress, Leelee Sobieski) and at the end, you're left feeling depressed and angry over what happens (don't wanna ruin it!)  The love scenes are romantic and original and overall, this movie is pretty good.  8/10. "},{"Title":"A Great and Emotional Teen Romance","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** Forget about Chris Klein.  Josh Hartnett made this movie and he should have got the girl.  He was the best talent in this flic by far.  Lelee Sobrieski played the country girl well but the plot would have been better if she had stayed with Jasper in the end.  I think he appreciated her more than Klein's character did.  Oh well, you can't win em all I guess.  Overall this was a good movie even though most people don't appreciate it like I do.  The emotional scenes did get to me at times and I learned to identify with the characters rather easily. "},{"Title":"Could have been better.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie could have been better. The only reason I saw it was because I'm a huge Josh Hartnett fan. Before seeing the movie, I predicted that Lee Lee S. would die in the end and that she would choose Chris Klein (Kelley) over Josh Hartnett (Jasper). I was right. First of all the theme song to this movie, Where You Are performed by Jessica Simpson is a huge giveaway. The song is about your loved one dying so you knew someone was gonna die. For me, it was pretty obvious it was gonna be the girl because she's the one torn between Kelley and Jasper. If you saw the video to Where You Are you knew she was gonna choose Chris Klein at the end because only Lee Lee S. and Chris Klein are in it. I also found some parts of this movie to be unrealistic. For example, I don't know any girl who would choose UGLY Chris Klein over the GORGEOUS Josh Hartnett. Not only is Josh much more attractive, but he told Lee Lee S. that he loved her 2 times, was there for her when she was in the hospital, and put her needs before his own. I don't recall Chris Klein doing any of those things. Clearly, Kelley really didn't love her because instead of going down to see her, he asks Josh how she is. Josh Hartnett was clearly the best actor in this film. He was the only one, I thought, that was capable of showing emotion in this film. Lee Lee S. is a great actress, but I thought she could give a better performance. It may sound like I hate this movie, but I thought it was OK. Some parts of it were a little hard for me to swallow though. I give it a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"a real tearjerker","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I rented this movie, I expected something different. I expected another silly teen movie, and okay, teen movie, but it wasn't stupid. In fact it was really sad.  However, I did enjoy it.  I think the star of the movie wasn't Chris or Leelee, but Josh Hartnett.  To me, he was the only actor that didn't sound stale.  He is a fabulous actor that deserves a tremendous amount of recognition, not to mention the best looking young actor today.  What was Leelee thinking going for Chris Klein?  Overall, I found it thoroughly enjoyable and a fun movie to watch.  If you're a fan of teen movies I'd say you should rent this one. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A truly great movie","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a heartwarming film about life and death.  The acting, directing, writing, cinematography, and casting were all on target.  This movie should have gotten an Oscar, and I expect more great things from these actors and this director, and, of course, these writers. "},{"Title":"What a story","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A fine story telling, great romance but lack one thing, bad acting from the actors.The final scene do not attract any attention at all. The characters do not seem capable enough to express their emotions. A very stressful and emotional should occupied the final endings. "},{"Title":"Lame yet eerily depressing","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you, like me, think you are sitting down to watch a lame teen romance, think again.  Can't Hardly Wait this is not.  Piznarski and Sietzman are struggling to be deep.  The trouble is that Robert Frost's poetry alone cannot make this a deeply introspective experience.  I am totally impressed with Klein's acting.  I thought he was stuck in one role after I had seen American Pie, Election, and Say It Isn't So.  But here he really makes us see why this callous rich kid got calloused, and how this relationship exposes him to his own feelings again.  But that's the only good thing here. The dialogue is wretched, there are whole scenes that don't make sense, superfluous characters, and the main plot element is ridiculous - he burned down her family's business, so she falls love with him.  Come on! "},{"Title":"Moving but Maddening","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here on Earth was very emotional, and Josh Harnett and Leelee Sobieski both put in good performances. However, the plotline was maddening. I hated the romance between Kelley (Chris Klein) and Sam (Sobieski), because 1) Kelley was a jerk!  2) it was wrong of Sam to do what she did when she was still together with Jasper (Harnett)   3) Jasper was so sweet. In fact, my best friend & I decided that the saddest thing about the movie wasn't that Sam died--we didn't really feel that sorry for her. Rather, we felt very sorry for Jasper, because he loved her so much. I give it a 7--it's  "}{"Title":"It was great, I don't know what you people are complaining about","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies and I don't see why so many people are complaining.  Both Leelee Sobieski and Josh Hartnett acted wonderfully. Josh made me feel sorry for his character and want to comfort him and yell at Leelee's character for leaving him for the new guy who is unattractive and snotty and just plain awful.  And Leelee did an excellent job of portraying her character.  She was believable.  Chris Klein on the other hand didn't thrill me.  In my opinion he is a horrible actor.  I don't know it could just be this movie.  I don't really remember his performance in American Pie but that could be because that was horrible too.Okay yeah, the movie has some cliches but that doesn't make it horrible. It's realistic.  A girl has a longtime boyfriend and then a new guy comes into town that she's attracted to so of course she's going to check him out. There is nothing unrealistic about this plot.  It's about a girl torn between two guys.  And again, yeah, it may be a plot that's been used, but so what.  It happens all the time.  Plots are always being reused.  It was told in a different way. I would recommend seeing it and I would have cried at the end if i wasn't laughing at my friends brother who was making jokes.  And for whoever disliked the movie, fine it's your own opinion and you're entitled to it, but there is no need for all of the overexaggeration on how horrible the film was.  I'm no film critic but this movie did move me and hardly any other films have.  This one has something special and should be seen.The next part is a spoiler so if you don't want to know anything about the ending of the movie don't read it.There's only one thing I wish they would have done. I wish there would have been more foreshadowing of Samantha's illness.  We knew about her knee injury but there were no signs of the cancer.  The part where she fell in the woods, I knew that was coming but I didn't know it would result in her having cancer and dying. The cancer came suddenly and I didn't expect it.  "},{"Title":"What on Earth","Date":"29 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay i was really wanting to see this movie, but sitting and watching it is really hard.  First off Chris Klein was so miscast in this film.  He should have been the old boyfriend.  This movie was so unemotional that i couldnt finish it.  So i watched something better, than with nothing else to do. I put it back in.  After the stupid boston trip, Lee Lee really starts carrying the film well. Then Josh Hartnett comes in strong also.  Really this movie would be a lot better without the first 47 minutes or so. "},{"Title":"Sobieski & Hartnett could not have been better.","Date":"28 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While Here On Earth would likely not appeal to all, I must admit that this little movie absolutely grabbed me.  Leelee Sobieski and especially Josh Hartnett's performances were dead on.If you are in the mood for a tear-jerker, this film will definitely be a good choice.  And even if you're not interested in the film itself, the young, talented cast should be noticed and remembered as their careers are now beginning to soar. "},{"Title":"Predictable and recycled, but very well written and acted.","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Here on Earth tells the story of a rich snobby prep school kid (Klein) who recklessly causes a fire and burns down a local eatery with one of the local hicks (Hartnett) in a small community.  But instead of jail time or fines, he and Hartnett are sentenced to help rebuild the local eatery, which will hopefully build some character in them.  Klein overcomes his overbearing father and memory of his dead mother to do just that.  Of course, Klein falls for the local girl (Sobieski) who just happens to be Hartnett's girl.  Sort of a Love Story meets Breaking Away meets School Ties.Predictable?  Pretty much, though I was surprised by a few things.  Recycled plots?  Yes.  But sometimes there's nothing wrong with that.  There are plenty of great movies that borrow heavily from prior ones.  Some even turn out much better than their predecessors.  Here on Earth is actually very well written (with a few exceptions that you'll know when you see) and very well acted for the piece of teen fluff that it seems to be.  The setup is believable and doesn't seem forced like it does in so many of today's teen movie trash.  The dialogue is pretty real and smart, again, not like you get in most teen movies.  The principal actors give very mature performances, especially Sobieski and Hartnett.  The end comes a little too quickly in that the last few scenes are sort of rushed through and there is one scene in the movie that is absolutely embarrasing to watch (it's right up there with Ben Affleck and Liv Tyler and the animal crackers in Armageddon).  Aside from these flaws, I thought Here on Earth was very good and a solid attempt at an semi-intelligent teen oriented movie.  One thing in particular I enjoyed was that the hero/villain aspect between Klein and Hartnett wasn't black and white.  The movie tries to paint both as pretty good guys at heart and doesn't necessarily make you want to see Klein and Sobieski together.  I actually liked Hartnett's character more in the end.It's too bad that garbage with Freddie Prinze and scantily clad girls dancing on top of bars is seen and movies like this are not.  For any of you teens reading this, try to grow up a little. "},{"Title":"A waste of time","Date":"27 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Quite frankly, this movie was simply -  a waste of time. Whoever thinks Chris Klein can act, needs to get their head examined. Give him a football and a maximum of 5 lines - and he may get away with it. Poor performances with theexception of Leelee Sobieski who did a credible job.  Whoever was in charge of casting for this movie needs toget out of the business. And Klein - should stick to football...or take major acting lessons.  "},{"Title":"Yes, destined to be the next Titanic...","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...and sink down, down, down into the dark abyss.  This film is genuinely dreadful.  Anyone who didn't appreciate STEPMOM should see HERE ON EARTH for a clearer view of what constitutes thick, treacly sentimentality. Take the most laughable elements of PRETTY IN PINK and LOVE STORY, make them as boring as watching paint dry, and you've got HERE ON EARTH. Viewers who are over the age of 12 and not female should beware--the movie suffers from a dullness for which even the frequent sight of Leelee Sobieski in strappy little tanktops cannot begin to compensate.  "},{"Title":"Contrived, silly movie","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  After seeing `Here on Earth,' it is strikingly obvious that Leelee Sobieski would make a perfect model - she is great at standing around and looking pretty for the camera, and never once did we see her in an unflattering outfit, pose, or even with messy hair.  However, it seems that is all she is good at.  Her acting skills do not go beyond her aesthetic qualities, making for an extremely dull character.  Additionally, it didn't help that she was given lines that sounded more like cliches than actual sentences, or that her character was written as completely wishy-washy.  All of that said, add in two good looking guys who had even less personality, a small town in Western Massachusetts (which was actually filmed in Minnesota) and an obligatory kissing-in-the-rain scene, and you have the disaster that is `Here on Earth.'Perhaps the underlying problem of the movie is that the plot was not only one big cliche,but a cliche stolen from countless other movies.  Sobieski plays Samantha, a recent high school graduate with no money who dreams of attending medical school.  For most of high school, she has been dating her lifelong best friend, Jasper (Josh Hartnett).  Just as they are about to carve their names into the `lover's wall' in her family's restaurant, rich kid Kelley (Chris Klein) swoops into town and steals Sam's heart.  Obviously, Jasper and Kelley don't get along well, which is very unfortunate considering that they are forced to live together after they burn down Sam's restaurant during a drag race.  Unfortunately, the audience is then forced to sit through about an hour of Sam's developing relationship with Kelley, while she strings Jasper along because she doesn't have the guts to tell him she's moved on.Although this has the potential to be a heartwarming love story, it is ruined by the sappy and contrived dialogue.  It felt as though writer Michael Seitzman just jotted down every single pick up line he had ever tried and failed at, and then decided that even though they failed in real life, they might work in the movies.  As a result, the audience was forced to sit through such conversations as Kelly asking Sam (referring to her father), `Do you always bring the sheriff on dates?' to which she replies (with about as much enthusiasm as a rock), `Not if I'm the one breaking the law.' Yawn.  A particularly excruciating moment was when the couple, after running through a sprawling meadow, shares an intimate moment reminiscent of Ben Affleck and Liv Tyler in Armageddon. After Kelley names all of Sam's body parts after states, he finally calls her lips Massachusetts, to which she replies, `Massachusetts welcomes you.' Amused yet? That's not all.  In an effort to either move the audience, or make us laugh even harder (it was hard to tell by this point), Sam discovers she has terminal illness à la Love Story.  Note to director Mark Piznarski Although this simple plot device worked for Love Story  thirty years ago, that kind of  sappiness just doesn't cut it when your cast can barely muster up any kind of emotion.Needless to say, the audience was in hysterics (with laughter) by the end.   Because of this instinct to just laugh at it, the movie was enjoyable in that guilty pleasure, Lifetime movie kind of way.  Plus, it had that pretty song with that guy from 98 Degrees...   "},{"Title":"Droolfest","Date":"24 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I'm very disheartened to report that the ONLY reason anyone should see the teeny-booper love triangle, chick-flick Here On Earth are studmuffins Chris Klein and Josh Hartnett.  Hartnett makes the most of this lousy script - I bet he'll make Ben Affleck look bad in Micheal Bay's upcoming remake of Pearl Harbor.  I ADORE Chris Klein, but it's obvious he spent time & effort sculpting his body (it's absolutely perfect...sigh) and didn't break a sweat practising his terribly written lines.   Leelee Sobieski is good & nice to look at, but seems painfully out-of-place.  I was cringing, as the rest of the audience laughed during the serious moments. "},{"Title":"A Great Romance.","Date":"10 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"        *************EXTREME SPOILERS******************  Here on Earth is a really good movie. This movie is another sad romance, but was really brilliant. Chris Klein, Josh Hartnett, Leelee Sobieski, and Bruce Greenwood were very great. The movie is about a guy named Kelly (Chris Klein) who crashes into a gas station, burning down a small diner, along with Jasper (Josh Hartnett). Now, the two have to rebuild the restaurant Mable's Table, and then Kelly falls for Jaspers sort of ex-girlfriend Samantha (Leelee Sobieski), and now there is gonna be problems between te two. But then, Samantha has cancer, which spreads from her knee to her liver, and now she is very sick, and yes she does die in the end This is a really great movie. I give Here on Earth a 10 out of 10!!!! ) "},{"Title":"amazing. simply yes.","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely loved this movie. I saw it for the first time today on ABC Family, and at first I was like, this is retarded, but I got drawn in. I really didn't like the music in the movie, but honestly, who cares when the movie was that good? First of all, Leelee Sobieski is extremely beautiful, and Chris Klein was really hot when he was disheveled. Josh Hartnett too. Then I loved the opening, when Kelley got the car. I had to go to the bathroom, so I missed a lot of the beginning. The intensity of this movie was extremely high, and then I almost cried at the end when she tripped and then she told Kelley she had cancer. And I thought it was extremely cute when Kelley was naming her body parts as states. I also thought it was cute when Jasper decided to give it up and remain friends with Sam, and when he told Kelley that Sam needed him. And also when Sam's father was sobbing because he was going to lose his little girl. The entire thing was extremely sad, and anyone who like a Walk to Remember should see this. I loved this and I would recommend this to all ages. I almost never cry during movies, but I did for this one. "}{"Title":"This film brought me to tears","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this film. For me, Saturday afternoons are always put aside for a film and on this occasion I opted for Here on Earth. Let me tell you, I have never felt so emotional when watching a film in all my life. The acting is superb and I am not ashamed to say I cried at various points, the dialogue especially touched me. Some people say that young actors can not compare to the older generations but credit where it is due, these really blew my mind.I don't want to give the story away as it always spoils it for me when people tell too much about what goes on but just to say if you are in the mood for a film that really stretches the emotions and gets you thinking, then opt for this one. You may not cry as I did, I often get in those states! But you will love it, I am sure.Top film. "}]