[{"Title":"Actually quite funny without Chris Tucker","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday is actually pretty funny even though it lacks the film's first scene stealer Chris Tucker. Ice Cube makes a funny script with the help of new scene stealer Mike Epps who plays his cousin Day-Day. All in all if you just want a good time check this one out. "},{"Title":"Worst of the trilogy but still pretty funny and good","Date":"13 June 2007","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Rated R for Language,Drug Use and Sexual Content.Next Friday is the sequel to the movie Friday and the second movie in the trilogy.Friday and Friday After Next were very funny movies.This one was not as funny but did have some really funny moments and was overall a fun and entertaining film.In this one, Craig moves to the suburbs with his rich uncle Elroy and his cousin Day Day.The reason he moves out of his old neighborhood is because Deebo has broken out of jail and wants revenge on Craig for beating him up(this happened in the first movie).There are some more funny characters in this movie such as Pinky the owner of the record store that Day Day works at and the three Mexican brothers who like to start trouble.Next Friday may not be as good as the first or third Friday movie but it is still funny and worth watching.8/10 "},{"Title":"I loved that movie","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday is a movie i enjoyed to see all 4 times. That movie made me laugh so many times. The rating should be a 10 because i thought it was excellent. Ice Cube and Jacob Vargas were my favorite actors in that movie. And that African who came in the Pinky's store made me really crack up. OK, this is all for the comments,keep up the good work of making these kind of movies, and if possible, can the people please make a third part Thank you very much "},{"Title":"Hope the crackakillers pay well, or its back to the ghetto you go!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off Why is Craig smoking? Why is Craig pimping? Why is Craig beating up Pinky? Where are the good Female Characters? Where is Smokey? Where is F. Gary Gray? Why is Craig's dad poop gag (good in the first one) so played out? Why is Baby D a rip-off of Felicia? Why is day-day's gf a rip-off of Craig's gf in Friday? Why is the soundtrack not as good as the first one? Why, in spite of all this, it's still funny!!!! If you haven't seen/don't like Friday, check it out. It's cliched (fat girl, crazy white guys, crazy mexican guys) but it's pretty good. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Next Friday","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I saw this movie tonight at the theater.  I was delighted at the humor involved in this movie, but was also upset that certain elements of the first movie were used in this. It was also disappointing that Chris Tucker was not a part of the cast. Overall, I believe the movie was hilarious, and if you are a fan of the first movie you should definitely see this one. "},{"Title":"I'm an Aztec Warrior, aaahhaa!!","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  That's my favorite of many funny lines from the Joker Bros. in NEXT FRIDAY. Jacob Vargas was hilarious, and he's been in a lot of other good movies like AIRBORNE, CRIMSON TIDE, MY FAMILY, GET SHORTY, SELENA, and ROMY AND MICHELLE. Justin Pierce was also another funny character, one most kids like me could identify with (white boy from the 'burbs who loves skateboarding but can't skate for crap). It's sad that he's no longer with us. Ice Cube is a talented guy, and he did the best (or worst) he could with his character, but it wasn't a shining role like it was in FRIDAY. The family (Uncle Elroy, Day-Day, Suga, Mr. Jones) got a little annoying at times. The biches (Joker's women) were very hot, and Lisa Rodriguez had a smart female character, something not seen much in movies like these. Also, the return of Tom Tiny Lister Jr.'s character was unnecessary. It was built up nicely, but the delivery sucked.Whites in hot, colors in cold, ese! "},{"Title":"Some good belly laughs","Date":"11 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  It is not easy to sit through the whole movie and expect a plot or anything to say for that matter.  However, there are some seriously funny things that you can't help but laugh at.  Depending on what vain you see the movie in and what you're looking for, your response will vary.  But if you just take it as that there are some things that will make you hysterically laugh then by all means, see this movie. "},{"Title":"Close, but not quite there.","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  You have to give Ice Cube credit. He tried to make a good sequel, but somehow it didn't quite work. It was close though, and fairly funny.At one point, in narration, Craig says, I sure miss Smokey.We do too. "},{"Title":"Next Lame Day","Date":"26 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Next Friday (2000) Dir Steve Carr / Cast Ice Cube, Mike Epps, John Witherspoon, Tommy Tiny Lister, Tamala Jones Brainless mess with absolutely no reason for existing. Sequel to Friday with Ice Cube writing and narrating the film. He was responsible for Tommy Tiny Lister landing in prison but after an escape, Cube is sent to live with his Uncle Elroy. Cube's cousin works at Pinky's Record Store where he hides out on his pregnant girlfriend. Next door live drug dealers with a nasty pit bull. There is a subplot involving taxes and saving the property etc. Witless and predictable with uninspiring directing by Steve Carr. Ice Cube plays the humourless lead, which works against the mood of the film. It is as if Cube arrived on the wrong set. Mike Epps plays Cube's best friend who is a complete idiot. John Witherspoon plays Cube's less than friendly father. Perhaps the worst element is an embarrassing appearance by Lister who breaks out of prison and seeks revenge on Cube. Perhaps he should seek out the producers of this film. Tamala Jones plays Epps's pregnant ex-girlfriend although being part of this film gives her something else to be angry about. The conclusion presents theft and drugs as fun as oppose to the endless trouble brought to those who dabbled in it. Nothing of value in this film that prides itself on being stupid. This film should be tossed in a campfire for a marshmallow roast. Score 1 / 10 "},{"Title":"Next Friday isn't half as funny as Friday.","Date":"28 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Next Friday isn't half as funny as Friday. The long awaited sequel to the 1995 cult classic hip-hop comedy lacks the hilarity of the ground-breaking original. Sadly, the best character is gone missing. Early in Next Friday, Craig Jones informs us that Smokey has checked into rehab. Never again do we hear another word about the memorable Chris Tucker character. Nobody in Next Friday either replaces or matches the live-wire comic energy that Tucker infused into the pot-headed player he impersonated so vividly. The Pillsbury Homeboy of Rap&#151;Ice Cube&#151;John Witherspoon, and Tommy 'Tiny' Lister Jr., reprise their roles, but Nia Long and Regina King are missing, too. Ultimately, with Chris around to cut up, Next Friday seems just plain 'Tuckered out.' Next Friday carries on where its lowbrow predecessor faded out, so some surprising narrative continuity distinguishes this farce. If you missed Friday, Craig (Ice Cube) beat the Goliath of the ghetto, Deebo (Tommy 'Tiny' Lister Jr.) to a pulp after the bully had run roughshod over the neighborhood. Now, Deebo is chillin' in jail, but he vows to get payback. Anxiously, Mr. Jones (John Witherspoon) takes his out-of-work slacker son to live with his lotto-winning brother Elroy (Don 'D.C.' Curry). Elroy resides in the suburbs, far away from South Central Los Angeles. No sooner has he relocated his son than Deebo escapes. Tagging along with Deebo on the wrong end of an ankle shackle is another reluctant inmate, Tyrone (Sticky Fingaz) who slows our towering villain down, especially when Deebo steals a bike.Deebo forces Tyrone to phone Craig's father and warn him that Craig is in trouble. Smuggling themselves in the back of Mr. Jones' animal control track (a clever metaphor for Deebo) Deebo and Tyrone ride out to the posh Rancho Cucuamonga where Uncle Elroy lives. Meanwhile, Craig finds life just as chaotic with his nouveau riche relatives. He dodges Elroy's oversexed wife Suga (Kym E. Whitley) and hangs out with his cousin Day-Day (Mike Epps of All About The Benjamins). Day-Day drives a new BMW and works in a record shop. Craig discovers a voluptuous Hispanic honey, Karla (Lisa Rodriguez), who lives at the house next door but tangles with her three Latino gangster brothers when he tries to steal their drug money to pay the unpaid property taxes on Uncle Elroy's crib.Next Friday is just as rude, crude, and lewd as Friday. Mr. Jones still has drafty bowel movement moments and has dog-do smeared across his back during most of the movie. Unfortunately, producer Ice Cube and freshman director Steve Carr screw up Next Friday. They squander too many good characters. First, Deebo spends too much time out of sight in the dog pound truck. Lister almost but doesn't quite compensate for Tucker's absence. Second, Craig gets nowhere with Karla, and she drops out of sight inexplicably after the cops have arrested her brothers. Third, everything in Next Friday is a predictable retread of Friday, but on a grander scale with less inspiration and no gun control messages. "}{"Title":"Here we go again","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I saw Next Friday a day after I've seen it's prequel Friday. It seems like only yesterday...Well, frankly speaking, it was yesterday when I've seen the next Friday movie.I didn't think a lot of it, I always thought Friday was one of the so-so movies ever, except it's grand sequel Friday after next. When I watched Next Friday yesterday, I thought it was pretty good... for a So-So movie hehe... Of course not as good as Friday and Friday After Next but I got a good laugh out of it, and now I think of it a so-so highly. Of course Smokey should have been there too but, anyways, at least there's Day Day but it shows a character from a different perception and Day Day is a funny guy but Smokey is one of the best characters in any movie. They need to bring Smokey back. All in all grade Next Friday is good too and is definitely worth seeing...Just don't forget yo weeds! "},{"Title":"okay not as good as the first,","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" it was funny but not as funny as the second or third. i like how day-day got that crazy ex. scratching his ride and all. and i love how day-day (mike epps) and Craig (ice cube) fight. this is about Craig knocked out debo in the first Friday. now he's busting out of jail getting some revenge. but Craig's got to move with his sex obsessed uncle and his nasty aunt and cousin. they have great adventures in next Friday. good movie. go buy it rent it kiss it whatever. but really it's good. it was funny but not as funny as the second or third. i like how day-day got that crazy ex. scratching his ride and all. and i love how day-day (mike epps) and Craig (ice cube) fight. this is about Craig knocked out debo in the first Friday. now he's busting out of jail getting some revenge. but Craig's got to move with his sex obsessed uncle and his nasty aunt and cousin. they have great adventures in next Friday. good movie. go buy it rent it kiss it whatever. but really it's good. "},{"Title":"Funny as hell","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I guess this appealed to me because I have a ghetto side that rarely gets out. Ice Cube turns in a so-so performance, but Mike Epps shines like them 20s he says he keeps clean. The storyline doesn't skip that much of a beat, and the new characters are especially funny (a record store owner comes to mind). The gag jokes are just about non-stop, as the movie plays on just about every stereotype concerning the suburbs Friday was a great movie, but don't sleep on this just one because it's a sequel. The few things that kept this movie at a 9a. No Chris Tucker (Mike Epps fills the gap well, but even a quick cameo would've been nice). b. Craig's sister, played by the beautiful Regina King, goes off to college, never to be seen again (mentioned briefly). c. Carla didn't lose the top!!! I was waiting for that so much when I first saw this! d. The three females toward the end didn't do the same!!! DAMN!!!Still, a great movie to laugh your ass off to. SAY IT AGAIN!!! "},{"Title":"A Surprisingly Slow Sequel","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" They say sequels are never as good as the originals. This movie was no exception. I thoroughly enjoyed watching Friday, but Next Friday definitely lacked in humor, acting and storyline especially.This would have to encapsulate one of the most simple plots I have ever seen. The prequel to this film had a better story in it, and being a fan of hood movies, better locations.Ice Cube once again proving he is a talented person, not some lifeless rapper - turned - actor. His part was as good as his last, but some new characters in this movie did not prove to me the film was better.I would like to give this a better rating than 6/10, but for me it was not a big hitter.So, the sequel theory is right again. 6/10. "},{"Title":"Where's Smoke Dogg?","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Sorry Ice, but Next Friday sucked. Okay, it didn't totally and completely suck, but it certainly ain't the classic that Friday is. Honestly, I thinks from the absence of Chris Tucker (aka Smoke Dogg and Smokey). I didn't even watch Friday After Next because I didn't want to be cheated twice. Chris is 'da man! "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but lacking too","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  NEXT FRIDAY provides laughs, but not like the first. Without Chris Tucker, the Friday series begins to lack a bit of the good comedy he provided. This wasn't as funny as the other two Fidays, but it still can make you laugh hard enough if you just watch the movie and try not to look for flaws. "},{"Title":"BADLY BORING","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This has to be one of the worst sequels in history. Once you lose a main character like Chris Tucker, you lose your movie. The original Friday was built on the interplay between Craig and Smokey. With that gone you have nothing. I did like the fact it put my hometown of Rancho Cucamonga on the map! There are loads of houses like those up there. Most have crappy non filled swimming pools too....2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"your reviewer is culturally ignorant...","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" ... or else how would you mistake the mexican-american characters (this is LA, remember?) for puerto ricans?There are plot and story weaknesses, but they don't take away from the enjoyment. The movie is funny - that's all it aspires to be and that's enough.  "},{"Title":"boring,dull,not a go see","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie to me was the weakest movie i have seen in a long time with jokes that is not even funny there tried to make a sequel to Friday but with this it didn't happen this is one of those movies that when you are watching it you are thinking to your self wow i must be bored nothing about the way the movie was made was good to me it was a big joke in its self i would not ever ever ever see this movie again and I thought don't be a mince while drinking your juice in the hood was bad I think this should win the trash award I would rate it a -1 out of 10 A movie with a bad plot and  brainless actors. "},{"Title":"Horrible Movie","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was the worst movie I've ever seen! When Chris Tucker said he wasn't going to do it, that should have been a clue, I mean, he made the first Friday.  The first Friday was a classic, not to be messed with, and they put out this awful movie as a sequel.  All I can say is, I'm glad I didn't pay any money to see this in the theater.  I saw it on cable and was still mad, for wasting my time! And now, they have the nerve to make a Friday after next? WHY????Don't get me wrong, I love Ice Cube, but this is just starting to get ridiculous.  The character Day-Day is a flunkie, and he's not funny, and I just really hated this movie!  "}{"Title":"Almost better than the original","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Of course it's not better than the first Friday, but it is just as good in its own way.  Although it's the sequel, it should not be compared to the first movie.  That's the mistake most people make and as a result they come away from the movie disappointed.  Mike Epps is no Chris Tucker, but he is just as funny and is own his way to becoming one of the funniest comedians out today.The movie has laughs from start to finish.  Day-day and his crazy ex-girlfriend, Craig being chased by Chico the dog, and my favorite scene has to be between Craig and Pinky!  Anyway, take Next Friday for what it is and I guarantee you will come away from it thoroughly satisfied. "},{"Title":"Don't worry about spoilers.  There's no plot to ruin.","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I really wanted to like Next Friday.  I really did.  Something told me that when Chris Tucker wasn't going to be in it, that it just wasn't going to be that great.  The first one, while it had no plot, was still pretty funny and one that I enjoy watching from time to time.  In Next Friday, you guessed it, it's a week later and Craig is going to live with his uncle and cousin over in the Suburbs.  The abscence of Smokey is explained when Craig makes mention that Smokey got sent off to rehab.  So much for Smokey.  Anyway, in his place we get Craig's idiot cousin, Day-Day, and his even dumber uncle Elroy.  That's it.  Although, Day-Day is dumb as a rock and annoying as hell, his Uncle Elroy is occasionally funny.Throughout Next Friday's measily hour and a half (it still ran too long), I laughed a grand total of ONE time.  This was because of Pinky.  I'm serious, had this guy been in the movie more than just five minutes, it probably would have gone down better.  His scenes had me on the floor. I'm sure that this movie may please its target audience, but there's no way that anyone could like it as much as the first.  If I were Mexican, I would be offended at the crude racial stereotypes and that whole mini-me scene was probably the single most STUPID moment in cinematic history.  Anyone who laughed at that is in desperate need of a laugh.  One more thing, if you haven't seen this yet, please don't.  Just rent the first one again.  Please. That's all I'm gonna say. "},{"Title":"A WHOLE NEW FRIDAY. A WHOLE NEW SET OF LAUGHS!","Date":"3 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I heard when they were coming out with Next Friday and got the news that Chris Tucker wasn't coming back, I thought it was going to be jake. But when I finally went to the movies to see it, it turned out to be better than the first. The only differences are that Craig (Ice Cube) has gone from South Central L.A. to the suburbs. Deebo went to prison and is out for revenge with his dingy little brother. And he's staying with his funny uncle, his whining cousin, and his uncle's friendly girlfriend. I laughed harder on Next Friday than I did the first one and you will too. So, Cube and Pooh hurry up and get back together on that new Friday. PLEASE!  "},{"Title":"Lack of Chris Tucker kills the movie.","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I don't find this movie nearly as good as the first Friday, mainly because of the absence of Chris Tucker. Ice Cube alone just isn't able to lift the movie and the portrayel of the beyond idiotic hispanic neighbours is too stupid to be funny. At least Lisa Rodríguez Adds some beauty to the movie. "},{"Title":"I gave this film the credit it deserves.","Date":"12 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday is a very different film to the original. Very different but also very funny. As long as you don't make the fatal mistake of trying to compare Day Day with Smokey from the original as they are both different characters, but very funny in their own separate way. Following on from the original Friday, Craig Jones (Ice Cube) has moved away from the 'hood to Rancho Cucamonga to live with his eccentric (and hilarious) Uncle Elroy and his cousin Day Day to escape from his arch nemesis Deebo who is due to escape from prison and hurt him for beating him up before he went to jail. Craig thinks he's safe in the suburbs, but it all goes horribly wrong when he gets there as he soon realises that everywhere is the same really. Every place has it's friendly people and every place has it's bullies who in Rancho Cucamonga take shape as three Latino thugs called the Joker brothers. Craig and Day Day get into some hilarious scrapes as they try and get the money together to stop Elroy's house being repossessed for unpaid tax bills. On their way through the film, they encounter a number of colourful characters such as miss Ho-Kim and the wannabe black skater Roach. All in all a very entertaining film from start to finish. As far as I'm concerned it's a must see. "},{"Title":"Just like the original...it takes repeated viewings for it to grow on you.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I found the original movie quite boring at first. But with repeated viewings, I found myself enjoying it more and more.This one was the same. Although I missed Chris Tucker, and some of the other characters in the original, I enjoyed this film as well..but not as much.I think it's worth taking a look at. You may like it...you may not like it. But check it out if you can. "},{"Title":"Next Friday?  living up to the original.","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ice Cube once again shows us his writing talents by giving us a great movie to see on Friday.  And even though Chris Tucker is not there, the new characters make up for the comedy with loads of funny, stereo-typical humor that just makes you laugh your butt off.  The incredible part is how the pacing of the film is kept up, always offering something new and interesting to the viewer.  I would have to say this is a great movie even though the directors changed hands, I think Ice Cube has kept this movie his own.  Will there be another Friday?  Bank on it. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i dont know whats wrong with you people all you keep on mentioning is chris tucker. who cares.  jacob vargas was much funnier in my opinion and the joker brothers were the funniest thing in this movie thats why i liked it better then the first one. hopefully they make a third and they bring back the jokers i also liked the african guy he cracked me up. "},{"Title":"It only gets funnier...","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Well, the first time i saw next friday, i admit i was kind of disappointed. I missed Smokey and Craig's father's humor. But after seeing it 4 times i must say that i love it. And it ain't Day Day or Craig who makes the movie so hilarious, it is the Joker brothers across the street. I laughed hard when one of the Joker brothers rips off his pants to reveal a skimpy thing which he calls Mini-Me) Only one thing to say Ehh, Eh, I AM AN AZTEC WARRIOR! AYYAAA  "},{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Better than nutty professor and life with eddie together this film was surprising funny . different to the first but sure worth watching. the dog ice cube. every actor is funny the film has no great sense but in this comedy it doesnt matter . "}{"Title":"No Smokey=No Success...What was Ice Cube Thinking?","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I thought this was going to be funny and carry a good plot like the first Friday.  But what I got was a tired plot that runs out quick and the same old jokes that were similar to the first one.  The characters have very close resemblances to the ones in the first Friday.  I love the first movie. There was no reason to make a Next Friday.  Especially one without Smokey. Mike Epps who plays Day Day is supposed to be like Smokey, but something's missing.  He's not as funny and didn't put as much energy into it as Chris Tucker did.  I'm happy with only one of these in my collection and can do without Next Friday.  If you haven't seen Friday, go rent it or buy it. Just forget this one existed.  The only thing that I liked was the funny little Hispanic guy Joker and his sister Karla.   "},{"Title":"That's enough...","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Fist, I would like to point out that I loved Friday.I've had it with all these people saying oh, this movie was not so bad, it's different from the first, blah, blah, blah! This 'film' was an utter failure on every count. It is obvious that Ice Cube attempted here to recreate the same laughs (and i do mean -same-, since almost every joke in the movie is a rehashing of some joke that worked in the first)  Even though not a single one succeded in even arousing more than a bland sense of contempt, this wasn't a bad idea to work from, since it is equally as apparent that he has no ability to create an interesting or well thought out plot. Also..ah to heck with it, this movie sucks, and I'm wasting my time telling you so, just don't watch it, and if you did, and liked it, forget I wrote this, because there's no reasoning with you.  "},{"Title":"Is it just me?","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Is it just me, or is this movie hilarious?  I went to the movie with three people, and two of us were in the floor laughing, and the other two would start to laugh, catch themselves, and then remember to hate it again.  I myself consider the original Friday a modern-day classic for the 20-something party demographic.  However, I did not go into this movie trying to compare Next Friday to the first one... and I believe that's why I liked it so much.  I think if you drop the preconceived notions about this sequel you will love it.   "},{"Title":"Definitely one of the worst films I've ever seen!","Date":"21 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This film starts out like it has a good plot working, it gets you thinking about how that convict is gonna catch up with Craig and they're going to have a showdown - which would have been good. Instead the plot is so, so, so screwed up that this never happens; as soon as Craig meets the convict, the police arrive. How boring. And the dog-muck scene, TACKY.The only good bit about this film is that Spanish-talking tough guy with the hat so far over his eyes I'm surprised he can see where he's going "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  A lot of controversy was revolving around the fact that Chris Tucker was not going to be in the movie so it would not be worth watching.  The fact is that, it was not as great as the first one, but definitely funnier than an episode of Friends.  Mike Epps was just as good of a co-star as Tucker was. And Pop's had his moments.  Also contributing to the humour was Jacob Vargas who proved himself to be worthy of comedy as well as the hard core drama. In all if you just think of this as another comedy movie and not the sequel to Friday, you will definitely laugh.    "},{"Title":"Friday was badass, Next Friday is just bad","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Ice Cube made a major blunder when he did not pursue Chris Tucker to make the sequel. Friday had great chemistry and a hilarious plot. Next Friday has neither of those characteristics. The new characters are flat and the dialog is boring. All in all, just watch Friday again, and I assure you it will be funnier than Next Friday. "},{"Title":"Very good sequel. Must see for Friday fans!","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I must admit I was skeptical when I heard a sequel was coming out for Friday, but I was pleasantly surprised. I felt despite the loss of Chris Tucker to the cast it was a solid second effort and blows the doors of many other sequels to hit movies (Dusk til Dawn are you listening???). Excellent job, I have to see it again because I am sure I missed half of John Witherspoon's lines.  "},{"Title":"It's all about Next Friday!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday is completely worth it!  Everyone should forget about the whole issue if Chris Tucker is in it or not...Next Friday is funny!  I've been twice both times the theater was sold out and people rolled! through the entire film!  It's about entertainment! The laughs are there! Go and see! "},{"Title":"Some Funny ish! Good and Really Funny!","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I went to see this movie and even though I did'nt care too much for the first one, (Mainly because I saw it like 5,999,999,999 times) I really liked this movie. There were some real funny scenes especially with Mike Epps. I did'nt care much for the Joker brothers but, I liked Ms. Ho-Wang. I wish she would have been in it some more. I think the story could have been better developed and you could have had a slightly better climax but, this movie is straight laughs!! I would recommend it over Any Given Sunday!! "},{"Title":"An Equal Sequel","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday was probably one of the better sequels I've seen.  This movie had me laughing from the moment it started.  The only bad thing I could think of is that they didn't have enough with the Delivery Boy and they didn't settle the business between Craig and the Girl Next Door.  Besides that, it was as good as the first one...would have been better if Chris Tucker was in it...but still good. "}{"Title":"Pretty funny but not as good as the original","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  First off, you have to realize that without Chris Tucker, it's not going to be the same movie.  I think that's what the film-makers realized, also, and therefore they took the movie in a completely different direction than the first.  That being said, they did a pretty good job.Day-day is no Smokey but they don't make him out to be Smokey.  I do have to say that the Joker brothers make this movie.  I was rolling every scene they were in.  Next time, more Joker brothers.My only knock on the movie was that they repeated a lot of jokes from the first movie.  Hey, I saw the first one and it was funny  but you don't have to cram the exact same lines down my throat.  It kind of cheapened the movie.  All in all, I would say it's very funny if you don't go in expecting the same movie as the first. "},{"Title":"much different compared to the first one.","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i was suprised to see this be as good as the first one.  it was much different, but as good. it is very obvious that this movie needs chris tucker which it is missing. at least ice cube is still in it and tamala jones has joined the crew. debo and john witherspoon are still there, and it makes the movie really funny. a must see. "},{"Title":"Skip This Friday!","Date":"25 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" After seeing the first Friday film and enjoying it, I expected this sequel to while not living up to the first, to be an enjoyable comedy that would serve up a decent amount of laughs.This film is the equivalent of an Araon Seltzer and Jason Friedberg movie where the film has no plot and the humor is solely based around swearing and being vulgar, except it's all irritating and not funny in the slightest. The film may have been more tolerable if the characters were actually likable, but they are all annoying and unlikeable. Mike Epps was a terrible addition to the cast and is neither funny or a good actor. There's nothing good about this film and it should be avoided at all cost. Even if you are a fan of the first film. I doubt I will even bother to check out the 3rd entry in the series after this mess. "},{"Title":"Missing one vital ingredient Chris Tucker","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Friday took place in the ghetto, in Next Friday Ice Cube's character now lives in a wealthy neighbourhood. This means from the start that the basic formula is different, and the absence of any familiar character except Ice Cube, who was one of the weaker characters the original means that it's a film with a tenuous connection to the first. In essence Next Friday is almost a completely different film from Friday. It is still passable, it carries enough energy for the viewer to not become bored, but the original seems highly original and inventive in comparison. It seems to be capitalising on the success of the first rather than creating a true sequel. "},{"Title":"Still Good W/O Chris Tucker","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The best thing about this sequel is definitely Mike Epps (Day-Day). He really breathed life into this thing, cause it seemed like it would be doomed from the start. I didn't really see the significance in brining back Deebo though. I mean Craig knocked him the f**k out, end of story. And it really seems unrealisitic that two guys running around in bright orange jumpsuits wouldn't get caught by the cops sometime throughout the movie. And of course Pops (John Witherspoon) was funny as hell too with his hot sauce and burritos and air spray. I also enjoyed Pinky, Day Day's boss. Its hard to imagine that a guy in a stereotypical greasy jherri curl riding back seat in a cadillac would actually be legitimately amusing. Anyway, true there's no sight of Chris Tucker anywhere in this movie, its still definitely worth watching over and over again. There's hilarious new characters and even more funny and memorable lines. ** 1/2  "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I'v ever seen","Date":"4 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I do think this is a very funny movie. Although the critics are terribly bad, I like this movie. Before I saw this movie, I didn't see the first one. I didn't even know that there was a first movie. The story is kind of bad, the acting is also not very good (especially the guy who plays Roach), but it's so funny. The swearing, very exaggerated, is brilliant, and Jacob Vargas is at his best. Geweldige film (Great movie in Dutch)!  "},{"Title":"Next funny as hell","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday continues the antics of Craig and his fam.  But this time, he moves to the suburbs with his Uncle Elroy and Day-Day.  This time, there's a new love interest for Craig-thanks to a beautiful puerto rican chick.  Then there's the new bunch of puerto rican thugs who live across the street.  Then there's Deebo and his jailmate friend out to get revenge.  This was yet another funny as hell flick.  Ice Cube, John Witherspoon and Mike Epps deliver funny performances.  Even though Chris Tucker isn't in this one, it was still good.  It's deja vu again in here.  ***1/2 stars.  (New Line) "},{"Title":"The ghetto's version of Home Alone.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Everyone remembers how Home Alone and Home Alone 2Lost In New York were pretty much the same film only gussied up. To an extent, Next Friday is similar to Friday in the same vein, but there's a lot more different here.The Cube reprises his role as Craig Jones. Mr. Jones is now a pot smoking addict, thanks to the departed Chris Tucker character. Their old nemesis Deebo (Tiny Lister) is still looking for his revenge. So Craig's father hides him in the posh Beverly Hills district where he has relatives who won the lottery.Even there, he has trouble. His family have wasted all the money they've won, yet they still need to pay for their digs, and now if they don't get the money, they'll be evicted. Also, Craig gets into cahoots with a stereotypical (but goofy) group of Puerto Ricans living nearby. He's especially smitten by the lovely sister they have (Lisa Rodriguez). And yes, Deebo somehow finds out where Craig is. It all comes to a head.This film is a lot better than the first one. The acting is decent and the story is a lot more intriguing. The dark setting of Compton is eased by the poshness of Beverly Hills. There are some great scenes, such as Craig's dad and his battle with Nature's Call in one of L.A.'s infamous traffic jams. Also, Craig's pot fantasy with Rodriguez's Karla character (seen in the trailers) where she dancing for him and he asks he if she's ever heard of El Nino (the weather affecter off the coast of Ecuador). When she moans Yes, he replies Get ready for El Negro!. Also, the closing track of You Can Do It is one of the Cube's best.Yes, the characters are stereotypical cut-outs and there's a lot of offensive humor, but the film is still very good. Although How High is still my favorite comedy featuring rappers since the start of 2000 (despite the pot and vomit jokes), Next Friday is next in line. Can't wait for the third helping of Friday. "},{"Title":"Just as fun as FRIDAY!","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I also OWN this DVD.  It's a must own.  I can't believe how funny this movie is.  The FATHER continues to deliver tons of good lines.  The main character is again ICE CUBE and his friend DAE DAE.  Dae Dae is the homeboy who replaced Chris Tucker (and does a great job at it also).  The pot smoking, cussing and using the N word is still very prevolent in this movie.  There are also some great scenes with DEBO!!  Yep, the cross eyed bully.  There are also some VATOS who live next door to where Craig is staying.  They are strait out of EAST LA.  They are the highlight of this movie!  I would suggest seeing NEXT FRIDAY any DAY of the week!!   "},{"Title":"Who Needs Chris Tucker","Date":"30 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is great.  So many funny parts in the movie.  And Mike Epps is hilarious.  You really don't need Smokey when you have Day Day.  Just listen to the stuff that he mutters every second he's on screen, he's funny as hell.  Plus,  Sticky Fingaz (my all-time favorite rapper) is in the movie. While he's not that funny, he doesn't have much to work with (he is opposite Tiny Lister for God's sake) which says a lot.  The Joker's were great.  So many quotes from Vargas.  Clifton Powell is great as Pinky.  The whole scene at the record store is classic.  Here are some quotesI'm just a bitch ass nigga! -The AfricanCome with me, that African might've circled the block or something -Day DayShe sprayed the playa!!!! She sprayed the pimp!!! -Day DayYou almost made me spill my Yak on this $200 suit nigga -Pinky to his limo driverI heard that, say something else!!! -PinkyWhite's in hot, colors in cold. You're gonna ruin my Dickey's -Joker to his brotherElroy You think they really went to the moon? Craig They say they went to the moon Elroy They say the ain't got no gravity up there. That means we could get high and never come down.  "}{"Title":"Delivers another good batch of laughs","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This sequel doesn't work quite as effectively as the original--Of course, we don't have Smokey this time around--but I laughed a lot.  Watching it a second time around, I found it pretty dull, but the first time I liked it.  Mike Epps is very funny as Cube's cousin.  John Witherspoon also provides some good supporting laughs.  And I liked the uncle--I'm not sure what his name is, but I've seen him before.  The jokes get repetitive at times, sometimes lame, sometimes just all-out crude, but they're often effective.  Cube is a good writer, and he came up with such original lines like, You ever heard of El Nino? Yes.  Well, this is El Negro.  There were many wacky moments where I laughed hard, like the one with Pinky, the owner of a music store who comes to work in a limo and struts around like a pimp. Next Friday is no Annie Hall.  The comedy falls flat at times and the humor isn't exactly classy, but I got enough laughs to recommend it.  It's better than a lot of sequels I've seen. "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie ever made.","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie is painfully bad.  I ended up sitting through it just to see if there was even one scene that might make me chuckle.  Just one..... and there wasn't.  It is so stupid it will make you feel ripped off even if someone walked up and gave it to you.  You will feel like you wasted 90 minutes of your life.There is not a single funny scene in the entire movie.  It centers around Ice Cube going to visit his uncle, who had recently won the lottery.  He hangs out with his moronic friend Day-Day and they try to be funny with a long series of boring, tired, done-a-million-times jokes on drugs, sex and flatulence.I cannot believe that someone who is supposed to have some talent such as Ice Cube could have written such trash.  And who in the world would have produced this film?  Why it would have to be Ice Cube himself since no one else with any sense or taste would have touched it.  This is, without doubt, the all-time worst movie ever made.  I think you should all go and rent it (was it ever in the theaters?) just to see how bad films can be. Congratulations Ice, a new low! "},{"Title":"the original was much better","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Wow.  What a miscalculation on the parts of Ice Cube and D.J. Pooh.  The first Friday was hilarious, but I only laughed a few times with this movie.  While others might cite the lack of Chris Tucker as this movie's major failing, I think the problem is much more fundamental than that.  In the first Friday, Craig himself is funnier, as are all the bit players.  Here, no one really has anything interesting to say or do at all.Clifton Powell's turn as Pinky is by far the funniest thing in this movie.  Otherwise, there isn't much going on.  The ending is a huge cop-out.  3/10 "},{"Title":"Fun, worthy sequel","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  The first Friday is my fifth favorite movie of all time (the only comedy to make my list, it is just one of the funniest movies EVER!). When I first saw the preview for this one, I thought it would suck without Chris Tucker. I was wrong. It is a very funny follow-up, with some new humor and characters as well. Ice Cube carries this movie very well, and his cousin Day-Day and Uncle Elroy are hilarious. The next door neighbors on both sides are great too. Great movie, but please don't make a third one, two is perfect. John Witherspoon never fails to entertain in this one either. 3 1/2 stars/4.  "},{"Title":"It Was A Bad Day","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday is one of the worst films ever made.Starring rap star Ice Cube,this is an awful film portraying black people as a bunch of lazy,stupid,indecent,trashy goofballs with no purpose in life but indulging in sex,drugs,money,and pleasure.No character in the film,including Ice Cube's own character,is anybody that you would care about when watching the film.The attempts at humor fall way short of O'Shea Jackson's(Ice Cube's real name) means of achieving them.It is just a ugly feature film filled with vulgarity,violence,poor taste,and ebonics,showing blacks in a terrible light. Most American blacks are in no way shape or form  what one sees portrayed here in Next Friday,but the movie is heavyhanded in its' demeaning portrayal of black people and the filmmakers seem not to care that it is.One hopes Next Friday is the Last Friday to be made.  "},{"Title":"Not that great","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  When I first heard that Next Friday was coming to the theater, I was excited but unfortunately it never came to the theater in my hometown but when we rented it on video, I was actually quite dissapointed cause it was a basic rehash of the original with a lot less laughs, while this movie still contains some funny parts it just wasn't the same like the original and I wish that Smokey (Chris Tucker) was in this movie, Day Day (Mike Epps) wasn't half as funny as Chris Tucker, but Ice Cube, John Witherspoon and Tiny Lister (as Deebo) does a great job for what they got.Overall this movie isn't a big letdown or a waste of time, it just doesn't come close to the original's standards, if you liked the first Friday or like gangsta comedies, then you'll like Next Friday. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Extremely funny!","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday, is by far the best comedy film out there today. This time, Craig moves out of the ghetto, and into the suburbs, mainly because his dad fears that Deebo will come after Craig. Deebo has escaped from jail, and he is out to find Craig. Craig's father sends him to live with his uncle, and cousin Day-Day. That basically sums up the story line. What made this film so funny, is the three Jokers, and facial expressions. This movie has lots of funny jokes, and clever lines. Mike Epps' character, Day-Day, is probably the most unique character in the film next to Joker. I loved the screenplay for this film, mainly because it had clever lines, and funny jokes. Next Friday also has some pretty good acting, which in general make the movie even funnier. This, I think is, Mike Epps' first film, and I have to say that he did a damn good job for a first film. Like I said earlier in this review, most of the comedy comes from facial expressions, and clever jokes. I would have to say, that the funniest facial expression in this film, was when Mike Epps' character is first introduced. The character Joker, is the funniest part of the film. Every time a joke comes out of his mouth, or any word for that matter, will make you laugh. When I first heard of this film, I really anticipated that it was pure crap, but then I saw it on TV, and I was proved wrong. This movie kicks ass. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"will there be another next time???","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  i hope so. friday part one, might been more fun but i liked this one as well. Some nice jokes, especially the joker brother, and ice cube was very funny to. There where some parts that where a bit boring too but still one to rent. "},{"Title":"It's OK.","Date":"6 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Next Friday has the same slacker attitude as the first movie Friday with a little more plot line. The big disappointment is the lack of Chris Tucker as he was a big drawcard for the first movie. Once again this movie is completely watchable although it does edge into sequel territory where the storyline feels more worked and less organic in it's development. Also the characters weren't as good and felt typical to this style of movie.Not a bad effort as a sequel but it misses the mark. It's lucky it is connected to a cult hit or it would not have been as successful (and I use that term lightly). "},{"Title":"Lower Your Expectations and Enjoy","Date":"29 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Gotta be honest when I first saw this movie, I expected it to be total crap with Chris Tucker no longer a part of the cast. Saying that, I also believe that's the reason why I enjoyed it so much. Granted this is definitely the worst of the three Friday films with some good reason. Some of the jokes seemed kind of forced and in some cases the film seemed to be overacted (You'll see what I mean when you meet the neighbors). Despite that, Ice Cube wrote a solid screenplay that shows that even in the suburbs, things can get crazy. Mike Epps' crazy ex was excellent along with the treatment that she gives to him over the course of the day. That ugly dog was hilarious particularly in the second half of the movie. Not to mention the weed jokes (sorry to those who don't like 'em, I'm a sucker for 'em, personal experience I guess haha but I digress). Plus when you see a fine lady in the film you can't help but to give it a couple extra points. Advice before seeing this, watch the first one and admit that It'll never be topped and you'll enjoy this movie. "}{"Title":"Next Friday Makes for a Good Weekend","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Next Friday is the follow up to successful cult film, Friday. Which seems like an urban sequel to Booty Call more than Friday. This one takes place exactly a week after Friday did.Next Friday is about Craig Jones (Ice Cube) who reprises his role as Craig, goes to live with his uncle in Cucamonga after the neighborhood bully he beat up escapes from prison. Chris Tucker's character Smokey is said to go to rehab. Mike Epps takes the role of the supporting character, Day-Day, Craig's cousin. Day Day is basically the hood kinda guy, also denying he's the father of his girlfriend's child. His girlfriend takes many stands trying to beat him up, using her sister Baby D.Meanwhile, the neighborhood bully, Debo, from the first Friday, Escapes from jail trying to hunt down Craig while sneaking in the back of Craig's dads truck. Which they tricked him in driving down to Cucamonga saying Craig was hurt.In the line of Good Sequels and Bad Sequels, this has it's moment, but its nothing compared to classic Friday. This one tries to have a lot of memoirs to the first movie, which it does, but many are forgettable. Still a decent sequel, I recommend Next Friday, but see the old Friday before this or you will be lost.Starring Ice Cube, Mike Epps, and John Witherspoon. Directed by Steve Carr. "},{"Title":"not as good as the first film,but still very entertaining","Date":"8 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" this second film in the Friday trilogy is a pretty good film.i enjoyed it quite a bit.it's pretty funny at times,though maybe not quite as funny as the first one was.i think they stretched a couple of the jokes too thin.there is one running joke that they milked a bit too much.still the story is interesting.the cast of characters is not quite as large,with only a handful of characters from the first film returning.Ice Cube is back as Craig,and John Witherspoon returns as his Dad,Mr.Jones.there are some new characters,but these are not nearly as quirky or interesting as the characters in the first movie.to me,they seemed a bit stereotypical.overall,though,the movie is funny and entertaining.for me,Next Friday is a 7/10 "},{"Title":"more story doesn't necessarily mean more laughs","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Vengeful bully Deebo escapes from prison and makes his way back to South Central to try and settle the score with Craig (Cube). Not wanting to face his wrath, Craig moves out of the ghetto and travels to the suburbs to stay with his uncle and cousin in Rancho Cucamonga. Unbeknownst to him, the burbs aren't as idyllic as they seem and he gets caught up in a series of lame misadventures with the eccentric neighborhood inhabitants. Follow-up to Friday has more of a plot than its predecessor, along with a likable cast, but it has an abundance of crude humor which seems more desperate than funny, and the whole thing gets old pretty quickly. *½ "},{"Title":"I actually liked Next Friday a lot better","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" My sister lent me the movie Friday a couple months ago, and I wasn't really too interested in seeing the sequels after being disappointed with the first Friday movie. But I figured to give Next Friday a chance because one of my friends told me that it was a lot more fun than the first and I agree. I know the rating on IMDb doesn't seem too promising, but believe me, I think that people were just being a little too harsh on the film because it wasn't like the first one.Craig has to stay with his lottery winning uncle and cousin 'till things cool down back home since the bully he took down in the first Friday broke out of prison. Well, Craig and his cousin, Day-Day, get into some crazy situations with Day-Day's ex and the neighbors across the street who are dealing with some heavy stuff. When Craig finds out about his uncle and cousin's house being sold in an auction, he and Day-Day try to find a way to get the money to keep the house.I really laughed a lot more in Next Friday than the first one, as much as I love Chris Tucker, I have to admit that he was somewhat annoying in the first movie, it was nice having a little tone down in this film. But seriously, people need to cut this movie a break because it is a really funny film when you just let go and relax. Well, I hope Friday after Next is just as funny, but we'll see.7/10 "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"24 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" i think it is the best Friday of all, and my favorites movie. the humor is fresh and the situations are unique. some over acting but better than most of the black comedies i've seen. i've been known to have a pretty good sense of humor. i am a south African coloured and perhaps this is why i can related to Graig and Dada's situations. i think Lisa Rodriguez is the most beautiful actress i've ever seen on TV and i am very selective of my women.however this is not why this is my 2nd favorites movie. the best is the original kings of comedy NB send me more PCs of Lisa Rodriguez please. also the other projects that she is or was involved in. does she have a fan club or website? "},{"Title":"A pretty poor show on all fronts","Date":"2 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" When he hears that Deebo plans to break out of prison, Craig gets taken to a much better neighbourhood to avoid trouble by hiding out with his lottery-winning uncle Elroy and his drugged out cousin Day-Day. Unknown to Craig though, Deebo has a plan for finding out where he is hiding but in the meantime he has his own problems Day-Day has a Fatal Attraction thing going on with a neighbour, Uncle Elroy is a freak, another neighbour appears to be in a gang and it is only a matter of time before Craig is back in trouble on another Friday.Opening with the credits delivered in weed smoke while the smokers chuckle and comment about them, I knew from the start that this was hardly going to the film to watch if I was looking for anything beyond ebonics and clowning. However even when I had accepted that my brain would be working at this level, I was still disappointed find that this film wasn't even good by the very low standards of that genre. The plot is essentially just one comic scenario after another with the Deebo thing only serving to provide a conclusion. As such it is no surprise to find that the narrative is badly structured, lacking anything to engage and generally just an excuse to wheel out clichés and drug/toilet/sexual jokes. The problem is that the film isn't very funny at all and it just sort of moves along without much effort or spark, I kept waiting to laugh but it never came. Instead all I got were very obvious jokes that made the least amount of effort possible and all the character development of a hip-hop music video (complete with sexy girls for sexy girls' sake).Accordingly the performances are all as bland, lazy and uninspired as the writing. Cube makes for an expressionless chunk of wood that it is difficult to care about or even like; he is also to blame for the script as the main writer here. I hate to get all McGruder for a second but it is hard to see why audiences turn out for stuff like this (or why someone who is a black icon would make it) because all it does is reinforce black stereotypes and is just as racist as it sounds. Epps is the Chris Tucker replacement and, rather than do anything new, he just shrieks and mugs his way along from start to finish. Witherspoon does his usual stuff and is amusing I suppose while Pierce turns in the token white dude role. Lister has little to do other than be a big angry man. The female cast are mainly the slim, sexy and available type (how imaginative) with appropriate turns from Rodriguez, Jones and a few others, with Whitley providing the usual big black woman role without anything original to recommend.Overall a clunky, unfunny and obvious film that will probably just about satisfy the most undemanding of genre fans. Other than them though most viewers will just find themselves becoming more and more bored by the parade of ethnic clichés that pass as characters and lazy jokes that pass for humour. Even ignoring the whole demeaning of the race aspect of the film, this is still a pretty poor show on all fronts. "},{"Title":"Craig is Moving From the Hood to the Burbs to Avoid a Deadly Showdown With Deebo...Next Friday!","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" Last Friday, Craig Jones successfully took down the terror of South Central, Deebo. After that, Deebo was sentenced to four years in prison, but vowed to break out and come after Craig...next Friday. Unfortunately, today was next Friday, and Craig still didn't have a job; It seemed like a normal Friday in South Central. Craig was lonely since his homie Smokey went into rehab to get off the weed. After hearing that Deebo and his pal Tyrone escaped from prison, Craig's dad Willie attempted to sneak Craig out of the neighborhood. They luckily evade Deebo just as he was coming to see Craig. They leave the 'hood and head to Rancho Cucamunga where Craig would be staying with his lucky uncle Elroy, who recently won the million dollar Lotto, and his hip cousin Day Day. Willie was jealous of Elroy and didn't come in the house. He just drove off. Elroy was widowed for his wife had a heart attack when they won the Lotto. But, Elroy has since found a new lover, half his age Suga. She was fine! Their fabulous mansion, or sweet crib, was located at the end of a cul-de-sac across from the Joker gang's house, where Joker, Lil Joker and Baby Joker were up to no good; Day Day's old girlfriend D'Wanna came over and keyed the side of Day Day's pride and joy his BMW! Meanwhile back in the 'hood, Deebo and Tyrone came up with a plan to find Craig they called Willie with a phony message that Craig was in trouble and just as he was hurrying out to help him, they sneak a ride in back of his truck.For Craig, life in the 'burbs was different than life in the 'hood. But that's when he met a hot lil' woman named Karla, the sister of the Jokers'. Unfortunately Joker didn't like seeing the two of them together so he sicked his pit bull Cheeco on Craig; after that, Day Day left for work at Pinky's Records & Discs. Uncle Elroy and Suga get high and encourage Craig to join them. Afterwards they go upstairs, when a postman brings a delivery notice. Craig learns that Elroy was behind on his taxes. He owed $3,900 or the house would be auctioned off. Elroy was too busy to notice, so Craig went to see Day Day about it. Day Day and his colleague Roach had a difficult customer to deal with, but Craig knocked some sense into him. Worse to come D'Wanna showed up with her big little sister Baby D'. She was ready to tear Day Day limb from limb, however she had developed the hots for Craig and would let Day Day go if she could talk to Craig. Craig wanted no part of it, so Baby D' and D'Wanna smash Day Day's car window and leave. To think clearly, Day Day, Roach and Craig light up a joint in the stock room. Thanks to Elroy and Day Day's careless spending, they didn't have the $3,900. The only question was how to get it? Unfortunately, right then Pinky, the owner of the store showed up and took Craig to be a robber. There was a scuffle, and Day Day and Roach were fired.When they get home, Day Day shows Elroy the notice, which upset him. But what really upset him was that Day Day got fired from his job; The Joker gang return home then, running over Roach's skateboard in the process. That's when Craig noticed Joker carrying a hydraulic cannister full of...Money? Craig makes a plan with Day Day and Roach to get that cannister. That night, they make their move. Also, Willie finally arrives; Roach is told to distract Cheeco while Craig slips into the house to get the cannister. Joker, Lil Joker and Baby Joker were partying with some really HOT senoritas! Craig escaped out the window, luckily. Meanwhile, Roach gets Cheeco stoned from a special brownie, then he and Day Day try to go inside the house and check on Craig when they find themselves captured. Craig returns to Elroy's house, then he makes a plan to rescue Day Day and Roach. Willie and Elroy help. They manage to knock out Baby Joker and Lil Joker, but still had psycho Joker to worry about. He and Craig get it on in hand-to-hand combat. Just then, Deebo and Tyrone break out of Willie's truck, enter the backyard and knock out Joker. Deebo prepares for his long awaited fight with Craig, when suddenly the police arrive. Deebo, Tyrone, Baby Joker, Lil Joker and Joker were incarcerated. Roach went home with his new best friend Cheeco; As for Craig, after one day in the 'burbs, he decided to return home to the 'hood. With the money they got from Joker, Elroy would be able to keep the house. Craig said goodbye to Elroy, Suga and Day Day and returned home with Willie to good ol' South Central.Next Friday. Man, this was a funny movie! Hilarious. Ice Cube is back as Craig and as funny as ever. Mike Epps joins the cast as hip, but dim-witted Day Day. John Witherspoon returns as Willie. Tom Tiny Lister, Jr. is back as Deebo, the sexy Lisa Rodriguez is Karla, Jacob Vargas is Joker, and Clifton Powell is deranged Pinky. Justin Pierce plays Roach and unfortunately he passed away in 2000 by suicide. Chris Tucker does not return as Smokey, however. Oh well. Maybe in a future Friday film. After this one came Friday After Next, which I'll definitely have to see. In conclusion, Next Friday is da bomb. It is funny from start to finish. There's a lot of F-word usage here, which makes it all the more funny. So if you like Ice Cube or movies about the 'hood or you saw the first Friday, then by all means see Next Friday today! I recommend it, for all the homies in the family!- "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"25 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I Think Friday Was Good But They Added Just a Little More Humor With Mike Epps Although I Wish They Would've Kept Smokey (Chris Tucker) But I Thought It Was Really Good. On A Scale Of 1-10 i have to give it a 9 because it wasn't the funniest movie ever but i was one of the most funniest! In This Movie Debo Gets Out Then Goes Looking For Craig For A Rematch. But Craig Decides To Move To The Suburbs with uncle Elroy and day-day (mike Epps) . Debo eventually catches up with Craig but little does he know Craig doesn't have only problems with Debo but also the joker brothers! Since Day-Day And Uncle Willie Won The Lotto Of a million dollars they come up with problems too, Money! So Craig Must Go Into The Joker Brothers House And Steal The Money They Put In A Hydrallic Pump. Also Craig Falls In With This Black Latina Named Karla. Well I Don't Want To Spoil It For You So Watch The Movie I Guarantee You'll Like It! "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Going into this movie, I was thinking Next Friday was at best going to be a decent film, but I was wrong. This movie is so bad it does not deserve my attention and time it takes to write the review. It is filled of dialogue that really is not appropriate.I'm sorry Ice Cube had his name attached to this film in more than one capacity as actor and director because he really has talent. My suggestion for Ice Cube is to choose acting or music and stick with it because this performance doesn't show how good he can be.Next Friday is a film that should have gone directly to video because that is where it belongs. I can't believe the studios allowed it to be shown in theaters.  "},{"Title":"stay away","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Going into this movie, I was thinking Next Friday was at best going to be a decent film, but I was wrong. This movie is so bad it does not deserve my attention and time it takes to write the review. It is filled of dialogue that really is not appropriate.I'm sorry Ice Cube has his name attached to this film in more than one capacity as actor and director because he really has talent. My suggestion for Ice Cube is to choose acting or music and stick with it because this performance doesn't show how good he can be.Next Friday is a film that should have gone directly to video because that is where it belongs. I can't believe the studios allowed it to be shown in theaters.  "}{"Title":"The sequel not as good.","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday is also very funny but not as much as the original Friday. Mike Epps is also funny but not as much as Chris Tucker. The movie's about Craig(Ice Cube) who moves to Ranchokucamunga to live with his rich Uncle Elroy(D.C. Curry) and little cousin Day-Day(Mike Epps) to get out of the hood away from Deebo(Tiny Lister Jr.). They get a letter in the mail about being evicted. They come up with a crazy idea, robbing they're neighbors. Good movie. I recommend it to everyone.  "},{"Title":"LL Cool J and Snoop Dogg make this movie...","Date":"1 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is one hysterical movie.  I mean, Bling bling!  You got a bunch of rappers who like to eat corn bread and they know how get high like mutha suckaz!  Ya heard me?  Did anyone understand the symbolism of Friday?  It's almost like how David Lynch uses keys for symbolism in his movies but there is no way in hell that you can compare his movies to this movie.  This is a true master piece.  But if you don't like those deep, thinking mans movies, avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"FUNNY STUFF!!!!!","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This was on of the most funniest Black Comedies ever! Deebo played the most funniest role!!! SHUT UP FOO! Ice Cube played a awesome role too.. And EPPS was hilarious with his BMW! I recomend this film to people who like corny stupid and funny movies! Also it was much diff from FRIDAY too.. But this Next Friday is more funnier! People who like this movie should watch Dont be A Menace in South Central while Drinking your juice in the hood... "},{"Title":"Next Friday is Good..","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  I mean who cares if chris tucker wasn't in it i mean the rest of you who are complaining about Chris Tucker probably didn't even pay attention to the movie because you didn't see Chris Tucker, that's stupid he wasn't the only person in the first and besides Mike Epps did a good job on filling in the role that Chris Tucker left behind Chris Tucker couldn't have been in the Movie he was to busy making another sequel for Rush Hour. Next Friday was as good as the first one the people that didn't see it because Chris Tucker wasn't in it are stupid. John Witherspoon was funny, Don Curry was funny, And Ice Cube was funny. You guys can't judge a sequel because one person isn't in it.  "},{"Title":"should have stuck with last friday","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Poorly made and poorly written sequel has Craig exploring life in the suburbs this time around. There is an actual story, but Chris Tucker's comedic antics are sorely missed. The film just goes from one crude joke to the next. 1/4 "},{"Title":"first one was better","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  After five years you would think that they'd have a better script than this. Next Friday actually does have a plot, but it lacks the laughs of the first one mostly because of Chris Tucker's absence. Instead it resorts to crude comedy and cheesy dialogue. It still managed to be a hit at the box-office though. 1/4 "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very funny! And hot women were in it also. I really laughed when at the end, Baby'D took a brick and threw it at the back window of the BMW. I was just laughing! That was so funny. And when Ice Cube's new Aunt took the Marijuana or Weed, whatever it was and inhaled it for like 7-9 secs. That was funny. This movie is for mostly teens and kids. For some adults, they won't like it. "},{"Title":"utterly awful","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Going into this movie, I was thinking Next Friday was at best going to be a decent film, but I was wrong. This movie is so bad it does not deserve my attention and time it takes to write the review. It is filled of dialogue that really is not appropriate.I'm sorry Ice Cube has his name attached to this film in more than one capacity as actor and director because he really has talent. My suggestion for Ice Cube is to stick with acting and/or music because that is where he shines the most.Next Friday is a fiilm that should have gone directly to video because that is where it belongs. I can't believe the studios allowed it to be shown in theaters.     "},{"Title":"Funny, but","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Next Friday has many laughs to go around ,but I felt something was missing in this film.  I know what is missing of course, Chris Tucker.  The young man who made his breakthrough performance as a pot-head who hung out with Craig Jones (Ice Cube) on a memorable day (and film) between Thursday and Saturday.  Now though, the sequel revolves around Craig's family instead of his neighborhood as the first Friday did.  I think wrier/producer/star Cube decided to do that to add a little kick to the Friday saga, and it does.  But without Tucker it's a kick from a baby.  Still, the movie isn't the worst ever, it has many laughs from it's supporting characters (John Witherspoon, Mike Epps, Don Curry) who play Craig's odd family.  Cool, hip, and not quite fine.  A- "},{"Title":"Great !","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  This is a great followup to the original Friday. The plot line is more creative than the first, and it seems to me this one is packed with alot more laughs. Sticky of Oynx played a great role in this one, as Debo's slave as it seemed.   Ice Cube seemed better in this one, plus he seemed a little more at home and relaxed.  "}{"Title":"They should have quit while they were ahead...","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Just like Back to the Future and Ghostbusters and Major League, this part two should have stayed off the screen.  What made Friday such a good movie was its originality combined with the credibility of the antics that anyone who lived in a similar neighborhood could relate to or maybe even remember.  Any sequel seems as though it could only fall short of that.Next Friday is a clear attempt to use the formula behind the original.  Change the scenery and the jokes -- poof -- movie.  Craig is off to stay with his lottery winning uncle in the suburb of Rancho Cucamonga.  He's leaving because they get news that Deebo is planning to break out of prison and come take revenge on Craig (Deebo's been there since Craig knocked him the @#$% out).Deebo does break out of prison.  You see him and another inmate coming over a fence using bed sheets tied together.  This is onto a main street and the two men are chained together at the ankles.  That's not to mention their bright orange prison wear.  Yet no one seems to notice or care.  They proceed to run around looking for Craig until they happen upon Craig's father in his dog catcher's truck.  They let out all the dogs and hop in.  Mr. Jones, the dog catcher, gets swarmed by dogs as he walks back to his truck.  He simply ignores all the loose dogs.  These are the kinds of credibility problems that you didn't have in Friday.  You could kind of see where this movie was written with Chris Tucker in mind, but they couldn't afford him so Smokey was written off to rehab and Smokey's parts were handed off to Day-Day.The plot is thin and most of it is unbelievable.  I knew it was not going to be as good as the first one.  When I realized just how bad it had a chance to be, I just started listening for some good jokes.  There was quite a few chuckles, several laughs, and two deep belly-laughs with eyes closed.  Out of four stars, this one gets half a star.  "},{"Title":"Just as good as the first one, if not more so","Date":"12 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":"  Who says the sequel is never as good as the original? Where the first one concentrated more on the likeness of the characters over the comedy, like Austin Powers 2, this sequal was going straight for laughs.But if anyone stole the show, it was the Joker character. Anything that guy said had me belly laughing. Plus, he says the funniest joke out of the whole movie. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"Simply awful, hear me out.","Date":"22 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" I was sitting there in front of my computer screen searching the depths of the internet looking for a movie to watch when I stumbled upon the classic series, Friday...I said what the hell and rented the lot of them. I thought they'd be a laugh. Wrong, well half wrong, I was blasted away by the sheer production of this sequel! Horrible.First off, I felt like Ice Cube and Mike Epps could have easily filmed this on a lazy Sunday afternoon and shipped this out while drunk to the movies. It was so hard to understand them talking because half the time they were talking at the same time...I was embarrassed for them! The jokes were so stale and stagnant I couldn't even muster a snort of laughter because it was that bad...the Mexican gangsters were supposed to be the three stooges? I could have gotten high and I still would have thought this movie sucked. The suburbs??? I thought the only character that was interesting was Uncle Elroy and that's because he wore Rick James's reject articles. I'm sorry fans of this movie but re-watch it without being high and you'll see how wrong you were. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Better than Friday","Date":"17 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy","Review":" This weekend I thought I'd run through the first two of the Friday trilogy, and after I saw the first one, I was somewhat disappointed. Chris Tucker and Ice Cube were great, along with John Witherspoon, but this movie could have been so much better. Next Friday, now, this was good. It was hysterical. I would have liked to see Chris Tucker in it, but Mike Epps coming into the role as Ice Cubes cousin in a nice suburb was awesome. John Witherspoon was again hilarious here and Debo was back in it breaking out of jail. The Mexican neighbors were hilarious, and so was Roach. This movie had more of a plot than the first one and it was a lot more funny. Now, I need to watch Friday After Next to finish the trilogy. Chris Tucker is one of my favorite actors and I can't wait until Rush Hour 3. I gave Friday-6, and Next Friday- 8. Also, if you guys haven't seen Coach Carter, you should definitely go out and see it. "}]