[{"Title":"Ullman Matches Allen","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"30 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I doubt if many people share this sentiment, but this is my favorite Woody Allen movie simply because it does what Allen usually sets out to do makes me laugh. I'm not a big fan of Allen's films but he and Tracey Ullman make a great pair in this 95-minute farce. Ullman has to be one of the most talented ladies to never achieve real movie stardom. She matches Allen laugh-for-laugh in here and, in some respects, even steals the show.Other than Allen's penchant for using the Lord's name in vain, this has a real classic-film feel to it, one of those old bickering spouse films but with more modern-day humor. Allen and Ullman trade some very funny insults, and there are many of these quality gags. Ullman is just plain hilarious as the bimbo-like Frenchy.Add a gigolo (Hugh Grant), a couple of inept crooks, a couple of old-time Elaine favorites, Strich and May, and a pretty funny premise and you have some good entertainment and an underrated Allen film. "},{"Title":"pleasant but time-marking comedy","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Though essentially a time-marking throwaway by writer/director Woody Allen, `Small Time Crooks' provides so many gems of performance that one can overlook the film's derivative plotting and overall lack of comic drive.  In this film, Allen more or less abandons his customary obsession with big city neuroses and middle-aged angst in favor of a more straightforward, plot-driven comedy, paying homage in its patchwork and eclectic story to any number of earlier well-known theatrical and cinematic works. For example, the first half hour of the movie plays like a stateside version of the 1950's Italian comedy `Big Deal on Madonna Street' as a team of bumbling, far-from-intelligent small time crooks, led by ex-con Ray Winkler (Allen), sets up a cookie store as a `front' so they can drill a tunnel into a bank a mere two or three shops down the road.  Then the plot of the film suddenly shifts gears when that plan falls apart and the gang hits pay dirt with the surprising success of the cookies that Ray's uncultured but well meaning wife, the former topless dancer Frenchy (Tracey Ullman), is assiduously baking and selling.  The highlight of the film comes in the form of a brilliantly satiric pseudo-60 Minutes report in which Steve Kroft himself chronicles the meteoric rise that this ragtag collection of accidental entrepreneurs takes from obscure small business owners to multi-million dollar corporate giants &#150; a report that pokes affectionate fun at the clichéd rags-to-riches theme so essential to our concept of the beloved American Dream.   With this plot switch, we leave Madonna Street and head into `Unsinkable Molly Brown/Pygmalion/Educating Rita' territory as the vulgar, uncouth Frenchy realizes that, even with all her suddenly acquired wealth, she cannot possibly gain true acceptance from the elite cultural snobs she so desperately wants to impress without a little assistance from her own personal Henry Higgins, who arrives in the form of an art dealer named David played by the suave Hugh Grant.   Thus, as Frenchy branches out and begins to open herself up to new cultural experiences, the couple begins to drift apart as Ray comes to crave the return to the simpler life of spaghetti and meatball dinners he knows they have left far behind.Had Allen been able to sustain the cleverness and bite that inform that `60 Minutes' segment throughout the length of the entire film, `Small Time Crooks' might have emerged as more than just the mere piece of entertaining puffery it ultimately is.  Indeed, we find ourselves laughing only occasionally and often at jokes or sight gags that would barely register a chuckle in one of Allen's more sophisticated, more edgy and more character-driven works.  Special note must, however, be made of some of the actors, prime among them Ullman and the always brilliant Elaine May who, as Frenchy's adenoidal, utterly befuddled and endearingly obtuse cousin, returns to her `A New Leaf' roots and provides some of the sweetest comic moments in the film.  Unfortunately, Michael Rapaport, Tony Darrow and Jon Lovitz, as members of Ray's gang, though they all three give outstanding performances, aren't given enough screen time to really let their talents for comic characterization take flight.  Hugh Grant is essentially Hugh Grant &#150; which is to say that he fulfills the requirements of his part without having to stretch his thespian muscles too much.The success or failure of a comedy is ultimately determined by how often it is able to elicit laughs from the person watching it.  Given that criterion, `Small Time Crooks' rates no better than a mild recommendation (though there is one very funny scene involving safecracking near the end of the film).  Yet, if for no other reason than to relish a number of its dazzling performances, `Small Time Crooks' certainly earns at least a casual once-over from any Allen devotee.  Guess we have no choice but to mark time right along with him! "},{"Title":"Closer to Old-School Woody in spirit, but not execution","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Small Time Crooks is the latest movie from Woody Allen, and it will likely be seen by the same people who go see all of his other movie (myself included) but will likely not branch out far from there.  It's funny, and Allen fans will enjoy it, but it's certainly not an outstanding comedy.Allen plays Ray, a schlub living in New York who concocts a crazy scene to rob a bank.  It involves a cookie store, a tunnel, and lots of drilling.  It also stirs up one of the two out-and-out hilarious sequences in the movie. After the digging sequence, the film takes an unexpected turn (which I will let you discover for yourself), and the section immediately following the One Year Later card is the best of the film.  Sadly, the brilliant media satire and perfect lines are not repeated again in the film. for the remaining hour.A lot of people have commented how this is Woody getting back to his roots.  Certainly the film starts off like a lot of his early works, and the premise certainly shares a good deal with Take the Money and Run, but I would not put Small Time Crooks on the same level as that film, one of my favorite comedies.  While it's certainly a lighter film than his later works, Allen just doesn't have the same bizarre gags and total disregard for reality that the early works had.  That insane-genius-laughing-at-us-all energy is missing.Still, the film looks great and the cast is especially good.  I'm sorry we didn't get to see more of Michael Rappaport and John Lovitz, who sadly only appear in the first portion of the film.  Again, the movie isn't bad, it's just no Take the Money and Run.  Recommended for Woody fans, but I wouldn't say expect the old master here, rather expect an older master doing his best to relive those early greats. "},{"Title":"Smart and funny with a sense of style, pure Woody Allen. *** out of ****.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SMALL TIME CROOKS / (2000) ***	Woody Allen's artistic sense of humor is the perfect style of wit for the timid new comedy Small Time Crooks. Allen wrote and directed the film, which is pure Allen. This amusing  filmmaker brings a focused sensation of clumsiness and silliness to the various ensemble of characters; this movie is classy, sharp, and funny. 	Woody Allen stars as an ex-con named Ray Winkler, currently employed as a local dishwasher. He is the kind of person who comes up with maniac ideas he explains as beneficial, but they end up causing more grief than gratitude. His mangy wife Frenchy (Tracey Ullman) is sick of her loser lifestyle, so when Ray proposes to burglarize a nearby bank with his old buddies, including Denny (Michael Rapaport), Tommy (Tony Darrow), and Benny (Jon Lovitz), she reluctantly agrees.	Ray comes up with a scheme that consists of renting a storefront next to the bank in order to tunnel a passage way into their destination. To avoid suspicion, Frenchy and her cousin May (Elaine May) open a bakery offering cookies as the four criminals screw everything up in the basement. The cookie sales unexpectedly become a massive achievement, leading to the characters opening up a corporation that makes them rich.The film's setup introduces the main characters with intelligent humor and riffraff detail. We learn they are unintelligent, desperate, and deprived nobodies living in unmistakable poverty without purpose or hope of a decent future. Also decently developed is the story, with a clear, stable first act and early laughs to capture the audience's attention from the start. This is the kind of movie that relies on situations to pull its characters through the story, and Allen gives the script fresh twists, active subplots, and creativity.Small Time Crooks is a character movie; a study of well-acted personas given funny edge and dimension. The characters are dazzlingly portrayed by some of the most clever names in Hollywood. Woody Allen rehearses his basic charismatic personality that we all know and love, and brackets himself between witty dialogue and well-cast supporting actors. Tracey Ullman is perfect in a role seemingly prepared towards her performance and Hugh Grant's false charming tenderness creates a despicable image in which the audience opposes but enjoys.The movie's story clearly exhibits the life of Ray and Frenchy, which is probably the smartest level in which it succeeds. We see gradual changes in the two as the story uses side characters as benchmarks that help to propel the plot along. There is minute tension involved with Ray and his spouse, however, although the Hugh Grant character provides a little romantic competition. If I had to change something in this movie, I would increase the level of the story's stakes and change the horridly annoying soundtrack.	Too much of this movie relies on dialogue to pull itself through story slouches; at times the plot seems to drift and the character end up explaining developments and advancements. Small Time Crooks does not suffer to immensely in result of this material because Woody Allen often supports his dialogue with visual story and amusing conversations that look as if especially written for each character in each scene.Small Time Crooks furnishes seeking audiences with effective comedy. So often we desire for comic adventures only to find contrived and recycled humor in stale stories. This film succeeds in perspiring light-hearted humor with a surprising human dimensional touch. Small Time Crooks will not disappoint fans of Woody Allen's gawky sense of humor.    "},{"Title":"Woody Lite","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Like Mighty Aphrodite and Manhattan Murder Mystery, Small Time Crooks is the kind of movie Woody Allen would have made lots more of if he hadn't, in the post Annie Hall 1970s, started thinking of himself primarily as film auteur, rather than comedian. I count myself among those who are very glad he made the detour into Art that produced such original and challenging films as Manhattan, Hannah and Her Sisters, Crimes and Misdemeanors, Husbands and Wives, and Deconstructing Harry. Small Time Crooks has a much lower level of ambition. Still, like most people in the audience at the showing I attended, I found much in it very amusing. The film's comic plot starts out like Take the Money and Run revisited, but then takes a number of surprising turns. Along the way, Tracy Ullman, Elaine Stritch, and - especially - Elaine May all give scene-stealing performances. Early Woody one-liners and sight gags sparkle through the script (along with, unfortunately, a higher frequency of duds and chestnuts than in early Woody). Also adding an interesting dimension to the comedy is the influence of The Honeymooners on the relationship between Ray and Frenchie Winkler (Woody and Tracy) and on the film's fish-out-of-water class-based situation comedy. Woody has often professed his admiration for The Honeymooners, but this is the first film where he seems to have consciously reached for similar themes and effects. On the down side, some of the plot twists seem downright arbitrary and amateurish, especially those involving Frenchie's comeuppance. Inadequate comic use is made of Ray's gang of losers (Jon Lovitz has one good line and too little screen time). And Hugh Grant as a Bluebeard wannabe is too much to ask of any audience. As to Woody himself .... what can you say? It's painful to watch his late career hardening of the comic arteries into stiff, unintentional self-parody. Let's hope the next Allen movie marks a return to high directorial ambition and low (as in no) acting profile. "},{"Title":"now he's making fun of rich New Yorkers","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I would have never expected a movie like Small Time Crooks, but one would have to imagine that it could only come from Woody Allen. He plays loser Ray Winkler, who plans to pull off a big heist. But of course, he needs a cover. So, his wife Frenchy (Tracey Ullman) opens a cookie shop above the tunnel that Ray is digging, and lo and behold, the cookie shop is a smash hit, and they never pull off the heist! A year later, Ray and Frenchy are fabulously wealthy, to the point where 60 Minutes reporter Steve Krofft interviews them. But this all starts exposing the problems in their lives. Maybe crime would have paid after all! Above all, this movie shows that Woody Allen does best when just going for straight comedy. I would say that this was his funniest movie since Mighty Aphrodite. Also starring are Elaine May, Jon Lovitz and Hugh Grant. You're sure to like it. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!!","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoy watching Small Time Crooks over and over again because the humor is so goofy, yet so timeless. This is classic material, derived from the style of comedy that Woody so loves...the old masters, the Marx Bros. and other old-time greats. I recommend it to everyone. "},{"Title":"Amusing comedy, but not perfect.","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen essentially makes two kind of movies comedy and movies about relationships. His very first movies were slapstick comedies and then once in a while, after Annie Hall, he made a comedy or two. Small Time Crooks is one of his lesser movies, not on quality but more on terms of release. Small Time Crooks was pretty much ignored on its release.Allen plays Ray Winkler, officially the world's lamest looking criminal. Allen and his friends (Michael Rapaport, Tony Darrow) plan to break into a bank and get rich. How? Well, it's a complicated plan. Ray's wife, Frenchy, (Tracey Ullman) is to rent a pizza shop and make cookies as a coverup for the men drilling in the basement. However, to Ray's disarray, the pizza shop is already rented out. Ray checks it out and realises that he knows the guy who rented it. Turns out they were cellmates. The guy (Jon Lovitz) joins them into the plan. Ray turns out to be a huge dumbass and can't make the tunnel under the bank. On top, however, Frenchy is having a huge success with her cookies. She hires her cousin May (Elaine May) to help her. The timeline then jumps a year and Ray and Frenchy have become extremely wealthy. They own a huge chain of cookie shops and are now part of the nouveau rich. They meet with David (Hugh Grant), whom Frenchy hires to teach her about culture. Without revealing more, let's just say it screwed up.Woody is his usual, neurotic self and as usual gives a solid if unimpressive performance. Ullman, as his stripper-turned-cookie-mogul wife, is very good and very funny. It's a shame she isn't in movies more. The rest of the cast is also good, with standouts being Elaine May and Jon Lovitz even though he's not on screen very long.Small Time Crooks starts out as a funny, slapstick comedy but then takes a turn when they become rich. Now, the title is Small Time Crooks. I was expecting some crookery. I saw some crookery, but not enough. It should have been called Cookie Mogul or something. I realises that it wouldn't have been very good as an all-out caper comedy but about 20 minutes of more crookery wouldn't have hurt. There's also the fact that this movie lags at times, enough to hurt it. And Hugh Grant is unimpressive in a role that could've been more.Woody Allen is an acquired taste. You may not like it or you may worship it. Small Time Crooks is actually a good way of getting introduced to Allen. 7/10 "},{"Title":"An underrated masterpiece","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" To me, Woody Allen is at his best when he makes us laugh and cry at the same time. When I first saw this film in the movie theatre, I found it thoroughly entertaining, but more in the same vein as his early funny ones than his later, deeper work (Crimes & Misdemeanors, Husbands & Wives and the like). Upon repeated viewing, though, I realised I had been wrong. It is light-hearted and funny on the surface, but much much deeper than it first seems. It has really grown on me since and has become one of my favourites. The cast are all superb, from Tracey Ullman to Hugh Grant, even Woody gives one of his best performances of his career. Highly recommended for both fans of Woody's funny ones and of his more serious dramas. "},{"Title":"A hidden gem.","Date":"15 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'll say this right upfront, I'm not really a Woody Allen fan. I like his earlier movies where he was simply funny and not trying to figure out the meaning of life or display the ennui of rich Manhattanites. I find those films incredibly ponderous and self-indulgent. But stuff like 'Play it Again Sam' (even though it has the equally whiny Diane Keaton), or 'Take the Money and Run' were his best films.This film is a return to simple funny. One thing that happened while watching this movie about 20 minutes into the movie I felt something about this movie was strange, but I couldn't figure out what. Then it hit me no swearing. I can't remember the last time I saw a movie directed at adults that didn't have swearing. I'm not against swearing in movies by any means, but I have to say, I found it really refreshing. The script was forced to find the funny for real, rather on shock value. Needless to say, it also thankfully doesn't have any of the gross-out humour that passes for comedy in most films these days either. In the hands of most writers, it's not about pushing boundaries, but simply revealing the lack of genuine talent.Although Ullman does a very good job, and Allen is at his comedic best, Elaine May really shines through in her role and is the one that makes me smile the most. It's a shame that she doesn't get, or take, more roles. "}{"Title":"Hilarious and witty","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is about a bunch of thieves getting the grand idea of breaking into a bank's vault, but other things happen along the way and they end up doing something else.This is a Woody Allen style film, there is no doubt about it. It is witty, fun and ironic. The film is very dialog heavy and very quick paced when it comes to the lines, with one actor's line almost overlapping another. I think it is a strength of Woody Allen's films, as the dialog is clever and humorous. The plot is just hilarious and great. The unexpectedly successful business of the cookie shop is so funny! This film provides a great entertainment for the evening. "},{"Title":"Congenial Throwback to Allen's Earlier Character-Driven Farces with a Sharp Cast","Date":"24 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Even though Tracey Ullman is a quarter-century younger than Woody Allen, her spot-on comic turn as his tacky manicurist wife makes her the filmmaker's most compatible co-star since Diane Keaton. Together, they winningly play Ray and Frenchy, a vulgar, working-class married couple who rent a restaurant space in order to rob the bank next door. The twist is that Frenchy's cookie business thrives, and they become wealthy beyond their dreams. Written and directed by Allen, this surprisingly free-wheeling 2000 comedy contains little of the deeper life themes that Allen had been exploring for the previous two decades. For the most part, it represents a complete throwback to his first film as a director, the frenetic, nonsensical 1969's Take the Money and Run, as both are character-driven slapstick farces with a slew of funny one-liners.The film starts out strong with Ray and his bumbling partners preparing the heist with every conceivable complication standing in their way, in particular, their own stupidity. The storyline makes a unique turn once Ray and Frenchy become successful. They open up a nationwide chain of cookie stores, move to the posh Upper East Side like the Jeffersons, and start hobnobbing with Manhattan's York's social elite. Their marriage begins to unravel when Frenchy becomes obsessed with being cultured, while Ray is happy to live his life the same way as before. I don't think the movie is consistently flat-out funny like Allen's earlier works, but it does boast a sterling comedy cast. Freed from his intellectual pretensions, Allen looks like he's having a good time playing the unapologetically guttural Ray. Sporting a convincing New Yawk accent, Ullman, the most chameleonic of comic mimics, dexterously captures the ongoing battle between Frenchy's aspirations for social acceptance and her innately tawdry sensibilities.Michael Rapaport, Tony Darrow and Jon Lovitz play Ray's trio of thick-skulled cohorts with élan, though they unfortunately disappear for the film's second half. It's good to see Elaine May back on screen playing Ray's ditzy cousin May, and her crack timing with Allen makes me wish she would resuscitate her clever comedy routines with her ex-husband, film director Mike Nichols. As Frenchy's Pygmalion teacher of art and manners, Hugh Grant plays to his suave persona with subtle venality. The film ends almost like a parable albeit with a hilarious development inspired by the cocktail party scene in Alfred Hitchcock's Notorious. Allen must be quite a fan since he would later use the same plot device in Scoop. This is lightweight fare though certainly among Allen's most entertaining movies of late. The 2000 DVD provides the theatrical trailer as its only significant extra. "},{"Title":"Just plain fun","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The acting is particularly strong in this tale of a bumbling would-be crook and his wife.  Allen and Ullman are a very likable pair, and the supporting cast is quite strong.  Although the laughs are not constant, there are several of Woody Allen's classic one-liners and the fun atmosphere keeps the movie moving forward, although it probably could have stood a little more editing. "},{"Title":"Big Time.","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A side-splitting and nearly very excellent production from Woody Allen has the all-world star appearing as one of the titled characters, a small-time crook who would rather get money illegally than make an honest buck. He has come up with a would-be brilliant scheme to use a pizza parlor for a front so he and some equal dim-wits (Jon Lovitz, Tony Darrow and Michael Rapaport) can tunnel under the establishment and rob the bank that is across the street. Allen's wife (a show-stopping role for Tracy Ullman) cannot cook pizza though so she makes cookies instead with the help of dumb cousin Elaine May. As Allen and his cohorts try to make the heist happen, they run into problem after problem and in the process Ullman starts making a killing in her cookie business. Surprisingly it appears that the money from the bank job will not be needed as the new cookie business will make Allen, Ullman and everyone else previously mentioned very rich. But what happens when Allen and Ullman become socialites in a wealthy New York society that may not accept them? Could Ullman get suckered by the suave Hugh Grant? Could Allen actually find love with May instead? And will Allen be able to hold back his urge to steal even though he has all the money and status he needs now? Small Time Crooks was really ignored by most everyone in 2000, but it becomes one of Allen's finer productions by the end of its laugh-a-minute running time. Admittedly, it does not hold a candle to Allen masterpieces Annie Hall, Manhattan and Hannah and Her Sisters, but it stands tall with winners like Take the Money and Run, Bananas, Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex * But Were Afraid to Ask, Bullets Over Broadway and Mighty Aphrodite. The movie is a fun ride as Allen adds his unique perspective on everything and the supporters just seem to work perfectly together too. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie so much. I own it on dvd, and have watched a number of times. The movie is about Ray Winkler (Allen) and Frenchie Winkler (Ullman) and there quest to make it big  robbing a bank, by tunneling under using a mom and pop cookie shop as the front. This movie has an incredible list of supporting charecters including Hugh Grant (About a Boy, Notting Hill) John Lovitz (Trapped in Paradise, A League of there own) and Michael Rapaport (The 6th day, Mighty Aphrodite). It contains some hilarious scenes of situation comedy, and some hilarious lines. It's definetly a must see for Woody fans. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable fluff.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is indeed a Woody Allen Light- but I mean that in a good way. His pairing with Tracey Ullman is delightful, much much more successful than his more recent attempts at coupling with women more than half his age- and the plot is good silly fun. I wish the film had been more about the bunglers and less about the lessons in true love and good taste, but I enjoyed the whole thing from top to bottom. I did find myself wondering what it would be like if he made a film with a composer though, instead of his usual old scratchy record collection "},{"Title":"Typical Allen movie, but very worthwhile seeing","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Quite low key, but very amusing and intelligent. Allen paraphrasing George Bernard Shaw's Pygmalion amongst many other sources.  The rise and fall of a small time failure of a crock, played by Allen, is quite moving in fact. Interesting to note the use of Hugh Grant as a character playing with the typical Hugh Grant-role. He actually does a wonderful job playing his usual character. "},{"Title":"Ive grown expecting hilarious satire from Woody Allen ever since I saw Bananas in the 70s...and","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Woodman, as Bill Murray used to call him, has NEVER let me down!1970I was sitting in my car necking and petting with Becky. I'd gone to the drive-in expecting only to get laid. When I heard sportscaster Howard Cosell doing the play-by-play on the speaker (not of Becky and I, but of the supposed assassination of 'el presidente' a la Wide World of Sports)I put Becky aside and began watching a cleverly constructed farce that had me hysterical with laughter.As the years passed, I read the New Yorker magazine essays by Woody and even saw him live, in person, in Niles, IL on my honeymoon! Yes, I took my new bride (definitely NOT Becky)to see & hear a new musician named Jim Croce, and to laugh with Woody at the Mill Run Theater.Maybe his sense of poking fun is akin to my own, although Im decidedly neither Jewish nor New Yorker...but his eclectic combination of intellect, wit, cohesive plots and clever gags always amuses me..and keeps me laughing.In one of his more serious, didactic yet funny works, I forget which...Woody's character waxes What makes life worth living? And concludes its the compilation..the cumulative total of the seemingly little but satisfying of life's trivialities and amusements...like the Marx Brothers, his character said.And, for me, through all these years....it's Woody AllenSMALL TIME CROOKS is a true Woody Allen work -- The bungling crooks of the 'dumb & dumber' genre fail as expected, but become wealthy as their Cookie store camouflage unexpectedly is an instant success!Many funny gags, good performances by costars. As usual...Thanks, Woody. "},{"Title":"can't buy me love","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen gets back to his beloved n.y. to tell how destiny can play jokes with almost ordinary people's life when it's raining money on you, who knows if you are lucky or not? So a manicure and a dishwasher, become rich after singular adventures, leave home, move to a baroque place, wear fashionable clothes, and try to conquest n.y. high society. But while Ray (Allen) is soon bored by all the show, his wife Francis decides to immerse herself in this new exciting life. And now, alone in a world that she once only knew through the tv screen, it's easy for Francis to make the fatal move. She falls in love with the wrong one some kind of guy who's supposed to teach her good manners and take her around museums. He's so young and handsome and wears some elegant pink shirts and ties instead of Ray's shocking blue dress... Why shouldn't she think he loves her too, but he's too shy to say it? Of course, at the end, she will get the lessons she was looking for (or she deserved) when the money's gone, everything changes. That's the rise and the fall of a woman who was only good at cooking biscuits, but, finally finds the one who really cares for her, getting back to where she was started from. This time Woody Allen looks at his own Park Avenue neighbours with new critical eyes, a bitter humor, and, finally, one (not too) rhetorical question can money bring you happiness? "},{"Title":"Did Anyone Else Think The Plot Went In The Wrong Direction ?","Date":"9 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" !!!! MILD SPOILERS !!!! A Woody Allen comedy featuring a scam where his character Ray Winkler and his wife Frenchie buy a florist shop next to a bank so they can tunnel through the wall into the vault and steal the money . Not actually a bad premise and I had everything nailed down as to how the plot would develop Neurotic hen pecked idiot hires an incompetent gang and we the audience are treated to a light weight though amusing example of sods law where everything that can go wrong will go wrong but that's not really how the story pans outUnfortunately once the plot twist of the Winklers turning the former florist shop into a bakery which then becomes a massive success I found myself thinking SMALL TIME CROOKS itself became less of a success since it veers into a direction I didn't expect it to take . We're also introduced to an English character played by Hugh Grant but maybe I shouldn't use the word  character  in the sentence because Grant is unable to play anyone in a film except himself . Can producers stop hiring him please since I've had enough of his cartoonish English fop since FOUR WEDDINGS AND AN UNDESERVED MOVIE CAREER It's not a bad movie but by the same token it's miles away from being a great one and would have worked much better if it had stayed to the task of having the world's worst bank robbers trying to tunnel their way into a bank "}{"Title":"Small Time Crooks with big time laughs for Woody fans.","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  STC is a fun romp through the up and down life of a small time bungling thief (Allen) and his ex-stripper wife (Ullman). This unpredictable film features Allen's signature nonstop stuttering dialogue and situational humor mixed with some site gags. Most will regard this as a funny above average film. A must see for Woody fans.  "},{"Title":"Terrible waste of time and talent","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is hard for me to believe that someone who directed and wrote Purple Rose of Cairo, Crimes and Misdemeanours and Hannah and Her Sisters -- three of the best films ever made -- could come up with this. I haven't seen a Woody Allen film in ages and judging by some of the viewer comments about this being better than his recent fare -- I'm glad I haven't. This is a terrible film -- plotless, predictable, childishly silly, extremely unfunny and a waste of the wonderful comic talents of Tracey Ullman. I couldn't wait for the movie to end. "},{"Title":"Don't let Small Time Crooks rip you off!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What a clunker. Odd, seemingly improvisational delivery highlights the wretched predictability of every line and plot twist. The only surprise is the sheer gall of such sloppy filmmaking. Where does the ensemble of crook characters go, all of a sudden? Vanished. But perhaps for good cause God forbid they should steal precious screen time from Allen's bleary-eyed, one-note bore of a lead part. When Hugh Grant is the best thing in a movie, you know you've hit rock-bottom.  "},{"Title":"Tell Funnier Jokes!","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In STARDUST MEMORIES, Woody has a fan carp at Sandy Bates We enjoy your films. Particularly the early funny ones. Some critics and fans saw Stardust as mean spirited, The whine heard round the world. Sandy's retort was, I don't want to make funny movies anymore. They can't force me to. I don't feel funny. I look around the world, and all I see is human suffering. This set a tone for many of his later, great works.I'm a big Woody Allen fan. I'm glad he's directed about a film a year for thirty plus years. (I loved Kubrick, but I got tired waiting for a film to become perfect enough for him to release it.) I always look forward to Woody's next release. I see whatever it is as soon as I can. SMALL TIME CROOKS was no exception. The cast sounded great (as usual), I had no idea what the film was about (just the way he wants it), and for a change, the early reviews were very positive. Allen's funniest film in years. Comparisons to BANANAS and Take the MONEY AND RUN were drawn.Oh my! I very rarely walk out on films. I've never walked on a Woody Allen film. I came so close to leaving in this film. The yammering interplay between Woody and Tracy Ullman was as irritating as that between Woody and Diane Keaton in MANHATTAN MURDER MYSTERY, one of his few dogs. This seemed a misguided attempt at a return to being funny but with very little insight. Now I see why Elaine May doesn't appear in films, and Hugh Grant, as usual lately, looked out of place and uncomfortable.I like the Woody Allen who sees that matter is decaying, that he is as bad a person as we think he is, and that humanity is only human. Please Mr. Allen, do mankind a favor. Tell funnier jokes. This kind of slapstick is beneath you and your fans. But when you've made so many films even a genius is allowed a dud, I guess. "},{"Title":"Woody Allen marking time...comedy coasts for a while on some good one-liners","Date":"1 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" One-note reworking of 1942's Larceny, Inc. about a low-class New York couple who conspire to rob a bank, but who instead find financial success through their own ruse by opening a bakery right next door. Writer-director-star Woody Allen doesn't appear to have his heart invested in this material (it seems a little cheeky and overtly commercial for him), though there are some good laughs after a sloppy opening. Colorful, squirrelly supporting players keep it bubbling happily for about an hour, but Allen's third act finishes limply. Slapstick chaos is no longer Woody's forte; he resorts to brash heckling to get his script over the hump, and he's hindered further by Zhao Fei's dark, disappointing cinematography. ** from **** "},{"Title":"don't get me wrong - I'm a huge Woody Allen fan, but...","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A friend of mine saw this movie and despised it. This was the only Woody Allen movie he had ever seen. When Curse of the Jade Scorpion came out the next year, I asked him if he wanted to see it, and he said, No, I don't like Woody Allen.The moral of my story is, if this is your only experience with Woody Allen (or, for that matter, if Jade Scorpion is your only Woody experience, which wasn't that great either, but much better than Small Time Crooks), see one of his other movies. Sleeper. Zelig. Bananas. Love and Death. Annie Hall. Hannah and Her Sisters. Crimes and Misdemeanors. Take the Money and Run. Even Manhattan, which I personally didn't like too much, but I admit, it is classic Woody, and a great movie whether I liked it or not.Small Time Crooks is just a bad movie. Every performer is entitled to some bombs. Small Time Crooks had a nice ending...but it occurred about 30 minutes into the movie. Then the movie took a drastic turn, and by drastic I mean BOOOORRRRING. I wanted to fall asleep at this poorly-written plot and these mediocre performances. This is not one of Woody Allen's greats. This isn't even a good movie. This is crap, and I didn't laugh once. Please. See a few of the aforementioned Woody Allen movies instead, or some of his other classics; the man is a comic genius, after all. "},{"Title":"Whiney Dribble.","Date":"14 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The second half of the movie was the worst example of New York whining imaginable. No entertainment value could be siphoned from this film save for Tracy Ullman's retarded sister. Aside from that, if I were given a choice between hearing Woody Allen whine for 90 minutes, or endure a massage at the hands of Hannibal Lecter, it would be the hardest choice of my life. "},{"Title":"Good, not great Woody Allen","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Hey, Woody Allen's doing comedy again!  After his Ingmar Bergman phase and his woman-hating movies he's finally back at doing what he does best.  The lines are pretty good--there are a few real howlers.  Tracey Ullman is uproarious as Allen's wife, May is adorable as a very dumb woman and Allen is good--he's just getting a little old for this.  The plot has problems--it's not consistently funny, three main characters disappear completely after the first half-hour and there are some needlessly cruel jabs made at Ullman's character.  Also the story has no bearing in reality whatsoever.  Still, it's funny and well-made.  Worth seeing, but try to catch it at half-price--it's really not worth $8.00. "},{"Title":"A film of three thirds","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  We'll get this out of the way first - I'm a huge Woody fan, and will fight anyone who disses...HOWEVER,This is one of his minor works (see also - Manhattan Murder Mystery, Everyone Says I Love You), and as such comes as a bit of a disappointment if you are intimate with such masterpieces of cinema as Annie Hall, Manhattan and Hannah and her Sisters.Woody seems to have faxed in his performance (a little hazy like Robin Williams in Deconstructing Harry, perhaps?) and the character is totally wrong for him.  Tracey Ullman, however, is just just perfect.Oddly, the film changes styles every half hour - the first starts like a golden-age caper comedy, then switches to a comedy of manners (very french) and ends up with a traditional Woody 'love lives falling to pieces' plot.  Of course, the final third is the most satisfying.So, a must for Woody fans to stick to the end with, but the question has to be asked -Is he not too old for this now?   "},{"Title":"Here Come The Cookies","Date":"30 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen and Tracey Ullman play a husband and wife team in Small Time Crooks who hit the big time, but purely by accident. Allen who is as the title says, a small time crook who has done small time in the joint and has collected a gang of misfits just like him. Probably he saw the famous Edward G. Robinson classic Larceny, Inc. where Robinson and his associates buy a luggage store because of its location next to a bank where the plan is to tunnel from the store basement into the bank and rob it. Naturally Allen claims this as his original scheme.But to do that Allen has to have a business and that's where his bimbo of a wife Tracey Ullman comes in. She has one talent, she bakes some really out of this world cookies, cookies that Famous Amos would envy. They catch on and even when a cop catches Allen and his crew breaking into the bank he wants in on the business, the cookie business.But these rather unsophisticated Small Time Crooks who are all of a sudden fabulously wealthy find that it doesn't wear well on them. Both Allen and Ullman become targets of all kinds of big time crooks. Ullman has this lizard of an art dealer/gigolo played by Hugh Grant putting the moves on her. As she is the one with the recipe for the cookies, the money is all in her name. Woody in the meantime finds a sympathetic ear in Elaine May.As Small Time Crooks was getting started I thought I was watching a remake of Larceny, Inc. I thought I was watching a remake. But Woody Allen took it way beyond what Warner Brothers had in mind for that 1942 film. He and Ullman are a perfectly matched pair and in a weird way they show that money might buy happiness, but happiness means different things to different people.It's not Allen's best effort, but Small Time Crooks will definitely find an audience. It sure did with me. "}{"Title":"Allen's Big Time.","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Small Time Crooks (2000) Dir Woody Allen / Cast Woody Allen, Tracey Ullman, Hugh Grant, Elaine May, Elaine Stritch Delightfully funny comedy about the life of luxury we often dream of. Title suggests class, or lower class. Written and directed by Woody Allen and starring himself and Tracey Ullman as Ray and Frenchy Winkler. We learn that Ray has already served time in jail for robbery but he devises another scheme. He convinces Frenchy to bake cookies in a vacant pizza parlor while he and company tunnel to a safe next door. After flooding the basement it is discovered that the map was upside down. Meanwhile Frenchy's cookies become a surprise success to the point of franchising. Now they have the life they dreamed of and not enjoying it. Clever and witty screenplay is detailed to the best of Allen's craft. Allen and Ullman totally compliment each other as one desires riches while the other desires the simple life again. This will resurrect one last scheme that concludes in hilarious misplaced karma. Hugh Grant is given a promising role as an instructor of wealthy living but this subplot is weak. It is obvious what the instructor's intentions are, and it is beneath Grant's comic abilities. Elaine May steal scenes as a relative who joins Ray in a scheme. Elaine Stritch hosts at one of the mansions that Allen and May make an appearance at. It steals big on laughs and lunacy. Score 10 / 10 "},{"Title":"Doesn't totally hit the mark but still pretty enjoyable","Date":"21 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" As someone who has loved or really liked(although from about 5 or 6 disappointments) most of what they've seen so far of Woody Allen's filmography(28 as of now), there was a lot to like about Small Time Crooks. But compared to a lot of Allen's other films, it was also uneven and disappointing. Getting onto the many good stuff, Small Time Crooks is beautifully photographed and there is a great use of locations, which look similarly great. Most of the acting is great, especially from Tracy Ullman who is splendid and Elaine May who is ditsy, charming and her comic timing is priceless. Woody Allen- whose directing I don't have a problem with here- gives a good performance too that does remind you of some of his earlier work. Jon Lovitz and Michael Rappaport are a lot of fun in the little screen time we see them in. The first half is great as well, with very witty and sharp writing that feels like a throwback to Allen's earlier wisecrack comedies and that was part of the appeal. In typical Allen fashion as well there is a lot to say on issues and relationships and it's done insightfully. The three main characters are compellingly drawn. Sadly, the second half doesn't match up, the pace sags, the writing is not as witty and sometimes take a patronising approach and the characters that made the first half entertaining disappear and are forgotten about seemingly. And while as said the acting is fine, Lovitz and Rappaport did deserve more to do, Elaine Stritch is pretty wasted and I wasn't enamoured by Hugh Grant here either, his character was underwritten and the performance felt too much of a self-parody. The story is not as interesting in this half either with some plot strands underdeveloped and clumsily resolved. In conclusion, enjoyable, well made and performed but lesser and uneven Woody Allen. 6/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"That great Allen spirit.","Date":"26 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I love this period in Woody Allen's work. The 90s were a time when he made several filmed experiments. He made a social satire, a musical, a character study and semi-autobiographical study of his relationships with women. I'm glad that Woody is trying new things but STC reminded me of what I loved about his work in the first place He can write comedies that are very, very funny STC is a flat out comedy, it has no other reasons for being then to make us laugh. It is inventive and sweet and Allen has not only surrounded himself with a cast of wonderfully talented actors but puts a new spin on his nebbish persona.Here's the story Allen and Tracy Ullman play a blue collar couple living the in middle class doldrums of New York City. Allen is a professional criminal who hits upon the idea of renting out a store and having his wife sell cookies as a front while he and his cohorts are in the basement digging a tunnel to the bank next door. The heist is bungled when Allen and his cronies end up in a dress shop while Ullman is in the front making a fortune selling cookies. The become millionaires in the cookie business.Now, this would have been enough for any other comedy but this is Woody Allen, he has other surprises up his sleeve. The couple live it up, Ullman trying to fit into the Manhattan social scene can't escape the fact that she is a butcher to good taste (Just how much leopard skin can you fit into one Penthouse?) Allen (a sullen, dimwitted slob) on the other hand is just as happy eating cheeseburgers and watching the Nicks game The two have a wonderful rapport together but the plumb part goes to Elaine May who plays Ullman's cousin. She all but steals the show in the scene where Allen is suppose to rob a rich socialite's safe during a party. He tells her to mingle and talk about the weather. She does just that, giving out weather reports.What I loved about STC is that it never tries to be anything more than what it is, it's a flat out comedy. But, Woody being the genius writer that he is takes what would have been otherwise just a comic idea and takes it one step furthur. It is fun to watch a comedy this inventive. "},{"Title":"The title tells it all","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Small Time Crooks (2000) was written and directed by Woody Allen. Allen plays Ray, a small time crook, who has served time for robbery, but has not learned his lesson. He formulates another illegal scheme. He tells his long-suffering wife Frenchy, (Tracey Ullman) that this time he knows his plan will work. He and his friends are going to tunnel under a bank and steal the money at night. (Ray is a good safe-cracker, whatever his other inadequacies may be.)Allen surrounds himself with other crooks, all as inept as he is. They argue about whether he was called The Brain in prison because he was smart, or whether the other prisoners were being sarcastic. (We never find out, but I suspect the latter explanation.) Naturally, the plan goes hopelessly awry. However, as a cover for their activity in the building, Frenchy has started a cookie business. In a typically New York kind of response, people love her cookies. They demand her cookies. They will wait endlessly in line for her cookies. Almost instantaneously, the crooks own a multi-million dollar legitimate bakery business.The plot thickens when Frenchy decides that her life style--and her life--need to be commensurate with her new-found wealth. She hires art dealer and cad David (Hugh Grant) to teach her how to be a sophisticated socialite. Naturally, complications ensure. From there, the plot moves forward in predictable--but humorous--ways.Watch for Elaine May as Frenchy's very dim cousin May. (I've noticed this about Woody Allen. In most movies, someone may be perceived as slow in the beginning of the film, but by the end, they have demonstrated true wisdom. Not so for Woody. Start slow, end slow.) The ultimate New Yorker, Elaine Stritch, has a cameo role as socialite Chi Chi Potter. Anyone could have played the part. I think Woody just wanted to have Stritch in the movie to tell us, This is New York, and nowhere else.We saw the film on DVD, and it worked well on the small screen. This is pretty lightweight Woody, but for me, any Woody is worth seeing. So, if you have an hour and a half to spare, check out Small Time Crooks.Personal note Life imitates art. My cousin became a millionaire by franchising chocolate chip cookies. However, he didn't arrive at that career by starting out to rob a bank. "},{"Title":"Small-time comedy from Woody Allen","Date":"10 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen's Small Time Crooks begins hilariously and then spends its last half making us feel guilty for the laughs we had in the first half. Perhaps it had been so long since Allen has done an all-out comedy, he couldn't keep up the momentum until movie's end.Allen plays Ray, one of the titular characters, as a variation on his schleppy booking agent in Broadway Danny Rose. His clothing is only slightly louder than his complaining, and he gesticulates wildly, as though his hands have minds of their own. And Tracey Ullman, as Ray's social-climbing wife Frenchy, certainly seems a perfect match for him. (Allen doesn't have much originality in creating tacky characters--when in doubt, he throws on the plaids and has everyone screech their lines.) Ray, a reformed criminal, plots a scheme to return to his life of crime. There's a vacant building a couple of doors down from a bank, and he figures he can use the building as a front so he can tunnel to the bank and grab the bank's loot. The front will be a shop for Frenchy's homemade cookies, while Ray and his henchmen drill underneath the shop.Comparisons to Allen's first feature, Take the Money and Run, are inevitable and (for the first part of the movie, at least) worthy. Ray's blunders with his no-brain partners (Michael Rapaport and Saturday Night Live alumnus Jon Lovitz) are a slapstick delight. And when their (mis)fortunes take an unexpected turn for the richer, the movie seems meant to live up to its early promise.But then, after a half-hour of making fun of these lowlifes, the movie asks us to take their plight seriously--if you can call getting unexpectedly rich a plight. Frenchy hires a stuffy art curator (Hugh Grant) in hopes of furthering her education (shades of Annie Hall). Ray, feeling Frenchy drifting away from him, starts to fall for her dimwitted cousin (Elaine May). And the movie audience suddenly feels the movie's sense of fun drifting away.Why the movie suddenly dismisses the bungling bankrobber trio is a mystery, but dismiss them it does, as though they were a plot device which Allen quickly tired of. The cookie-shop front might have been funnier if Frenchy's creativity with cookies benefited everybody except for Ray. (A similar premise propelled Albert Brooks' The Muse, and Crooks even borrows Muse's plot device of the wife finding unexpected success with making cookies.) Instead, the movie replaces its prime source of laughs with schlocky pathos. The camera closes in on Frenchy's face when she realizes her rich friends have been making fun of her, and suddenly the plot goes from the highs of The Muse to the lows of The Flintstones. The cast wavers all over the place. Allen is in his slapstick element, doing physical schtick he hasn't attempted in ages and pulling it off. And Lovitz and Rapaport are delightfully dumb. On the other hand, Hugh Grant's role is underwritten, and Elaine May's is just plain *not* written. Allen seems to have a thing for dumb brunettes, and May adds nothing to the role except catatonia.Allen is so fearful of being reminded of his earlier, funnier movies that each time he tries for purely funny, he seems a little more removed from the source. Crooks has its fair share of laughs (though more at the start than at the end), but finding comedy in silly characters and then asking us to feel unearned sympathy for them plays less like early Allen and more like latter-day Jerry Lewis. "},{"Title":"One of the in between ones good but not great","Date":"6 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The premise and basic situations are funny. The accidental way they became rich and the nouveau riche aspirations provide laughs.The laugh out loud moments are there but they are a little bit spaced out and extend beyond the laughter stops. It's a bit of a one joke and variations for the first half and another for the second. There just isn't enough good dialog throughout.Tracey Ullman is convincing and has comic timing and delivery. Hugh Grant is suited to his role but his lines are a bit obvious. Elaine May does the idiot well. Woody himself isn't too old looking yet.I think Woody's movies became excellent from Match Point onwards with original and vibrant movies like Whatever Works and Midnight in Paris. Small Time Crooks is good but not great. "},{"Title":"Whimsical Rather Than Witty Woody","Date":"12 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The great Writer/Director/Star seems a little tired in his new attempt at a more accessible mode of slapstick ala his early movies. The cerebral comedy takes a vacation and this romp is indicative of whimsical rather than witty Woody.It somewhat works and the creative ability of the cast, as well as a half-awake Allen, deliver an easy essay on wealth and want. There are a number of laughs and it all is a rather unusual piece of fluff from a talent that more times than not stimulates the head-bone as much as the funny-bone.Compared to his other gems this one is not made of glass, but admittedly, while not a fugazi, is far from the precious piece of treasure that one normally expects from the prophet of the misanthropes. "},{"Title":"Not Woody Allen's best, but it has its moments","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Nobody likes to see Woody Allen complain for 90 minutes more than I do, but Small Time Crooks sorta phones it in. It's basically three movies in one, but none of the three really brings much new. It starts of as a comedy about goofy criminals, then it has a (too) lengthy fish-out-of-water act, then finally it goes back to square one and puts in some more love story lines. The characters are never particularly engaging, and Allen himself is surprisingly annoying in this one. There are a couple of bright spots though, and they can come from where you least expect it. For instance Hugh Grant is really good in this movie. He may not be in it much, but it was refreshing to see him play something slightly different for once. Slightly. The best part of the movie is Elaine May's character though. The idiot character is probably the easiest part to write, but some of her lines are really quite inventive. Small Time Crooks is clearly one of the lesser works, but that doesn't really make it bad. "},{"Title":"Dortmunder Lives","Date":"1 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I have always thought of Woody Allen as someone with his own particular take on things so it's strange - for me - to find him straying into Donald E. Westlake territory, albeit the comedy crooks side of Westlake as exemplified by Dortmunder, Kelp, etc, rather than his more serious side. Having said that Woody proves adept at homage though he soon more or less abandons his associates to concentrate on a satire of nouveau riche which has been done a million times before and often better. Nevertheless it's a rare Woody Allen film that doesn't offer some rewards - often in the shape of one-liners, sometimes (Manhattan) in the use of 'standards' on the soundtrack. This is, on balance, minor Allen but still has its moments. "},{"Title":"Small time, big time, it adds up to a fun time.","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sometimes when you check out the reactions of others to a movie you enjoyed you're pleasantly surprised but just as often you end up being shocked by the attitudes towards it. I was quite shocked when I scored the internet and saw the amount of damning reviews for this movie coming from people who almost all claimed to be Woody Allen fans.Written and directed, unsurprisingly, by the New York movie-making machine, Small Time Crooks is nothing staggeringly great or important (and yes, it's below par when compared to the earlier works of Allen) but it IS consistently amusing from start to finish and features one or two hilarious set-pieces.The story is all about an inept criminal (Allen) who convinces his wife (Tracey Ullman) that if he and his criminal buddies invest their savings in renting a shop situated a few doors along from a bank they can end up tunnelling along while the store sells cookies, as a cover, and get their hands on a grand stash of cash. The problems begin when the cookies become so popular that the store starts to gain a lot of attention and could potentially become as big a moneymaker as the bank job.It may not be Woody Allen's most stellar cast but this movie boasts some great turns - Allen himself is his usual bag of tics and neuroses, Ullman is superb as the wife who wants a better life, Elaine May is entertainingly stupid and there is a great turn from Hugh Grant before he was set free to properly show his comedy chops in some fine British efforts. There are also great performances from the likes of Michael Rapaport, Tony Darrow and Jon Lovitz (though all of them are slightly underused).The script may not be the finest Allen work when it comes to gags-per-minute but when the laughs DO come they're a great mix of easy, dumb fun and superb set-piece moments (two robberies are highlights as is Ullman's attempt at entertaining some upper class socialites). I liked this movie the first time I saw it and, even after viewing many of the director's earlier and superior works, I like it just as much now. It's a lot of fun, nothing more and nothing less. "}{"Title":"A light, frothy, but somewhat patchy, comic delight.","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you can hold on through some lame one-liners and weak slapstick in the first half-an-hour of 'Small Time Crooks' you'll be amply rewarded with some much better comedy in the second half.There's oodles of comic talent on show (Tracey Ullman and Elaine May playing the dumb and dumber broads are wonderful) and there are enough gems in the dialogue to keep the brisk, frothy plot bouncing merrily along for a thoroughly enjoyable 90 minutes.Comic highlights? Without giving too much away look out for the Sunset Farms documentary at about half way and Elaine May's (she seems to have all the best lines) reference to her first husband Otto. In fact Elaine May, in a rare appearance, is an absolute treat. "},{"Title":"Great first half can't make up for disappointing second half.","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a real uneven movie. I was absolutely loving and enjoying this movie during its first half hour or so but the movie suddenly took a turn for the worse.It's almost like you are watching two completely different movies. It seems as if Woody Allen had two different scripts laying around but only had the time and money to make one of them. What begins all so promising and get set up so well in the movie its opening gets totally abandoned in its other half. Even some promising fun characters that still played a prominent role in the first half disappear out of the story completely. Also the comedy seems to be different in its second half. The first half was more some quirky but realistic and fun comedy, while its second half seemed more silly and unrealistic with its story and the character's actions. The movie its first half definitely made me laugh and amused me, while its second half was just only being mildly entertaining. It's not like it made me hate this movie and in itself its second half is also not that bad but the contrast with its first half was still so big that it took away a lot of the enjoyment for me and made the movie as a whole still a disappointing one.You will probably still get lots of enjoyment out of this movie. I mean, it's a Woody Allen comedy, so you know you are going to get some fun moments and some fun lines, from it's excellent cast. The movie leaves the actors plenty of room to improvise away for a bit. Also the comedy itself is quite well written en weaved sneakily into the movie at times. For instance a thing that gets mentioned 5 minutes earlier in the movie suddenly will later reappear again and has a surprising great comedy effect. It would had been all even better if it had a great story to go along with it as well.The story isn't really going anywhere with its second half and only seems to preach in a very unnatural and far from convincing way. It tries to have some messages in it but it all falls flat due to the the movie its approach.An enjoyable but overall still a more disappointing movie, that showed far more premise during its first half.5/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"big time laughs","Date":"24 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" writer/director Woody Allen scores some big time laughs with this film.i laughed quite a bit.the characters are all interesting.the dialogue(particularly the bater between Ray (Allen)and his wife Frenchy(Tracey Ullman) is quite funny as, are some of the situations.Elaine May as Frenchy's cousin May is a scream.Hugh Grant plays against type(sort of)in a minor supporting role.the story is interesting and well fleshed out,as are the characters.all in all,this is a witty,clever and fun movie that never fails to entertain.though i haven't seen a lot of woody Allen films,this is one of the funniest i have seen to date.for me,Small Time Crooks scores big time laughs.8/10 "},{"Title":"Cute but muddled and uneven","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Sometimes a comedy can get so over planned, or ambitious that it forgets what its sole purpose is...to make people laugh. Even though Small Time Crooks did on occasion have me laughing, and almost always smiling, it left me wanting more. The real problem with the film however, is that it really does not amount to as much as Woody Allen probably thinks it does. He makes the whole thing seem more elaborate than necessary. The end result is contrived, rather pointless, and is accompanied by a rushed ending.Ray and Frenchy are a 'not so charming' New York couple living in a tiny apartment, but Ray has some big plans for getting dough. A pizza place across from a nearby bank has just closed. He wants to buy the store, turn it into a cookie shop (his wife makes cookies). She will then be the front man (or woman) while Ray in the basement tunnels across the street to the bank. It all goes wrong. While Ray fails in his task, his wife meets astonishing success in hers. Overnight, the shop becomes one of the hottest places in town. Jump forward a year, and the couple now run a big national cookie company, and are living the American dream. What could possibly go wrong.From here, Small Time Crooks becomes a completely different movie, which ends up going nowhere. All the big laughs come in the first act. The rest of the movie, provokes chuckles at best. Woody Allen does however successfully maintain an active screen presence. Even at sixty, he still has a performer left in him. Actually having seen Scoop, it's easy to argue that he still has it in him in age seventy.Scoop may actually be a better film to see if you wanna get a peek at the older Woody Allen. This one has its moments, but the whole thing is just bogged down by too much plot, and not enough direction. Could have been worse I suppose. At least I laughed. "},{"Title":"The Same Old Woody, Not The Same Good Ol'  Woody !","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" When a Woody Allen's comedy gives to you only some funny lines, then it's weak. And when it has more faults and looks so scanty, then it's disappointing as well ! I hated the way Woody wrote it  making real great characters, the heist's buddies or the real small time crooks, to kill them all off the story in the first 20 minutes !! (Why he didn't bring them back for the last mission ?!). Or how it begins like a fine heist comedy then transforms into another typical WA's movie about the return of old lovers to each other which's a present line, for countless times, in his latest movies (I can't mention the 4 or 5 examples that I recall unless putting many spoiler alerts first!). Is it a way to compensate his ex-wife (Mia Farrow) ??! Well, he said it himself in Annie Hall  when life is that hard, we make it easy in the art ! (And he was talking about a return of 2 lovers to each other !).I hated the way Woody directed it  It's not pure Woody, as some reviewer said, IT'S pure woody (with the bad meaning of the word !). He was determined to be simple, but the movie looked truly uninteresting. Not to mention the repetition of the same Woody's apartments, streets, angles, way of talking, way of moving, and the Horrible Horrible ancient music tracks (that he unfortunately adores); with all of that the whole matter becomes boring before being indigent. It's so strange that this movie was the first in 5 movies Dream Works, yes the mighty Dream Works ITSELF, offered to Woody to produce !!!! So, that's what Woody insists to do even with BIG BUCKS budget ???I hated the way Woody performed it  Woody is still Woody. And I mean it in all the awful senses. And guess what ? That's boring before being indigent ! Aside from nice performance comes from most of the cast, it shows that his remarks (as a director) for himself (as an actor) are none ! It's natural that his performance deteriorates as he ages; the man nearly didn't work with directors along the years but himself ! Just watch the scene in which his character is confused about the real necklace in front of the safe to catch on what I mean ! (what's more painful than a comic star in a comic situation where no comedy is produced !).He thinks himself Charles Chaplin. However Chaplin did present different roles, even if he failed. He thinks that he creates simplicity but it is dull, monotonous, and killing the amusement of the script. He thinks that he makes Hollywood old classics-like yet independently, and he does, but on so low level and not as entertaining as we got before (whether from the old classic Hollywood, or the old classic Woody !). As you see, the man thinks a lot already, and nobody rethinks for him! So  the casting was good, but the good characters got to leave early. The heist story was promising, but it got to leave early. The lines were funny, but with this directing I wanted to leave early ! Though, I completed it to witness eventually not the pure Woody Allen, but the poor Woody Allen ! Or maybe that is what the pure Woody Allen is all about lately !Simply the thing about his work since the 1990s is that dealing with the idea became not as its beauty. And how these movies sure got sense of loveliness but without the same liveliness that we used to have from him once (remember how the image was turning into cartoon in Annie Hall, where is THAT Woody ?!). It's not where I say my condolence is the funny lines. No. It's where I say my condolence to the funny lines. "},{"Title":"Small Time Crooks (2000) ***","Date":"17 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Here we have Woody Allen as a former thief who once botched up a robbery and did jail time for it, and now has a new scheme to make more money. He convinces his skeptical wife (Tracey Ullman) to let him have all their savings and go in with a bunch of other guys to buy out an old pizza parlor so they can dig a tunnel through the shop and come up inside the neighboring bank and take in millions, split between them. The wife will sell her homemade cookies in the front of the store as a distraction while the men drill in the back ... but what happens is a turn of events nobody was prepared for. I think this particular title was important at the time of its release because it was the first in awhile where Woody Allen went from being deep and introspective to just being plain silly and fun once again. I've come to enjoy this one more now than I did upon its initial release, but it's really the first half that is stronger than the second. Still a pleasant time waster at any rate. I particularly enjoy the opening sequence where tough-talking Woody is trying to intimidate his even tougher wife into investing in his brainstorm, as it smacks of vintage Honeymooners trappings, which I'd bet was on Allen's mind when he made this. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"And so the cookie crumbles","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well now we have a ex-crook played by Woody Allen and his wife are looking to make a bit of extra money so they plan on robbing a bank. Unfortunately things don't go as planned so how do small time crooks deal with a life that they don't know anything about? Well you have to check this out to find out.This movie is unusual for Woody Allen as he plays a character that is no where near as neurotic as every other character he plays. He pretty much plays a down to earth stupid poor guy with a degree of street smarts. This is is a large leap for him and I must give him Kudos for this job. I found the movie a tad bit boring so I can't really give it an excellent review as most Woody Allen films center around talk and it is still quite a smart play using clever word plays and other slight forms of subtle comedy to get the laugh. I find the movie overall mediocre but a good deviation from other films of this time and in the past. Overall it is a fair movie if you love Woody Allen I say go for it. "},{"Title":"Funny but kinda loses it's way after a hour but Ullman's Performance saves the day. ***1/2 out of *****","Date":"12 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now I admit, I haven't seen many Woody Allen movies in fact I've only seen one other which was the Woody Allen/Diane Keaton Comedy Mystery 'Manhattan Muder Mystery' which I thought was pretty good, but like that one, this film runs out of steam after about an hour, when Allen seems to run out of ideas - But it's still worth watching and far better than most of the dire output from Hollywood.In This Film Woody Allen & Tracey Ullmann play married couple Ray & Frenchy, Ray is a Small Time Crook hence the title and a pretty unsuccessful one at that with the cons at his Jail giving him the sacarstic nickname of 'The Brain'. Ray comes up with a seemingly brilliant idea of renting a Pizza Takeaway two doors down from a Bank so that he and equally stupid accomplices Denny & Tommy (Michael Rappaport & Tony Darrow) can drill through the basement of the Building all the way through to the bank - in order to do this they need a cover for the shop, so Frenchy decides to sell her cookies...... and suddenly the cookies become a huge hit, changing all their lives with hilarious consequences.Now I said it does lose it's way and it does after an hour it seems to be padded to hell to make it's 94 minutes but It's still a very good Film and well worth watching......***1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Average Woody Allen's movie take it or leave it","Date":"17 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Small time crooks is just an average Woody Allen's comedy, so those who hate Woody's typical comedies will hate this one as well, and those fans of Woody's (I'm one of them) we'll get exactly what they was looking for. Woody plays a small time thief that gets rich thanks to his wife's talent for cooking cookies. All that gives raise to a bunch of crazy situations made-in-Woody-Allen and to tons of his totally brilliant dialogs. The portrait Woody makes of that couple of nouveau riches is just great... and what to say about Tracey Ullman's performance!! She's probably one of the funniest actresses of the last 25 years.A Woody Allen movie.. take it or leave it! *My rate 7/10 "},{"Title":"Quite enjoyable Allen type comedy","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not a great devotee of Woody Allen and certainly haven't seen all of them, but this is one I thoroughly enjoyed. As mentioned, the style switches several times, and I personally feel the jewelry heist attempt had deliberate Hitchcockian edges, complete with what almost looked like a Hitchcock cameo.Tracey Ullman as Frenchy is a perfect match for Allen. They play off of each other perfectly. And then Elaine May's addition heightens the comedy, as does Elaine Stritch's later appearance.This is hardly great, but it's thoroughly enjoyable and recommended by yours truly. "}{"Title":"A very nice 'intellectual' comedy","Date":"22 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Finally a movie with a decent screenplay.This is not exactly the best Woody Allen has ever made, but is definitely a return to their roots, to who Woody Allen is and to what he does best. This film is a very nice satire of modern society, of the need to belong, the cravings of the new rich and the angst of old money to be overtaken by modernity and the onslaught of the new. All this nicely packaged (as is in the best Woody Allen tradition) in an amusing, at first glance simplistic comedy. Add to this some very good acting by all the main characters, some witty dialog (allbeit not as good as in some earlier Allen films) and you have all the necessary ingredients for an entertaining evening at a higher than average intellectual level.Welcome back Woody! "},{"Title":"Not Vintage Woody, but Still a Lot of Fun...","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" SMALL TIME CROOKS is an underrated gem from the Allen files that's not a classic in the sense of ANNIE HALL or MANHATTAN, but is still funny and worth watching. Woody plays an inept former crook who is bored with playing it straight and decides to plan a bank robbery with the help of some buddies (Michael Rappaport,Jon Lovitz, Tony Darrow). They decide to hit the bank by burrowing from underneath via an abandoned bakery next door and Woody's wife (Tracy Ullmann) provides a front for them by opening up a gourmet cookie store. In a classic Allen plot twist, they bungle the robbery but the cookies become a smash,making Woody and Tracy millionaires;however,they learn that money does not guarantee social acceptance. Woody tells an entertaining story here with a master hand...he offers one of his funniest screenplays anchored by razor-sharp direction and,as usual, a wonderful hand-picked cast. Woody and Ullmann are absolutely hysterical together and mention should also be made of supporting turns by Hugh Grant and the fabulous Elainie May, who steals every scene she's in. It takes a little while to get going, but stick with it...it will be worth it. "},{"Title":"Rambling but successful comedy.","Date":"18 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" It's divided into three parts. (1) Woody and an inept gang set up a cookie store as a front, to be run by Woody's wife, Tracy Ullman, while they tunnel through the store's basement into the bank next door. (2) The robbery fails but the cookie store succeeds beyond anyone's imagination and Woody and Tracey become rich. (3) Tracey falls for a phony art dealer and Woody takes up with his sister-in-law, May, Elaine May. When the cookie franchise goes bankrupt the couple get together and it all ends happily.The first part seems somewhat detached from the rest of the movie. Most of the main characters disappear from the film in the two later sections. It's almost a film in itself. And actually I think it just about was -- called Larceny, Inc. back in the 1940s.Part two is transitional and is the most nearly serious (and least amusing) part. Ullman wants to learn how to be classy from Hugh Jackman but is flatly unable to overcome her innate vulgarity. My God, her taste is awful. Woody is forced to wear clothes that are in themselves lessons of dissonance -- a royal blue jacket with canary yellow trousers. He refuses to look at a wall on which an abstract expressionless painting hangs and has the butler read him the time from the clock hanging next to the dreadful thing.The third part revolves around Woody's plan to switch a cheap fake for a terminally expensive necklace at a fancy party. The plot is silly but Elaine May carries the day as a complete dodo. Some of the gags are simple minded and others a little more complex. I'll give an example of an exchange between May and a guest at the formal party that illustrates both kinds of jokes. May has been ordered by Woody to keep quiet and play lookout and to say nothing except maybe about the weather. Something like this.May There's a warm front moving over the city. Guest You know, you're the most charming woman I've met since my dear, departed wife. I noticed you when you first entered the room, the way you carried yourself. May You can't carry yourself. That's physically impossible. Guest, laughing Really, you remind me so much of Helen. May Who's Helen? Was she your wife or just some woman who died? Later May tells Woody He said I reminded him of his dead wife. I assume he meant while she was still alive. There's still another reference to this exchange but I think I'll quit.This is one of Woody's better recent comedies. He's the nervous street-wise schlub that he was in Broadway Danny Rose. If you liked that one, you ought to enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"A Victim of his Own Success","Date":"10 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Possible spoilersWoody Allen has become the victim of his own success. It is often said that his recent offerings do not come up to the standard of his great films of the seventies and eighties. In my opinion that is, to some extent, true. I have not seen any truly great Allen film, measured by the standards of 'Annie Hall' or 'Manhattan', since 'Hannah and Her Sisters' in 1986 and 'Crimes and Misdemeanors' three years later. Nevertheless, he has made a number of very good ones. Most filmmakers would be delighted to count among their oeuvre just one film as good as 'Manhattan Murder Mystery', 'Bullets Over Broadway', 'Mighty Aphrodite' or 'Sweet and Lowdown'; the fact that Allen can lay claim to all of those suggests that it is premature to write him off as a spent force. One criticism that could fairly be made of Allen is that he has a limited range as an actor, although he can be very good within that range. His normal screen persona is that of the neurotic, intellectual Bohemian middle-class New Yorker, but in 'Small Time Crooks' he is clearly trying to extend his scope. He, unusually, casts himself as a working-class character, Ray Winkler, an unsuccessful New Jersey petty criminal. (Despite this, he still looks and sounds much the same as he does in his other films). Ray's latest scheme is to rob a bank by tunnelling into it from the shop next door. To divert suspicion, he persuades his wife Frenchie to bake cookies and to sell them from the shop. Thanks to Ray's incompetence, the bank robbery does not come off, but Frenchie's cookie business proves a surprise success, and within a year the Winklers find themselves the millionaire bosses of a prosperous bakery enterprise. The film then moves into the realms of social satire. Frenchie, like many another nouveau-riche, longs to be accepted into New York high society, but her vulgar and ostentatious displays of wealth quickly make her a laughing-stock among the old-money elite. (Allen clearly has no time for the theory that America is a classless society without the social distinctions that mark the Old World). In a variation on the 'My Fair Lady' story, Frenchie befriends David, an upper-class English art-dealer, and persuades him to try and teach her about art, literature, fine wines and social etiquette so that she can pass herself off as a cultured person of taste and breeding. Ray, on the other hand, has no time for culture. Rather than visit art galleries and expensive restaurants, he would prefer to live the life of a couch potato, watching television and eating cheeseburgers. Despite the success of the cookie business, he still frets for his earlier, simpler life as a criminal. Forgetting that he was a totally incompetent one, he dreams of pulling off one last spectacular heist. Unlike some, I did not think that Allen was trying to preach or moralise in this film. There is certainly no suggestion that those of working-class origins should stick to cheeseburgers and televised sport rather than interest themselves in culture. The only thing wrong with Frenchie's programme of self-education is that (unlike, say, the Julie Walters character in 'Educating Rita') she is doing it for the wrong reasons, out of snobbery rather than out of genuine interest. There is, perhaps, the implication that many of the more established members of New York society are just as shallow as Frenchie; they are merely better at hiding their shallowness behind a veneer of sophistication. If there is a moral, it is perhaps that small time crooks like Ray and his gang (portrayed as endearingly inept) are less dangerous than big time white-collar crooks like the accountants who defraud Ray and Frenchie of their wealth, or even David, who might not break any laws but who turns out to be as grasping and materialistic as any criminal. The two main sources of humour in the film are Frenchie's social pretensions (she loves to use long words, but only those beginning with A, as she has not yet got round to reading the rest of the dictionary) and the bumbling incompetence of Ray and his gang. (The bank raid, for example, misfires because Ray misreads the map and ends up tunnelling into a dress shop rather than into the bank). Allen's performance in this film is a fairly restrained one; he is outshone by Tracey Ullman, who gives a delightfully over-the-top performance as the loud and vulgar Frenchie, the sort of nouveau-riche who has been the butt of satire ever since Moliere's 'bourgeois gentilhomme', or even Trimalchio in Petronius's 'Satyricon'. Hugh Grant is an actor with as limited a range as Allen, but like Allen he can excel within that range, and he is excellent here as David, the suave but hypocritical upper-class English gentleman. The film as a whole is not, perhaps, first-class vintage Allen, but it is still entertaining, and even non-vintage Woody Allen is better than most recent film comedies. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Take the Money and Run 2000","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Blues Brothers had their 2000 sequel, so why not Woody Allen?  This movie has been hailed as a return to screwball form and many Woody fans really enjoy it.  I found the humor to be a little familiar but refreshingly clean (it was his first PG movie since Manhattan Murder Mystery), and I really liked the way the plot completely switched gears midway through.  Tracey Ullman was actually funnier than anyone else in the cast (including Allen), and created one of Woody Allen's best female heroines with her Frenchie.   This was his first movie of the oughts, and paved the way for his next wave of films, each one sillier than the previous one.  Maybe it's a sign of his age--although I for one still feel he has another masterpiece in him.  Only time will tell. "},{"Title":"Not so special","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen films can be really special, but this one is not so special.The scenario sounds great, but actually the film splits into three rather unconnected sections * the heist in which the cover becomes more valuable than the heist * the taming of the shrew * the denouement.The shrew, Tracey Ullman, is the star of the show - the only person who seems genuinely well cast in this piece.  Hugh Grant does Hugh Grant, as always, but the part itself lacks something and Hugh probably does not play to Woody's directorial strengths.  Woody himself is miscast in this film - the only scene of his that works for me is the scene where his old con buddy tries to convince him that his jail nickname The Brain was sarcasm.It attempts sophistication - there are multiple sets of small time crooks one set for each of the three plot sections.  This multi-layering of issues is relatively ineffective in this movie - see Crimes and Misdemenours and/or Hannah and Her Sisters for far better use of the technique (indeed both are better movies in every way).  The fact that one bunch of crooks is unseen throughout leaves this movie with a denouement almost as unsatisfying as and then he woke up - it had all been a dream.It has its moments, but they are too few and the standard we expect from Woody is that much higher.  As Woody might well have put it when he was on form, it's a good movie, but not a great movie. "},{"Title":"Amusing.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I would hardly call myself a woody allen fan, I've only seen 2 of his films. The first one was more entertaining(it was What's Up Tiger Lily if you care to know). The first 45 mintues of this movie were very funny, then it just falls into a pit of crap that didnt pick up till the last 10 mintues. I pretty much only rented this movie because I've been wanting to see more woody allen movies and it featured jon lovitz (i like him). i think it would have been a better movie if they had kept with the bank robbery and not went on with that damn cookie industry crap. that wasnt that good, in the end this was a sevre letdown, but if you like woody I guess this would be entertaining enough.6/10 "},{"Title":"Woody disappointed me","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When I went to see Small Time Crooks, I was hoping for a great movie of Woody Allen, the man responsible by great comedies like Zelig and Annie Hall. After all, this was the director's most rentable work in years, so it had to be good. I was disappointed with the result. The movie starts very good, with Allen as an unique bandit, and with the funniest friends of all times. However, when he gets rich, the movie gets boring. Suddenly, his friends disappears, and his wife (played by Tracey Ullman) becomes the most boring (and irritant) women of all times. Hugh Grant plays his character tiresomely. The movie only gets better in the end, when Allen himself perceives that Grant and Ullman are too boring, and decides to go back on the illegal career. I hope that Allen learned from his mistakes. Because Small Time Crooks isn't the easy comedy from Love and Death, and hasn't the neurotic style of Manhattan. It's just another ordinary movie, with an irksome Hugh Grant and with a great beginning and a good end, but with a tiring half. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Allen Film, with a great cast and great humor...","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This time Woody Allen did a very great job with Small Time Crooks, he gave 94 minutes of cinema pleasure. His films are always light and amusing. It seems that everybody wants to work with him, although he has a very small budget. But working with him is an experience for live. Liv Ullman, Hugh Grant, Jon Lovitz... had the seam idea and were the stars for his 200 movie Small Time Crooks. Like mostly Woody took the lead-role. He plays the corrupt husband of Ullman. He has the plan to robber a bank, and he wants to dig a tunnel to get to the safe of the bank. But it had to be inconspicuous, so he rents the store next to the bank and his wife makes cookies for selling and in that time Woody and his companions make the tunnel. But instead of digging a tunnel and robber the bank, the cookie store became a huge success. So they get a company of Crooks. Ullman is head of the company and she became involved with David (Hugh Grant) and he is mean, he wants her money and Ullman falls in love and the marriage is breaking up and they almost divorce but the company becomes bankrupt. And Ullman is now alone with her debts and yes she finally gets with Woody back. But she has still a box of Count Edward XI and she sells it and now she has a lot of money and they move to Florida.The Actors 1. Woody Allen gives a fine and funny performance 2. Liv Ullman is the best of all, everything is perfect her language, her looks (who she walks.... everything is perfect for her character that she plays)3. Hugh Grant is great actor, he says that he has panic attacks on the set, but I ask myself, Why? He is good, he maybe has to make more films than it maybe would disappear instead of stop with acting.This film was great instead of bad critics... so my rating is 8,5 / 10 or *** out of ****Another Diamond of Allen... "},{"Title":"A good start, a bad middle, a bad end","Date":"9 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Expecting some of the usual hilarity I receive while watching a Woody Allen flick, I picked up SMALL TIME CROOKS from the video store and watched it with a buddy.The beginning was good -- hilarious, even, real Woody stuff. I thought it was going to be the greatest movie ever.  The attempted robbery and the results of it (a successful cookie store) was fantastic, but then it slowly started to get boring... then more boring... then more boring... then zzzzzzzzz.  I almost drifted off to sleep a thousand times, but I stayed awake thinking that it would eventually get better again. Sadly, it didn't.The film tried to do too much. The first part alone would have been an excellent short, but the movie as a whole was not so good. The whole Hugh Grant thing was just horrible. Hugh Grant should never be cast in any movie ever again, he just ruins them with his stupidity. This is definitely not one of Woody's best.SMALL TIME CROOKS - 4/10  "}{"Title":"Lost something in the Steal","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A pity that Barbra Streisand couldn't have taken the role of Frenchie that she was offered, but even that couldn't have made this one of Woody's best. Good fun all the way, but only provided a couple of chuckles. Woody seems to have lost some of his 'spontaneity' and perhaps could do with a year off to recapture some of that sparkle that has made him the World Wide Wonder that he is. I was looking forward to this film and I'm in anticipation of Scorpion too, but can't help but feel a little disappointed. "},{"Title":"What can I say.  It's a Woody Allen flick!","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm a young guy, and like most young guys, I gravitate towards the more obnoxious and offensive comedies--the kind you absolutely cannot watch with your parents.  I must say, however, that it's a pleasure to see a comedy(?) that doesn't exploit sex or harm to others as humorous subject matter.  Small Time Crooks is a light-hearted and simple story about a half-witted married couple who strikes it rich and their anomalous life in the upper class of society.Funny overall, yet the majority of the comedy occurs in the first half hour or so.  Perhaps this movie, although choc full of humor, isn't a comedy.  As the wife tries to live like a rich woman, the husband and wife find themselves growing apart, only to be brought back together by a catastrophe that reminds them of their deep-down need and love for eachother.  A funny story, but a very profound message, if you ask me.It's an excellent movie that you can watch with anyone.  Two thumbs and two big toes up! "},{"Title":"Woody's Henry James movie","Date":"30 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a belated comment, but I hope it may hold a little interest for IMDb users.In my view, beneath its hilarious, farcical exterior, Small Time Crooks is telling us something about Woody Allen's thinking and future course of action. The clue is the one-liner about Henry James - when Frenchy Winkler (Tracey Ullman) and David (Hugh Grant) are passing a bookshop or cinema, and Frenchy mixes the great writer up with Harry James, the trumpeter. One of Henry James's constant themes is the mutual impact of the New World and the Old, usually to the detriment of the former.  (Two recent movies of his books -Wings of the Dove and The Golden Bowl -have both involved  this theme.)In this movie, after they come into money in a thoroughly American way, by failing to rob a bank, and succeeding in running a cookie business, Ray Winkler (Woody Allen) and Frenchy also flirt with European culture, in the shape of furniture, paintings, theatre, literature and, in Frenchy's case, the suave English art dealer, David.  Initially, the New Yorkers are outwitted, estranged and bankrupted by  the Old World; but US savvy  eventually wins through, and the couple decide to settle for their former comfortable American lifestyle. Woody Allen himself has also flirted with European influences in his time, making dark Bergmanesque dramas like Interiors, intellectual Godardian comedies like Annie Hall, and even a Lang-like film-noir, Shadows and Fog. The message that comes over to me from Small Time Crooks is that in future Allen will resist these European tendencies, and will stick to home-spun Americana, which would please many of his fans, though personally I think it would be a pity. In fact, much the same message also came over from Allen's  documentary Wild Man Blues, where we followed his Jazz band round Europe. Some of his admirers this side of the Atlantic expected to see a Europhile culture-vulture, and instead were confronted by an all-American Philistine, who seemed unimpressed by the beauties of  Venice, and was suspicious of the plumbing even in the plushest of hotels!  (I'm still not sure if this portrait is the genuine Woody; but it makes little difference; it's the way he wanted to present himself.)To sum up see Small Time Crooks for its all-American humour; but possibly pine a little for the missing touch of French or Italian sophistication.    "},{"Title":"Really nice stuff by Woody","Date":"23 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody is a champion. I'm glad I saw this. Its doesn't really say much but the scenes and writing are so tight you can tell he's a pro. The plot is great it takes you so far in a short time and achieves everything with ease. It even has a moral of the story at the end. I love the way you're watching a Woody movie and you just smile for minutes on end because between the music, the way people look and act, the things they're saying to each other and the part in the plot you just can't stop yourself smiling. No other director does that to me. Consistent brilliance.  "},{"Title":"Many smiles, no guffaws, mildly amusing","Date":"22 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Tracy Ullman is the star, and her story is both interesting and winning, as she perseveres in the face of being surrounded by nothing but some of the stupidest and amoral people in the history of Earth.  Allen's own character is more tedious and annoying than funny, but when Ullman or Elaine May are with him, he has his best moments.  Hugh Grant is marvelous in his limited role, and Elaine May nearly walks off with the film.  We spend far too much time with simpletons being simple, and this doesn't have a Marty-type context to justify it.  Still, it moves quickly enough and makes you smile enough to please.  In other words, you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Get Hooked On Crooks!","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The acting in Woody Allen's latest film `Small Time Crooks' definitely steals the show. Tracy Ullman, Michael Rappaport, Jon Lovitz, and Hugh Grant were the right combination of co-stars. Let's not forget Sir Woody himself who always rises up and performs admirably in his own films. However, may I say that the best performance of the film was given by Elaine May. She was hilarious as the intellectually challenged cousin-in-law. Oh! Let me not bail yet before telling you what the film is all about- some not too bright criminals who decide to open a cookie store as a cover up for a planned bank robbery. `Small Time Crooks' is a big time comedy. **** Good  "},{"Title":"If you love Woody Allen one liners and great music, you will love this film.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like most Woody Allen scripted movies, Small Time Crooks is alive with one liners and swing jazz. I love the way the music tells the story. Tracy Ullman is spectacular in this film. This film is refreshing because it gets away from the insecure romantic theme found in so many Woody Allen films. I am thinking of the great  Play it again Sam. This is about a common small time crook, who is washing dishes and is tired of being poor, who fails once again by making his wife rich!  A watch out what you wish for buddy  story that is full of good laugh out loud jokes and great swing jazz.  An hour and a half of real entertainment. "},{"Title":"Not his best.","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was rather disappointed with Small Time Crooks.  The jokes fell flat and the main characters did not invoke any positive feelings for me.  The story was OK if somewhat predictable.  The supporting cast was good but used too little.  Elaine May was just irritating.  Tracey Ullman was good and probably the most rounded out character in the movie.  She also looked great in stretch pants, rounded out I would say.  I am a Woody Allen fan and I have enjoyed his movies in the past but this one, unless you are a real fanatic, is not worth watching. "},{"Title":"Sweet in a low profile","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Small Time Crooks has a simple American success story.  In ways, it's a Classic Woody film -- looking back to the slapstick missing from his more recent offerings.  Ray (Allen), a dishwasher, and Frenchy (Ullman), his wife, wondefully recreate a couple from 50s sitcom TV with some spice thrown in the mix.  The eclectic horde of characters, who come together in Ray's money making plan, include an Oscar worthy performance from Elaine May as Frenchy's sister May.  The colorful photography of Zhao Fei is a major plus. Though the film is not a complete return to the mastery of the Allen/Keaton team of the 70s, it's still a real charmer. "},{"Title":"Not looking good for the little fella","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is actually the first Woody Allen film I have ever watched, so I was intrigued to see what all the fuss was about. Apparently you either love his work or hate it - if that's the case then 'Small Time Crooks' places me firmly in the camp wondering why people pay money to watch his efforts.The film is split into two distinct parts, the first concerning Allen and his friends trying to tunnel into a bank using his wife's cookie shop as a front location. The second, longer half deals with the Winkler's attempts to adapt to high society after the cookie shop turns into a successful franchise. The plot is predictable and lightweight, and this is okay if other elements of the film compensate for it. Unfortunately they don't as, despite claiming to be a comedy, only the occasional one-liner raises a chortle. Direction is uninspiring and the camerawork pedestrian, while the acting veers between good and bad throughout the film.I find Tracy Ullman irritating at the best of times, so no favours are done when she adopts a New Jersey accent. I found neither her nor Allen's character garnered any sympathy at all, so I could not care less whether they made it to the all-too-predictable conclusion of the film, which although welcome seemed a little rushed. The main comedy was supposed to stem from how stupid the rest of the cast were, however   this cerebral deficiency seemed to be employed when convenient for a laugh, and sometimes the actors seemed uncharacteristically intelligent, especially Allen who clearly struggled to maintain the pretence of stupidity.So not encouraging as my first foray into the world of Woody, 'Small Time Crooks' is a predictable caper with more flaws than laughs. Hugh Grant was quite good, although he essentially played Hugh Grant. "}{"Title":"Uneducated People Shouldn't Be Cultured","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  While this movie had laughs, underneath them was a weird message that uneducated people should stay ignorant, because the pursuit of cultural activities such as museum going will only cause them heartache.  Even the jokes make fun of uncultured people in a cultured way.  Woody Allen wears short pants, though, and that is funny all the way.  Characters are built up and then dropped for some reason.  Since Woody Allen is not playing an intellectual person, I found his presence less irritating than a lot of his smart roles. "},{"Title":"Not so funny,very average","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I think I've seen all of Woody Allen's film,and as a fan I will go to every film he will make in the future. But it has to be said that's not one of his best and I think that ever since his masterpieces from the 70's and 80's Allen has came up with some good and some average films. This one is one oh the cases of the average ones. The idea is good and the acting is good but it based on one joke that doesn't give much to carry on. As usual Allen is sharp on criticizing the New York society and its empty life and seems to have much more in common with the simple people than with the rich ones.I hope that one day Allen will come up with another masterpiece but for that he will need to take a rest and not make a movie every year like he does now. It will be better for him as film maker and a screen writer and for us as an audience who like him and eagerly wait for his next project hopping that this time the master will come up with a film that will reminds us why we liked him so much in the past and why we are sometime disappointed from him today. "},{"Title":"Cheerful undemanding comedy that highlights Allen's lesser-known talents...","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" ...specifically his knack for physical comedy (check out the safe-cracking scene near the end) and near-genius for assembling ensemble casts Ullman is spot on homely enough to be credible as loser Allen's long-suffering wife yet with enough glamour and intelligence to convince both as the former topless dancer and aspiring culture vulture.  Elaine May is superb as Frenchy's dim cousin and Hugh Grant proves how well he plays against his romantic-lead typecasting as an archetypal British bounder. Cast him as a Bond villain! "},{"Title":"Simply funny","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Reminiscent of Bananas and Play it Again Sam.  Simply funny.  Good writing and good physical comedy. Allen and Ullman are great, but Elaine May is fabulous.  Could've had a little more of the tunneling cast in there for a while, Michael Rappaport was hilarious even when limited to a short time in the movie. "},{"Title":"Cookies fortune?","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen is Ray the brain Winkler. He´s got  a genius plan renting a cookie-shop as an alibi and digging a tunnel to a bank. I don´t need to  say that the dilletantic plan fails. But his wife  Frenchy´s cookies are the big hit. It´s the beginning of an empire...Life is like a box of cookies - you never know what you´re going to get! could be the maxim  of this movie. But I always know what I´m going to  get, when I´m watching a Woody Allen movie. And  that´s the point why I´m never disappointed of him. Though it´s much lighter than his last works Celebrity and Sweet and lowdown, Small time  crooks has still its charme - and a message  better stay poor and lucky! Tracey Ullmann as Ray´s wife, Hugh Grant as David, their cultural teacher or Elaine May as May - they had the best  scenes! It´s just a nice and delightful comedy  that wants to entertain you for a few minutes - and so it does! "},{"Title":"Woody's Back, Baby!","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ray Winkler (Woody Allen) is looking to get rich quick.  So he decides to build a tunnel to break into a bank, but not before asking his wife Frenchy (Tracy Ullmann) to open a cookie shop as a front.  Typically, Winkler's plan falters, but the cookies are a smashing success.  So much so, that they become wealthy overnight.  Will high society accept these latter day Kramdens, and how will affluence change their lives?  In a movie full of classic lines, perhaps the top banana belongs to David (Hugh Grant).  As a veiled illusion to Oscar Wilde, he comments on owning a picture of himself in his closet that keeps on getting younger.  Despite playing along an all-star cast including Jon Lovitz and Michael Rappaport, the only memorable supporting performer was May (Elaine May).  If film critics were judge Allen's movies for what they are, rather than for who wrote and directed them, they would be in for a pleasant surprise with Small Time Crooks.  It is perhaps the Woody Allen's best movie since Radio Days. "},{"Title":"Bland and Predictable humour from ex-Master.","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen has produced a film of such bland tiredness that it should remain out of circulation for time-evermore. In comparison to his early films the humour is obvious and predictable, the characters stereotypical and the plot weak. Hugh Grant is good, closely followed by Tracey Ullman but the rest of the cast, including Allen, is poor. He made his name doing the self-analytical theorising but this departure will hopefully be his last into this sort of comedy. If anyone else had come up with this film it would be terrible, as it is it's awful. "},{"Title":"LESS IS MORE","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody needs to chill out and only make a film every 2 years. The current batch of films are only serving to affect his reputation. The cookie plot is stolen from Seinfeld's 'Soup Nazi' episode. The comedy seems to rely upon slapstick. In moments it only serves to patronize the working classes. Perhaps better than a lot of contemporary comedy, but this is no Annie Hall or Hannah & Her Sisters.  "},{"Title":"Old-style comedy","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  More in the style of Woody Allen's earlier movies, before he embarked on the experimental round of filmaking that started with Mighty Aphrodite, Small Time Crooks is a delightful tale of two none-too-intelligent crooks played by Woody Allen and Tracy Ullman. It's one of those movies that keeps tempting you to guess how the storyline will develop and then adding a few twists so you only get it nearly right. For those who like Woody Allen, this is him at his most affable. My biggest criticism was that occasionally his character would make a joke that was far too funny for such an unintelligent comic-hero. "},{"Title":"The beginning makes up for the end","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The film starts off as a wonderfully warm and cheeky comedy caper movie, and all the scenes set in and around Ray's master plan are brilliant, as are the scenes in the cookie shop. However, after the action moves to the successful Sunset Cookie empire, and the gang atmosphere disappears, it almost feels like a tragedy. Everyone in the supporting cast is horribly under-used with the exception of the wonderful Elaine May, and it's only the opening hour of the movie that makes waiting for the end bearable. "}{"Title":"The Emperor Has No Clothes","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  And considering it's Woody Allen, it's not a pretty sight.  Roger Ebert describes Small Time Crooks as a flat-out comedy.  As a lover of comedies of all types, I found this movie to be just plain flat.  Allen plays a small time loser and terminal complainer married to the long-suffering Tracy Ullman, and decides to make a heist of a lifetime.  He enlists a lot of his old crime and cell-buddies, who are much funnier in their strangely abbreviated scenes than Allen is in the whole movie.  To be fair, he has written himself a rather thankless role, a none-too-bright whiner who complains about everything and is not funny in the least.  He plays this role well, but this is the kind of person you try to get away from on the bus and that you want to get away from in the theater.  The movie is misleading; it is not about small-time crooks.  It's a fish-out-of-water story about simple people thrust into high society based on Ullman's success, not her husband's.  Tracy Ullman is the only enjoyable thing in this movie, other than Elaine May, who is brilliant and leaves you scratching your head as to why the hell we haven't been seeing more of her throughout the years.  Some people found the movie cute.  Most I talked to afterward found it typical-annoying Allen.  As usual, the critics see the name, not the product.  If it had been written by Joe Shmerd, I doubt Maltin and Ebert would have praised it as they did.  The movie would have been helped tremendously if the supporting players had been allowed to be supporting players, i.e. much more of them, and less of Allen's annoying character.  The only laughs come from them!  And they are given about 30 seconds of time.  Hugh Grant is great the as unctuous art collector, playing straight-man, introducing Ullman into high society.  But where is the main story-line?  Forgotten about, along with other promising threads that werer laid down in the beginning.  As it is, this is actually Small Time Crook, without the plural.  And the crime is that once again we have been hoodwinked into spending nine bucks based on reviewers praising an over-hyped writer/director.  Sorry to be so critical; I liked Bananas, Of Love and Death, and Hannah and her Sisters as much as anyone.  But Allen is pretty much hit-and-miss, and lately it's been pretty much miss-and-miss...and miss... Four out of ten stars for me.  Without Ullman, it would have been much less.   "},{"Title":"Woody's best in years!","Date":"4 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  'Small Time Crooks' is a rare chameleon of a movie that is both funny (mostly the first half) and serious (mostly the second half).  Some critics said that because Woody Allen turns out so many movies, usually one a year, that his dialogue now sounds forced.  That isn't the way I saw the film at all.  An aging Woody looks and sounds as hilarious as ever as a small time loser who makes a fortune along with his wife and his seedy friends off their front for the real job which didn't go exactly as they planned.  The REAL stand out in this movie is Tracey Ullman who plays Allen's wife in the film.  Her stand as sort of independent and head strong is a great balance that prepares her for the film's second half where her character really shines.  She deserves an Oscar nomination for this one as does the screenplay by Allen.  Woody is back!   "},{"Title":"1/2 Good, 1/2 bad.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although it ran no more than 90 minutes, Woody Allen's Small Time Crooks was made up of two distinct halves.  In the first, Woody and his buddies fumble about a bank robbery scheme.  In the second, Allen and Tracey Ullman, playing his wife, try to find happiness amidst their newly found wealth.  The first half is innocent and funny and reminiscent of Allen's earliest comedies such as Sleeper and Bananas.  Allen and Ullman play off of each other lovely with lots of wit.  The second half, unfortunately, is nothing more than preachy; Allen delivers the worn-out message of wealth brings no happiness/I was happier when I was poor.  I commend Allen for trying to return to his roots, but he's not there yet.Grade C+ "},{"Title":"Sorry, Woody, but it was a small time movie.","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was disappointed.  The plot was silly.  The hopes of some meaningful current between Ullman and Allen were dashed in the blithering dialogue, and Allen's no-longer-endearing patter.  Rags to riches?  Allen's just cashing in.  But he made Crimes and Misdemeanors there's still hope. "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Initially, I did not see this film because it starred or even was directed by Woody Allen. Personally, I hate Woody Allen before and after seeing this film. I went to see Small Time Crooks because of the plot. I like a good plot-oriented film. This fit the requirements I was looking for.Even with the disdain I have for Woody Allen, I remained objective and I'm glad I did. This was not a bad film after all. The plot surrounded a robber and his gang figuring out the best way to earn a cheap buck. After some time, they devise a plan that backfires, which leads into an incredible turn of luck for everyone involved. I must give credit to the writer's because I thought that the script was a refreshing look at a subject that has become quite cliche over time.The only criticism I have for Small Time Crooks is for Woody Allen. I hope he stops portraying himself as someone who needs to stop in the middle of a line and act as though he doesn't know what the heck is going on. I hope if and when I see his next film, he won't be doing that. Small Time Crooks is a good film and should be seen if fans like a nice easy going comedy. "},{"Title":"Small chuckles","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen's Small Time Crooks is a throwback to the old formula movie of uncultured people who strike it rich and try to blend in with high society, but this familiarity doesn't negate a film that works because of Allen's idiosyncratic touches.  This is Woody Allen being funny without any axes to grind, with much less neurosis nor self-deprecation, without too many marital complications; in short, a film much closer to Scenes from a Mall than to Husbands and Wives or Deconstructing Harry. Here is Allen enjoying himself with a remark about the c'mon back profession or the Polish car pool where everyone meets at work at the same time.  He is also harping back to two comedic couples he enjoyed, Ralph and Alice's knucklehead confrontations from 'The Honeymooners' and the seemingly moronic dialogue of Mike Nichols and Elaine May.  There is also a lot of malapropism in this movie, most of it funny, because all his characters are missing at least one screw - 'Treasure Island for Treasure of Sierra Madre', Harry James for Henry James, and 'one of those higher King Louies'.  Ray and Frenchy (aka Ralph and Alice but really Woody Allen and Tracy Ullman) get us going with an incessant trail of barbs and insults as Ray tries to pry away their life's savings for a not-too-well-thought-out bank robbery.  When Ray compliments himself as being Frenchy's smart husband, Frenchy says she must be a bigamist.  When Ray mentions his dumb conspirators to Frenchy, she remarks they must have been drafted right out of kindergarten.  Later we get Ray and Mae together (aka Nichols and May but this really is Elaine May) and they mesh even better as witness by their jewel heist at a rich couple's party when the nervous Ray has to deal with an even more nervous Mae.  As Mae is pretending to be ill, she starts to spurt out all her medical diagnoses she remembers from TV including hemophilia, Parkinson's disease, and Ebola virus.  Allen made a misstep by excluding his trio of very comical bunglers (Tommy, Denny, and Benny) after they had all struck it rich and instead focused on the overdone relationship between Frenchy and David (played with hints of his real-life conniving by Hugh Grant) that worked only in spurts - Frenchy wanted David to educate her on fine arts and wine while poor Ray is only interested in learning to spell 'Connecticut'. Small Time Crooks isn't among Woody Allen's best works but it has enough chuckles to brighten your day and maybe remind you about this very delicate but funny thing we call the human condition.   "},{"Title":"Like most of recent Woody, nothing bad but nothing brilliant","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like a lot of Woody Allen's movies of the past five or six years, Small Time Crooks is serviceable and entertaining. It offers likeable, quirky characters who make you snicker every few minutes and actually laugh out loud every 20 or so. Allen is - well, the same. Tracey Ullman does a good job of trading in her English accent for a Jersey one. Hugh Grant gets to play up his effete British snobbery and does so quite well. (You gotta love it when straight men wear neckerchiefs.) And Michael Rapaport, as always, just made me smile every time he was on camera.  As for the film itself, there's not a whole lot to say. Cute turns with clever one-liners and a happy ending. Like a well-cooked meal of linguine and turkey meatballs, it tastes just fine but certainly doesn't dazzle the palate. "},{"Title":"Will you get it?","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Besides being a great comedy that should leave you chuckling throughout, Allen has managed to hide many themes within this movie. Sketches in Intelligence, Love, Wealth and Honesty are all brilliantly wrapped up under the mask of comedy. It's themes would have never worked as a drama, but Allen's comic talent pulled this off wonderfully. "},{"Title":"A pleasant diversion","Date":"7 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought this was a pleasant enough movie, though not one of Woody Allen's best. It seemed to me to really be two movies. First it's a bumbling crook caper, and then it turns into a story about Tracey Ullman's obsession with the finer things in life. I really liked the first part best. Some funny crooks were introduced in the beginning and they pretty much dropped out of the movie about a third of the way in. I'm not even sure what Jon Lovitz was doing in the movie, as he didn't have a unique character and was given very little to do. While the entire movie was enjoyable, it was also somewhat predictable, once the storyline about Tracey Ullman took over. Elaine May was funny and refreshing throughout, however. It was also refreshing to see Woody Allen play someone a little bit different (but certainly not completely different) than his typical character. "},{"Title":"Enough Laughs To Recommed It!","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Small Time Crooks is a cute comedy but will never really be one of Allen's classic efforts. The first 20 minutes are hilarious as Ray,played by Allen , returns to his old ways and decides to get rich by renting a building next to a local bank. The plan is to have a front business and , at the same time, drill a tunnel into the bank, thus getting access to the safe. Things don't go quite as planned to say the least. The story really changes at this point which was a disappointment to me. The rest of the movie has some funny dialog prompting me to recommend that you see this, above average, comedy. Tracey Ullman is delightful as Ray's wife Frenchy.  "}{"Title":"An average Allen film. Not as good as some of his previous.","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie was just average. It wasn't as good as I like my Woody Allen films to be.It wasn't bad, it just couldn't reach the level of goodness that I need in order for a movie to be a worthwhile view.I will rate it a 6. Based on the IMD rating scale this falls below the minimum 7 rating that makes a movie worthwhile to see. Came close though. "},{"Title":"Extremely Amusing Comedy, Ullman is terrific","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SMALL TIME CROOKS (2000) is an extremely amusing comedy about a classless, aging ex-con (Woody Allen) with a long-suffering smart-mouthed wife (Tracey Ullman in a great performance) and how his plan to rob a bank with his idiot friends (including Jon Lovitz wearing black socks, shorts, and sandals) takes them into territory they're totally unprepared for. To say more would ruin the fun. If your a fan of Woody's lighter stuff, this one ranks up there with Manhattan Murder Mystery and is maybe a notch below Everyone Says I Love You. Elaine May is hilarious as Ullman's empty-headed cousin. Also stars Hugh Grant and Michael Rapaport.Small Time Crooks *** (scale 0 to ****) "},{"Title":"Best when it's swellegant","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It's the sets that are the star Santo Loquasto, an old hand in the Broadway and Woody businesses, creates chamber concerts of bad taste that rival Kristi Zea's Chinese-restaurant horrors in GOODFELLAS. Every revelation of a new velvet-painting'd wall is like a delicious fresh horror in a Roger Corman Poe movie. Of all Woody's light comedies of recent vintage, CROOKS is the funniest. Its first half hour, set in glumpy Damon Runyonville (still exquisite Loquasto designs), is laborious--Woody's Ralph Kramden shtik as an ex-con feels worked-up. But once the small-time crook Woody and his wife (Tracey Ullmann) are propelled into the world of museum boards and opera openings, the auteur gets to shift gears from GUYS AND DOLLS (not his forte) to LE BOURGEOIS GENTILHOMME (a little closer to it). The set piece--an evening of high culture involving enforced fingerbowl usage and rapidfire Polish jokes--ranks as the Wood Man's funniest stuff since his hypochondriacal fits in HANNAH AND HER SISTERS.Nobody on Planet Earth gets the casts Woody Allen does, and here he has chosen perfectly (and not just starrily). Jon Lovitz shows an actor's homespun wisdom he plays a moron who believes with every fibre of his being that he's both commonsensical and hip. Elaine May, as Ullmann's slowpoke cousin, may be the dimmest bulb in modern movies her idjit routine borders on mock-retardation, but her walking the line is dazzlingly bold and inventive. And Hugh Grant, as a high-culture gigolo, manages the feat of holding the audience rapt while thoroughly mocking himself and not getting any laugh lines. I'd say that constitutes the closest thing you'll see to heroism from a high-paid actor. "},{"Title":"Small time my a**","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The Main Thing by nicardo@bigfoot.com Review of Small Time CrooksWhat I was going for was a funny movie. Although I guess you could say if there's a theme to the film, it might be 'be careful what you wish for. -- Woody AllenWoody Allen is one of America's best, most original, and prolific masters of comedy. You have to go back to Chaplin and Keaton to find another film maker who's in such total control of his work. He writes, directs, and acts with such skill and success that he has no equal today. It's hard to find anybody who doesn't have an opinion on him. People either think he's hilarious, or just not funny, or that he's (shudder) not as funny as he used to be. To each his own. The guy's still an enigmatic genius. One of the most revered and most imitated film makers of any generation. He may or may not be past his prime, but on his worst days, he's still better than most.&#145;Small Time Crooks' is no masterpiece, if that's what you're looking for, but a gentle, amusing farce, complete with laughs, and more of Woody performing his film persona as only he can. If I compared it to all his previous work, I'd end up telling you what it's not. Let me tell you what it is, or at least what I thought I saw. I saw shades of the younger Woody (he's 64 now, okay?) surrounded by newer people trying to entertain in a light and silly story that has a twist, or turn.Ray `The Brain' Winkler (The Wood Man), is an ex-con dishwasher with a scheme to rob a bank. Frenchy (Tracey Ullman, who was born to do this kind of thing), is his manicurist wife who also bakes cookies. He talks her into sinking their life savings into a plan he's devised with his buddies (Michael Rapaport, Jon Lovitz, and Tony Darrow). Frenchy's cousin May (the legendary Elaine May), becomes involved, and serves as the family's weak link. Usually, you expect that Allen's characters only success to be at failure. Expected him and his dim-witted gang to botch the robbery somehow. Maybe not so quickly. I expected them to... I don't know, not become rich and learn that they're better off that way. But Allen, in his unique way, asks the questions, `What if they got what they wished for? What would they do? What might become of them?' Some people should not be rich. They just aren't cut out to have wealth. Frenchy enlists the aid of David (Hugh Grant), a snobbish art dealer, to help her become cultured and refined, hence, the conflict and comedy. With all that talent involved, expectations run pretty high.There are some funny moments, some clever dialogue, and some reminders of scenes past, but this is not the best Woody Allen movie ever. It lacks a certain overall `oomph.' Not a lot of big laughs. The gang of crooks disappear in the middle, Elaine May has very little to do, and it never really turns wacky, zany, dangerous, outrageous, or totally hilarious. It becomes centered on Ray and Frenchy's relationship, and settles into a sentimental look at the couple. We're supposed to think that money is a real threat to their marriage, I guess. Allen and Ullman have great chemistry, and that's sweet, but it seems like it could have been put to better use. I'm not saying don't go see the movie. Just don't expect to be blown away by Woody's finest effort in years. We still have him, though. After 47 years in the comedy profession, he starts at least one new original project every fall. He's still at it, writing, directing, and acting. That's the main thing. Believe me. E-mail and comments are welcome. "},{"Title":"Better than previous Woody Allen fare","Date":"31 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To give credit where credit is due -- I did laugh out loud four or five times during this film.  And thank you to Mr. Allen for a) casting Tony Darrow, and B) revisiting his own character from TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN. The problems begin with B)  revisiting TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN.  This movie feels like a remake of that film.  And I cannot forgive Mr. Allen for giving Michael Rappaport a great character and then not using it.  But, the movie is slight (in a good way) and Mr. Allen teaming up with Tracey Ullman and Elaine May did give me some of the best laughs I've had in quite a while. "},{"Title":"Got a nine from me for Elaine May","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was going to give this typically good Woody Allen movie a solid eight, but then he went and hired Elaine May.  I will go see this movie again just to see her.  She is a comic genius in my book and stole every frame she was in, with her perfect deadpan delivery.  Good movie - great Elaine May. "},{"Title":"Sweet Fancy Moses!","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Having only a few samplings of the WoodMan under my belt -- including hits like Annie Hall and Everything You Wanted To Know..., and misses such as Scenes From A Mall, watching Small Time Crooks has officially turned me into a Woody Allan bigot. From here on in, I'll admit to 'mildly enjoying' said hits -- and yeah, he's certainly vaulted many performers into breakthrough roles -- but I'll always be the one to counter with why can't he do more stuff like 'Antz'?This movie is horrendous. And you know what? It is all Woody Allen's fault.Originally sucked in by a cast of interesting cohorts (Tracey Ullman, Jon Lovitz and Michael Rapaport) and a funny teaser trailer (the backwards mining hats got me, I confess), Crooks is an Allen vehicle with square tires. If you're venturing out to see this thing under similar circumstances, you'll be left wondering as to where your movie went, and why is Hugh Grant in it all of the sudden. Simply put, the only humor out of this piece comes from Woody's gang of cronies, who for some reason or another, disappear less than midway through.What's left is a horribly dated script, seemingly improvised lines and plenty of Woody's patented whining, whining, whining (oy, the whining!). At times, the film hovers at a level that can only be compared to a high-school play. And not a good one, neither. As for any breakthrough performances, don't hold your breath -- unless the four or five minutes of Rapaport and Lovitz count for anything. And Woody? Try harder. Do better. Be funnier. 'Cuz you just lost yourself another customer. "},{"Title":"Crooked but not bent enough.","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  What does one expect from a movie starring Woody Allen and Tracey Ullman? A BRILLIANTLY FUNNY even  SIDE SPLITTING flick. Sorry. 'taint so for this one. It's a rags to riches to rags story with some laughs  but never guffaws. Gets a bit draggy at times. However Elaine May as May Sloan or Sloane steals the show  as the dumb relative who comes across masterfully. Yes it's worth seeing but don't expect to fall into the  aisle laughing. And for some strange reason this film conjures up a craving for a cookie or t "},{"Title":"Ugh!","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Well, I think I've seen my last Woody Allen movie!  What a waste of time. I really love Tracy Ullman, but this less than funny script didn't do her justice. It was just so tired.  I may have laughed at it 20 years ago, but not now.  I said these same things after seeing his last movie, Sweet and Lowdown, which was one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  My favorite Woody movies are Annie Hall, Alice, Crimes and Misdemeanors, Husbands and Wives and especially The Other Woman.  Why can't he make these types of movies?  They are intelligent and funny.  So, Woody, unless you make some changes, I won't be buying any more tickets to your films.  I feel sad!  "},{"Title":"Feeble offering","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Feeble offering from Woody Allen, who just seems to be going through the motions of making a movie.  Where we should have flashbacks, we have dull exposition; gags are poorly set up and weakly executed.  Allen's acting is simply a collection of twitches, and most of the rest of the cast simply seems to be sleepwalking their roles.  Hugh Grant in particular seems to have read through the script about ten minutes before the scenes were shot, and his transformation at the end from slick weasel to near-sadist is completely unconvincing.  There are two major plot twists  the first is done well, the second comes out of nowhere, although we are told (not shown!) that Allen's character had suspected the culprits all along because they all wore mustaches.A few moments partly redeem this from being a complete turkey.  There is an absolutely hilarious TV News Feature sequence right after the crooks get rich; there is an amusing cocktail party near the end in which we discover that the rich and cultured are every bit as brainless and crass as the small time crooks; and Elaine May plays a character of transcendent dimness, a sort of demure Gracie Allen.  The rest is all a half-beat off, which is fatal to farce.  As others have noted, even the music, which is often a redeeming feature of Allen's movies, is below-par--why on earth is Tequila played during the last part of the closing credits?Increasingly, Allen's career as an auteur seems to be sputtering out.  Maybe he should stick to voice-overs. "}{"Title":"Good, but not one of Allen's finest","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this mediocre film this past Wednesday (5/24) and I have to say that it disappointed me. I expected intelligent humour, and got very basic humour. Don't get me wrong, the movie was decent, but if one compares it to Annie Hall or Play it Again, Sam, it just doesn't measure up. Tracy Ullman's unnecessary one-liners were groan-inducing in this not-too-well-thought-out film. Though, Allen was a delight to watch. His character can bring a smile to any face. Overall, this movie was good, but I think we all expected better.  "},{"Title":"Extremely Amusing, Ullman is Terrific","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SMALL TIME CROOKS  (2000)   * * *   Extremely amusing comedy about a classless, aging ex-con (Woody Allen) with a  long-suffering smart-mouthed wife (Tracey Ulman in a great performance) and how his plan to rob a bank with his idiot friends (including Jon Lovitz wearing black socks, shorts, and sandals) takes them into territory  they're totally unprepared for.  To say more would ruin the fun.  If your a fan of Woody's lighter stuff, this one ranks up there with Manhattan Murder Mystery and is maybe a notch below Everyone Says I Love You. Elaine May is hilarious as Ullman's empty-headed cousin.   Also stars Hugh Grant and Michael Rappaport. "},{"Title":"The Last Straw.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Going to the new Woody Allen used to be an event each year for me, but those were the days of Husbands and Wives, Crimes and Misdemeanors, Alice, Manhattan, Purple Rose of Cairo, Interiors, Annie Hall, Another Woman, Stardust Memories, Hannah and Her Sisters and Broadway Danny Rose.  These were films of thought, depth, character, humor and insight.  Even the occasional flights of whimsy like Zelig, Radio Days, Sleeper and A Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy were delights.  But now we've had NINE shrill, shallow, half-baked Allen films in a row - one-dimensional characters, directionless plots, no feeling - Shadows and Fog, Manhattan Murder Mystery, Mighty Aphrodite, Deconstructing Harry, Celebrity, and now Small Time Crooks.  Yes, there was charm to be found in Bullets Over Broadway, Everyone Says I Love You, and Sweet and Lowdown, but not when you compare them to those earlier films.  Where's the depth?!  Is this a Keaton/Farrow influence versus Soon-Yi influence issue?  One could speculate.  All I know is that this fan gives up.  From now on I wait for dollar day at the video store. "},{"Title":"odd movie","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I liked this movie, i liked woddy allen, tracy ulman, and john lovitz, for all the 20min he was in for. But my only problem is that after they dig into the dress shop, the movie takes a complete 180 degree turn, and they end up selling cookies.no bank, no robbery, no woody allen in the middle of a bank vault talking about the gold. That turn was the only bad thing. otherwise it was ok. "},{"Title":"Big time disappointment","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I wish this really was Woody coming back to his glory days style of the 70s and 80s, but I have to say the Emperor has no clothes in this effort. Forced dialog, few jokes that work, and really unbelievable situations are the rule here. Please, Woody, come up with better work than this film or retire while our memories of you are still golden. "},{"Title":"See it for the first half","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I must say, the beginning of this film is very funny. Woody Allen is back to his old self again after making some horrific movies.  However, this particular film, just never seems to climax.  In fact, just the exact opposite. The first 30 minutes of Small Time Crooks' leads you to believe that this film is going to continue a strong original path to the conclusion of the film.  However, once you are in to about the first 30 minutes, the film begins to take a strong decline, which it never seems to even attempt to recover from.  Woody Allen fans, this is the type comedy that made Woody famous.  Of course, for those of us who are not fans of Mr. `Anne Hall', this could be a renter.  If you must see it, just remember this, When John Loviz doesn't show up again, it is time to leave the theatre.**1/26/10  "},{"Title":"Matinee Material","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When friends ask me what I thought of Small Time Crooks, I give it a Matinee Rating.  Meaning, go see it, but not at full price.It's a fun little movie with a lot of really funny bits.  It's interesting that a performer who has expressed his dislike for The Honeymooners would write himself a part that is basically Ralph Kramden (with a criminal streak) grafted on to the Woody Allen nebbish character.  Don't believe me?  Check out the last line of the film.Tracey Ullman has to pull the Serious part of the plot, which leaves room for one of the best comedy teams to come along in a long while... Woody Allen and Elaine May.  His best scenes in the movie involve playing off of May.  She is the comedy goddess she's always been.  I hope they do another movie together where they're teamed all the way through instead of for the last third  of the movie.All the acting is fine, and there is some really excellent material.  It's all held back a bit by the plot.  But it's a fun movie and certainly a better choice than something like Road Trip. "},{"Title":"Vintage Woody Allen","Date":"21 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Short and to the point. Sit back, don't analyze and laugh for 95 minutes. Tracey Ullman's wardrobe and home furnishings are worth the price of admission. Elaine May should certainly be up for the Oscar for best supporting actress. Woody Allen, as always, is Woody Allen. The roaring water scene explosion and line up for cookies, should have you roaring also. As for Hugh Grant---yummie "},{"Title":"One word- Wow","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody is at it again.  I have to admit i was pretty disappointed with Deconstructing Harry, but i think that Small Time Crooks may be may favorite movie of all time now.  There were points in the movie when i didn't stop laughing for 10 minutes at a time.  Like in Woody's Sleepers, the next joke comes before you even get a chance to stop laughing at the last one.  If you're at the theater, take the opportunity to go see this movie, you won't be disappointed.  It truly is superb, and Kudos to Mr. Allen for making a such an outstanding piece of cinema. "},{"Title":"First-timer to Woody Allen","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I've never seen a Woody Allen movie the whole way through, but I've heard so many good things of movies like Deconstructing Harry and all his others... I've only seen parts of ...Harry and Celebrity, but never the whole thing.  ...Harry was brilliant, or at least, what I saw was.  And Small Time Crooks... whoa.  Incredible.  So original and so funny, and just a good storylike and great acting, especially from Tracy Ullman and the one who plays Maye, Frenchie's (Ullman) sister.  I gave it a 10/10, because there really wasn't anything wrong with it, it was pretty flawless.  Maybe some hit-and-miss jokes, but overall, it's great. "}{"Title":"Not what it seems to be from the ads","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The ads imply a different sort of movie, with most of the clips taken from the first 30 minutes.  However, by the end of that, the ineptly conceived and executed bank heist has been abandoned in favor of a funny exploration of what it means to be who you are, even if your material means change, and, even, the nature of ambition.Not a perfect film by any means, but fun, and a good change of pace from recent Woody Allen entries.  7/10 "},{"Title":"ANOTHER DOSE OF ALLEN","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Small time crooks is another excellent film from woody Allen. It stars Allen as a small time crook whose come up with another genius idea for his next attempt to get some dough. His cookie making wife is played by Tracy Ullman in her best performance ever. Allen and his crooks decide to buy a pizza place a couple of stores down from a bank and dig their way under the banks vault and of course take the dough, while Allen's wife sells cookies up stairs. Only his wife cookies are delicious and become a big hit and draw too much attention to their digging. The story takes then takes some big changes but I don't want to give away too much so i'll leave it at that. Its a very excellent film with plenty classic Allen comedy with a very modern touch. If you like woody Allen this is a must see. I have to say one other thing woody looks really old science deconstructing Harry. I give it 4 1/2 out of 5 stars. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Hi-LAR-ious - Woody's back!","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Easily one of the funniest Woody Allen films in awhile.  The audience reception was great - non-stop laughs from start to finish.  It's a fun time with a fun story and fun characters - it might possibly one of his biggest crowd-pleasers.  And, in typical Woody Allen fashion, he's created a great character for Elaine May (as cousin May) and she nails it dead-on.  She's the real gem in this hilarious movie. The rest of the cast suits the film just fine also - Allen, Ullman, Lovitz, Rapaport.  And although I'm usually hesitant to recommend Woody Allen films to my friends (his films don't appeal to everyone), this is one I'm happy to encourage them to see.  "},{"Title":"Very good light comedy","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you like Woody Allen movies, you will like this one. He has made another light comedy about New Yorkers.  This one seems to take a lot from his roots in Brooklyn.  Although this takes place in Manhattan, it is clear that the two main people in this movie, Woody and Tracy, play Brooklyn types who's relationship is truly like that of the Honeymooners. You can almost hear him say boom to the moon just like Ralph.The thing that is endearing about this movie is that Woody, the long time intellectual, seems to be saying that the relationship these people have is really where it's at.  And that the fat cat Manhattanites are the real shallow ones.  This is a major change for Woody and makes one think that as he has gotten older he is beginning to believe that the values he learned in Brooklyn are more important then climbing the social ladder in Manhattan.  "},{"Title":"Fairly Typical Woody Allen","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Like most of the great directors, you either like or don't like Woody Allen... there's rarely an in between. This movie is typical Woody Allen. In my home that means my wife loved it and I could've lived without it.While the funny moments (often one liners) were indeed funny, the movie climbs to cruising altitude and, well, cruises. And then it ends... a la Woody Allen!The film was less about criminal activity as the title suggests, although it does start and finish that way. The brunt of the plot involves Allen and Tracey Ullman as out of place, blue collar millionaires.An enjoyable film, particularly for Woody Allen fans. "},{"Title":"Inconsolable hilarity all around.","Date":"19 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The character development is exquisite. We get to know the characters, come to love them and watch them evolve. Each actor brings to their role subtleties that are long-lasting.I applaud supporting actress, Elaine May, who contributes significantly to the sublime comedy within the story. We all have met the character May at some point in our lives and can't help but feel some sense of hope that she'll not humiliate herself in every situation. We have the privilege of seeing some delightful moments where she is accepted into society.Tracey Ullman has been a longtime favorite of ours and we finally see her in a situation that should be inspiring to all socialite wannabes.By far this is my most favorite role of Woody Allen's--between his flashy get-ups and the moment where we see the world from his eyes as an audience member in the performance art scene, I've never felt so much uncontrollable laughter.I have to see this again because the audience was laughing so loud that I missed some crucial dialogue. "},{"Title":"Big laughs - Woody Snobs Disappointed","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Small Time Crooks is Woody Allen at his best.  Woody Allen plays a wannabe hood with foolproof bank robbery scheme.  By renting a storefront next to the bank and then tunneling toward the vault.  Allen's manicurist wife played by Tracey Ullman sets up a cookie business to front the tunneling project.  As it turns out the heist falls apart but the cookie front makes millions.  This sets up the bulk of the film which becomes a story about class snobbery, popularity, and taking chances to finding happiness. Yet its Allen's funny script, great casting, and knowing how to direct comedy that make the film work.  Small Time Crooks isn't obsessed with sex, anti-semitism, or neurosis so to true Woody Allen fans will think Small Time Crooks is to conventional, to general audiences.  Allen writes a comic screenplay with only mild profanity and no over-the-top, shock-value humor which is rare accomplishment in screenwriting.  Allen knowledge of how to direct comedy is on target. Tracey Ullman is a perfect foil for Allen and audiences will be surprised by Elaine May as the lisping, if not overly bright distant relative.  Many younger audiences aren't familiar with Woody Allen and Small Time Crooks is a good introduction to a truly great American filmmaker. "},{"Title":"Cookie crumbler.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"       Woody Allen has some good movies, and some odd movies.  The good ones will appeal to anyone watching them (SLEEPER, EVERYTHING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX, and BULLETS OVER BROADWAY).  Then there are the films that people west of the Hudson River won't understand (MANHATTAN, CRIMES & MISDEMEANORS, and BROADWAY DANNY ROSE).  I'm kinda happy to say that Allen's new film, SMALL TIME CROOKS, will appeal to everyone, on both sides of the Hudson River.      SMALL TIME CROOKS has Allen playing a aging former criminal who wants to go back into bank robbing.  His wife (Tracey Ullman) who is a manicurist, thinks it's a bad idea. But that doesn't stop him, he gets his two friends (Michael Rapaport and Tony Darrow) to help him out.  They're going to buy a vacant building two stores down from the city bank, and sell cookies.  While they sell cookies as a cover up, they plan on digging to the bank and break in from the ground into the vault.  But when they want to buy the vacant space, it's already been bought by man who is a arsonist, (Jon Lovitz) so he can collect the insurance money.  So what could they do but include him on the deal.  Then the other problem arises, the cookies that the wife is making and selling, are a huge hit! Something that they didn't expect, and from there on it's a typical screwball Allen comedy.      SMALL TIME CROOKS is a decent Allen movie, the first half is Allen returning to his screwball comedy.  And that's the great part, it's so funny that I couldn't stop laughing.  It's similar to Allen's eariler comedies like BANNANAS, and SLEEPER. There are lots of physical and dialogue gags that are light weight.  Then by the second half, it sort of wears thin as it shows the difference between the high class societies.  But for a Woody Allen film, it's decent.      Woody Allen and Tracey Ullman both do respectable jobs in thier acting.  But Elaine May and Jon Lovitz steal the show in this film.  May is very funny as the ditzy relitive of Ullman who is a few cards short of a full deck.  And Lovitz is alsovery funny as the man who is included in on the deal at the last minute.  Plus kudos goes out to Michael Rapaport who tries to make robbing a cool image.     This is a film that most people over the age of fourty would enjoy, or those into movies.  But for those who enjoy their comedy with slapstick or sophmoric humor won't enjoy this. It's no AMERICAN PIE or ROAD TRIP style of humor, it's more intellectual.  Plus I don't know many people who can sit through Allen complaining throughout his films.     But this is lightweight comedy that does work most of the time, at least the first half.  Then like all of Allen's films the story takes a u-turn into something totally different than it began with.  This is a film to see if you're a Woody Allen fan or if you enjoy his films.  But if one too many New York City accents bother you, then see something else.  But since I'm kinda a Allen fan, it's enjoyable and one of his better films.  ***1/2 (out of five)  "},{"Title":"Classic Funny Woody, with great stuff from Ullman","Date":"8 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good clean Funny Woody. It harkens back in several directions, all of them pleasant. The main character arc between Woody and Ullman reminds me a little of Bullets Over Broadway semi-unstable-but-sincere couple, sudden success sends them into artificial side-relationships; they part; they reconcile at the end. In between, there's tons of fun character bits. I actually found myself feeling sad that Lovitz didn't get more screen time, which is saying something for me ) Everybody got to have a good time, obviously. The trashy schmucks getting suddenly rich and trying to pretend to be High Society gag has been done a million times, but Ullman's so damned good, and the writing is so clever, I didn't mind seeing another go at it.I don't think it'll make anybody's Top 10 All Time Woody lists, but it's a solid entry, and I think It'll be one I pull out on video for years to come when I'm in the mood just to kick the feet up. I also think it'll make a lot of folks happy that have worried about Woody's recent odd turns of vulgarity; there's none of that, here. It's a really innocent kind of film. "},{"Title":"Just like the old Woody","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I was lucky enough to see Small Time Crooks today, and I have to say, it's a really fun movie. It's in the same vein as Take the Money and Run or Bananas, being that there is more emphasis of the goofy comedy of Allen's past.It's very nice to see Woody making those funny faces he hasn't done in a movie since Love and Death. He also changes his accent a little, and his glasses are new. It's a very nice rags to riches story, with great interplay between Allen and his co-stars, especially his gang, and his seemingly Honeymoonerseque relationship with Ulman. Some jokes fall flat, and it lags slightly in the middle, but definitely a must-see for any fan of Allen or good comedy. "}{"Title":"Not that funny! 3/10","Date":"10 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Review This is an average movie by Woody Allen which I didn't really find that funny. In many ways I found it more annoying than anything because the storyline was ridiculous Woody Allen is babbling on about rubbish all the way through the film. Tracey Ullman clearly saved the movie as the rich wife of Woody Allen whose attracted to the stuck up Hugh Grant, but when she loses all of her money she soon finds out that Grant was only interested in her cash. I found this movie weak and uninteresting because of its far fetched concept, but it's harmless fun if you want a movie without much depth. Average!Round-Up This is yet another movie from Allen which I struggled to stay awake through. It's Allen's basic rambling that gets on my nerves in some of his films and his unnecessary million words per minute. I have noticed that he directs other actors much better than he directs himself, which makes his films a bit hard to enjoy because he is in most of his movies and he gets most of the screen time. When I have finished watching all of his films that are on my rental list, I will be able to make a better overall verdict about the writer/producer/director, but at this precise moment, I'm in 2 minds about his work. He is definitely unique and original, but the question is still out there if it's in a good or bad way.Budget $25million Worldwide Gross $30millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen movies about a couple who plan to rob a bank but end up making there fortune from selling cookies. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Great beginning, changeable level","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" On the whole this is a good movie with some funny scenes! I thought this will be a perfect (10/10) movie when I saw the first 15-20 minutes! It was excellent! I had a lot of fun with loud laughing! But after they became rich the movie started to lose its funny parts and changed more serious. I didn't like these scenes although Woody made some funny jokes(e.g. in the museum or sleeping in the theater) After this weakness of the movie, the end brought some comic parts again (when Ray tried to rob the necklace)but these were not as humorous as the mentioned first 15-20 minutes of the film. Although it didn't become a 10/10 Woody work I still enjoyed 'Small Time Crooks'. "},{"Title":"Small Time Movie, But Not Bad","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not one to challenge the argument that Woody Allen's films in the past decade (Match Point excepted) have been well below the standards of his work in the 1970s and 80s. I don't believe, however, that all of his films since, say, Mighty Aphrodite in 1995, have been worthless. There was quite a bit I liked about Celebrity (1998), even if I was the only one, and there's likewise much to enjoy in Small Time Crooks. This film was marketed as a throwback to Allen's zany, screwball comedies of the early 70s, like Bananas or Sleeper. But it actually may surprise you as a much more substantive film than you are expecting, thanks almost exclusively to Tracy Ullman's marvelous performance as Allen's brassy, rough-edged wife, who unexpectedly finds herself ensconced in a high-class (or at least extremely wealthy) lifestyle. She is hilarious when called upon to be, but she also brings a lot of depth and compassion to a role that could easily have been nothing more than a broad caricature. After years of making do without his best recurring leading lady, Diane Keaton, Allen has finally found a worthy successor.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"Small Time Cooks?","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  ***MINOR SPOILERS***The first half of Small Time Crooks is funny, smart, and witty, with lovable characters and a great premise. The second half of Small Time Crooks is not quite the same story.It switches paths early on and tries to go for a morality tale as opposed to a comic tale. Big mistake. Likable characters are shoved aside and literally forgotten amid the chaos of the movie that almost turns into an entirely new flick. It changes tracks and loses its humor and affection.The beginning of the film introduces us to Ray (Woody Allen), an ex-convict whose lust to rob a bank near his small apartment in New York City takes control of him. His ex-stripper wife, Frenchy (Tracey Ullman), doesn't agree with his ruthless methods which always seem to go awry. But this time Ray is certain his plan will work.What is it? To purchase an old pizza shop in Manhattan a block down from the bank and then tunnel underground and come up underneath the vault. I've got blueprints, he says, trying to convince his wife to let him try. Frenchy knows something is up when he brings her chocolates. (Which, in the scene's funniest one-liner, he says are made by the Belgiumites.)He assembles a team of knuckleheads to help him, including Jon Lovitz, who bought the pizza shop under an alias so that he could burn it down later on. (How do you think I got three kids through college? he asks Ray.)The beginning scenes that reveal their pure idiotic methods are great; the characters are all attachable and the jokes are all sweet and laughable. But there's a twist--Ray never finishes tunneling under the bank, because the cookie store front above ground (being run by Frenchy) is making profits in the thousands; people line up the entire way down the street just to get a taste of her marvelous cookies.Some amount of time passes and their corporation grows. The cookie bakery chain grows larger and larger and expands across the nation, putting Frenchy and Ray in the spotlight as some of the richest idiots to ever make it big. Ray's gang of crooks are still there, too--the jobs fit the character. (Lovitz, for example, is now in charge of company insurance.)But after a very humorous and real documentary about the rising cookie chain, the film drops its co-characters and becomes a preachy morality tale about riches, with the primary message being that you should always be yourself no matter what, and that riches don't equal happiness. How many times has that been done?Frenchy falls for a suave Englishman living in New York named David (Hugh Grant), a guy whose taste in the fine things of life shines through. Frenchy is inspired She considers David a mentor, following him around and trying to improve her vocabulary. (She memorizes the dictionary. I'm almost through 'A' now!)Ray isn't so happy with his new life. He pines to be rid of his riches, to be able to pull some more heists. He smells a skunk when he sniffs near David and rightfully so; David is trying to milk them of their money. When the company crashes and burns in bankruptcy, David insults Frenchy. (She says, I asked for a lesson in life. I guess I got one.)But that's the problem. Morality is a great underplay in films, but it takes over in Small Time Crooks. When that previously mentioned documentary ends all hearty laughs turn into chuckles. After Ray breaks up with Frenchy to go back to his old career all chuckles turn into grins. Soon the grins are gone, too.I loved the first forty minutes of Small Time Crooks, and the film has a nice message at its core, but its flaws take over in the second act. Sticking with the bank heist is ample material to stretch out for a full-length feature film; by entirely switching courses Allen just makes his film a mess. The joy of the premise and lovable characters are all forgotten. What happened to Lovitz and the rest of his crew after the company crashed? The film doesn't bother to tell us.And that, I am afraid, is this film's primary problem. Besides, the big message is Be Yourself. The film ends with Ray resorting to robbery again and Frenchy resorting to being nothing at all. With the way people are suing over crazy things like hot coffee at McDonald's in today's age, I'm surprised nobody's tried to sue Woody Allen. I can see it now He told me to be myself! Allen didn't count on the fact that perhaps being yourself means being a homicidal loony, did he?Small Time Crooks is rated PG for some language and brief innuendo. It would be suitable for families. "},{"Title":"Needed more Denny, Tommy and Benny.","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  For some reason I haven't seen many Woody Allen films. In fact, I've never been able to sit through an entire Woody movie, though that's not because I hated them.Anyway I loved Small Time Crooks, it took an incredible number of unexpected turns (if you watched the first 10 minutes, I doubt you'll be able to guess how the movie turns out) and was funny throughout. It's just a pity that the movie's funniest characters weren't used in the second half, the bumbling crooks - Denny, Tommy and Benny were absolutely hilarious. They were practically screaming for more screen time.I must make a note to watch more Woody Allen movies.8/10 "},{"Title":"Not one of his best movies!","Date":"5 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Normally I like Woody Allens movies, but this one, I must admit, is just to boring. The characters are not so believable as those in his other movies, and the plot is to long and uninteresting.  Hes has been much better than this. Which he by the way proves in Curse of the jade scorpion, which is much much better! "},{"Title":"Laughing Out Loud","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If it's sure that Woody Allen never disappoints us with his unique stories and movies, it's even more sure that the man is a master of comedy. But there are always surprises in his work, and here he achieves yet another new landmark on his career, because in this movie the comedy returns to his old times of Take the money and run, and it sometimes verges on the slapstick. The idea is magnificent, and I will not spoil it here, you must check it out without knowing anything like i did. I just can say is that Woody Allen still has many trumps up his sleeve, and Small Time Crooks is one of the best-achieved comedies of the year. Very funny and very fresh. Highly recommendable. "},{"Title":"Really rather poor","Date":"5 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen is really scraping the barrel with this one. The whole film is, like many of his recent ones, incredibly dated and cliched. It's like he's given up on trying to make anything interesting or challenging, like Annie Hall or Crimes and Misdemeanours, and has just settled into remaking the same tired old comic/drama character comedy again and again. Allen's idea for being relevant in this one is to make the characters quite unpleasant, as in Deconstructing Harry. But it doesn't work. Because it isn't funny. Probably the worst Allen movie I've ever seen. 3/10  "},{"Title":"Small Time Film...","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This would have made a perfect short if the film had ended with the cookie success. The lines and visual comedy were pretty funny here but everything goes way downhill afterwards. About this time I found myself fixing on Mr. Allen and the major mismatch between him and the rest of the cast. He is getting on in years and looked out of place with the way younger cast. Also his complaining really starts to get very old after the first half hour. Yep, it used to be funny and it is part of his character, but what worked thirty years ago seems out of place today. "},{"Title":"Small Time","Date":"10 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  My own theory about Woody is that he makes films for himself only. Recently I saw `Sweet and Lowdown' and think it one of the most multidimensionally complex, introspective films I've ever seen. I also saw `Crimes and Misdemeanors,' and thought he was working with ideas too big for his skills. Rather like the character Woody plays in this film. In fact `Sweet' was successful because the actor (Sean Penn) was able to convey a Woody that had some natural skill, who in his heart knew he was secondrate, and who also had publicly criticized eccentricities. Penn could convey that Woody. Woody could never, and that's the root of the problem with this film.There're two types of New Yorkers. Those with class and those without, regardless of fame and wealth. Woody pokes fun at himself here for his own benefit. But for us viewers, there's not much here, and except for a few skits, there are few laughs.But chances are that if you are reading this, you're going to or have seen this anyway. If so, isn't May a gas? She's one of those aristocrats of comedy, and there's a double joke here. She plays the dimmest wit, though in real life, she would be the top cookie. And she had a meteoric rise in Hollywood until writing/directing `Ishtar' with two of the then biggest stars. It was the biggest flop in history until `Waterworld,' and even then WW made money. Having her in this fable of up/down and having her steal every scene is so sweet.  "}{"Title":"Slapstick with a message","Date":"24 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film takes Woody Allen back to the mood of some of his earliest works, when he was more visceral than cerebral.  It is an amusing rags-to-riches-to-rags story that carries with it the subtle message that the acquisition of wealth doesn't automatically confer class and that class isn't necessarily desirable anyway.Allen sticks to slapstick themes in this story about a hapless couple that accidentally creates a mega-corporation out of a cookie store that is intended to be a front for a bank robbery.  Ray Winkler is a small time crook who rents the store because it is two doors down from the bank.  He intends to tunnel under the store and emerge in the bank vault while his wife Frenchy (Tracey Ullman) bakes cookies in the store above to avert suspicion.  Of course, the heist is botched, but the cookie store has lines around the block and goes national.With one outrageous skit after another, Allen examines the difference between class and wealth, as Ray and Frenchy try to fit into high society.  Ultimately, success becomes the Winkler's worst enemy as money buys them only misery.Allen applies his trademark manic-depressive portrayal this time to a crook that has big ideas ricocheting around a very empty skull.  Allen has perfected the tortured-soul routine, which I suspect is a persona not very far its performer's true self.  Tracey Ullman delivers an outstanding performance as Frenchy, trying desperately to pull off a societal con and remake herself into a modern Pygmalion.  Ullman offers a great portrayal of a woman who is street smart but naïve about aristocratic ways.  She handles the emotional conflict superbly as she spurns Ray for not wanting to become what Frenchy herself, despite all her efforts, can never be.  Elaine May is also priceless as Frenchy's vacuous sister whose mindless chatter is often filled with pointed insight.There is much to enjoy about this straightforward comedy about simple people in extraordinary circumstances.  It is slapstick with a message, which makes it both funny and mentally appealing.  I rated it a 7/10.  It is light fare, but very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Old Woody, New Woody","Date":"4 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen comes back with comedy that he hasn't partaken in 3 years.  I liked the chemistry between Allen and Tracey Ullman, and the way of this film reminded me of Allen's Take the Money and Run, except for a little bit of a difference.  The supporting cast is funny, and so is Allen in this film that ranks high in my recent Allen collumn.  A+ "},{"Title":"YAWN!","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is one of the very few movies that I had to fight to keep myself awake. It is a very unfunny movie. The premise was good, but a third of the way into the movie it had already started to lose steam. The morale of the movie that money does not bring happiness was refreshing to see again in a movie. Take heed though, wait until it's available to rent and save your seven bucks!  "},{"Title":"Small Time Crooks...Small Time Laughs...","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen is at the helm of this comedy in which he stars and also wrote. He plays a nebish, what a surprise, who fancies himself a criminal mastermind and plans a bank heist with his dopey pals. Tracey Ullman plays his wife who dreams of someday joining the sophisticated lifestyle of royalty. The laughs, sadly, are just not there as Allen seemingly abandons his heist plot entirely partway through to explore the comedic possibilities of Ullman's vain attempts to achieve her goal of joining high society. Meanwhile, Woody just wants his life back to normal once they have struck it rich. The film seems disjointed as if Allen ran out of ideas for one story and simply combined it with another. It is certainly one of Allen's lesser films as this viewer found himself forcing himself to try to laugh at Woody for the first time ever. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Fabulous!","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"16 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is one of those rare gems.  A movie with great, seamless performances, a solid story, and a hysterical script.  This is one of those movies that you literally need to rush to the video store to rent.Elaine May is one the most unrelentingly hilarious woman that is so underrated that it should be a crime.    The woman is the definition of FABULOUS.Tracey Ullman is a goddess.  She could read a phone book and make it funny. Thats how good she is!A MUST see!  Rush to the store! "},{"Title":"Incredibly lazy work.","Date":"16 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" One of the best things about Woody Allen is his ability to take wildly unique premises and story structures and somehow make them all feel intrinsically his. When you are watching a Woody Allen movie, you know it, no mistake. That wasn't the case at all with Small Time Crooks. There have been times in his career where I've felt like he didn't even know what he was doing but he didn't want to stop working so he just shoveled something out (Whatever Works) but so far I think this is the worst example of that. For one, it doesn't feel like a Woody Allen film, but worse is the fact that it doesn't even feel like it's the same film for the whole thing.It jumps all over from one recycled plot line to the next, all mashed up with a bunch of characters that I couldn't have wanted to spend less time with if I tried. These ignorant, selfish, moronic people had none of the charm or enjoyability of most Woody characters, the ones that somehow feel fresh and entertaining and true but also like I've known them my whole life. These were just miserable dimwits acted out by some of the laziest performances I've seen in his films. It looked like he was sleepwalking through the whole thing and honestly I wish I had been too. Maybe then I could just forget this piece of garbage. "},{"Title":"Tracey saves the spot","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Weak movie, yet it is worth watching. Tracey Ullman is very hot, thanks to some magician working on the set. Tha short skirts and tight outfits, wow. I had to check who the actress is and was surprised that it was Tracey Ullman...wow. Long legs and all, she is the only good thing about this movie. Allen has lost it I think, he is just riding his old fame's waves and nothing else. Amazing that famous starts are lining up to be in his movies. He is one of the luckiest men giving practically nothing, yet people watch him and wan to be around him. Anyway, watch it ans see if you share my opinion about this one, enjoy Tracey! "},{"Title":"Underrated?","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I consider this movie to be real art. It is very proactive since it is about people who are not special in any way. They don't really have a lot of bad habits and attributes, but nevertheless could be considered as paragons. It really puts a mirror to this society, but not in a dry way like in what many of us would consider an art movie. It is very humorous and the characters, especially, but not only the minor roles are very exaggerated. However this is intended. It is needed to describe something that you can't just express in a few words.I haven't seen any movie unifying a cozy small, humorous movie with such a huge load of provocative social criticism. Such a balancing act has been tried over and over and many have failed. Not so this movie. Woody Allen created a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Not his best,but not his worst.","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen,Tracey Ullman,and Hugh Grant star in Small time crooks. Small time crooks is strictly a comedy. You know that from the opening scene. It's a funny and fun film that goes in directions that you don't expect.Allen plays a crook. Him and his wife(Tracey Ullman) live in New York. When him and his gang of crooks(Michael Rappaport,Jon Lovitz and others) try to break into a bank by crawling through a ditch underneath a cookie shop, they are mistaken for trying to expand a cookie company. so instead of robbing a bank,everyone gets money from the cookie business.A year goes by. Everyone is rich. Ullman's character tries to get into the arts in stuff when she meets a wealthy man(Hugh Grant) and sort of falls for him. But it turns out that he has no interest in her,he just wants her money.Small time crooks is funny. You know that it's going to be from the beginning. It's not as good as some of Allen's other works. Such as Match point, Manhattan,Vicky Cristina Barcelona,and others. No I didn't mention Annie Hall not because I haven't seen it but because i'm not that crazy about it. It's not his best but it's not his worst. I've seen over ten of his films. I can judge.Overall, Small time crooks is funny and fun and mischievous and I enjoyed it like I enjoy all of his films. Simply, it's not his best,but not his worst. I think we can leave it that, and call it a day.Thumbs up.B+ "},{"Title":"Lesser-known, and underrated, Woody Allen film","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I found Small Time Crooks to be a completely enjoyable and entertaining movie. Woody Allen is still funny after all these years. People may prefer the more intelligent Allen movies such as Annie Hall and Manhattan, but I truly love the innocent and fun nature of this film. Woody Allen, his gang, and his wife (Tracey Ullman, hilarious here) set up a cookie shop where they will secretly be drilling underground to rob the bank next door. Unexpectedly, their cookies become very popular and they decide to go into that business instead. Woody Allen finds he cannot take the high society ways and does not fit in with his wife's new friends. The jokes are constant, and the implausible nature of the plot is what makes this so hilarious. Most people seem to find this film too silly or unintelligent compared to Allen's supposed masterpieces. Nevertheless, I find this very funny and enjoyable, with a perfectly satisfying ending. Not perfect, but there are so few good comedies in recent years that I treasure the good ones that come along.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Culture and Money Can't Substitute Love and Happiness","Date":"16 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" The reason Woody's films are so cozy and infinitely entertaining is because of how subdued and free form he is as a writer and director. He never draws attention to the camera or any of the technical workings of a movie. He's like a goalie for his actors and at a lot of the time, he likes to join in, like in this one. This is factually one of his most light-hearted movies. It's more like an outing than a movie. However it's not so much a dull little romp. Rather it's a testament to Woody's genius Whereas most directors take years off and often come back having lost the heat to their touch, this is Woody's way of taking a break.Woody, Tracey Ullman and Elaine May give some of the most fully developed comic performances I've seen in a long time. You feel a lot of warmth for May's decidedly stupid but innocent character and the exact opposite for Woody's exceedingly bumbling and constantly incompatible crook and grumpy old married guy. Ullman highlights the film as Woody's unexpectedly spotlit wife, who handles the better chunk of screen time and delivers dune-dry lines and faces.What's most endearing about Small Time Crooks is that its main thread is that of a crime film about bank robbery, impostorship, heartless sweetheart scamming, and bungling larceny, however one never feels the malice of such elements because it plays out as a romantic comedy about the marital spat between Allen and Ullman and Woody's growing friendship with May.Anyway, it's almost pathologically averse to being anything about which to be enthusiastic. It may have simply been intended to be nothing more than a cozy little comedy of otherwise minor consequence. If so, it succeeds. "},{"Title":"Shock horror! Woody Allen makes very funny movie!","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Of course Allen has made some classic comedies and some downright clunkers. He's made dark and dismal dramas as well as dark and wonderful dramas but this is an out and out comedy. Nothing more, nothing less. What makes this particularly engaging is the lightness of touch and exceptionally funny dialogue, great wisecracks, insults and general stupidity. The usual trademark angst of Woody's character is all but absent here and all the better for it. Tracy Ullman gives a wonderful performance as the aspirational Frenchie, although there are a few too many comparisons to Julie Walters in Educating Rita. Nonetheless, she almost steals the movie. Hugh Grant also shows his nastier side quite well as the art dealer with an eye for a quick buck. There's no message in this movie, just a lot of laughs. If you prefer Woody's Bergmanesque cannon, you probably won't go for this but if you like very funny wisecracking comedies, come on in. Not a classic in the same vein as Play it again Sam or Annie Hall but actually funnier than both. "},{"Title":"Priceless","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen's best COMEDY in years. He plays Ray, a true small-time crook who concocts a plan to rob a bank by opening a cookie store as a front and burrowing a tunnel to the safe next door...things go bad for the robbery, but great for the cookie business. Tracey Ullman plays Frenchie, his tart-tongued wife who becomes a tacky culture vulture after the two become cookie barons. The chemistry between Allen and Ullman is great and the supporting cast is one of the brightest of any Allen film Elaine May, Jon Lovitz, Michael Rappaport, Tony Darrow. They're priceless. Allen spreads the funny lines around and everyone shines. May (in a very rare film appearance) is a particular standout as Ullman's flaky cousin and there's a very funny subplot around Ullman's involvement with Hugh Grant (as a sleazy Henry Higgins type). "},{"Title":"he can give us something else","Date":"7 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Allen is now too worried about shooting one film per year and he just doesn't bother to make good (really good) films. Of course we can say that Small time crooks is an eatable film. We can just sit down in front of the screen and enjoy seeing it, but I really miss that sharpness and hilarity of his elder jobs. If we looked back and see titles like The Purple Rose of Cairo, or Hannah and her sisters, or even Manhattan murder mystery (none of this three is considered a masterpiece, we are not talking about Annie Hall or Manhattan) and if we try to compare with this film we can figure out that this is another thing, less interesant, less full-of-sense, less fresh ang new and bright. "},{"Title":"This is something really great","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Woody Allen plays an ex-con named Ray, who comes up with a great idea, at least in his own mind, to rob a bank.He and his wife Frenchy (Tracey Ullman) start a cookie business in a bakery.She makes and sells the cookies while he and his fellow criminals try to dig a way to the bank next door.Mr Allen also directed and wrote this great romantic crime comedy called Small Time Crooks (2000).This nearly 70 year old comedian has had a great career and it still goes on.He has made some true masterpieces but of course there are times when he has failed, but nobody's perfect.There may be people out there who absolutely hate Woody Allen, but I'm not one of them.His stuttering style sure works for this guy.In this movie he's surrounded with other great talents.Tracey Ullman shines alongside Woody.Then there are people like Michael Rapaport, Jon Lovitz, Elaine May and Hugh Grant.You can't fail with this cast.The dialog is really sharp and witty.I mean, when Woody gets going, there's no stop to him.For all the Woody fans, this a must see.Others can be bothered too.It only takes 94 minutes of your lives "},{"Title":"plato and woody","Date":"3 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I didn't see this one for years because of the reviews, but it is my goal to see every Woody Allen film ever made, at some point in my life and I watched it.And I enjoyed it, surprisingly, despite the reviews. It's well-done, well-filmed and the story is really nice and has strong dramatic elements, and an underlying tragic tone. It's light, sure, but there's still a heaviness to it. It's no Crimes and Misdemeaners, but it's still a fairly strong work, and funny to boot.I won't join the throngs of people claiming allen's a write off. I think he's done some of the most important films of the last century and his breadth is astounding, as well as his range. This film fits into his lighter works, with, yes, a sort of sense of morality underlying the humour, or at least a perspective that forces you to question things like class systems, the downfalls to moving up the social ladder, the illusory nature of wealth and the wealthy. If questions the very nature of happiness, I would dare say.It makes me think of Plato's myth of the cave, with people watching shadows on the wall of the cave and one who is awakened by going outside and realizing there is much more out there, and the shadows are all just illusions. However, are these characters the people in the cave, or the enlightened ones? Perhaps the wealthy, greedy ones such as Hugh Grant's character are also stuck in the cave, allured by the illusions of wealth, art and the like. What is truth? What is the nature of truth? Small Time Crooks, despite it's modest story, dares to question these things and entertain at the same time, which every great film should aspire to do. Honest inquiry into the nature of things and entertainment all lumped together. That's art.But despite the philosophical underpinnings of the film, it's just really funny and even when it turns more serious and dramatic, it doesn't lose the ball. It still holds you in its grip. I thought it was pretty damned good. "},{"Title":"entertaining and enjoyable","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Initially, I did not want to see this film because it was directed by Woody Allen. Personally, I hate Woody Allen before and after seeing this film. I went to see Small Time Crooks because of the plot. I like a good plot-oriented film. This fit the requirements I was looking for.Even with the disdain I have for Woody Allen, I remained objective and I'm glad I did. This was not a bad film after all. The plot surrounded a robber and his gang figuring out the best way to earn a cheap buck. After some time, they devise a plan that backfires, which leads into an incredible turn of luck for everyone involved. I must give credit to the writer's because I thought that the script was a refreshing look at a subject that has become quite cliché over time.The only criticism I have for Small Time Crooks is for Woody Allen. I hope he stops portraying himself as someone who needs to stop in the middle of a line and act as though he doesn't know what the heck is going on. I hope if and when I see his next film, he won't be doing that. Small Time Crooks is a good film and should be seen if fans like a nice easy going comedy.  "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Initially, I did not want to see this film because it was directed by Woody Allen. Personally, I hate Woody Allen before and after seeing this film. I went to see Small Time Crooks because of the plot. I like a good plot-oriented film. This fit the requirements I was looking for.Even with the disdain I have for Woody Allen, I remained objective and I'm glad I did. This was not a bad film after all. The plot surrounded a robber and his gang figuring out the best way to earn a cheap buck. After some time, they devise a plan that backfires, which leads into an incredible turn of luck for everyone involved. I must give credit to the writer's because I thought that the script was a refreshing look at a subject that has become quite cliche over time.The only criticism I have for Small Time Crooks is for Woody Allen. I hope he stops portraying himself as someone who needs to stop in the middle of a line and act as though he doesn't know what the heck is going on. I hope if and when I see his next film, he won't be doing that. Small Time Crooks is a good film and should be seen if fans like a nice easy going comedy.  "},{"Title":"Strictly 'Small Time'","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SMALL TOWN CROOKS (2000) ** Woody Allen, Tracey Ullman, Hugh Grant, Elaine May, Jon Lovitz, Michael Rapaport, Tony Darrow, Elaine Stritch, George Grizzard.Woody Allen made his auspicious second career as a filmmaker debuting with the riotous mockumentary of hapless criminal Virgil Starkwell (arguably one of the funniest names in big-screen comedy history) in `Take The Money And Run'.  Since then he's been an icon in the world of screen comedy with many hits and even went on to critical acclaim with his Bergman-inspired dramatic works as well.   But in the past five years or so his track record has been erratic.  He scored last year with Sean Penn in `Sweet and Lowdown' but in his latest attempt in rekindling the bumbling spirit of his novice opus he seems to be losing his touch.Allen stars as Ray Winkler,  a former crook whose lowly existence as a dishwasher only prompts his low-life tendencies to fuel his desire for a get rich quick scheme by masterminding a bank job with the aid of a decidedly motley crew while his long-suffering ex-stripper wife Frenchy (Ullman in a patented pitch-perfect Noo Yawker turn) acts as a front baking cookies in a store they use to avoid any suspicion.  Which of course quickly escalates into new acts of idiocy with Ray's three conspirators the dimwitted Denny (Rapaport in one of his endearing dumb-guy modes) who prefers wearing his miner's helmet backward while tunneling; Tommy (Darrow best known for his mobbed up eatery owner/whipping boy by Joe Pesci in `GoodFellas') who doesn't trust anyone; and Benny (Lovitz) an arsonist whose career helped put two kids through school. When the heist fails miserably after several incredibly stupid moves by the quartet, the cookie-making Frenchy suddenly becomes a smash with the locals leading to a fast-forward year later as a baking franchise goldmine and the Winklers as vulgar nouveau riche schnooks trying to better themselves.  Frenchy wants so desperately to be of the hoi polloi that she enlists an erudite art dealer (Grant clearly relishing his poke at his own effete celebrity) who has a few cards up his sleeve in deigning to bilk the unsuspecting millionaires for as much as he can. The film of itself has some sporadic laughs largely due to the first twenty minutes of the bungled caper and to the able support by May as Ullman's addle-brained cousin (coincidentally named May) who manages to talk like a sieve without thinking for a minute of what she's actually saying.  But the story is a one-note joke on just how ridiculous the Winklers are, ugly cartoons if you will, about how they enjoy (or rather lack of joy) their wealth.  Ray would rather watch a ball game with a greasy cheeseburger than mix it up with the power elite of Manhattan (in fact the whole air of the movie feels like a second rate Three Stooges two-reeler!) Hopefully Allen (who makes no bones about his frequent output of films, averaging it seems every six months one is on the horizon) will get back on track and not seem so nostalgic for a change to find some fresher ways of making us laugh.  He could always do a sequel with Virgil Starkwell getting mixed up with a Quentin Tarantino hood; then again maybe not.  "},{"Title":"tail off","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It start off very strongly, the first half an hour is very good.However after that it tails off and it tails off fast, within 20 minuets all my interest was lost. This pace is kept up through the rest of the film until the very end. This is not Woody's worst work oh no not his worst "}{"Title":"Woody's Back!","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is like a breath of fresh air since Woody has finnaly managed to perfectly balance the feel of the early screwball comedies of the 1930s and 40s and his personal gift for nebbish humor. Many people may not know that this movie was inspired by a wonderful screwball comedy from the forties called LARCENY INC. starring Edward G. Robinson.  That movie is every bit the gem this one is but this one gives us the added gift of Woody being Woody (or more likely Danny Rose).  The ensemble cast is also great, especially Elaine May who is both daffy and sweet. This is a great movie to just sit back and smile all the way through. "},{"Title":"Ho hum...","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Reasonably OK movie but not up to Allen's usual standards; he seems to have gone all out for jokes and forgotten about the wit and insight that mark out the rest of his films as such a unique body of work. Alright so it has its moments, but the whole plot is so been-there-done-that, so massively cliched and predictable that it would require a lot more by way of genius scripting and playing to bring it up to scratch. While critics everywhere are applauding Woody lightening up again and foreseeing a return to that early funny stuff, I see only an abandonment of originality in favour of broad slapstick and broader markets. Having said that, even a below par Woody is way above most stuff churned out by Hollywood, so it's worth a look.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It had been a long time since I'd last seen a Woody Allen's movie, except for the boring Everyone says I love you, and I was pleasantly surprised by Small Time Crooks. In spite of not being perfect, the film lived up to my expectations and it's something only Woody might come up with.I love the irony that Ray and Frenchy actually become rich not due to robbing a bank, but thanks to Frenchy's homemade cookies. However, their richness doesn't help them behave like biscuits' empire tycoons and in the end they are betrayed and stripped of all their money by their former gangmates. Woody is awesome in this movie, so is Tracey Ullman. The other crooks are good as well (Michael Rapaport, Jon Lovitz and Tony Darrow). They are quite a sight. Hugh Grant plays the role of a selfish lad who's only interested in getting money out of his relationship with Frenchy, and when he finds out she has been cleared out of all her dough he sends her away.Naming some memorable scene - and this can be a spoiler, so BEWARE if you have not seen this film, the one when they are in the shop's basement digging a tunnel and they break a pipeline of water must be mentioned.Nine out of ten.  "},{"Title":"Funny-melancholy rumination on old age.","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This lovely, uneven comedy is a return to the light, broad comedy of 'Broadway Danny Rose' after the sophisticated narrative complexity of 'Sweet and Lowdown'.  But, like 'Danny', its gag- and plot-driven surface does not preclude thematic depth.  It's a relief to see a Woody film starring Woody that isn't obsessed with sexual anguish, that harks back to those earlier, legendary, 'funnier' films, when jokes weren't necessarily tied down to psychological plausibility, didn't need to be true, and so could spring from anywhere.  Some of the funniest bits aren't even verbal; lovely physical moments that some directors might have cut, such as the reaction of the actors to the spurting drain they've hacked, as the line between character and actor blurs, and we see some amiable, middle-aged men trying to contain their bemused laughter at this probably only-take phenomenon.That's not to say there aren't verbal gems either.  But this time, rather than simply give audience pleasure (which they do), they also, somewhat maliciously, turn against us.  Some commentators have noticed the film's quiet subversion, its equation of capitalism with theft (did I really see a restaurant called 'Tout Va Bien'?!) this saves the film from its old-fashioned conservatism, the idea that people shouldn't try to be what they're not, should stay as they are, which is very convenient for some people.  The film pits the deeply unpleasant, amoral, snobbish parasites against the amusing, amoral nouveau riche.  This conflict is expressed in strange ethical terms, even though neither camp has any morality whatsoever.  Maybe it's because the Winklers are gaudily open about their amorality, maybe it's because they're 'working class' (or Woody's version of that elusive concept), maybe it's because it's Woody and Tracey, and in any Hollywood film the English character is going to come out looking like the villain. The point is, narratively speaking we are on the Winklers' side, it's their rise and fall, their personalities, tastes, eccentricities that shape the film.  But.  Many of these verbal jokes are on them.  The film could be seen as an attack on culture, the failure of culture, or, at best, the abuse of culture, its use, not as an expression of humanity through the creative imagination, but as a way of creating new, seemingly non-social hierarchies, of keeping people down, or out, an American equivalent of the 'Rich and Famous' programmes beloved of Frenchy.  But to get these jokes, you have to have culture, placing us on a 'superior' level of knowledge to the characters; in effect, taking us out of identification with the heroes, and putting us with the villains.  As the appreciation of a Woody Allen film depends on this kind of knowledge (and it's unlikely you'll find Ray or Frenchy at a Woody Allen film), you realise how pessimistic, even sour, the film actually is.Yet also rather sweet.  There is a beautiful scene near the beginning, when Frenchy finally gives in to Ray's crazy felonious plans.  On their balcony, they watch a gorgeous, Fei Zhao-photographed sunset over New Jersey, remembering their youth.  They even call the 'front' business that makes their millions 'Sunset Cookies'.  When we first see Ray, he is an old man in his 60s wearing shorts.  When he goes home, the house is full of toys, teddies, pictures of clowns etc.  As if answering all the critics (not another Woody film where he's chasing teenage skirt!), this is a wonderful film about accepting old age.  Ray hangs around with friends half his age; his plans are attempts to capture his youth - his time in jail has prevented him from ever experiencing adult life.  By the end, his only desire is to go to Florida, famed final resting place of the American aged.  His scenes with Elaine May (why hasn't he worked with this genius before?  All those Mia Farrow films!), another lost soul searching for company, therefore have a rich poignancy (in this context, his pitting himself against Hugh Grant, another famed transgressor, is inspired).  You would have to see this anyway just for Woody's blinding suits. "},{"Title":"Another success to Woodys collection!","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Being a fan of Woody I am pleased to say that I found Small Time Crooks to be an excellent and hugely enjoyable film.  Full of brilliant one liners and hilarious characters this is another success to add to his collection, the script is great and the films pace rolls along nicely.  Hugh Grant who I usually despise plays his role perfectly and Tracey Ullman plays the part of Woodys wife well enough - I would say this is one of the best films I've seen this year and proves to show Mr Allen has not lost his touch - yet! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Very funny comedy","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  In a world of comedies which are not funny, it's a relief to get a comedy that is very funny.  Very funny indeed.The sign of a good comedy is a log-line that's funny Crooks start a business as a front for crime but the business becomes successful.  I was expecting the whole film to be about that, and quite frankly Allen could have gotten away with it, but there's a shift in focus which disorientated me for a while - as I am so used to predictable plotting.I was following the outer goals of the characters when the carefully set-up inner goals were just coming into play.  Allen twists the tale to give a new way to explore the characters.  If any film shows that comedy is subjective Small Time Crooks does.  I've read reviews which say it isn't funny at all, that only the first half is, that only the second half is and that it's funny throughout.  I found it funny throughout and according to recent research on Allen's style of comedy that means I'm very intelligent. But what do researchers know?If you leave pre-conceptions and expectations behind as you go into the movie theatre you will find a truly hilarious film from a comic master on form.  "},{"Title":"I Can't Understand Why People Didn't like This Film!","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I guess one of the main reasons people disliked this film so much was cause Woody Allen wrote,directed,and starred in the movie. It's apparent that many people just...to put simply...HATE HIM! Whenever they hear Allen has come out with a new film they almost immediately dismiss it as another annoying typical,self indulgent film. As I've been reading what costumers have to say about not only this film but Allen's other recent films (Deconstructing Harry,Celebrity,Sweet and Lowdown) it seems no matter what Allen does there's ALWAYS someone out there who has something bad to say about his films. Either,his films are too depressing,why doesn't he stop complaining! As in the case of Another Women, Stardust Memories, Deconstructing Harry, and Crimes and Misdemeanors. Or his films aren't depressing enough! Why doesn't he go back to making films like Another Women, Crimes and Misdemeanors, Stardust Memories, instead of making fun movies like Everyone Says I Love You, Sweet and Lowdown, and this movie. When Allen tries to give the public what they want,they change their minds! It's almost funny reading what people have to say about his films. I know I always can't stop laughing at them. One minute it's make more movies like Take the Money and Run, and the next minute it's make more movies like Hannah and Her Sisters. Well to anyone who's reading this review THIS IS A GOOD,FUNNY MOVIE! I don't care what all these other people had to say. The movie is filled with laughs. And it's not only Allen who delivers them. My own personal favorite is Elaine May! I think she's the highpoint of the film. She's the funniest thing in the movie. You should just go see it for her. Then we have Tracy Ullman. She's quite funny as well. She definitely keeps up with Allen,as far as one liners are concerned. I wasn't too crazy about Hugh Grant in the movie. But with his own personality he manages to pull it off quite well. A very good movie done by one of the greatest American comedy filmmaker we have. *** out of **** stars. "},{"Title":"I got more than I bargained for...","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had heard that this was a return to the old Woody Allen comic style, and so I went to see it expecting to laugh alot and not much more.  What I got instead was another intelligent AND humorous slice of life film about a low-brow New York couple who stumble on a big payoff.  Nobody can touch on real life as well as Woody Allen, even when he is making funny films. This is a touching and clever film with some surprising plot twists.  It's not his masterpiece, but it's another great film from the best filmmaker there is today.  I just don't understand how so many imdb people gave it a 1??? "},{"Title":"Fun Woody movie.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I didn't have that much fun watching a new Woody Allen movie since a long time. His last movies had been weak(Deconstructing Harry) or just painful(Celebrity) but this one is fun. It is a light comedy and certainly is never as good as Allen's classics, like Annie Hall for example, but if you just want to enjoy a Woody Allen movie without much thinking, this will satisfy you. The first half is better than the second one, as Woody and his gang try to rob a bank using an absolutely ridiculous plan. The second half is about how Allen and his wife live now that they have money. The second half is also very good, but not as much fun as the first one. Some jokes are really, really funny(I could have put the word really a lot more times in this sentence). The actors are all very good and seem to be having a lot of fun. If you like Woody, don't miss Small Time Crooks.81% "},{"Title":"A masterpiece-- near perfect!","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Brilliant, funny, touching, and meaningful. Gosh! Sounds wholesome. But really, this is a GREAT piece of entertainment, and a masterpiece for Woody Allen. Each of the stars in the cast is used perfectly, deftly, and just right. No one is over used to capitalize on their star power or their big salary-- Allen doesn't pay very much, I hear-- so everyone is cast well and used well. Near Perfect! I gave this a 10/10. "}{"Title":"The only thing they managed to steal was my time.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Small Time Crooks  A group of bumbling crooks decide to tunnel into a bank for the big score.  To avoid drawing attention to their activities, they rent out a nearby vacant store and set up a cookie shop.  They soon discover that baking is easier and more lucrative than bank busting.Movies live or die by their trailers - if they can generate interest people will go see them.  In order to pump up the hype, trailers typically showcase the best parts of the film, other times they are just plain misleading. This movie is a prime example of the latter  marketed as a wacky robbery flick, the bulk of the movie is spent dealing with the characters' accidental entry into the business world.The first half hour of the movie sees our team of moronic misfits screwing up everything they touch  if they aren't almost drowning themselves, they're digging in the wrong direction, or hiring even bigger dimwits to front their operation lost.  The humor is part Three Stooges/part early Allen, and it is very effective - it's the first time I've laughed at Woody Allen film in a long time.  Inexplicably they chose to shift the focus of the plot just as the movie established some momentum and a coherent rhythm, much to the detriment of the viewer.Efforts to rescue the film by playing up the fish-out-of-water angle (the ignorant nouveau riche couple trying to fit in with the cultured elite), and the introduction of Hugh Grant as a scheming art dealer  (he is only mildly charming even when he has the benefit of a good script, which is sorely lacking here) fall flat, and the movie never gets back on track.Rent it if you need an Allen fix.  Better yet, get `Everything You Always Wanted.' and enjoy yourself.  "},{"Title":"STUPID!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I guess that you have to be a hardcore Woody Allen fan to like this movie. Every ten or fifteen minutes or so you might be rewarded by something funny, and then it wouldn't be that funny.  I finally had to walk out after being barraged by idiocy for one minute too long.  It also had a couple vulgar undertones in a couple scenes.  It just wasn't a good movie "},{"Title":"Woody Allen's funniest movie in last 10 years!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Small Time Crooks is Allen's best movie since Crimes and Misdemeanors in 1989. Allen had got off track during the 90's with some awful movies that were very poor. It seems that he threw in a lot of profanity to make up for his lack of creativity during that decade. Manhattan Murder Mystery was his only good movie during the 90's and Deconstructing Harry was his worse movie. Small Time Crooks is filled with excellent characters and Allen has chosen the perfect individuals to play these parts. Hugh Grant is elegant and evil. Woody Allen is the perfect dumb loser. Allen's friends make him look smart by comparison and a lot of laughs result from this combination.  "},{"Title":"Classic Woody Allen","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Woody Allen is back in this great movie about the ups and downs in life of a not so bright man. Woody gives his usual one liners and Tracy Olman gives them right back.  A wonderful movie for anyone who enjoys classic Woody  Allen.  "},{"Title":"Small Time Movie","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I am not a Woody Allen fan. He just seems so neurotic all the time. He wears me out! I tuned into this because of Hugh Grant. I just can't get enough of him. Too bad there wasn't much of him here to make this venture worth my time. But he did play his usual smooth and funny character.The beginning of this movie was funny, but it went down hill after about 30 minutes. Once they got rich, it just seemed there was nothing left. Tracey Ullman was good, but I just couldn't wait for this thing to end. I am not convinced that a die-hard Woody Allen fan would enjoy it. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This has to be one of Woody Allen's best among his later movies and probably just as good as some of his movies from the 70's. The movie starts out with Allen and some his friends, who happen to all be ex-cons, planning on renting a shop that is pretty close to a bank so they can tunnel underground. Allen is married to Tracey Ullman and she eventually agrees to go along and she is going to run a cookie shop as a front. The plan to tunnel under the bank turns out to be a big disaster and the cookie shop turns out to be a big hit and one year later they are all millionaires. Allen winds up hating being rich and Ullman loves it but wants to be more cultured and takes lessons from Hugh Grant. This is a great movie and does seem to be very underrated. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" I suggest not seeing this if you want to maintain the high expectations you have of Woody Allen films. I didn't laugh once during this film despite the numerous jokes that are delivered incessantly. The characters are bland and shallow and they try too hard to give funny lines that bomb every time. The character 'Frenchy' takes much away from Allen's usual one-man-show comedies and corrupts itwith comebacks and insults that are too perfect to be believable. This is not to say Allen's 'Winkler' character does any better. He subjects himself to the same one-line insults. This dialogue bears no resemblance to one-liners in Allen's earlier films that would make you think and laugh at the same time. Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I hate to say this, but Woody Allen has become boring. The story is predictable,  the acting is so-so, mr Allen's whining is not funny anymore. Even the pictures  of New York City are not as beautiful as they used to be. My rating 3/10 "},{"Title":"Never been so bored.","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I would rather go to the dentist than sit through this movie again. I turned it off half way into it because both me and my husband were so bored of it. I turned it back on 7 hours later and was just as bored. The ad looked so good but the movie just plain old sucked.The plot was uninteresting, the funny script ended after 15 minutes and there wasn't a single twist to bring up the last hour and a half. I can't believe this made it past the cutting room floor. "},{"Title":"Top Talent Under-utilized, Dated Script","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Outstanding cast with Hugh Grant and especially Tracey Ullman. Woody Allen does a tired imitation of his stammering stock character.  The best part is the potential sweetness of his relationship with his wife(Tracey),  but the audience I was with  didn't seem to agree.  Some walked out while others roared at feeling superior to the dumber characters.  The how stupid can you be lines of the fellow crooks, especially Elaine May, were painful, reminiscent of the lines of the B- (Dagwood films) of the early '40's. References to Harry James mistaken for Henry James could best be understood by the Seniors in the audience and they only winced. The Twenties type music at the beginning suggested another wonderful, winsome Sweet and Low Down, but sadly this film was not. "}{"Title":"IT RUNS OUT OF GAS","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The first forty minutes are great, the next half hour is okay, but I was fighting off ZZZZZZZZ's before the end.The entire premise of the movie is dealt with quickly leaving Woody a lot of film to get rid of and it shows. "},{"Title":"Amusing but not great at all &#150; a bit too wandering in fact","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Ray Winkler, his wife Frenchy and his criminal partners purchase an empty restaurant alongside a bank to use it as a front while they dig a tunnel under and into the bank.  However Frenchy's cookie sales take off and turn the business into a raging success.  One year on, the tunnel has been abandoned and the business has become a legit franchise.  However the wealth they always craved comes with unexpected prices.Held up as some sort of return to form for Woody Allen, this film seems to have a better reputation than it deserves simply because it is quite light and witty at times.  However to say that this film represents some sort of return to form for Woody Allen is doing him a great disservice.  The plot starts out as some sort of caper but, after the first third, starts to spin off into a slightly rambling message about the joys of the simple life.  That is not to say that the majority of the film is not amusing (as it is) but it lacks a good enough structure to support the very light material.Allen's dialogue is pretty amusing but doesn't really amount to much.  The exaggerated caper and good fortune affairs in the first half is much stronger than the latter half simply because the end needs to deliver and it doesn't really manage it.  The cast are all pretty good and their performances match the light material.  Allen is OK and is well matched by Tracey Ullman.  Support from Rapaport, Darrow, Lovitz and Grant is all pretty good but it is obvious that everyone has just been told to try and keep things nice and light and frothy.Overall I enjoyed the first half of the film simply because I like Allen's style of humour and found it to be witty and not really lacking.  However the second half of the film became a little directionless and seemed to be pointing to a moral without actually keeping a grip on the plot at the same time.  Far from his best but, hey, at least there's a few laughs in it! "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the Wood-man but this had to be his worst. I'd have been happy if it had been merely boring but it was irritating and annoying. Selecting himself to play a low brow thief was the first of many mistakes. Spare yourselves the agony. "},{"Title":"the WORST Woody Allen film to date","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  It is sad indeed when the most memorable thing in a Woody Allen film is a Pollack joke.  His latest movie Small Time Crooks serves well as a case study in filmmaker lethargy.  Not only is this the unfunniest, most mind-numbingly boring film Allen has ever made, but it is also so half-baked in almost every aspect of its production that I'm certain it will be one of the worst films of the year.Small Time Crooks, as most people who have seen the film have correctly noted, is intended to be viewed as a trivial comedy.  Allen has not made a film like this in a long time; after his monumental Annie Hall (which, for the record, is on my all-time top ten list), Allen's films ventured into more cerebral comedy while often confronting large, existential themes. While I far prefer his later work both for its superior ambitions and more sophisticated and just plain funnier comedy, Allen's early work has its well-reasoning defenders.  Sleeper, Bananas, and Take the Money and Run were all zany, well-executed comedies that, if lacking in intellectual content or real wit, at least delivered the goods - good slapstick, original sight gags and those wonderfully incisive one-liners.In Small Time Crooks Allen's screenplay traps him and renders him powerless in utilizing his comic arsenal.  His character is written to be too stupid to be witty, and as a result he never capatilizes on any of the many comic opportunities.  When the Allen character arrives home to find his culture-seeking wife has purchaced an obviously hideous piece of modern art, Allen, as usual, stammers and wrings his hands. As the neurotic fiddling builds to a crescendo, we in the audience anticipate the put-down.  It never comes he stupidly turns away and says he'll never look at the wall with the painting on it, in more or less those words.  That same disappointment comes time after time.I suppose that Woody's wife (the extraordinarily gifted Tracey Ullman) is supposed to act as sort of a foil to him, but she too is written to be a boob and the few witticisms she is given are wasted in the film's first five minutes.  Throughout the rest of the movie she's involved in a painfully predictible plot as the rich cookie company owner whose fortune attracts Hugh Grant, who attempts to romance her out of it.  Now Hugh Grant, in all his films, has the kind of charming screen presence that makes you wish you were his grandmother so you could reach across the screen and lovingly pinch him.  Here as a smarmy art dealer out for Tracey Ullman's money he's so devastatingly sweet that we actually believe he is falling in love with her and not scheeming his way into her checkbook.  It's all wrong.The whole story meanders in a way that reminds me of amateur improv miraculously sustained on life support.  Episodes idiotically and tangentially succeed each other with no logic, and in the process Jon Lovitz, Michael Rappaport, and Douglas McGrath end up marooned in the film's first reel.  In most movies, knowing that these three talented character actors never come back would be heartbreaking.  In this movie it's a mercy killing since they were never given anything funny to work with in the first place.Why are none of the characters intelligently written?  Because writing smart characters and smart dialougue requires a great deal more effort than Allen has put into this bombshell.  The lines themselves are limp and lifeless - most of them just have the actors repeating what their scene partners said before them - and the performances are similarly devoid of any energy. Remember in Take the Money and Run and the other early films how hyper and utterly spastic the Woody Allen character was and how happy he was to be on camera?  In Small Time Crooks the comic vitality that this material requires isn't there.  It's fortunate that even the slapstick was minimal given this energy drain.  Unusually choppy editing (for a Woody Allen movie - he usually gives us long, continuously shot scenes with much more interesting and rapid wordplay) at times seems to be covering up for the director's laziness and ineptitude. Even the music selection, which Allen can normally pride himself on, here seems carelessly done. I remember at least one tune that played about six times that in any other movie of Allen's would have been replaced by six other livelier and more appropriate pieces.Small Time Crooks is so thoughtlessly made in its vexing build-ups that never deliver, its obviously hasty casting, its totally incoherent plot, its soggy dialogue, and its off-target performances that I refuse to believe that this film was made in more time than the lifespan of a titsi fly. This is not the same Woody Allen that gave us Hannah and Her Sisters or even the same Woody who gave us Sleeper.  Give a ten year old with attention deficit disorder a camera crew, an all-star cast, and a Polish joke he overheard at Thanksgiving dinner and Small Time Crooks is what you get. "},{"Title":"An Under-appreciated Film","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film primarily appeals to fan of Allen, though I think that tends to sell it a bit short. It has some very funny bits, and the whole cast has superb comic timing. Elaine May is hilarious, and so too is Hugh Grant as a stuffy English tutor to Frenchy (excuse me -- Francis). The real joy in the film is how Allen weaves Pygmalion undertones into the story and how the story shifts from real slapstick to a rather interesting examination of the often ignored role of wealth and class distinctions in American society (something Americans are taught to pretend doesn't matter). Incorporating a Brit into the mix makes these class distinctions even more pronounced. For fans of Allen (which I admit I am) a solid eight; for others not so high, but worth a rental. "},{"Title":"Awful! Painful! Hard to watch!","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Probably one of the worst Woody Allen movies of all time.  Half of Allen's dialog consisted of the words but Frankie!.  Actually seemed like three movies in one.  The trailer scene in the basement with the water flooding in made it seem as if that were a major part of the movie and that it was a comedy but it was actually a very small part.  There was the pre-wealth third.   There was the wealth third and there was the post wealth third. Jon Lovitz and Hugh Grant make small appearances vs. starring roles with Jon Lovitz getting possibly 1 1/2 minutes of screen time.  All in all a bad movie. "},{"Title":"Where did the comedy go?","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Recap Ray is bad smalltime crook with big plans. Not very good plans, but big plans all the same. His latest scheme is to buy a bankrupt shop and build a tunnel into a nearby bank. As a front he convinces his wife to open a cookie shop. The bank robbery fails, naturally, but to everyone's surprise the cookie shop is a huge hit. Soon it has exploded into a multinational corporation and Ray and his accomplices are rich.Comments Allen seems tom focus most of his movie around one central theme, relationships. In my opinion he does two variants of that. The first being a comedy and the second being a movie where Allen tries to teach about life. The first kind I actually like, Allen has a special tone in his comedies that is rare and typical for Allen. The other kind is just boring and mostly pretentious. So from my perspective, any Allen movie is a gamble.Small Time Crooks has a great set up. Some loser thieves try for the big score. Perfect for a comedy where the bad crooks can make mistake after mistake and get further and further in over their heads. That movie I hoped for and would have liked to see. Unfortunately just about 20 minutes into the movie we switch to the other type of Allen-movie. The life lesson.Suddenly the cookie franchise is a huge hit and everyone becomes rich the legal way. Ray's equally bad crook friends, those with some interesting character played by Rapaport and Lovitz, disappear and are replaced by flat and mostly boring aristocrats, most notably played by Grant. The comedy disappears and (for me) destroys the movie as quickly as a cave-in in the tunnel would have destroyed their robbery plans.In the second and major part of the movie, Allen and Ullman, runs around trying to act as rich they are but failing in their relationships. The message that is basically spelled out in large print, and the only thought behind the last 70 minutes, is Money can't buy happiness. Thank you Allen, I would never have guessed that by myself.So, for me, the movie is disappointing. I gambled and lost. What bothers me most though is that the title, the tagline, the starting point of the movie alludes to a completely different movie. I would have liked to see that one...4/10 "},{"Title":"Good Wood","Date":"28 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  There are many distinct phases to Woody Allen's career.  Firstly he was a very funny stand-up comedian.  Then he started to make some very funny, but also very silly, films.  The he got serious, making proper comedies that caused him to be praised as a great film-maker.  This lead him to get completely serious, with interesting works that bombed at the box office.  More recently, he's made more comedies, although even his biggest fans say they're not as good as what he produced during his late 70s peak.My take on this is that the really best Woody Allen films are the very very earliest - 'Sleeper', for example, I love.  But even by the time of his most acclaimed movies, to me he was already past his best.  Allen's early comic persona was like a modern, Jewish equivalent of Chaplain's tramp.  To take essentially the same persona and cast him as a romantic lead in anything an audience is expected to take at least semi-seriously is absurd; no-one like Woody Allen (except, of course, the famous Mr. Allen himself) would find himself with the galaxy of attractive sexual opportunity that he has presented his character with in over three decades of film-making.  In farce, this doesn't matter. In anything else, it grates really badly.  And even other aspects of this act grow weary through repetition (in this sense, his darkest films, where he tried to lose sight of his past altogether, were at least a step in the right direction, even if they weren't actually very good).  These days, I start to watch a Woody Allen film only with dread, expecting nothing but a self-referential, self-important, over-familiar story of relationships among the wealthy of New York.So, what a delight is 'Small Town Crooks', a straight farce like he used to give us, very silly, very funny, full of great gags.  There's no attempt to sell us an especially coherent plot, but there are a lot of laughs, many to do with being nouveau riche and being stupid (some of the material would work in 'Only Fools and Horses').  With no pretension, just a lot of daft jokes, 'Small Time Crooks' is an unexpected jewel and one of Woody's best. "},{"Title":"I bothered to watch this movie for one reason Hugh Grant.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Firstly, I've never cared for Woody Allen or his movies. Secondly, I'm a great admirer of Hugh Grant's acting ability.This is a two-star movie. Predictable and silly plot, some good acting, some not.It is difficult to understand why Hugh Grant agreed to this role. It reminds me of many of his lamentable career choices of the late eighties and early nineties.Of course, Mr. Grant's performance  was right on the money. He's good in all his films.  But perhaps his time as an actor could have been better spent on another project. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Fairly boring. Allen's low-key irony is just too low here. At least he has hired relatively age-appropriate actresses for this film, unlike Deconstructing Harry, another bomb. I have to give some credit to Tracey Ullman, who really nailed her role, making a fairly unbelievable character believable. But as a whole, the film is a failure. Grade D- "}{"Title":"An excelent entertainement","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I have seen this movie and I laugh all the time in the cinema ,it was so good to see Woody Allen back to action!Even more doing this fantastic movie. The film begins with the character Ray(Allen) showing his disturbed relashionship with his wife Frenchy(Tracey Ullman,in one of her best performances).Then they try to roube a bank, renting an old store beside it.Everything goes wrong but a surprise with cookies and a sucseful business turn them very rich. The rich life shows that money realy isn't everything.And give other messages for life ,of corse with very good moode! Pay attention on Frenchy's cousin May,She's just hilarious and the best character of the movie.Hugh Grant is terrible and disgusting playing those people who only help for money. It's worth watching!!!!!9out of 10 "},{"Title":"Consistently hilarious","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This is a very lightweight piece, harking back to Allen's early work but with more emphasis on the verbal humour and less on the slapstick. It works very well and is consistently hilarious. There are good performances from all the main characters and also from Elaine May as Frenchie's ditsy sister "},{"Title":"BIG TIME LAUGHS!!!  ONE OF THE FUNNIEST MOVIES EVER!!!","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I know this movie wasn't regarded as much to the general public, but the sense of humor don't lie.  And this movie made me laugh more than any other film I've seen--other than Albert Brooks' The Muse.  After writing my brilliantly rave review for this film, people were suggesting I check out Woody's far more superior flicks like Annie Hall and Crimes and Misdemeanors.  Before this movie, the only Woody Allen flicks I've seen were Deconstructing Harry--which I thought was uneven and none too appealing--and Mighty Aphrodite--a very impressive and funny film.  After watching this hilarious comedy, I became greatly interested in checking out Woody's earlier work--his much earlier work.  After watching films like Annie Hall and Take the Money and Run I still say this is his funniest film up to date!The plot is simple and never wears thin.  This could've went straight to one-joke boredom, but it had something new to offer in every act.  The whole bank robbery attempt was only the first act.  The second act deals with some hilarious fish-out-of-water, rags-to-riches comedy after the two low-class New Yorkers--Woody and Tracey Ullman who is absolutely terrific and was robbed of an Oscar--move on up--but not to the East Side...LOL.  Watching Woody trying disastrously to adapt to the yuppy lifestyle is one of the funniest things I've ever seen on film.  In one scene, he's being interviewed and he's trying to describe an antique piece of furniture to the reporter  This belonged to Louie the Fourteenth--or Louie the Fifteenth.  I don't know, how high do the Louies go?  He's the Top Louie.  Woody and Ullman have an unbelievable chemistry as the dueling couple.  I hope to see them again in an upcoming movie, they are absolutely incredible. Some people don't understand Woody's brand of humor, but his style of delivering sarcastic dialogue in this movie makes me crack up so hard!  In the opening scene, he returns to his apartment and Ullman asks Who's there?  He replies, Who--who is it?  It's the Pope!  I always wanted to see what your house looked like!  If any other actor were to say those lines, I would not laugh, but Woody has this magic delivery that never ceases to please.  There's many other hints of Woody's sarcasm used frequently throughout the film.  This comedy is full of memorable moments that I can just think back to and a smile will stretch across my face.  It would be sin to give those jokes away to those who have yet to see this movie, so I will not get into them.  Just see for yourself!With the explosion of gross-out comedies, I guess you can say a movie like this is a blessing in disguise.  There's no cheap, low-brow shots here.  Nothing but good, intelligent, original, old-fashioned, sarcastic comedy that pokes fun at both the upper and lower class, in a way only Woody can pull it off.  There's also some noteworthy supporting performers.  I have to mention Elaine May, who plays the airhead character with pure excellence.  I admit that I've grown tired of the airhead characters I see in comedies--especially the dumb blondes--but she portrays the characters with a certain sense of wit and energy, and has some really funny lines. What more can I say about this movie?  It's a comedy that's both amiable and funny, none of the cynical humor people have grown accustomed to.  This would've been a normal comedy back in the 1950s, but now if you make a film that doesn't contain a single flatulence or sexual gag--that's like breaking the comic barrier.  Not jumping on the bandwagon with the rest of the comedy writers.  While the Farrelly Brothers are whisked away on this wagon, Woody stands on his own and makes this uproariously funny, original comedy!  A film I will always remember as an underrated classic!  This is what comedy is all about!My score  10 (out of 10)       "},{"Title":"Is it supposed to make you laugh?","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  OK, I've only seen two films in 2001 yet(the other one being the excellent WONDER BOYS), but this one is surely going to be one of the worst in theatrical release this year. I went in not expecting too much of it. It wasn't even my idea to see this film, but I thought Hey, what the heck....  There were only a few people in the theater, two left during the show. I think that says it all, but since I'm not the person to walk out of a theater in the middle of a film, I actually sat through the entire thing. The premise is silly to say the least, but it actually gets even sillier and sillier as it goes along! I think Woody's aim here was to make some sort of screwball comedy, but his comic timing is so bad and the actors (Allen himself, Tracey Ullman and Hugh Grant) are so irritating and boring that it simply doesn't work. The story is pretty thin, but could've worked if it was done properly. Best moments involve May and there's a scene in which Ullman and Grant are watching a modern play and that's quite hilarious, though it's not really a joke. But I think this could've been something as a comment on the new upper class people and their habits and good/bad taste. Woody however doesn't seem very interested in doing so. Thus the result is pretty excruciating to watch. One advice avoid it at all costs! I can't believe I just gave this 4/10, but so be it. "},{"Title":"Starts well, dive bombs in BIG style","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This ghastly flat comedy starts well with the premise of a cookie shop fronting an ingenious plot to rob a bank. But when the cookie shop takes off, the plot dive bombs in BIG style.The film's plot leaps from pillar to post, the humour becomes toe-curlingly bad and the stereotypes are run out for another tired lap of the park.Dreadful. Didn't make it to the end of the film it was so awful - the washing up was more appertising than watching Woody Allen being inanely unfunny. "},{"Title":"Save yourself at least an hour of your life. (spoilers)","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" This movie was so bad... so falsely advertised, and so confusing, that my older brother and I ended up walking out of the theater early.The movie was advertised as a bank robbery movie with hilarious comedy. Nothing wrong with that, right?Here's the run-down. Three men and a woman plan to rob a bank. They buy a plot next to the bank and the lady opens a cookie shop as the front. Meanwhile, they're digging to the vault in the basement. Along the way, a security guard finds out, and decides to join them for the money.Here's where it gets odd.The cookies are selling really well, so they decide not to rob the bank after all and go into the cookie business and open factories all over America. Then the woman starts falling for some guy, which her husband does not like, and it becomes a romance story! It's as the movie is suffering from genre-confusion disorder and can't decide what it wants to be about!Bottom line- Avoid unless you happen to enjoy bad movies. "},{"Title":"Take the money and run backwards for the rest of your career.......","Date":"30 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" Mr Allen has made one truly great film,Take the money and run.Ever since he has been playing catch - up.Most of his subsequent work has been like the Curate's egg - good in parts.Small time crooks is no exception, having the odd funny moment that does not redeem the longeurs suffered by the non - aligned movie fan. Shamelessy plundering the Hollywood vaults he cobbles some familiar enough plot lines into a competent comedy that should ensure he will never be poor,but then it is looking increasingly unlikely that he will ever reach the heights his early work promised.He should care,of course. From an angst - ridden intellectual he switches to an angst - ridden anti - intellectual as Winkler a hugely unsuccessful little league felon whose plan to rob a bank using a cookie shop as a beard goes somewhat agley. His wife and her sister make a huge success of the business and they all become mega - rich. Winkler is happy to remain a nerd but his wife wishes to spread her intellectual wings and takes on a mentor from the Art World. They go bust and their erstwhile friends turn their backs on them. I think I can see a point being made here. Miss T Ullman plays Winkler's wife as Barbra Streisand which is fine for 10 minutes but a tad wearing as the movie progresses.Elaine May is the best thing on view as her nice but dim sister.Mr H.Grant once again hardly stretches himself as an upper middle class Brit cast adrift amongst the Philistines. The more uncharitable might find the phrase potboiler comes to mind. "},{"Title":"comatose","Date":"7 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  SMALL TIME CROOKS is boring and redundant.  Furthermore, all humor is forced and Woody's performance is completely stale.  As a result, I recommend avoiding this picture and taking up with one of the earlier classics like TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN.Ted's Grade C-   "},{"Title":"The first 15 minutes of this movie suck","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The phraze He has become a parody of himself could have been coined especially for Woody Allen. Neurotic stumbling is all well and good for a young man; but to watch a character in his 60s showing the kind of character failings that he should have worked through in his 20s is slightly perverse!Woody plays, well, Woody. If you've seen any of his films then you'll get the picture; and if you've seen Love and Death or Manhattan then you'll just feel annoyed that Woody appears to be doing the same routine 20 years later. That joke isn't funny anymore!Anyway, maybe it's only the first 15 minutes that are bad... anybody who manages to watch for longer than that, please email and let me know how it all turns out! 4/10. "},{"Title":"Single Worst Movie I've EVER Seen","Date":"9 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime","Review":" There's only one good thing about this movie My father paid only $1 a person for the tickets. The humor is nonexistent--the attempts are barely even visible. The plot is lame, the script is boring, the characters are unimaginative, and it's drawn out for far too long. Perhaps the worst point, though, is that there's NO SCORE--just some sampled 40s-sounding excerpt played over and over again in different places in the film. Single worst movie I've ever seen.Save yourself the time and money--don't even bother with this movie. I've never really liked Woody Allen's stuff to begin with, but this is the lowest of the low. "}]